.TH ABOOKRC 5 "Oct 25, 2005"
.nh
.SH NAME
\fB$HOME/.abook/abookrc\fP \- configuration file fo' abook address book program
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B abookrc
file.
.br
.B abookrc
is tha (optional) configuration file fo' use wit the
.B abook(1)
address book program.

.B abookrc
is stored up in a userz $HOME/.abook directory. Well shiiiit, it bigs up a gangbangin' format of
\(lq\fBset option=value\fP\(rq.
Da followin shiznit lists each of these options n' tha joints they
may take.

If a variable aint set up in 
.B abookrc
, a sensible default, as 
listed wit tha description below, is ghon be used.

Comments up in 
.B abookrc
are on lines beginnin wit '#'.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBset\fP \fIoption\fP = \fIvalue\fP

.TP
\fBfield\fP \fIidentifier\fP = \fIhuman_readable_name\fP [ , \fItype\fP ]
Defines a freshly smoked up custom field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fItype\fP can be one of 'string' (default)
, 'emails', 'list', or 'date'.

.TP
\fBview\fP \fIview name\fP = \fIfield1\fP [ , \fIfield2\fP, ... ]
Defines a view/tab, wit \fIfieldN\fP bein tha identifier of a gangbangin' field
declared wit tha \fBfield\fP command, or tha identifier of a standard field.
.IP
Standard fields:
.br
	name, email,
.br
	address, address2, hood, state, zip, ghetto,
.br
	phone, workphone, fax, mobile,
.br
	nick, url, notes, anniversary
.IP
Note: if you don't define any view, abook will bust a thugged-out default display based
on tha above standard fields.


.SH VARIABLES

.TP
\fBautosave\fP=[true|false]
Defines whether tha addressbook be automatically saved on exit. Default is true.

.TP
\fBpreserve_fields\fP=[all|standard|none]
Specifies how tha fuck fieldz not declared wit tha \fBfield\fP command nor up in a view
should be preserved while loadin a abook database.
.RS
.TP
.B all
preserve any straight-up unknown field.
.TP
.B standard
only preserve tha standard fieldz (see a list up in the
  description of tha \fBview\fP command) n' tha legacy
  'custom[1-5]' fields.
.TP
.B none
discardz any unknown field.
.RE
.IP
Default is \fIall\fP.

.TP
\fBindex_format\fP=format_string
Defines tha way entries is displayed up in tha main list. This be a strang containin field names enclosed between braces, wit a optionizzle width limit specified by a number (right alignment if negative) afta tha field name n' a cold-ass lil colon, n' a arbitrary number of alternatizzle fieldz (first wit non empty content is ta be displayed) separated by vertical bars. For instance:
.RS
.TP
\fI{name:22}\fP
displays tha \fIname\fP field wit a maximal width of 22 characters.
.TP
\fI{phone:-13|workphone|mobile}\fP
displays (right aligned within a width of 13 characters), either tha \fIphone\fP, \fIworkphone\fP or \fImobile\fP field, whichever bein tha straight-up original gangsta ta be non-empty.
.RE
.IP
Default is \fI" {name:22} {email:40} {phone:12|workphone|mobile}"\fP

.TP
\fBshow_all_emails\fP=[true|false]
Defines whether all email addresses fo' a cold-ass lil contact is shown up in tha main list view. Default is true.

.TP
.PD 0
\fBemailpos\fP
.TP
.PD 0
\fBextra_column\fP
.TP
.PD 0
\fBextra_alternative\fP
.TP
.PD
\fBextrapos\fP
Obsoleted by \fBindex_format\fP.

.TP
\fBmutt_return_all_emails\fP=[true|false]
Defines whether ta return all email addresses matchin tha search criteria ta a mutt query. Default is true.

.TP
\fBprint_command\fP=command
Defines tha command ta used when printin tha addressbook. Default is "lpr".

.TP
\fBwww_command\fP=command
Defines tha command used ta start tha wizzy browser ta view a cold-ass lil contactz URL. Default is "lynx".

.TP
\fBaddress_style\fP=[eu|uk|us]
Defines tha steez of address formattin ta be used when exportin as text / printin tha database (European, UK, or USA). Default is European ("eu").

.TP
\fBuse_ascii_only\fP=[true|false]
This option allows you ta force Abook use only ASCII characters. This option is useful if yo' terminal don't support non-ASCII characters. Default is false.

.TP
\fBadd_email_prevent_duplicates\fP=[true|false]
Defines whether ta avoid addin addresses already up in data. Default is false.

.TP
\fBsort_field\fP=field
Defines tha field ta be used by tha "sort by field" command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Default is "nick" (Nickname/Alias).

.TP
\fBshow_cursor\fP=[true|false]
Defines if tha cursor is visible up in main display. Default is false.

.SH SAMPLE CONFIGURATION FILE

.nf
# sample abook configuration file
#

# Declare all dem custom fields
field pager = Pager
field address_lines = Address, list
field birthdizzle = Birthday, date

# Define how tha fuck fieldz should be displayed up in tabs
view CONTACT = name, email
view ADDRESS = address_lines, hood, state, zip, ghetto
view PHONE = phone, workphone, pager, mobile, fax
view OTHER = url, birthday


# Preserve any unknown field while loadin a abook database
set preserve_fields=all

# Automatically save database on exit
set autosave=true

# Format of entries lines up in list
set index_format=" {name:22} {email:40} {phone:12|workphone|mobile}"

# Show all email addresses up in list
set show_all_emails=true

# Command used ta start mutt
set mutt_command=mutt

# Return all email addresses ta a mutt query
set mutt_return_all_emails=true

# Command used ta print
set print_command=lpr

# Command used ta start tha wizzy browser
set www_command=lynx

# Address steez [eu|us|uk]
set address_style=eu

# Use ASCII charactas only
set use_ascii_only=false

# Prevent double entry
set add_email_prevent_duplicates=false

# Field ta be used wit "sort by field" command
set sort_field=nick

# Show cursor up in main display
set show_cursor=false

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR abook (1).
.br
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was freestyled by Alan Ford <alan@whirlnet.co.uk> and
expanded by Cedric Duval <cedricduval@free.fr>.

.br
.B abook
was freestyled by Jaakko Heinonen <jheinonen@users.sourceforge.net>
