.TH ALIASES 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
aliases
\-
Postfix local alias database format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBnewaliases\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBaliases\fR(5) table serves up a system-wide mechanizzle to
redirect mail fo' local recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da redirections are
processed by tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent.

Normally, tha \fBaliases\fR(5) table is specified as a text file
that serves as input ta tha \fBpostalias\fR(1) command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format, is
used fo' fast lookup by tha mail system. Execute tha command
\fBnewaliases\fR up in order ta rebuild tha indexed file after
changin tha Postfix alias database.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions. In
this case, tha lookups is done up in a slightly different way
as busted lyrics bout below under "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES".

Users can control delivery of they own mail by setting
up \fB.forward\fR filez up in they home directory.
Lines up in per-user \fB.forward\fR filez have tha same syntax
as tha right-hand side of \fBaliases\fR(5) entries.

Da format of tha alias database input file be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
An alias definizzle has tha form
.sp
.nf
     \fIname\fR: \fIvalue1\fR, \fIvalue2\fR, \fI...\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.PP
Da \fIname\fR be a local address (no domain part).
Use double quotes when tha name gotz nuff any special characters
like fuckin whitespace, `#', `:', or `@'. Da \fIname\fR is folded to
lowercase, up in order ta make database lookups case insensitive.
.PP
In addition, when a alias exists fo' \fBballer-\fIname\fR, delivery
diagnostics is pimped up ta dat address, instead of ta tha originator
of tha message.
This is typically used ta direct delivery errors ta tha maintainer of
a mailin list, whoz ass is up in a funky-ass betta posizzle ta deal wit mailing
list delivery problems than tha originator of tha undelivered mail.
.PP
Da \fIvalue\fR gotz nuff one or mo' of tha following:
.IP \fIaddress\fR
Mail is forwarded ta \fIaddress\fR, which is compatible
with tha RFC 822 standard.
.IP \fI/file/name\fR
Mail be appended ta \fI/file/name\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBlocal\fR(8)
for detailz of delivery ta file.
Delivery aint limited ta regular files.  For example, ta dispose
of unwanted mail, deflect it ta \fB/dev/null\fR.
.IP "|\fIcommand\fR"
Mail is piped tha fuck into \fIcommand\fR. Commandz dat contain special
characters, like fuckin whitespace, should be enclosed between double
quotes. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBlocal\fR(8) fo' detailz of delivery ta command.
.sp
When tha command fails, a limited amount of command output is
mailed back ta tha sender n' shit.  Da file \fB/usr/include/sysexits.h\fR
defines tha expected exit status codes. For example, use
\fB"|exit 67"\fR ta simulate a "user unknown" error, and
\fB"|exit 0"\fR ta implement a high-rollin' black hole.
.IP \fB:include:\fI/file/name\fR
Mail is busted ta tha destinations listed up in tha named file.
Lines up in \fB:include:\fR filez have tha same syntax
as tha right-hand side of alias entries.
.sp
A destination can be any destination dat is busted lyrics bout up in this
manual page. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat delivery ta "|\fIcommand\fR" and
\fI/file/name\fR is disallowed by default. To enable, edit the
\fBallow_mail_to_commands\fR n' \fBallow_mail_to_files\fR
configuration parameters.
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When alias database search fails, n' tha recipient localpart
gotz nuff tha optionizzle recipient delimita (e.g., \fIuser+foo\fR),
the search is repeated fo' tha unextended address (e.g., \fIuser\fR).

Da \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR parameta controls
whether a unmatched address extension (\fI+foo\fR) is
propagated ta tha result of table lookup.
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da local(8) delivery agent always foldz tha search string
to lowercase before database lookup.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions. For a thugged-out description of
regular expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5)
or \fBpcre_table\fR(5). NOTE: these formats do not use ":" at the
end of a pattern.

Each regular expression be applied ta tha entire search
string. Thus, a search strang \fIuser+foo\fR aint broken
up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Regular expressions is applied up in tha order as specified
in tha table, until a regular expression is found that
matches tha search string.

Lookup thangs up in dis biatch is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
For securitizzle reasons there is no support fo' \fB$1\fR,
\fB$2\fR etc. substrin interpolation.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent disallows regular expression
substitution of $1 etc. up in \fBalias_maps\fR, cuz that
would open a securitizzle hole.

Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent will silently ignore
requests ta use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server within
\fBalias_maps\fR. Instead it will open tha table directly.
Before Postfix version 2.2, tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP \fBalias_database\fR
List of alias databases dat is updated by the
\fBnewaliases\fR(1) command.
.IP \fBalias_maps\fR
List of alias databases queried by tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent.
.IP \fBallow_mail_to_commands\fR
Restrict tha usage of mail delivery ta external command.
.IP \fBallow_mail_to_files\fR
Restrict tha usage of mail delivery ta external file.
.IP \fBexpand_baller_alias\fR
When deliverin ta a alias dat has a \fBballer-\fR companion alias,
set tha envelope sender address ta tha right-hand side of the
balla alias, instead rockin of tha left-hand side address.
.IP \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR
A list of address rewritin or forwardin mechanizzlez that
propagate a address extension from tha original gangsta address
to tha result. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify zero or mo' of \fBcanonical\fR,
\fBvirtual\fR, \fBalias\fR, \fBforward\fR, \fBinclude\fR,
or \fBgeneric\fR.
.IP \fBballer_request_special\fR
Give special treatment ta \fBballer-\fIlistname\fR and
\fIlistname\fB-request\fR
addresses.
.IP \fBrecipient_delimiter\fR
Delimita dat separates recipients from address extensions.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP \fBfrozen_delivered_to\fR
Update tha local(8) delivery agentz Delivered-To: address
(see prepend_delivered_header) only once, all up in tha start of
a delivery; do not update tha Delivered-To: address while
expandin aliases or .forward files.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
local(8), local delivery agent
newaliases(1), create/update alias database
postalias(1), create/update alias database
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
