.TH ANACRONTAB 5 2012-11-22 "cronie" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
/etc/anacrontab \- configuration file fo' Anacron
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I /etc/anacrontab
configuration file raps bout tha thangs controlled by
.BR anacron (8).
It can contain three typez of lines: thang-description lines, environment
assignments, or empty lines.
.PP
Job-description lines can have tha followin format:
.PP
   period up in minutes   delay up in minutes   thang-identifier   command
.PP
The
.I period up in days
variable specifies tha frequency of execution of a thang up in days.  This
variable can be represented by a integer or a macro (@daily, @weekly,
@monthly), where @daily denotes tha same ol' dirty value as tha integer 1, @weekly
the same as 7, n' @monthly specifies dat tha thang is run once a month,
independent on tha length of tha month.
.PP
The
.I delay up in minutes
variable specifies tha number of minutes anacron waits, if necessary,
before executin a thang.  This variable is represented by a integer where
0 means no delay.
.PP
The
.I thang-identifier
variable specifies a unique name of a thang which is used up in tha log files.
.PP
The
.I command
variable specifies tha command ta execute.  Da command can either be a
command such as
.B ls /proc >> /tmp/proc
or a cold-ass lil command ta execute a cold-ass lil custom script.
.PP
Environment assignment lines can have tha followin format:
.PP
   VAR=VALUE
.PP
Any spaces around
.I VAR
are removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  No spaces around
.I VALUE
are allowed (unless you want dem ta be part of tha value).  The
specified assignment takes effect from tha next line until tha end of the
file, or ta tha next assignment of tha same variable.
.PP
The
.I START_HOURS_RANGE
variable defines a interval (in hours) when scheduled thangs can be run.
In case dis time interval is missed, fo' example, cuz of a juice down,
then scheduled thangs is not executed dat day.
.PP
The
.I RANDOM_DELAY
variable denotes tha maximum number of minutes dat is ghon be added ta the
delay up in minutes variable which is specified fo' each thang.  A
.I RANDOM_DELAY
set ta 12 would therefore add, randomly, between 0 n' 12 minutes ta the
delay up in minutes fo' each thang up in dat particular anacrontab.  When set to
0, no random delay be added.
.PP
Empty lines is either blank lines, line containin white spaces only, or
lines wit white spaces followed by a '#' followed by a arbitrary
comment.
.PP
Yo ass can continue a line onto tha next line by addin a '\\' all up in tha end of dat shit.
.PP
In case you wanna disable Anacron, add the
.I 0anacron
cron thang (which be a part of
.BR crontab (1))
into the
.I /etc/cron.hourly/jobs.deny
directory.
.SH EXAMPLE
This example shows how tha fuck ta set up a Anacron thang similar up in functionalitizzle to
.I /etc/crontab
which starts all regular thangs
between 6:00 n' 8:00
.I only.
A
.I RANDOM_DELAY
which can be 30 minutes at da most thugged-out is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Jobs will run
serialized up in a queue where each thang is started only afta tha previous
one is finished.
.PP
.nf
# environment variables
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
MAILTO=root
RANDOM_DELAY=30
# Anacron thangs will start between 6am n' 8am.
START_HOURS_RANGE=6-8
# delay is ghon be 5 minutes + RANDOM_DELAY fo' cron.daily
1		5	cron.daily		nice run-parts /etc/cron.daily
7		0	cron.weekly		nice run-parts /etc/cron.weekly
@monthly	0	cron.monthly		nice run-parts /etc/cron.monthly
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR anacron (8),
.BR crontab (1)
.PP
Da Anacron
.I README
file.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT itzur@\:actcom.\:co.\:il
Itai Tzur
.ME
.PP
Currently maintained by
.MT pasc@\:(debian.\:org|\:redellipse.\:net)
Pascal Hakim
.ME .
.PP
For Fedora, maintained by
.MT mmaslano@redhat.com
Marcela Mašláňová
.ME .
