.TH AUDISPD.CONF: "5" "March 2014" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
audispd.conf \- tha audit event dispatcher configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaudispd.conf\fP is tha file dat controls tha configuration of tha audit event dispatcher n' shit. Each line should contain one configuration keyword, a equal sign, n' then followed by appropriate configuration shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All option names n' joints is case insensitive. Da keywordz recognized is listed n' busted lyrics bout below. Each line should be limited ta 160 charactas or tha line is ghon be skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass may add comments ta tha file by startin tha line wit a '#' character.

.TP
.I q_depth
This be a numeric value dat  drops some lyrics ta how tha fuck big-ass ta make tha internal queue of tha audit event dispatcher n' shiznit fo' realz. A bigger queue lets it handle a gangbangin' flood of events mo' betta yo, but could hold events dat is not processed when tha daemon is terminated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If you git lyrics up in syslog bout events gettin dropped, increase dis value. Da default value is 80.
.TP
.I overflow_action
This option determines how tha fuck tha daemon should react ta overflowin its internal queue. When dis happens, it means dat mo' events is bein received than it can git rid of. This error means dat it is goin ta lose tha current event its tryin ta dispatch. Well shiiiit, it has tha followin chizzles:
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " suspend ", " single ", n' " halt ".
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audisp daemon do nothing.
.I syslog
means dat it will issue a warnin ta syslog.
.I suspend
will cause tha audisp daemon ta stop processin events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.I single
option will cause tha audisp daemon ta put tha computa system up in single user mode.
.I halt
option will cause tha audisp daemon ta shutdown tha computa system.
.TP
.I priority_boost
This be a non-negatizzle number dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit event dispatcher how tha fuck much of a prioritizzle boost it should take. This boost is up in addizzle ta tha boost provided from tha audit daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default is 4. No chizzle is 0.
.TP
.I max_restarts
This be a non-negatizzle number dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit event dispatcher how tha fuck nuff times it can try ta restart a cold-ass lil crashed plugin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default is 10.
.TP
.I name_format
This option controls how tha fuck computa node names is banged tha fuck into tha audit event stream. Well shiiiit, it has tha followin chizzles:
.IR none ", " hostname ", " fqd ", " numeric ", n' " user ".
.IR None
means dat no computa name is banged tha fuck into tha audit event.
.IR hostname
is tha name returned by tha gethostname syscall. The
.IR fqd
means dat it takes tha hostname n' resolves it wit dns fo' a gangbangin' straight-up qualified domain name of dat machine.
.IR Numeric
is similar ta fqd except it resolves tha IP address of tha machine.
.IR User
is a admin defined strang from tha name option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default value is
.IR none ".
.TP
.I name
This is tha admin defined strang dat identifies tha machine if user is given as tha name_format option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audispd (8)
