.TH AUDITD.CONF: "5" "March 2014" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
auditd.conf \- audit daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /etc/audit/auditd.conf
gotz nuff configuration shiznit specific ta tha audit daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Each line should contain one configuration keyword, a equal sign, n' then followed by appropriate configuration shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All option names n' joints is case insensitive. Da keywordz recognized is listed n' busted lyrics bout below. Each line should be limited ta 160 charactas or tha line is ghon be skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass may add comments ta tha file by startin tha line wit a '#' character.

.TP
.I log_file
This keyword specifies tha full path name ta tha log file where audit records
will be stored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it must be a regular file.
.TP
.I log_format
Da log format raps bout how tha fuck tha shiznit should be stored on disk. There is 2 options: raw n' nolog.
If set to
.IR RAW ,
the audit recordz is ghon be stored up in a gangbangin' format exactly as tha kernel sendz dat shit. If dis option is set to
.I NOLOG
then all audit shiznit is discarded instead of freestylin ta disk. This mode do not affect data busted ta tha audit event dispatcher.
.TP
.I log_group
This keyword specifies tha crew dat be applied ta tha log filez permissions. Da default is root. Da crew name can be either numeric or spelled out.
.TP
.I priority_boost
This be a non-negatizzle number dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon how tha fuck much of a prioritizzle boost it should take. Da default is 4. No chizzle is 0.
.TP
.I flush
Valid joints are
.IR none ", " incremenstrual ", " data ",  n' " sync ".
If set to
.IR none ,
no special effort is made ta flush tha audit recordz ta disk. If set to
.IR incremenstrual ,
Then the
.I freq
parameta is used ta determine how tha fuck often a explicit flush ta disk is issued.
The
.I data
parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon ta keep tha data portion of tha disk file
sync'd at all times. The
.I sync
option  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon ta keep both tha data n' meta-data fully
sync'd wit every last muthafuckin write ta disk.
.TP
.I freq
This be a non-negatizzle number dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon how tha fuck nuff recordz to
write before issuin a explicit flush ta disk command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This value is only
valid when the
.I flush
keyword is set to
.IR incremenstrual .
.TP
.I num_logs
This keyword specifies tha number of log filez ta keep if rotate is given
as the
.I max_log_file_action.
If tha number is < 2, logs is not rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This number must be 99 or less.
Da default is 0 - which means no rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. As you increase tha number of log filez bein rotated, you may need ta adjust tha kernel backlog settin upwardz since it takes mo' time ta rotate tha files. This is typically done up in /etc/audit/audit.rules. If log rotation is configured ta occur, tha daemon will check fo' excess logs n' remove dem up in effort ta keep disk space available. Da excess log check is only done on startup n' when a reconfigure thangs up in dis biatch up in a space check.
.TP
.I disp_qos
This option controls whether you want blocking/lossless or non-blocking/lossy communication between tha audit daemon n' tha dispatcher n' shit. There be a 128k buffer between tha audit daemon n' dispatcher n' shit. This is phat enogh fo' most uses. If lossy is chosen, incomin events goin ta tha dispatcher is discarded when dis queue is full. (Events is still freestyled ta disk if log_format aint nolog.) Otherwise tha auditd daemon will wait fo' tha queue ta have a empty spot before loggin ta disk. Da risk is dat while tha daemon is waitin fo' network IO, a event aint bein recorded ta disk. Valid joints are: lossy n' lossless. Lossy is tha default value.
.TP
.I dispatcher
Da dispatcher be a program dat is started by tha audit daemon when it starts up. Well shiiiit, it will pass a cold-ass lil copy of all audit events ta dat applicationz stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Make shizzle you trust tha application dat you add ta dis line since it runs wit root privileges.
.TP
.I name_format
This option controls how tha fuck computa node names is banged tha fuck into tha audit event stream. Well shiiiit, it has tha followin chizzles:
.IR none ", " hostname ", " fqd ", " numeric ", n' " user ".
.IR None
means dat no computa name is banged tha fuck into tha audit event.
.IR hostname
is tha name returned by tha gethostname syscall. The
.IR fqd
means dat it takes tha hostname n' resolves it wit dns fo' a gangbangin' straight-up qualified
domain name of dat machine.
.IR Numeric
is similar ta fqd except it resolves tha IP address of tha machine. In order ta use dis option, you might wanna test dat 'hostname \-i' or 'domainname \-i' returns a numeric address fo' realz. Also, dis option aint recommended if dhcp is used cuz you could have different addresses over time fo' tha same machine.
.IR User
is a admin defined strang from tha name option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default value is
.IR none ".
.TP
.I name
This is tha admin defined strang dat identifies tha machine if
.IR user
is given as the
.IR name_format
option.
.TP
.I max_log_file
This keyword specifies tha maximum file size up in megabytes. When dis limit
is reached, it will trigger a cold-ass lil configurable action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da value given must be numeric.
.TP
.I max_log_file_action
This parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha system what tha fuck action ta take when tha system has
detected dat tha max file size limit has been reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Valid joints are
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " suspend ", " rotate " n' "keep_logs.
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audit daemon do nothing.
.IR syslog
means dat it will issue a warnin ta syslog.
.IR suspend
will cause tha audit daemon ta stop freestylin recordz ta tha disk. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.IR rotate
option will cause tha audit daemon ta rotate tha logs. Well shiiiit, it should be noted dat logs wit higher numbers is olda than logs wit lower numbers. This is tha same ol' dirty convention used by tha logrotate utility. The
.IR keep_logs
option is similar ta rotate except it do not use tha num_logs setting. This prevents audit logs from bein overwritten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da effect is dat logs accumulate n' is not deleted \- which will trigger the
.I space_left_action
if tha volume fills up. This is dopest used up in combination wit a external script used ta archive logs on a periodic basis.
.TP
.I action_mail_acct
This option should contain a valid email address or alias. Da default address is root. If tha email address aint local ta tha machine, you must make shizzle you have email properly configured on yo' machine n' network fo' realz. Also, dis option requires dat /usr/lib/sendmail exists on tha machine.
.TP
.I space_left
This be a numeric value up in megabytes dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon when
to big-ass up a cold-ass lil configurable action cuz tha system is startin ta run low on disk space.
.TP
.I space_left_action
This parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha system what tha fuck action ta take when tha system has
detected dat it is startin ta git low on disk space.
Valid joints are
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " rotate ", " email ", " exec ", " suspend ", " single ", n' " halt .
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audit daemon do nothing.
.I syslog
means dat it will issue a warnin ta syslog.
.I rotate
will rotate logs, losin tha crazy oldschool ta free up space.
.I Email
means dat it will bust a warnin ta tha email account specified in
.I action_mail_acct
as well as bustin  tha message ta syslog.
.I exec
/path-to-script will execute tha script. Yo ass cannot pass parametas ta tha script. Da script be also responsible fo' spittin some lyrics ta tha auditd daemon ta resume loggin once its completed its action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be done by addin steez auditd resume ta tha script.
.I suspend
will cause tha audit daemon ta stop freestylin recordz ta tha disk. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.I single
option will cause tha audit daemon ta put tha computa system up in single user mode. The
.I halt
option will cause tha audit daemon ta shutdown tha computa system.
.TP
.I admin_space_left
This be a numeric value up in megabytes dat  drops some lyrics ta tha audit daemon when
to big-ass up a cold-ass lil configurable action cuz tha system
.B is hustlin low
on disk space. This should be considered tha last chizzle ta do suttin' before hustlin outta disk space. Da numeric value fo' dis parameta should be lower than tha number fo' space_left.
.TP
.I admin_space_left_action
This parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha system what tha fuck action ta take when tha system has
detected dat it
.B is low on disk space.
Valid joints are
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", "rotate ", " email ", " exec ", " suspend ", " single ", n' " halt .
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audit daemon do nothing.
.I Syslog
means dat it will issue a warnin ta syslog.
.I rotate
will rotate logs, losin tha crazy oldschool ta free up space.
.I Email
means dat it will bust a warnin ta tha email account specified in
.I action_mail_acct
as well as bustin  tha message ta syslog.
.I exec
/path-to-script will execute tha script. Yo ass cannot pass parametas ta tha script. Da script be also responsible fo' spittin some lyrics ta tha auditd daemon ta resume loggin once its completed its action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be done by addin steez auditd resume ta tha script.
.I Suspend
will cause tha audit daemon ta stop freestylin recordz ta tha disk. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.I single
option will cause tha audit daemon ta put tha computa system up in single user mode. The
.I halt
option will cause tha audit daemon ta shutdown tha computa system.
.TP
.I disk_full_action
This parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha system what tha fuck action ta take when tha system has
detected dat tha partizzle ta which log filez is freestyled has become full. Valid joints are
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " rotate ", " exec ", " suspend ", " single ", n' " halt .
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audit daemon will issue a syslog message but no other action is taken.
.I Syslog
means dat it will issue a warnin ta syslog.
.I rotate
will rotate logs, losin tha crazy oldschool ta free up space.
.I exec
/path-to-script will execute tha script. Yo ass cannot pass parametas ta tha script. Da script be also responsible fo' spittin some lyrics ta tha auditd daemon ta resume loggin
g once its completed its action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be done by addin steez auditd resume ta tha script.
.I Suspend
will cause tha audit daemon ta stop freestylin recordz ta tha disk. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.I single
option will cause tha audit daemon ta put tha computa system up in single user mode.
.I halt
option will cause tha audit daemon ta shutdown tha computa system.
.TP
.I disk_error_action
This parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha system what tha fuck action ta take whenever there be a error
detected when freestylin audit events ta disk or rotatin logs. Valid joints are
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " exec ", " suspend ", " single ", n' " halt .
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audit daemon aint gonna take any action.
.I Syslog
means dat it will issue no mo' than 5 consecutizzle warnings ta syslog.
.I exec
/path-to-script will execute tha script. Yo ass cannot pass parametas ta tha script.
.I Suspend
will cause tha audit daemon ta stop freestylin recordz ta tha disk. Da daemon will still be kickin dat shit, yo. The
.I single
option will cause tha audit daemon ta put tha computa system up in single user mode.
.I halt
option will cause tha audit daemon ta shutdown tha computa system.
.TP
.I tcp_listen_port
This be a numeric value up in tha range 1..65535 which, if specified,
causes auditd ta listen on tha correspondin TCP port fo' audit
recordz from remote systems. Da audit daemon may be linked with
tcp_wrappers. Yo ass may wanna control access wit a entry up in the
hosts.allow n' deny files.
.TP
.I tcp_listen_queue
This be a numeric value which indicates how tha fuck nuff pendin (requested
but unaccepted) connections is allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is 5.  Setting
this too lil' small-ass may cause connections ta be rejected if too nuff hosts
start up at exactly tha same time, like fuckin afta a juice failure.
.TP
.I tcp_max_per_addr
This be a numeric value which indicates how tha fuck nuff concurrent connections from
one IP address be allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is 1 n' tha maximum is 1024. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Setting
this too big-ass may allow fo' a Denial of Service whoopin' on tha logging
server n' shiznit fo' realz. Also note dat tha kernel has a internal maximum dat will eventually
prevent dis even if auditd allows it by config. Da default should be adequate
in most cases unless a cold-ass lil custom freestyled recovery script runs ta forward unsent
events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. In dis case you would increase tha number only big-ass enough ta let it
in like a muthafucka.
.TP
.I use_libwrap
This settin determines whether or not ta use tcp_wrappers ta discern connection attempts dat is from allowed machines. Legal joints is either 
.IR yeaaaa ", or " no "
Da default value is yes.
.TP
.I tcp_client_ports
This parameta may be a single numeric value or two joints separated
by a thugged-out dash (no spaces allowed).  It indicates which client ports are
allowed fo' incomin connections.  If not specified, any port is
allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Allowed joints is 1..65535.  For example, ta require the
client bust a priviledged port, specify
.I 1\-1023
for dis parameter n' shit. Yo ass will also need ta set tha local_port option up in tha audisp-remote.conf file. Makin shizzle dat clients bust from a privileged port be a securitizzle feature ta prevent log injection attacks by untrusted users.
.TP
.I tcp_client_max_idle
This parameta indicates tha number of secondz dat a cold-ass lil client may be idle (i.e. no data from dem at all) before auditd bitches. This is used ta close inactizzle connections if tha client machine has a problem where it cannot shutdown tha connection cleanly. Note dat dis be a global setting, n' must be higher than any individual client heartbeat_timeout setting, preferably by a gangbangin' factor of two.  Da default is zero, which disablez dis check.
.TP
.I enable_krb5
If set ta "yes", Kerberos 5 is ghon be used fo' authentication and
encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is "no".
.TP
.I krb5_principal
This is tha principal fo' dis server n' shit.  Da default is "auditd".
Given dis default, tha server will look fo' a key named like
.I auditd/hostname@EXAMPLE.COM
stored in
.I /etc/audit/audit.key
to authenticate itself, where hostname is tha canonical name fo' the
serverz host, as returned by a DNS lookup of its IP address.
.TP
.I krb5_key_file
Location of tha key fo' dis clientz principal.
Note dat tha key file must be owned by root n' mode 0400.
Da default is
.I /etc/audit/audit.key

.SH NOTES
In a CAPP environment, tha audit trail is considered so blingin dat access ta system resources must be denied if a audit trail cannot be pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In dis environment, it would be suggested dat /var/log/audit be on its own partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is ta ensure dat space detection be accurate n' dat no other process comes along n' consumes part of dat shit.
.PP
Da flush parameta should be set ta sync or data.
.PP
Max_log_file n' num_logs need ta be adjusted so dat you git complete use of yo' partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it should be noted dat tha mo' filez dat gotta be rotated, tha longer it takes ta git back ta receivin audit events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Max_log_file_action should be set ta keep_logs.
.PP
Space_left should be set ta a number dat gives tha admin enough time ta react ta any alert message n' big-ass up some maintenizzle ta free up disk space. This would typically involve hustlin tha \fBaureport \-t\fP report n' movin tha crazy oldschool logs ta a archive area. Da value of space_left is joint dependent since tha rate at which events is generated varies wit each deployment. Da space_left_action is recommended ta be set ta email. If you need suttin' like a snmp trap, you can use tha exec option ta bust one.
.PP
Admin_space_left should be set ta tha amount of disk space on tha audit partizzle needed fo' admin actions ta be recorded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Admin_space_left_action would be set ta single so dat use of tha machine is restricted ta just tha console.
.PP
Da disk_full_action is triggered when no mo' room exists on tha partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All access should be terminated since no mo' audit capabilitizzle exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This can be set ta either single or halt.
.PP
Da disk_error_action should be set ta syslog, single, or halt dependin on yo' local policies regardin handlin of hardware malfunctions.
.PP
Specifyin a single allowed client port may make it hard as fuck fo' the
client ta restart they audit subsystem, as it is ghon be unable to
recreate a cold-ass lil connection wit tha same host addresses n' ports until the
connection closure TIME_WAIT state times out.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/audit/auditd.conf
Audit daemon configuration file

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auditd (8),
.BR audisp\-remote.conf (5).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
