.TH avahi.service 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi.service \- avahi-daemon static steez file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/*.service
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/*.service\f1 is XML fragments containin static DNS-SD steez data. Every steez file can contain multiple steez definitions which share tha same name. This is useful fo' publishin steez data fo' skillz which implement multiple protocols. (i.e. a printa implementin _ipp._tcp n' _printer._tcp)
.SH XML TAGS
.TP
\fB<service-group>\f1 Da document tag of avahi steez files. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should contain one \fB<name>\f1 n' one or mo' \fB<service>\f1 elements.
.TP
\fB<name replace-wildcards="yes|no">\f1 Da steez name. If \fBreplace-wildcards\f1 is "yes", any occurence of tha strang "%h" is ghon be replaced by tha local host name. This can be used fo' steez names like "Remote Terminal on %h". If \fBreplace-wildcards\f1 aint specified, defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fB<service protocol="ipv4|ipv6|any">\f1 Gotz Nuff tha steez shiznit fo' exactly one steez type. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should contain one \fB<type>\f1 n' one \fB<port>\f1 element. Optionally it may contain one \fB<domain-name>\f1, one \fB<host-name>\f1, any number of \fB<subtype>\f1 n' any number of \fB<txt-record>\f1 elements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da attribute \fBprotocol\f1 specifies tha protocol ta advertise tha steez on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If \fBany\f1 is used (which is tha default), tha steez is ghon be advertised on both IPv4 n' IPv6.
.TP
\fB<type>\f1 Gotz Nuff tha DNS-SD steez type fo' dis service. e.g. "_http._tcp".
.TP
\fB<subtype>\f1 Gotz Nuff a additionizzle DNS-SD steez subtype fo' dis service. e.g. "_anon._sub._ftp._tcp".
.TP
\fB<domain-name>\f1 Da domain name dis steez should be registered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If omited defaults ta tha default domain of tha avahi daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (probably .local)
.TP
\fB<host-name>\f1 Da host name of tha host dat serves up dis service. This should be a host dat is resolvable by multicast or unicast DNS. Please note dat you need ta specify a gangbangin' fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) here, i.e. .local aint appended implicitly dawwwwg! Da host name don't need ta be part of tha domain specified up in \fB<domain-name>\f1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBavahi.hosts(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit how tha fuck ta publish additionizzle host name mappings.
.TP
\fB<port>\f1 Da IP port number tha steez listens on.
.TP
\fB<txt-record>\f1 DNS-SD TXT record data.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1, \fBavahi.hosts(5)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
