.TH avahi-daemon.conf 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-daemon.conf \- avahi-daemon configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIavahi-daemon.conf\f1 is tha configuration file fo' avahi-daemon.
.SH SECTION [SERVER]
.TP
\fBhost-name=\f1 Set tha host name avahi-daemon tries ta regista on tha LAN. If omited defaults ta tha system host name as set wit tha sethostname() system call.
.TP
\fBdomain-name=\f1 Set tha default domain name avahi-daemon tries ta regista its host name n' skillz on tha LAN in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted defaults ta ".local".
.TP
\fBbrowse-domains=\f1 Set a cold-ass lil comma separated list of browsin domains (in addizzle ta tha default one n' dem announced inside tha default browsin domain). Please note dat tha user may specify additionizzle browsin domains on tha client side, either by settin $AVAHI_BROWSE_DOMAINS ta a list of colon separated domains or by addin dem ta tha XDG config file \fI~/.config/avahi/browse-domains\f1 (separated by newlines).
.TP
\fBuse-ipv4=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "no" avahi-daemon aint gonna use IPv4 sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Default is "yes".
.TP
\fBuse-ipv6=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "no" avahi-daemon aint gonna use IPv6 sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Default is "yes".
.TP
\fBallow-interfaces=\f1 Set a cold-ass lil comma separated list of allowed network intercourses dat should be used by tha avahi-daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Traffic on other intercourses is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If set ta a empty list all local intercourses except loopback n' point-to-point is ghon be used.
.TP
\fBdeny-interfaces=\f1 Set a cold-ass lil comma separated list of network intercourses dat should be ignored by avahi-daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Other not specified intercourses is ghon be used, unless \fBallow-interfaces=\f1 is set. This option takes precedence over \fBallow-interfaces=\f1.
.TP
\fBcheck-response-ttl=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes", a additionizzle securitizzle check be activated: incomin IP packets is ghon be ignored unless tha IP TTL is 255. Earlier mDNS justifications required dis check. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since dis feature may be incompatible wit newer implementationz of mDNS it defaults ta "no". On tha other hand it serves up extra security.
.TP
\fBuse-iff-running=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon monitors tha IFF_RUNNING flag bit which is used by some (modern) network drivers ta tell user space if a network cable is plugged up in (in case of copper ethernet), or tha network card be associated wit some kind of network (in case of WLAN). If IFF_RUNNING is set avahi-daemon will automatically announce its skillz on dat network. Unfortunately far too nuff network drivers do not support dis flag or support it up in a gangbangin' fucked up way. Therefore dis option defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fBenable-dbus=\f1 Takes either "yes", "no" or "warn". If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon connects ta D-Bus, offerin a object oriented client API. Well shiiiit, it is only available if Avahi has been compiled wit \fB--enable-dbus\f1 up in which case it defaults ta "yes". "warn" behaves like "yes" yo, but tha daemon starts up even when it fails ta connect ta a D-Bus daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In addition, if tha connection ta tha D-Bus daemon is terminated we try ta reconnect. (Unless we is up in a cold-ass lil chroot() environment where dis definitely will fail.) 
.TP
\fBdisallow-other-stacks=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" no other process be allowed ta bind ta UDP port 5353. This effectively impedes other mDNS stacks from hustlin on tha host. Use dis as a securitizzle measure ta make shizzle dat only Avahi is responsible fo' mDNS traffic. Please note dat our phat asses do not recommend hustlin multiple mDNS stacks on tha same host simultaneously. This hampers reliabilitizzle n' be a waste of resources. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat ta not annoy playas dis option defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fBallow-point-to-point=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will make use of intercourses wit tha POINTOPOINT flag set. This option defaults ta "no" as it might make mDNS unreliable cuz of probably big-ass latencies wit such links n' opens a potential securitizzle hole by allowin mDNS access from Internizzle connections. Use wit care n' YMMV!
.TP
\fBcache-entries-max=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer specifyin how tha fuck nuff resource recordz is cached per intercourse. Bigger joints allow mDNS work erectly up in big-ass LANs but also increase memory consumption.
.TP
\fBclients-max=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer n' shit. Da maximum number of concurrent D-Bus clients allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha maximum number is reached further clients is ghon be refused until at least one existin client disconnects.
.TP
\fBobjects-per-client-max=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer n' shit. Da maximum number of objects (entry groups, browsers, resolvers) dat may be registered per D-Bus client at a time. If tha maximum number is reached further object creation is ghon be refused until at least one object is freed.
.TP
\fBentries-per-entry-group-max=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer n' shit. Da maximum number of entries (resource records) per entry crew registered by a D-Bus client at a time. If tha maximum number is reached further resource recordz may not be added ta a entry group.
.TP
\fBratelimit-interval-usec=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sets tha per-interface packet rate-limitin interval parameter n' shit. Together wit \fBratelimit-burst=\f1 dis may be used ta control tha maximum number of packets Avahi will generated up in a specific period of time on a intercourse.
.TP
\fBratelimit-burst=\f1 Takes a unsigned integer n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sets tha per-interface packet rate-limitin burst parameter n' shit. Together wit \fBratelimit-interval-usec=\f1 dis may be used ta control tha maximum number of packets Avahi will generated up in a specific period of time on a intercourse.
.SH SECTION [WIDE-AREA]
.TP
\fBenable-wide-area=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). Enable wide-area DNS-SD, aka DNS-SD over unicast DNS. If dis is enabled only domains endin up in .local is ghon be resolved on mDNS, all other domains is resolved via unicast DNS. If you wanna maintain multiple different multicast DNS domains even wit dis option enabled we encourage you ta use subdomainz of .local, like fuckin "kitchen.local". This option defaults ta "yes".
.SH SECTION [PUBLISH]
.TP
\fBdisable-publishing=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes", no record is ghon be published by Avahi, not even address recordz fo' tha local host fo' realz. Avahi is ghon be started up in a querying-only mode. Use dis be a securitizzle measure. This option defaults ta "no"
.TP
\fBdisable-user-service-publishing=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes", Avahi will still publish address recordz n' suchlike but aint gonna allow user applications ta publish skillz. Use dis be a securitizzle measure. This option defaults ta "no"
.TP
\fBadd-service-cookie=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" a implicit TXT entry is ghon be added ta all locally registered skillz, containin a cold-ass lil cookie value which is chosen randomly on daemon startup. This can be used ta detect if two skillz on two different intercourses/protocols is straight-up identical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fBpublish-addresses=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will regista mDNS address recordz fo' all local IP addresses. Unless you wanna use avahi-daemon exclusively fo' browsin itz recommended ta enable all dis bullshit. If you plan ta regista local skillz you need ta enable dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Defaults ta "yes".
.TP
\fBpublish-hinfo=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will regista a mDNS HINFO record on all intercourses which gotz nuff shiznit bout tha local operatin system n' CPU, which might be useful fo' administratizzle purposes. This is recommended by tha mDNS justification but not required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For tha sake of privacy you might chizzle ta disable dis feature. Defaults ta "yes."
.TP
\fBpublish-workstation=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will regista a steez of type "_workstation._tcp" on tha local LAN. This might be useful fo' administratizzle purposes (i.e. browse fo' all PCs on tha LAN) yo, but aint required or recommended by any justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Newer MacOS X releases regista a steez of dis type. Defaults ta "yes".
.TP
\fBpublish-domain=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will announce tha locally used domain name (see above) fo' browsin by other hosts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Defaults ta "yes".
.TP
\fBpublish-dns-servers=\f1 Takes a cold-ass lil comma separated list of IP addresses fo' unicast DNS servers. Yo ass can use dis ta announce unicast DNS servers via mDNS. When used up in conjunction wit avahi-dnsconfd on tha client side dis allows DHCP-like configuration of unicast DNS servers.
.TP
\fBpublish-resolv-conf-dns-servers=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will publish tha unicast DNS servers specified up in \fI/etc/resolv.conf\f1 up in addizzle ta dem specified wit \fBpublish-dns-servers\f1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Send avahi-daemon a SIGHUP ta have it reload dis file. Defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fBpublish-aaaa-on-ipv4=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will publish a IPv6 AAAA record via IPv4, i.e. tha local IPv6 addresses can be resolved rockin a IPv4 transport. Only useful when IPv4 is enabled wit \fBuse-ipv4=true\f1. Defaults ta "yes".
.TP
\fBpublish-a-on-ipv6=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will publish a IPv4 A record via IPv6, i.e. tha local IPv4 addresses can be resolved rockin a IPv6 transport. Only useful when IPv6 is enabled wit \fBuse-ipv6=true\f1. Defaults ta "no".
.SH SECTION [REFLECTOR]
.TP
\fBenable-reflector=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" avahi-daemon will reflect incomin mDNS requests ta all local network intercourses, effectively allowin clients ta browse mDNS/DNS-SD skillz on all networks connected ta tha gateway. Da gateway is somewhat intelligent n' should work wit all kindz of mDNS traffic, though some functionalitizzle is lost (specifically tha unicast reply bit, which is used rarely anyway). Make shizzle ta not run multiple reflectors between tha same networks, dis might cause dem ta play Pin Pong wit mDNS packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Defaults ta "no".
.TP
\fBreflect-ipv=\f1 Takes a funky-ass boolean value ("yes" or "no"). If set ta "yes" n' \fBenable-reflector\f1 is enabled, avahi-daemon will forward mDNS traffic between IPv4 n' IPv6, which is probably not recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta "no".
.SH SECTION [RLIMITS]
This section is used ta define system resource limits fo' tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBsetrlimit(2)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If any of tha options aint specified up in tha configuration file, avahi-daemon do not chizzle it from tha system defaults.
.TP
\fBrlimit-as=\f1 Value up in bytes fo' RLIMIT_AS (maximum size of tha processs virtual memory). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sensible joints is heavily system dependent.
.TP
\fBrlimit-core=\f1 Value up in bytes fo' RLIMIT_CORE (maximum core file size). Unless you wanna debug avahi-daemon, it is safe ta set dis ta 0.
.TP
\fBrlimit-data=\f1 Value up in bytes fo' RLIMIT_DATA (maximum size of tha processs data segment). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sensible joints is heavily system dependent.
.TP
\fBrlimit-fsize=\f1 Value fo' RLIMIT_FSIZE (maximum size of filez tha process may create). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since avahi-daemon shouldn't write any filez ta disk, it is safe ta set dis ta 0.
.TP
\fBrlimit-nofile=\f1 Value fo' RLIMIT_NOFILE (open file descriptors). avahi-daemon shouldn't need mo' than 15 ta 20 open file descriptors concurrently.
.TP
\fBrlimit-stack=\f1 Value up in bytes fo' RLIMIT_STACK (maximum size of tha process stack). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sensible joints is heavily system dependent.
.TP
\fBrlimit-nproc=\f1 Value fo' RLIMIT_NPROC (number of process of user). avahi-daemon forkz of a helper process on systems where \fBchroot(2)\f1 be available. Therefore dis value should not be set below 2.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1, \fBavahi-dnsconfd(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
