.TH "booleans" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
booleans \- Da SELinux booleans configuration files
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da \fIbooleans\fR file, if present gotz nuff booleans ta support a specific distribution.
.sp
Da \fIbooleans.local\fR file, if present gotz nuff locally generated booleans.
.sp
Both filez contain a list of boolean names n' they associated joints.
.sp
Generally tha \fIbooleans\fR and/or \fIbooleans.local\fR filez is not present (they done been deprecated) yo. However if there be a SELinux-aware application dat uses tha libselinux functions listed below, then these filez may be present:
.sp
.RS
.BR security_set_boolean_list "(3) "
.RS
Writes a \fIbooleans.local\fR file if flag \fIpermanent\fR = \fI1\fR.
.sp
.RE
.RE
.RS
.BR security_load_booleans "(3) "
.RS
Looks fo' a \fIbooleans\fR and/or \fIbooleans.local\fR file at \fBselinux_booleans_path\fR(3) unless a specific path is specified as a parameter.
.RE
.RE
.sp
\fBbooleans\fR(8) has details on booleans n' \fBsetsebool\fR(8) raps bout how tha fuck booleans can now be set persistent across reboots.
.sp
\fBselinux_booleans_path\fR(3) will return tha actizzle policy path ta these files. Da default boolean filez are:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/booleans
.br
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/booleans.local
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is tha entry from tha selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Both boolean filez have tha same format n' contain one or mo' boolean names n' they value.
.sp
Da format is:
.RS
.I boolean_name
.I value
.sp
.RE
Where:
.RS
.I boolean_name
.RS
Da name of tha boolean.
.RE
.I value
.RS
Da default settin fo' tha boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be one of tha following:
.RS
.IR legit " | " false " | " 1 " | " 0
.RE
.RE
.RE
.sp
Note dat if
.B SETLOCALDEFS
is set up in tha SELinux
.I config
file (see
.BR selinux_config "(5)), then " selinux_mkload_policy "(3) will check fo' a "
.I booleans.local
file up in the
.BR selinux_booleans_path (3)
and also a
.I local.users
file (see
.BR local.users "(5)) up in tha " selinux_users_path "(3). "
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " booleans "(8), " setsebool "(8), " semanage "(8), " selinux_booleans_path "(3), " security_set_boolean_list "(3), " security_load_booleans "(3), " selinux_mkload_policy "(3), " selinux_users_path "(3), " selinux_config "(5), " local.users "(5) "
