.\" $Id: callerid.conf.5.in,v 1.4 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH callerid.conf 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0

.SH NAME
/etc/isdn/callerid.conf \- config file fo' isdnlog numbers n' scripts

.SH FORMAT
This file has tha format busted lyrics bout up in isdnformat(5). Well shiiiit, it must be owned by
root, n' only root may have write access. Every user can create his
private telephone book as ~/.isdn wit tha same file format.

.SH VARIABLES SECTION
Like up in isdn.conf, dis file has a optionizzle [VARIABLES] section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All
variable names must be uppercase. Warning: variablez up in callerid.conf
will override variablez up in isdn.conf, n' variablez up in ~/.isdn will
override variablez up in both files. First all variablez is read, then they
are substituted, so a variable defined up in ~/.isdn can be used up in isdn.conf.
This might be a securitizzle hole. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if programs is ta be run as root,
these filez (and tha program) cannot be writeable fo' non-root users.

Usin variables: if a reference ta a non existin variable is used,
isdnrep n' isdnlog will give warnin lyrics, n' use tha variable
name (e.g if $FRED aint set, isdnlog will use "$FRED"). Da dollar sign
can be backslashed if a real dollar sign is needed instead of variable
substitution (e.g. \\$PATH is ghon be "$PATH").

.SH NUMBER n' MSN
In [NUMBER] sections, you can supply shiznit fo' tha outa ghetto,
in [MSN] sections; you can supply shiznit bout yo' msns. The
format is tha same:

.TP 4
.B NUMBER=xxxx
Set tha telephone number n' shit. This should be yo' msn or tha telephone
number wit area code (with or without areprefix, ghettocode and
countryprefix)

.TP
.B SI=x
Service indicator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Isdnlog knows these steez indicators:
.nf
1   rap (telephone, fax g3, modem etc.)
2   restricted digital shiznit
3   unrestricted digital shiznit wit tones/announcements
4   vizzle
7   unrestricted digital shiznit (hdlc, x.75 etc.)
.fi

.TP
.B Alias=xxxx
Supply a name as alias (e.g fo' realz. ALIAS=Fredz Number)

.TP
.B ZONE=xxx
Only useful wit remote numbers: billin unit fo' connections ta this
number:
.nf
0   internal connection up in yo' s0 bus (no charge)
1   hood area
2   region 50
3   region 200
4   far region
5   tha same as 1
.fi

.TP
.B INTERFACE=xxx
Isdn network intercourse. This shiznit is required wit the
"-hx" / hangup="value" option.

.TP
.B START
Yo ass can define a subsection here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Da whole section is ignored unless you
gave tha "-S" / start=yes option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Each subsection should have tha name
[FLAG]. Well shiiiit, it may hold these joints:

.RS
.TP 4
.B FLAGS=x|y|z 
Combine these flags (with or without tha pipe "|" char; wit is preferred)
to git tha combination you want:

.RS
Part 1: Incomin n' Outgoing
.TP 4
I
Incomin call
.TP
O
Outgoin call
.RE

.RS
Part 2: Signals from isdn system
.TP 4
C
Connect (can be used wit interval, peep below)
.TP
B
Busy
.TP
E
Error
.TP
R
Rin (can be used wit interval, peep below)
.TP
A
AOCD (advice of charge signal)
.TP
H
Hangup
.RE

.RS
Part 3: Modifiers
.PD 0
.TP 4
L
Start tha program again n' again n' again n' again n' again n' again every last muthafuckin time it terminates.
.TP
U
Start tha program only once within a interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Without this, several
instancez of a program can run up in parallel. (Interval required.)
.TP
K
Bust a cap up in program all up in tha end of tha interval.
.RE

.TP 
.B USER=xxx
Isdnlog aint gonna run programs as root, n' will switch ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
user id fo' security. Yo ass must give tha name or uid of tha user isdnlog
has ta use here.

.TP
.B GROUP=xxx
Isdnlog aint gonna run programs as crew root, n' will switch ta a
different crew id fo' security. Yo ass must give tha name or gid of the
groups isdnlog has ta use here.

.TP
.B TIME=xx
Restrict dis flag ta a special time. Pleas read isdntime(5).

.TP
.B INTERVAL=xx
With connect (C) or rang (R) flag you can specify a interval, so
isdnlog will start tha program afta every last muthafuckin interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Da interval is in
secondz n' should be at least 2 seconds. If tha flags do not include C
or R, dis option is ignored.

.TP
.B PROGRAM=xxx
.RS
Da program you wanna start, wit tha required arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Yo ass may use the
followin special tokens:

.PD 0
.TP
\\$1
flags dat caused execution, e.g. "IR", "OC". There is always
.B exactly
two characters.
.TP
\\$2
Calla number (complete wit area code).
.TP
\\$3
Called number (complete wit area code).
.TP
\\$4
Time tha connection started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Example:
.br
"Wed May 28 23:07:44 1997".
.br
Gotz Nuff "?" if there is no connection yet (e.g. still at RING phase).
.TP
\\$5
Duration of connection up ta now (in seconds).
.TP
\\$6
Time tha connection ended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Same format as \\$4.
.TP
\\$7
Number of input bytes.
.TP
\\$8
Number of output bytes.
.TP
\\$9
Input bytes per second.
.TP
\\$10
Output bytes per second.
.TP
\\$11
Service indicator.
.TP
\\$12
Charges.
.TP
\\$13
Calla ghetto code.
.TP
\\$14
Called ghetto code.
.TP
\\$15
Calla area code.
.TP
\\$16
Called area code.
.TP
\\$17
Calla hood (derived from area code).
.TP
\\$18
Called town
.TP
\\$19
Calla alias.
.TP
\\$20
Called alias.
.RE

.RS
Note: within a strang you must use \\${1} \\${2} ...
.RE


.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/isdn/callerid.conf
This file.                                                       

.TP
.B ~/.isdn
Per user telephone book.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B isdnlog(8) isdnformat(5) isdntime(5)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
