.TH CANONICAL 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
canonical
\-
Postfix canonical table format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/canonical\fR

\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" /etc/postfix/canonical\fR

\fBpostmap -q - /etc/postfix/canonical <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBcanonical\fR(5) table specifies a address mappin for
local n' non-local addresses. Da mappin is used by the
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon, before mail is stored tha fuck into the
queue.  Da address mappin is recursive.

Normally, tha \fBcanonical\fR(5) table is specified as a text file
that serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command.
Da result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format,
is used fo' fast searchin by tha mail system. Execute tha command
"\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/canonical\fR" ta rebuild a indexed
file afta changin tha correspondin text file.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions, or lookups
can be pimped up ta TCP-based server n' shit. In dem cases, tha lookups
are done up in a slightly different way as busted lyrics bout below under
"REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES" or "TCP-BASED TABLES".

By default tha \fBcanonical\fR(5) mappin affects both message
header addresses (i.e. addresses dat step tha fuck up inside lyrics)
and message envelope addresses (for example, tha addresses
that is used up in SMTP protocol commands). This is controlled with
the \fBcanonical_classes\fR parameter.

NOTE: Postfix versions 2.2 n' lata rewrite message headers
from remote SMTP clients only if tha client matches the
local_header_rewrite_clients parameter, or if the
remote_header_rewrite_domain configuration parameta specifies
a non-empty value. To git tha behavior before Postfix 2.2,
specify "local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".

Typically, one would use tha \fBcanonical\fR(5) table ta replace login
names by \fIFirstname.Lastname\fR, or ta clean up addresses produced
by legacy mail systems.

Da \fBcanonical\fR(5) mappin aint ta be trippin wit \fIvirtual
alias\fR support or wit local aliasing. To chizzle tha destination
but not tha headers, use tha \fBvirtual\fR(5) or \fBaliases\fR(5)
map instead.
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da search strang is folded ta lowercase before database
lookup fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3, tha search strang aint case
folded wit database types like fuckin regexp: or pcre: whose
lookup fieldz can match both upper n' lower case.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da input format fo' tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command be as bigs up:
.IP "\fIpattern result\fR"
When \fIpattern\fR matches a mail address, replace it by the
correspondin \fIresult\fR.
.IP "blank lines n' comments"
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP "multi-line text"
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With lookups from indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked
tablez like fuckin NIS, LDAP or SQL, patterns is tried up in tha order as
listed below:
.IP "\fIuser\fR@\fIdomain address\fR"
Replace \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR by \fIaddress\fR. This form
has tha highest precedence.
.sp
This is useful ta clean up addresses produced by legacy mail systems.
It can also be used ta produce \fIFirstname.Lastname\fR style
addresses yo, but peep below fo' a simpla solution.
.IP "\fIuser address\fR"
Replace \fIuser\fR@\fIsite\fR by \fIaddress\fR when \fIsite\fR is
equal ta $\fBmyorigin\fR, when \fIsite\fR is listed in
$\fBmydestination\fR, or when it is listed up in $\fBinet_interfaces\fR
or $\fBproxy_interfaces\fR.
.sp
This form is useful fo' replacin login names by
\fIFirstname.Lastname\fR.
.IP "@\fIdomain address\fR"
Replace other addresses up in \fIdomain\fR by \fIaddress\fR.
This form has tha lowest precedence.
.sp
Note: @\fIdomain\fR be a wild-card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When dis form be applied
to recipient addresses, tha Postfix SMTP server accepts
mail fo' any recipient up in \fIdomain\fR, regardless of whether
that recipient exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This may turn yo' mail system into
a backscatta source: Postfix first accepts mail for
non-existent recipients n' then tries ta return dat mail
as "undeliverable" ta tha often forged sender address.
.SH "RESULT ADDRESS REWRITING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da lookup result is subject ta address rewriting:
.IP \(bu
When tha result has tha form @\fIotherdomain\fR, the
result becomes tha same ol' dirty \fIuser\fR up in \fIotherdomain\fR.
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_at_myorigin=yes\fR", append "\fB@$myorigin\fR"
to addresses without "@domain".
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_dot_mydomain=yes\fR", append
"\fB.$mydomain\fR" ta addresses without ".domain".
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
When a mail address localpart gotz nuff tha optionizzle recipient delimiter
(e.g., \fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR), tha lookup order becomes:
\fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser+foo\fR,
\fIuser\fR, n' @\fIdomain\fR.

Da \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR parameta controls whether
an unmatched address extension (\fI+foo\fR) is propagated ta the
result of table lookup.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions. For a thugged-out description of
regular expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5)
or \fBpcre_table\fR(5).

Each pattern be a regular expression dat be applied ta tha entire
address bein looked up. Thus, \fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not
broken up tha fuck into they \fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts,
nor is \fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups, with
the additionizzle feature dat parenthesized substrings from the
pattern can be interpolated as \fB$1\fR, \fB$2\fR n' so on.
.SH "TCP-BASED TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when lookups
are pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of tha TCP
client/server lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each lookup operation uses tha entire address once.  Thus,
\fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not fucked up tha fuck into their
\fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts, nor is
\fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da table format do not KNOW quotin conventions.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP \fBcanonical_classes\fR
What addresses is subject ta canonical address mapping.
.IP \fBcanonical_maps\fR
List of canonical mappin tables.
.IP \fBrecipient_canonical_maps\fR
Address mappin lookup table fo' envelope n' header recipient
addresses.
.IP \fBsender_canonical_maps\fR
Address mappin lookup table fo' envelope n' header sender
addresses.
.IP \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR
A list of address rewritin or forwardin mechanizzlez dat propagate
an address extension from tha original gangsta address ta tha result.
Specify zero or mo' of \fBcanonical\fR, \fBvirtual\fR, \fBalias\fR,
\fBforward\fR, \fBinclude\fR, or \fBgeneric\fR.
.PP
Other parametaz of interest:
.IP \fBinet_interfaces\fR
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis system receives mail on.
Yo ass need ta stop n' start Postfix when dis parameta chizzles.
.IP \fBlocal_header_rewrite_clients\fR
Rewrite message header addresses up in mail from these clients
and update incomplete addresses wit tha domain name in
$myorigin or $mydomain; either don't rewrite message headers
from other clients at all, or rewrite message headaz and
update incomplete addresses wit tha domain specified in
the remote_header_rewrite_domain parameter.
.IP \fBproxy_interfaces\fR
Other intercourses dat dis machine receives mail on by way of a
proxy agent or network address translator.
.IP \fBmasquerade_classes\fR
List of address classes subject ta masquerading: zero or mo' of
\fBenvelope_sender\fR, \fBenvelope_recipient\fR, \fBheader_sender\fR,
\fBheader_recipient\fR.
.IP \fBmasquerade_domains\fR
List of domains dat hide they subdomain structure.
.IP \fBmasquerade_exceptions\fR
List of user names dat is not subject ta address masquerading.
.IP \fBmydestination\fR
List of domains dat dis mail system considaz local.
.IP \fBmyorigin\fR
Da domain dat be appended ta locally-posted mail.
.IP \fBballer_request_special\fR
Give special treatment ta \fBballer-\fIxxx\fR n' \fIxxx\fB-request\fR
addresses.
.IP \fBremote_header_rewrite_domain\fR
Don't rewrite message headaz from remote clients at all
when dis parameta is empty; otherwise, rewrite message
headaz n' append tha specified domain name ta incomplete
addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
cleanup(8), canonicalize n' enqueue mail
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
virtual(5), virtual aliasing
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, address rewritin guide
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
