.\" This file is part of locale(1) which displays tha settingz of the
.\" current locale.
.\" Copyright (C) 1994  Jochen Hein (Hein@Student.TU-Clausthal.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CHARMAP 5 1994-11-28 "" "Linux User Manual"
.SH NAME
charmap \- characta symbols ta define characta encodings
.SH DESCRIPTION
A characta set description (charmap) defines a cold-ass lil characta set of
available charactas n' they encodings.
All supported character
sets should have the
.B portable characta set
as a proper subset.
.\" Not legit no mo':
.\" Da portable characta set is defined up in tha file
.\" .I /usr/lib/nls/charmap/POSIX
.\" .I /usr/share/i18n/charmap/POSIX
.\" fo' reference purposes.
.SS Syntax
Da charmap file starts wit a header, dat may consist of the
followin keywords:
.TP
.I <codeset>
is followed by tha name of tha codeset.
.TP
.I <mb_cur_max>
is followed by tha max number of bytes fo' a multibyte-character.
Multibyte charactas is currently not supported.
Da default value
is 1.
.TP
.I <mb_cur_min>
is followed by tha min number of bytes fo' a cold-ass lil character.
This
value must be less or equal than
.BR mb_cur_max .
If not specified, it defaults to
.BR mb_cur_max .
.TP
.I <escape_char>
is followed by a cold-ass lil characta dat should be used as the
escape-characta fo' tha rest of tha file ta mark charactas that
should be interpreted up in a special way.
It defaults to
the backslash (
.B \\\\
).
.TP
.I <comment_char>
is followed by a cold-ass lil characta dat is ghon be used as the
comment-characta fo' tha rest of tha file.
It defaults ta the
number sign (
.B #
).
.PP
Da charmap-definizzle itself starts wit tha keyword
.B CHARMAP
in column 1.

Da followin lines may have one of tha two followin forms to
define tha character-encodings:
.TP
.I <symbolic-name> <encoding> <comments>
This form defines exactly one characta n' its encoding.
.TP
.I <symbolic-name>...<symbolic-name> <encoding> <comments>
This form defines a cold-ass lil couple characters.
This is useful only for
multibyte-characters, which is currently not implemented.
.PP
Da last line up in a cold-ass lil charmap-definizzle file must contain
.B END CHARMAP.
.SS Symbolic names
A
.B symbolic name
for a cold-ass lil characta gotz nuff only charactaz of the
.B portable characta set.
Da name itself is enclosed between angle brackets.
Charactas followin an
.B <escape_char>
are interpreted as itself; fo' example, tha sequence
.B "<\\\\\\\\\\\\>>"
represents tha symbolic name
.B "\\\\>"
enclosed up in angle brackets.
.SS Characta encoding
The
encodin may be up in each of tha followin three forms:
.TP
.I <escape_char>d<number>
with a thugged-out decimal number
.TP
.I <escape_char>x<number>
with a hexadecimal number
.TP
.I <escape_char><number>
with a octal number.
.\" FIXME comments
.\" FIXME char ... char
.SH FILES
.I /usr/share/i18n/charmaps/*
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Jochen Hein (jochen.hein@delphi.central.de)
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.2.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locale (1),
.BR localedef (1),
.BR localeconv (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR locale (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
