.TH CIDR_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
cidr_table
\-
format of Postfix CIDR tables
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" cidr:/etc/postfix/\fIfilename\fR

\fBpostmap -q - cidr:/etc/postfix/\fIfilename\fR <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix mail system uses optionizzle lookup tables.
These tablez is probably up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format.
Alternatively, lookup tablez can be specified up in CIDR
(Classless Inter-Domain Routing) form. In dis case, each
input is compared against a list of patterns. When a match
is found, tha correspondin result is returned n' tha search
is terminated.

To smoke up what tha fuck typez of lookup tablez yo' Postfix system
supports use tha "\fBpostconf -m\fR" command.

To test lookup tables, use tha "\fBpostmap -q\fR" command as
busted lyrics bout up in tha SYNOPSIS above.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da general form of a Postfix CIDR table is:
.IP "\fInetwork_address\fB/\fInetwork_mask     result\fR"
When a search strang matches tha specified network block,
use tha correspondin \fIresult\fR value. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify
0.0.0.0/0 ta match every last muthafuckin IPv4 address, n' ::/0 ta match
every IPv6 address.

An IPv4 network address be a sequence of four decimal octets
separated by ".", n' a IPv6 network address be a sequence
of three ta eight hexadecimal octet pairs separated by ":".

Before comparisons is made, lookup keys n' table entries
are converted from strang ta binary. Therefore table entries
will be matched regardless of redundant zero characters.

Note: address shiznit may be enclosed inside "[]" but
this form aint required.

IPv6 support be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.IP "\fInetwork_address     result\fR"
When a search strang matches tha specified network address,
use tha correspondin \fIresult\fR value.
.IP "blank lines n' comments"
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP "multi-line text"
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.
.SH "EXAMPLE SMTPD ACCESS MAP"
.na
.nf
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtpd_client_restrictions = ... cidr:/etc/postfix/client.cidr ...

/etc/postfix/client.cidr:
    # Rule order matters. Put mo' specific whitelist entries
    # before mo' general blacklist entries.
    192.168.1.1             OK
    192.168.0.0/16          REJECT
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
regexp_table(5), format of regular expression tables
pcre_table(5), format of PCRE tables
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
CIDR table support was introduced wit Postfix version 2.1.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Da CIDR table lookup code was originally freestyled by:
Jozsef Kadlecsik
KFKI Research Institute fo' Particle n' Nuclear Physics
POB. 49
1525 Budapest, Hungary

Adopted n' adapted by:
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
