.\"
.\" "$Id: client.conf.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   client.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH client.conf 5 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
client.conf \- client configuration file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIclient.conf\fR file configures tha CUPS client n' is
normally located up in tha \fI/etc/cups\fR or \fI~/.cups\fR
directory. Each line up in tha file can be a cold-ass lil configuration
directive, a funky-ass blank line, or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment lines start with
the # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
Da followin directives is understood by tha client. Consult the
on-line help fo' detailed descriptions:
.TP 5
Encryption IfRequested
.TP 5
Encryption Never
.TP 5
Encryption Required
.br
Specifies tha level of encryption dat is required fo' a particular
location.
.TP 5
GSSServiceName name
Specifies tha Kerberos steez name dat is used fo' authentication, typically
"host", "http", or "ipp". CUPS addz tha remote hostname
("name@server.example.com") fo' yo thugged-out ass. Da default name is
"http".
.TP 5
ServerName hostname-or-ip-address[:port]
.TP 5
ServerName /domain/socket
.br
Specifies tha address n' optionally tha port ta use when connectin ta the
server n' shit. \fBNote: Not supported on OS X 10.7 or later.\fR
.TP 5
ServerName hostname-or-ip-address[:port]/version=1.1
.br
Specifies tha address n' optionally tha port ta use when connectin ta a
server hustlin CUPS 1.3.12 n' earlier n' shit. \fBNote: Not supported on OS X 10.7 or
later.\fR
.TP 5
User name
.br
Specifies tha default user name ta use fo' requests.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: client.conf.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
