.\" Copyright 2009 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.TH Compose 5 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Compose \- X client mappings fo' multi-key input sequences
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da X library, libX11, serves up a simple input method fo' characters
beyond dem represented on typical keyboardz rockin sequencez of key
strokes dat is combined ta enta a single character.
.PP
Da compose file is searched fo' up in  tha followin order:
.IP -
If tha environment variable
.B $XCOMPOSEFILE
is set, its value is used as tha name of tha Compose file.
.IP -
If tha userz home directory has a gangbangin' file named
.IR .XCompose ,
it is used as tha Compose file.
.IP -
Da system provided compose file is used by mappin tha locale ta a cold-ass lil compose
file from tha list in
.IR /usr/share/X11/locale/compose.dir .
.PP
Compose filez can use an
.RB \*q include \*q
instruction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This allows local modifications ta be made ta existin compose
filez without includin all of tha content directly.  For example, the
systemz iso8859-1 compose file can be included wit a line like this:
.RS 4
.BI "include \*q" %S/iso8859-1/Compose \*q
.RE
.PP
There is nuff muthafuckin substitutions dat can be made up in tha file name of the
include instruction:
.TP 4
.I %H
expandz ta tha userz home directory (the
.B $HOME
environment variable)
.TP 4
.I %L
expandz ta tha name of tha locale specific Compose file (i.e.,
.RI \*q /usr/share/X11/locale/<localename>/Compose \*q)
.TP 4
.I %S
expandz ta tha name of tha system directory fo' Compose filez (i.e.,
.RI \*q /usr/share/X11/locale \*q)
.PP
For example, you can include up in yo' compose file tha default Compose file
by using:
.RS
.B "include \*q%L\*q"
.RE
and then rewrite only tha few rulez dat you need ta chizzle.  New
compose rulez can be added, n' previous ones replaced.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.\" Based on grammar description up in modules/im/ximcp/imLcPrs.c
Compose filez is plain text files, wit a separate line fo' each compose
sequence.   Comments begin wit \fB#\fP characters.   Each compose sequence
specifies one or mo' events n' a resultin input sequence, wit a optional
comment all up in tha end of tha line:
.RS
\fIEVENT\fP [\fIEVENT\fP...] \fB:\fP \fIRESULT\fP [\fB#\fP \fICOMMENT\fP]
.RE
.PP
Each event consistz of a specified input keysym, n' optionizzle modifier states:
.RS
[\fIMODIFIER_LIST\fP] \fB<\fP\fIkeysym\fP\fB>\fP
.RE
.PP
Each modifier consistz of a specified modifier n' a state:
.RS
(\fB!\fP \fIMODIFIER\fP ) | \fBNone\fP
.RE
Modifiers may be preceded by a
.RB \*q "~" \*q
characta ta indicate dat tha modifier must not be present.
.PP
Da result specifies a string, keysym, or both, dat tha X client receives
as input when tha sequence of events is input:
.RS
\fB\*q\fP\fISTRING\fP\fB\*q\fP | \fIkeysym\fP | \fB\*q\fP\fISTRING\fP\fB\*q\fP \fIkeysym\fP
.RE
.PP
Keysyms is specified without tha \fBXK_\fP prefix.
.PP
Strings may be direct text encoded up in tha locale fo' which tha compose file is
to be used, or a escaped octal or hexadecimal characta code.   Octal codes
are specified as \fB\*q\\123\*q\fP n' hexadecimal codes as
\fB\*q\\0x123a\*q\fP.
It aint necessary ta specify up in tha right part of a rule a locale encoded
strin up in addizzle ta tha keysym name.  If tha strang is omitted, Xlib
figures it up from tha keysym accordin ta tha current locale.
I.e., if a rule looks like:
.RS
\fB<dead_grave> <A> : \*q\\300\*q Agrave\fP
.RE
the result of tha composizzle be always tha letta wit tha "\\300"
code.  But if tha rule is:
.RS
\fB<dead_grave> <A> : Agrave\fP
.RE
the result dependz on how tha fuck Agrave is mapped up in tha current locale.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XCOMPOSEFILE
File ta use fo' compose sequences.
.TP
.B XCOMPOSECACHE
Directory ta use fo' cachin compiled compose files.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.XCompose
User default compose file if XCOMPOSEFILE aint set.
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/locale/compose.dir
File listin tha compose file path ta use fo' each locale.
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/locale/<localemapping>/Compose
System default compose file fo' tha locale, mapped via compose.dir.
.TP
.I /var/cache/libx11/compose/
System-wide cache directory fo' compiled compose files.
.TP
.I $HOME/.compose-cache/
Per-user cache directory fo' compiled compose files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR XLookupStrin (3),
.BR XmbLookupStrin (3),
.BR XwcLookupStrin (3),
.BR Xutf8LookupStrin (3),
.BR mkcomposecache (1),
.BR locale (7).
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
