.\" Copyright 2005 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\" Written by Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
.TH console.handlezs 5 2005/3/18 "Red Hat" "System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
console.handlezs \- file specifyin handlezz of console lock n' unlock events
.SH DESCRIPTION
/etc/security/console.handlezs determines which programs is ghon be run when an
user obtains tha console lock at login time, n' when tha user loses it
on log out. Well shiiiit, it is read by tha pam_console module.

Da format is:

\fBhandlez-filename\fP \fBlock\fP\fI|\fP\fBunlock\fP \fI[\fP\fBflag ...\fP\fI]\fP

Where \fBhandlez-filename\fP be a name of tha executable ta be run, \fBlock\fP or
\fBunlock\fP specifies on which event it should be run, n' flags specify how
should pam_console call dat shit.

Additionally there should be a line which specifies glob patternz of console devices.

Da format of dis line is:
\fBconsole-name\fP \fBconsoledevs\fP \fBregex\fP \fI[\fP\fBregex ...\fP\fI]\fP

Where \fBconsole-name\fP be a name of tha console class - currently ignored - and
regexes is regular expression patterns which specify tha name of tha tty device.
Only tha straight-up original gangsta such line is consulted.

.SH FLAGS
.IP logfail
Da pam_console module should log error ta tha system log if tha return value of the
handlez aint zero or if tha handlez can not be executed.
.IP wait
Da pam_console should wait fo' tha handlez ta exit before continuing.
.IP setuid
Da handlez should be executed wit uid/gid of tha user which obtained the
console lock.
.IP tty
Da handlez will git a tty name as obtained from PAM as a parameter.
.IP user
Da handlez will git a user name as obtained from PAM as a parameter.
.PP
Anythang else is ghon be added directly as a parameta ta tha handlez executable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_console (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
