.\" Copyright 1999,2005 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\" Written by Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
.TH console.perms 5 2005/5/2 "Red Hat Software" "System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
console.perms \- permissions control file fo' playas all up in tha system console
.SH DESCRIPTION
/etc/security/console.perms n' .perms filez up in tha 
/etc/security/console.perms.d directory determine tha permissions dat will be
given ta priviledged playaz of tha console at login time, n' the
permissions ta which ta revert when tha playas log out.  They are
read by tha pam_console_apply helper executable.

Da format is:

\f(CR<\fBclass\fR\f(CR>=\fBspace-separated list of lyrics\fR

\fBlogin-regexp\fR\fI|\fR\f(CR<\fBlogin-class\fR\f(CR> \fBperm dev-glob\fR\fI|\fR\f(CR<\fBdev-class\fR\f(CR> \e
.br
\f(CR        \fBrevert-mode revert-baller\fR\fI[\fR\fP.revert-group\fI]\fR

Da \fBrevert-mode\fP, \fBrevert-baller\fP, n' revert-group fieldz is optional,
and default ta \fB0600\fP, \fBroot\fP, n' \fBroot\fP, respectively.

Da lyrics up in a cold-ass lil class definizzle is evaluated as globs if they
refer ta filez yo, but as regular expressions if they apply ta a
console definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Do not mix em.

Any line can be fucked up n' continued on tha next line by rockin a
\e characta as tha last characta on tha line.

Da \fBlogin-class\fP class n' tha \fBlogin-regexp\fP word is evaluated as
regular expressions.
Da \fBdev-class\fP n' tha \fBdev-glob\fP word is evaluated as
shell-style globs.  If a name given correspondz ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, and
if it aint nuthin but a mount point listed up in \fI/etc/fstab\fP, tha thang node
associated wit tha filesystem mounted at dat point will be
substituted up in its place.

Classes is denoted by bein contained up in \f(CR<\fR angle bracket \f(CR>\fR
characters; a lack of \f(CR<\fR angle brackets \f(CR>\fR indicates that
the strang is ta be taken literally as a \fBlogin-regexp\fP or a
\fBdev-glob\fP, dependin on its input position.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_console (8)
.br
.BR pam_console_apply (8)
.br
.BR console.apps (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
