.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse (jfriesse@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha Red Hat, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC_XML 5 2011-12-16 "corosync XML config Man Page" "Corosync Clusta Engine Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
corosync.xml - XML version of corosync executizzle configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/corosync/corosync.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da corosync.xml is XML version of corosync.conf file. Well shiiiit, it is processed by
.B corosync-xmlproc (8)
to generate valid conf file.

File must be valid XML. File starts wit root element
.B corosync
which can contain same arguments as busted lyrics bout in
.B corosync.conf (5).

Within corosync tag is other tags which is processed as bigs up:
.TP
- Every tag is start of freshly smoked up directive
.TP
- Every tag attribute is one of options up in directive
.TP
- Directizzle be automatically closed
.TP
- Sub-tags is processed same n' stays within directive
.PP
For example, peep /etc/corosync/corosync.xml.example

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/etc/corosync/corosync.xml
XML version of tha corosync executizzle configuration file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.BR corosync.conf (5),
.BR corosync-xmlproc (8)
.PP
