.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-files.conf.man.in 11201 2013-07-26 21:27:27Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsd.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cups-files.conf 5 "CUPS" "26 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cups-files.conf \- file n' directory configuration file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIcups-files.conf\fR file configures tha filez n' directories used by the
CUPS scheduler, \fIcupsd(8)\fR.  It be normally located up in the
\fI/etc/cups\fR directory.
.LP
Each line up in tha file can be a cold-ass lil configuration directive, a funky-ass blank line,
or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment lines start wit tha # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
Da followin directives is understood by \fIcupsd(8)\fR. Consult the
on-line help fo' detailed descriptions:
.TP 5
AccessLog filename
.TP 5
AccessLog syslog
.TP 5
AccessLog journal
.br
Defines tha access log filename.
.TP 5
ConfigFilePerm mode
.br
Specifies tha permissions fo' all configuration filez dat tha scheduler
writes.
.TP 5
DataDir path
.br
Specified tha directory where data filez can be found.
.TP 5
DocumentRoot directory
.br
Specifies tha root directory fo' tha internal wizzy server documents.
.TP 5
ErrorLog filename
.TP 5
ErrorLog syslog
.TP 5
ErrorLog journal
.br
Specifies tha error log filename.
.TP 5
FatalErrors none
.TP 5
FatalErrors all -kind [... -kind]
.TP 5
FatalErrors kind [... kind]
.br
Specifies which errors is fatal, causin tha schedula ta exit. "Kind" is
"browse", "config", "listen", "log", or "permissions".
.TP 5
FileDevice Yes
.TP 5
FileDevice No
.br
Specifies whether tha file pseudo-device can be used fo' new
printa queues.
.TP 5
FontPath directory[:directory:...]
.br
Specifies tha search path fo' fonts.
.TP 5
Group group-name-or-number
.br
Specifies tha crew name or ID dat is ghon be used when executing
external programs.
.TP 5
LogFilePerm mode
.br
Specifies tha permissions fo' all log filez dat tha schedula writes.
.TP 5
PageLog filename
.TP 5
PageLog syslog
.TP 5
PageLog journal
.br
Specifies tha page log filename.
.TP 5
Printcap
.TP 5
Printcap filename
.br
Specifies tha filename fo' a printcap file dat is updated
automatically wit a list of available printas (needed for
legacy applications); specifyin Printcap wit no filename
disablez printcap generation.
.TP 5
RemoteRoot user-name
.br
Specifies tha username dat be associated wit unauthenticated root
accesses.
.TP 5
RequestRoot directory
.br
Specifies tha directory ta store print thangs n' other HTTP request
data.
.TP 5
ServerBin directory
.br
Specifies tha directory where backends, CGIs, daemons, n' filtas may
be found.
.TP 5
ServerCertificate filename
.br
Specifies tha encryption certificate ta use.
.TP 5
ServerKey filename
.br
Specifies tha encryption key ta use.
.TP 5
ServerRoot directory
.br
Specifies tha directory where tha server configuration filez can be found.
.TP 5
SyncOnClose Yes
.TP 5
SyncOnClose No
Specifies whether tha schedula calls \fIfsync(2)\fR afta freestylin configuration
or state files. Da default is Yes yes y'all.
.TP 5
SystemGroup group-name [group-name ...]
.br
Specifies tha group(s) ta use fo' System class authentication.
.TP 5
TempDir directory
.br
Specifies tha directory where temporary filez is stored.
.TP 5
User user-name
.br
Specifies tha user name or ID dat is used when hustlin external programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR, \fImime.convs(5)\fR,
\fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
\fIsubscriptions.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-files.conf.man.in 11201 2013-07-26 21:27:27Z msweet $".
.\"
