.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsd.conf.man.in 12060 2014-07-28 14:04:41Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsd.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsd.conf 5 "CUPS" "28 July 2014" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsd.conf \- server configuration file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIcupsd.conf\fR file configures tha CUPS scheduler, \fIcupsd(8)\fR.  It
is normally located up in tha \fI/etc/cups\fR directory. \fBNote:\fR
File, directory, n' user configuration directives dat used ta be allowed in
the \fIcupsd.conf\fR file is now stored up in tha \fIcups-files.conf(5)\fR instead
in order ta prevent certain typez of privilege escalation attacks.
.LP
Each line up in tha file can be a cold-ass lil configuration directive, a funky-ass blank line,
or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment lines start wit tha # character n' shit. The
configuration directives is intentionally similar ta dem used by the
popular Apache wizzy server software n' is busted lyrics bout below.
.SH DIRECTIVES
Da followin directives is understood by \fIcupsd(8)\fR. Consult the
on-line help fo' detailed descriptions:
.TP 5
AccessLogLevel config
.TP 5
AccessLogLevel actions
.TP 5
AccessLogLevel all
.br
Specifies tha loggin level fo' tha AccessLog file.
.TP 5
Allow all
.TP 5
Allow none
.TP 5
Allow host.domain.com
.TP 5
Allow *.domain.com
.TP 5
Allow ip-address
.TP 5
Allow ip-address/netmask
.TP 5
Allow ip-address/mm
.TP 5
Allow @IF(name)
.TP 5
Allow @LOCAL
.br
Allows access from tha named hosts or addresses.
.TP 5
AuthType None
.TP 5
AuthType Basic
.TP 5
AuthType BasicDigest
.TP 5
AuthType Digest
.TP 5
AuthType Negotiate
.br
Specifies tha authentication type (None, Basic, BasicDigest, Digest, Negotiate)
.TP 5
AutoPurgeJobs Yes
.TP 5
AutoPurgeJobs No
.br
Specifies whether ta purge thang history data automatically when
it is no longer required fo' quotas.
.TP 5
BrowseLocalProtocols [All] [DNSSD]
.br
Specifies tha protocols ta use fo' local printa sharing.
.TP 5
BrowseWebIF Yes
.TP 5
BrowseWebIF No
.br
Specifies whether tha CUPS wizzy intercourse be advertised via DNS-SD.
.TP 5
Browsin Yes
.TP 5
Browsin No
.br
Specifies whether or not shared printas should be advertised.
.TP 5
Classification banner
.br
Specifies tha securitizzle classification of tha server.
.TP 5
ClassifyOverride Yes
.TP 5
ClassifyOverride No
.br
Specifies whether ta allow playas ta override tha classification
of individual print thangs.
.TP 5
DefaultAuthType Basic
.TP 5
DefaultAuthType BasicDigest
.TP 5
DefaultAuthType Digest
.TP 5
DefaultAuthType Negotiate
.br
Specifies tha default type of authentication ta use.
.TP 5
DefaultEncryption Never
.TP 5
DefaultEncryption IfRequested
.TP 5
DefaultEncryption Required
.br
Specifies tha type of encryption ta use fo' authenticated requests.
.TP 5
DefaultLanguage locale
.br
Specifies tha default language ta use fo' text n' wizzy content.
.TP 5
DefaultPaperSize Auto
.TP 5
DefaultPaperSize None
.TP 5
DefaultPaperSize sizename
.br
Specifies tha default paper size fo' freshly smoked up print queues. "Auto" uses a locale-
specific default, while "None" specifies there is no default paper size.
.TP 5
DefaultPolicy policy-name
.br
Specifies tha default access policy ta use.
.TP 5
DefaultShared Yes
.TP 5
DefaultShared No
.br
Specifies whether local printas is shared by default.
.TP 5
Deny all
.TP 5
Deny none
.TP 5
Deny host.domain.com
.TP 5
Deny *.domain.com
.TP 5
Deny ip-address
.TP 5
Deny ip-address/netmask
.TP 5
Deny ip-address/mm
.TP 5
Deny @IF(name)
.TP 5
Deny @LOCAL
.br
Denies access ta tha named host or address.
.TP 5
DirtyCleanInterval seconds
.br
Specifies tha delay fo' uppimpin of configuration n' state filez fo' realz. A value of 0
causes tha update ta happen quicker than a muthafucka, typically within a gangbangin' few
milliseconds.
.TP 5
Encryption IfRequested
.TP 5
Encryption Never
.TP 5
Encryption Required
.br
Specifies tha level of encryption dat is required fo' a particular
location.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy abort-job
Specifies dat a gangbangin' failed print thang should be aborted (discarded) unless otherwise specified fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-job
Specifies dat a gangbangin' failed print thang should be retried at a lata time unless otherwise specified fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-this-job
Specifies dat a gangbangin' failed print thang should be retried immediately unless otherwise specified fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy stop-printer
Specifies dat a gangbangin' failed print thang should stop tha printa unless otherwise specified fo' tha printer n' shit. Da 'stop-printer' error policy is tha default.
.TP 5
FilterLimit limit
.br
Specifies tha maximum cost of filtas dat is run concurrently.
.TP 5
FilterSick sick-value
.br
Specifies tha schedulin prioritizzle ("nice" value) of filtas that
are run ta print a thang.
.TP 5
GSSServiceName name
.br
Specifies tha steez name when rockin Kerberos authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default
service name is "http".
.TP 5
HostNameLookups On
.TP 5
HostNameLookups Off
.TP 5
HostNameLookups Double
.br
Specifies whether or not ta do reverse lookups on client addresses.
.TP 5
Include filename
.br
Includes tha named file.
.TP 5
JobKillDelay seconds
.br
Specifies tha number of secondz ta wait before cappin' tha filtas n' backend
associated wit a cold-ass lil canceled or held thang.
.TP 5
JobPrivateAccess all
.TP 5
JobPrivateAccess default
.TP 5
JobPrivateAccess {user|@group|@ACL|@OWNER|@SYSTEM}+
.br
Specifies a access list fo' a thangz private joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da "default" access list
is "@OWNER @SYSTEM". "@ACL" maps ta tha printerz requesting-user-name-allowed
or requesting-user-name-denied joints.
.TP 5
JobPrivateValues all
.TP 5
JobPrivateValues default
.TP 5
JobPrivateValues none
.TP 5
JobPrivateValues attribute-name-1 [ ... attribute-name-N ]
Specifies tha list of thang joints ta make private. Da "default" joints are
"job-name", "job-originating-host-name", n' "job-originating-user-name".
.TP 5
JobRetryInterval seconds
.br
Specifies tha interval between retriez of thangs up in seconds.
.TP 5
JobRetryLimit count
.br
Specifies tha number of retries dat is done fo' thangs.
.TP 5
KeepKickin It Yes
.TP 5
KeepKickin It No
.br
Specifies whether ta support HTTP keep-kickin it connections.
.TP 5
KeepKickin ItTimeout seconds
.br
Specifies tha amount of time dat connections is kept kickin it.
.TP 5
<Limit operations> ... </Limit>
.br
Specifies tha IPP operations dat is bein limited inside a policy.
.TP 5
<Limit methods> ... </Limit>
.TP 5
<LimitExcept methods> ... </LimitExcept>
.br
Specifies tha HTTP methodz dat is bein limited inside a location.
.TP 5
LimitRequestBody
.br
Specifies tha maximum size of any print thang request.
.TP 5
Listen ip-address:port
.TP 5
Listen *:port
.TP 5
Listen /path/to/domain/socket
.br
Listens ta tha specified address n' port or domain socket path.
.TP 5
<Location /path> ... </Location>
.br
Specifies access control fo' tha named location.
.TP 5
LogDebugHistory #-lyrics
.br
Specifies tha number of debuggin lyrics dat is logged when a error
occurs up in a print thang.
.TP 5
LogLevel alert
.TP 5
LogLevel crit
.TP 5
LogLevel debug2
.TP 5
LogLevel debug
.TP 5
LogLevel emerg
.TP 5
LogLevel error
.TP 5
LogLevel info
.TP 5
LogLevel none
.TP 5
LogLevel notice
.TP 5
LogLevel warn
.br
Specifies tha loggin level fo' tha ErrorLog file.
.TP 5
LogTimeFormat standard
.TP 5
LogTimeFormat usecs
.br
Specifies tha format of tha date n' time up in tha log files.
.TP 5
MaxClients number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of simultaneous clients ta support.
.TP 5
MaxClientsPerHost number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of simultaneous clients ta support from a
single address.
.TP 5
MaxCopies number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of copies dat a user can print of each thang.
.TP 5
MaxHoldTime seconds
.br
Specifies tha maximum time a thang may remain up in tha "indefinite" hold state
before it is canceled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Set ta 0 ta disable cancellation of held thangs.
.TP 5
MaxJobs number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of simultaneous thangs ta support.
.TP 5
MaxJobsPerPrinta number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of simultaneous thangs per printa ta support.
.TP 5
MaxJobsPerUser number
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of simultaneous thangs per user ta support.
.TP 5
MaxJobTime seconds
.br
Specifies tha maximum time a thang may take ta print before it is canceled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
default is 10800 secondz (3 hours). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set ta 0 ta disable cancellation of "stuck"
jobs.
.TP 5
MaxLogSize number-bytes
.br
Specifies tha maximum size of tha log filez before they are
rotated (0 ta disable rotation)
.TP 5
MaxRequestSize number-bytes
.br
Specifies tha maximum request/file size up in bytes (0 fo' no limit)
.TP 5
MultipleOperationTimeout seconds
.br
Specifies tha maximum amount of time ta allow between filez up in a multiple file
print thang.
.TP 5
Order allow,deny
.TP 5
Order deny,allow
.br
Specifies tha order of HTTP access control (allow,deny or deny,allow)
.TP 5
PageLogFormat format string
.br
Specifies tha format of page log lines.
.TP 5
PassEnv variable [... variable]
.br
Passes tha specified environment variable(s) ta lil pimp processes.
.TP 5
<Policy name> ... </Policy>
.br
Specifies access control fo' tha named policy.
.TP 5
Port number
.br
Specifies a port number ta dig fo' HTTP requests.
.TP 5
PreserveJobFilez Yes
.TP 5
PreserveJobFilez No
.br
Specifies whether or not ta preserve thang filez afta they is printed.
.TP 5
PreserveJobHistory Yes
.TP 5
PreserveJobHistory No
.br
Specifies whether or not ta preserve tha thang history afta they are
printed.
.TP 5
PrintcapFormat bsd
.TP 5
PrintcapFormat plist
.TP 5
PrintcapFormat solaris
.br
Specifies tha format of tha printcap file.
.TP 5
ReloadTimeout seconds
.br
Specifies tha amount of time ta wait fo' thang completion before
restartin tha scheduler.
.TP 5
Require crew group-name-list
.TP 5
Require user user-name-list
.TP 5
Require valid-user
.br
Specifies dat user or crew authentication is required.
.TP 5
RIPCache bytes
.br
Specifies tha maximum amount of memory ta use when convertin images
and PostScript filez ta bitmaps fo' a printer.
.TP 5
Satisfy all
.TP 5
Satisfy any
.br
Specifies whether all or any limits set fo' a Location must be
satisfied ta allow access.
.TP 5
ServerAdmin user@domain.com
.br
Specifies tha email address of tha server administrator.
.TP 5
ServerAlias hostname [... hostname]
.TP 5
ServerAlias *
.br
Specifies a alternate name dat tha server is known by. Da special name "*"
allows any name ta be used.
.TP 5
ServerName hostname-or-ip-address
.br
Specifies tha fully-qualified hostname of tha server.
.TP 5
ServerTokens Full
.TP 5
ServerTokens Major
.TP 5
ServerTokens Minimal
.TP 5
ServerTokens Minor
.TP 5
ServerTokens None
.TP 5
ServerTokens OS
.TP 5
ServerTokens ProductOnly
.br
Specifies what tha fuck shiznit is included up in tha Server header of HTTP
responses.
.TP 5
SetEnv variable value
.br
Set tha specified environment variable ta be passed ta lil pimp processes.
.TP 5
SSLListen
.br
Listens on tha specified address n' port fo' encrypted connections.
.TP 5
SSLOptions None
.TP 5
SSLOptions NoEmptyFragments
.br
Sets SSL/TLS protocol options fo' encrypted connections.
.TP 5
SSLPort
.br
Listens on tha specified port fo' encrypted connections.
.TP 5
StrictConformizzle Yes
.TP 5
StrictConformizzle No
.br
Specifies whether tha schedula requires clients ta strictly adhere ta tha IPP
specifications. Da default is No.
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateAccess all
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateAccess default
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateAccess {user|@group|@ACL|@OWNER|@SYSTEM}+
.br
Specifies a access list fo' a subscriptionz private joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da "default"
access list is "@OWNER @SYSTEM". "@ACL" maps ta tha printer's
requesting-user-name-allowed or requesting-user-name-denied joints.
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateValues all
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateValues default
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateValues none
.TP 5
SubscriptionPrivateValues attribute-name-1 [ ... attribute-name-N ]
Specifies tha list of thang joints ta make private. Da "default" joints are
"notify-events", "notify-pull-method", "notify-recipient-uri",
"notify-subscriber-user-name", n' "notify-user-data".
.TP 5
Timeout seconds
.br
Specifies tha HTTP request timeout up in seconds.
.TP 5
WebInterface yes
.TP 5
WebInterface no
Specifies whether tha wizzy intercourse is enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcups-files.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
\fIsubscriptions.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsd.conf.man.in 12060 2014-07-28 14:04:41Z msweet $".
.\"
