.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-snmp.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   snmp.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH snmp.conf 5 "CUPS" "23 April 2012" "Applez Inc."

.SH NAME
snmp.conf \- snmp configuration file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIsnmp.conf\fR file configures how tha fuck tha standard CUPS network backends
(http, https, ipp, ipps, lpd, snmp, n' socket) access printa shiznit using
SNMPv1 n' is normally located up in tha \fI/etc/cups\fR directory. Each line in
the file can be a cold-ass lil configuration directive, a funky-ass blank line, or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment
lines start wit tha # character.
.LP
Da Communitizzle n' DebugLevel directives is used by all backends. Da remainder
apply only ta tha SNMP backend (\fIcups-snmp(8)\fR).
.SH DIRECTIVES
Da followin directives is understood by tha CUPS network backends. Consult
the on-line help fo' detailed descriptions:
.TP 5
Address @IF(\fIname\fR)
.TP 5
Address @LOCAL
.TP 5
Address \fIaddress\fR
.br
Sendz SNMP broadcast queries ta tha specified address(es). There is no default
for tha broadcast address.
.TP 5
Communitizzle \fIname\fR
.br
Specifies tha hood name ta use. Only a single hood name may be
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default hood name is "public".
.TP 5
DebugLevel number
.br
Specifies tha loggin level from 0 (none) ta 3 (everything). Typically only used
for debuggin (thus tha name). Da default debug level is 0.
.TP 5
DeviceURI "regular expression" device-uri [... device-uri]
.br
Specifies one or mo' thang URIs dat should be used fo' a given make n' model
string. Da regular expression is used ta match tha detected make n' model, and
the thang URI strings must be of tha form "scheme://%s[:port]/[path]", where
"%s" represents tha detected address or hostname. There is no default device
URI matchin rules.
.TP 5
HostNameLookups on
.TP 5
HostNameLookups off
.br
Specifies whether tha addressez of printas should be converted ta hostnames or
left as numeric IP addresses. Da default is "off".
.TP 5
MaxRunTime \fIseconds\fR
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of secondz dat tha SNMP backend will scan the
network fo' printers. Da default is 120 secondz (2 minutes).
.SH SEE ALSO
cups-snmp(8),
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-snmp.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
