.TH "customizable_types" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
customizable_types \- Da SELinux customizable types configuration file
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da \fIcustomizable_types\fR file gotz nuff a list of types dat can be customised up in some way by SELinux-aware applications.
.sp
Generally dis be a gangbangin' file context type dat is probably set on filez dat need ta be shared among certain domains n' where tha administrator wants ta manually manage tha type.
.sp
Da  use  of customizable types is deprecated as tha preferred approach is ta use
.BR semanage (8)
.BR fcontext (8)
.BR ... (8).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat SELinux-aware applications such as
.BR setfilez (8)
will use dis shiznit ta obtain a list of types relatin ta filez dat should not be relabeled.
.sp
.BR selinux_customizable_types_path (3)
will return tha actizzle policy path ta dis file. Da default customizable types file is:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/contexts/customizable_types
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is tha entry from tha selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.sp
.BR is_context_customizable (3)
readz dis file ta determine if a cold-ass lil context is customisable or not fo' tha actizzle policy.
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Each line up in tha file consistz of tha following:
.RS
.I type
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
.I type
.RS
Da type defined up in tha policy dat can be customised.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
# ./contexts/customizable_types
.br
mount_loopback_t
.br
public_content_rw_t
.br
public_content_t
.br
swapfile_t
.br
sysadm_untrusted_content_t
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " selinux_customizable_types_path "(3), " is_context_customizable "(3), " semanage "(8), " setfilez "(8), " selinux_config "(5) "
