.\"	$Id: dhclient.leases.5,v 1.5.24.3 2011/02/23 23:52:21 sar Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2011 by Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 by Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2003 by Internizzle Software Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"   Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc.
.\"   950 Charta Street
.\"   Redwood City, CA 94063
.\"   <info@isc.org>
.\"   https://www.isc.org/
.\"
.\" Support n' other skillz is available fo' ISC shizzle - see
.\" https://www.isc.org fo' mo' shiznit or ta learn mo' bout ISC.
.\"
.\" $Id: dhclient.leases.5,v 1.5.24.3 2011/02/23 23:52:21 sar Exp $
.\"
.TH dhclient.leases 5
.SH NAME
dhclient.leases - DHCP client lease database
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Internizzle Systems Consortium DHCP client keeps a persistent
database of leases dat it has acquired dat is still valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   The
database be a gangbangin' free-form ASCII file containin one valid declaration
per lease.   If mo' than one declaration appears fo' a given lease,
the last one up in tha file is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   Da file is freestyled as a log, so
this aint a unusual occurrence.
.PP
Da format of tha lease declarations is busted lyrics bout in
.B dhclient.conf(5).
.SH FILES
.B /var/lib/dhclient/dhclient.leases
.SH SEE ALSO
dhclient(8), dhcp-options(5), dhclient.conf(5), dhcpd(8),
dhcpd.conf(5), RFC2132, RFC2131.
.SH AUTHOR
.B dhclient(8)
Hype bout Internizzle Systems Consortium can be found at
.B https://www.isc.org.
