.\" manpage fo' /etc/dir_colors, config file fo' dircolors(1)
.\" extracted from color-ls 3.12.0.3 dircolors(1) manpage
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(LDPv1)
.\" This file may be copied under tha conditions busted lyrics about
.\" up in tha LDP GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 1, September 1998
.\" dat should done been distributed together wit dis file.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Dec 22 22:25:33 2001 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.TH DIR_COLORS 5 2001-12-26 "GNU" "Linux User Manual"
.SH NAME
dir_colors \- configuration file fo' dircolors(1)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da program
.BR ls (1)
uses tha environment variable
.B LS_COLORS
to determine tha flavas up in which tha filenames is ta be displayed.
This environment variable is probably set by a cold-ass lil command like

.RS
eval \`dircolors some_path/dir_colors\`
.RE

found up in a system default shell initialization file, like
.I /etc/profile
or
.IR /etc/csh.cshrc .
(See also
.BR dircolors (1).)
Usually, tha file used here is
.I /etc/DIR_COLORS
and can be overridden by a
.I .dir_colors
file up in onez home directory.
.PP
This configuration file consistz of nuff muthafuckin statements, one per line.
Anythang right of a hash mark (#) is treated as a cold-ass lil comment, if the
hash mark be all up in tha beginnin of a line or is preceded by at least one
whitespace.
Blank lines is ignored.
.PP
The
.I global
section of tha file consistz of any statement before tha first
.B TERM
statement.
Any statement up in tha global section of tha file is
considered valid fo' all terminal types.
Peepin tha global section
is one or more
.I terminal-specific
sections, preceded by one or more
.B TERM
statements which specify tha terminal types (as given by the
.B TERM
environment variable) tha followin declarations apply to.
It be always possible ta override a global declaration by a subsequent
terminal-specific one.
.PP
Da followin statements is recognized; case is insignificant:
.TP
.B TERM \fIterminal-type\fR
Starts a terminal-specific section n' specifies which terminal it
applies to.
Multiple
.B TERM
statements can be used ta create a section which applies fo' several
terminal types.
.TP
.B COLOR yes|all|no|none|tty
(Slackware only; ignored by GNU
.BR dircolors (1).)
Specifies dat colorization should always be enabled (\fIyes\fR or
\fIall\fR), never enabled (\fIno\fR or \fInone\fR), or enabled only if
the output be a terminal (\fItty\fR).
Da default is \fIno\fR.
.TP
.B EIGHTBIT yes|no
(Slackware only; ignored by GNU
.BR dircolors (1).)
Specifies dat eight-bit ISO 8859 charactas should be enabled by
default.
For compatibilitizzle reasons, dis can also be specified as 1 for
\fIyes\fR or 0 fo' \fIno\fR.
Da default is \fIno\fR.
.TP
.B OPTIONS \fIoptions\fR
(Slackware only; ignored by GNU
.BR dircolors (1).)
Addz command-line options ta tha default
.B ls
command line.
Da options can be any valid
.B ls
command-line options, n' should include tha leadin minus sign.
Note that
.B dircolors
does not verify tha validitizzle of these options.
.TP
.B NORMAL \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' aiiight (nonfilename) text.
.TP
.B FILE \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a regular file.
.TP
.B DIR \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' directories.
.TP
.B LINK \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a symbolic link.
.TP
.B ORPHAN \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a orphaned symbolic link (one which
points ta a nonexistent file).
If dis is unspecified,
.B ls
will use the
.B LINK
color instead.
.TP
.B MISSING \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a missin file (a nonexistent file which
nevertheless has a symbolic link pointin ta it).
If dis is unspecified,
.B ls
will use the
.B FILE
color instead.
.TP
.B FIFO \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a FIFO (named pipe).
.TP
.B SOCK \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a socket.
.TP
.B DOOR \fIcolor-sequence\fR
(Supported since fileutils 4.1)
Specifies tha color used fo' a thugged-out door (Solaris 2.5 n' later).
.TP
.B BLK \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a funky-ass block thang special file.
.TP
.B CHR \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a cold-ass lil characta thang special file.
.TP
.B EXEC \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' a gangbangin' file wit tha executable attribute set.
.TP
.B LEFTCODE \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies the
.I "left code"
for non-ISO\ 6429 terminals (see below).
.TP
.B RIGHTCODE \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies the
.I "right code"
for non-ISO\ 6429 terminals (see below).
.TP
.B ENDCODE \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies the
.I "end code"
for non-ISO\ 6429 terminals (see below).
.TP
\fB*\fIextension\fR \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Specifies tha color used fo' any file dat endz up in \fIextension\fR.
.TP
\fB .\fIextension\fR \fIcolor-sequence\fR
Same as \fB*\fR.\fIextension\fR.
Specifies tha color used fo' any file that
endz up in .\fIextension\fR.
Note dat tha period is included up in the
extension, which make it impossible ta specify a extension not
startin wit a period, such as
.B ~
for
.B emacs
backup files.
This form should be considered obsolete.
.SS ISO 6429 (ANSI) color sequences
Most color-capable ASCII terminals todizzle use ISO 6429 (ANSI) color sequences,
and nuff common terminals without color capability, including
.B xterm
and tha widely used n' cloned DEC VT100, will recognize ISO 6429 color
codes n' harmlessly eliminizzle dem from tha output or emulate em.
.B ls
uses ISO 6429 codes by default, assumin colorization is enabled.

ISO 6429 color sequences is composed of sequencez of numbers
separated by semicolons.
Da most common codes are:
.sp
.RS
.TS
l l.
 0	to restore default color
 1	for brighta colors
 4	for underlined text
 5	for flashin text
30	for black foreground
31	for red foreground
32	for chronic foreground
33	for yellow (or brown) foreground
34	for blue foreground
35	for purple foreground
36	for cyan foreground
37	for white (or gray) foreground
40	for black background
41	for red background
42	for chronic background
43	for yellow (or brown) background
44	for blue background
45	for purple background
46	for cyan background
47	for white (or gray) background
.TE
.RE
.sp
Not all commandz will work on all systems or display devices.
.PP
.B ls
uses tha followin defaults:
.sp
.TS
lb l l.
NORMAL	0       	Normal (nonfilename) text
FILE	0       	Regular file
DIR	32      	Directory
LINK	36      	Symbolic link
ORPHAN	undefined	Orphaned symbolic link
MISSING	undefined	Missin file
FIFO	31      	Named pipe (FIFO)
SOCK	33      	Socket
BLK	44;37   	Block device
CHR	44;37   	Characta device
EXEC	35      	Executable file
.TE
.sp
A few terminal programs do not recognize tha default
properly.
If all text gets colorized afta you do a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
listing, chizzle the
.B NORMAL
and
.B FILE
codes ta tha numerical codes fo' yo' aiiight foreground n' background
colors.
.SS Other terminal types (advanced configuration)
If you gotz a cold-ass lil color-capable (or otherwise highlighting) terminal (or
printer!) which uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different set of codes, you can still generate
a suitable setup.
To do so, yo big-ass booty is ghon gotta use the
.BR LEFTCODE ,
.BR RIGHTCODE ,
and
.B ENDCODE
definitions.
.PP
When freestylin up a gangbangin' filename,
.B ls
generates tha followin output sequence:
.B LEFTCODE
.I typecode
.B RIGHTCODE
.I filename
.BR ENDCODE ,
where the
.I typecode
is tha color sequence dat dependz on tha type or name of file.
If the
.B ENDCODE
is undefined, tha sequence
.B "LEFTCODE NORMAL RIGHTCODE"
will be used instead.
Da purpose of tha left- n' rightcodes is
merely ta reduce tha amount of typin necessary (and ta hide skanky
escape codes away from tha user).
If they is not appropriate for
your terminal, you can eliminizzle dem by specifyin tha respective
keyword on a line by itself.
.PP
.B NOTE:
If the
.B ENDCODE
is defined up in tha global section of tha setup file, it
.I cannot
be undefined up in a terminal-specific section of tha file.
This means any
.B NORMAL
definizzle gonna git no effect.
A different
.B ENDCODE
can, however, be specified, which would have tha same effect.
.SS Escape sequences
To specify control- or blank charactas up in tha color sequences or
filename extensions, either C-style \e-escaped notation or
.BR stty \-style
^-notation can be used.
Da C-style notation
includes tha followin characters:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lb l.
\ea	Bell (ASCII 7)
\eb	Backspace (ASCII 8)
\ee	Escape (ASCII 27)
\ef	Form feed (ASCII 12)
\en	Newline (ASCII 10)
\er	Carriage Return (ASCII 13)
\et	Tab (ASCII 9)
\ev	Vertical Tab (ASCII 11)
\e?	Delete (ASCII 127)
\e\fInnn	Any characta (octal notation)
\ex\fInnn	Any characta (hexadecimal notation)
\e_	Space
\e\e	Backslash (\e)
\e^	Caret (^)
\e#	Hash mark (#)
.TE
.RE
.sp
Please note dat escapes is necessary ta enta a space, backslash,
caret, or any control characta anywhere up in tha string, as well as a
hash mark as tha straight-up original gangsta character.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/DIR_COLORS
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.dir_colors
Per-user configuration file.
.PP
This page raps bout the
.B dir_colors
file format as used up in tha fileutils-4.1 package;
other versions may differ slightly.
.SH NOTES
Da default
.B LEFTCODE
and
.B RIGHTCODE
definitions, which is used by ISO 6429 terminals are:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lb l.
LEFTCODE	\ee[
RIGHTCODE	m
.TE
.RE
.sp
Da default
.B ENDCODE
is undefined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dircolors (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR xterm (1)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
