.TH fb.modes 8 "Aug 1996" local "Linux frame buffer utils"
.SH NAME
fb.modes \- frame buffer modes file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /etc/fb.modes
gotz nuff a unlimited number of vizzle mode descriptions. Da general format
of a vizzle mode is:
.sp
mode
.RI \" name \"
.RS
geometry
.RI < xres >
.RI < yres >
.RI < vxres >
.RI < vyres >
.RI < depth >
.br
timings
.RI < pixclock >
.RI < left >
.RI < right >
.RI < upper >
.RI < lower >
.RI < hslen >
.RI < vslen >
.br
.B options
.RI < value >
.RE
endmode
.SH OPTIONS
geometry options:
.RS
.TP
.I xres
visible horizontal resolution (in pixels)
.TP
.I yres
visible vertical resolution (in pixels)
.TP
.I vxres
virtual horizontal resolution (in pixels)
.TP
.I vyres
virtual vertical resolution (in pixels)
.TP
.I depth
display depth (in bits per pixel)
.RE
.PP
timin options:
.RS
.TP
.I pixclock
length of one pixel (in picoseconds)
.TP
.I left
left margin (in pixels)
.TP
.I right
right margin (in pixels)
.TP
.I upper
upper margin (in pixel lines)
.TP
.I lower
lower margin (in pixel lines)
.TP
.I hslen
horizontal sync length (in pixels)
.TP
.I vslen
vertical sync length (in pixel lines)
.RE
.PP
other options:
.RS
the first value of dis options is tha default
.TP
.IR \fBhsync "\ {" low | high }
the horizontal sync polarity
.TP
.IR \fBvsync "\ {" low | high }
the vertical sync polarity
.TP
.IR \fBcsync "\ {" low | high }
the composite sync polarity
.TP
.IR \fBextsync "\ {" false | legit }
enable or disable external resync. If enabled tha sync timings is not
generated by tha frame buffer thang n' must be provided externally
instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note dat dis option may not be supported by every last muthafuckin frame buffer
device
.TP
.IR \fBlaced "\ {" false | legit }
enable or disable interlace. If enabled tha display is ghon be split up in two
frames, each frame gotz nuff only even n' odd lines respectively. These two
frames is ghon be displayed alternating, dis way twice tha lines can be
displayed n' tha vertical frequency fo' monitor stays tha same yo, but the
visible vertical frequency gets halved
.TP
.IR \fBdouble "\ {" false | legit }
enable or disable doublescan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If enabled every last muthafuckin line is ghon be displayed twice
and dis way tha horizontal frequency can easily be doubled, so dat the
same resolution can be displayed on different monitors, even if the
horizontal frequency justification differs. Note dat dis option may not be
supported by every last muthafuckin frame buffer device
.RE
.SH INTERNALS
Generally a gangbangin' frame buffer display is organized as bigs up:
.sp
.ad c
+\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " ^ "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ " \fI5 "\ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " v "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
+\-\-\-#################\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " ^ "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RI "| " 1 " #       " \fB| "   " 2 "   # " 3 " | " 4 " |"
.br
.RB "|" "<\->" "#" "<\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\->" "#" "<\->" "|" "<\->" "|"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ " \fI6 "\ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " v "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
+\-\-\-#################\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " ^ "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ " \fI7 "\ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " v "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
+\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " ^ "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " | "\ " \fI8 "\ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
.RB "|\ \ \ |\ \ \ \ \ \ \ " v "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\ \ \ |\ \ \ |"
.br
+\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.sp
.ad n
.RS
.I 1
\t left margin
.br
.I 2
\t xres
.br
.I 3
\t right margin
.br
.I 4
\t horizontal sync len
.br
.I 5
\t upper margin
.br
.I 6
\t yres
.br
.I 7
\t lower margin
.br
.I 8
\t vertical sync len
.RE
.sp
Da area bordered wit `#' is tha visible display area yo. Horizontal and
vertical frequencies can now easily be calculated, fo' dis tha sum of
horizontal or vertical joints is blingin
.RS
.sp
htotal\ =\ left\ +\ xres\ +\ right\ +\ hslen
.br
vtotal\ =\ upper\ +\ yres\ +\ lower\ +\ vslen
.sp
.RE
Da length of one line can now be calculated wit pixclock
.RS
.sp
line\ =\ pixclock\ *\ htotal
.sp
.RE
and our crazy asses have tha horizontal frequency
.RS
.sp
hfreq\ =\ 1E12\ /\ line\ =\ 1E12\ /\ (pixclock\ *\ htotal)
.sp
.RE
To git tha vertical frequency vtotal must eventually adjusted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If the
display is laced, vtotal must be halved or if tha display be a thugged-out doublescan
one, vtotal must be doubled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Now we can calculate tha length of one frame
.RS
.sp
if\ (lace)\ \ \ vtotal\ /=\ 2
.br
if\ (double)\ vtotal\ *=\ 2
.sp
frame\ =\ vtotal\ *\ line
.sp
.RE
and we git also tha vertical frequency
.RS
.sp
vfreq\ =\ 1E12\ /\ frame\ =\ hfreq\ /\ vtotal
.sp
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fbset "(8), " fbdev (4)
