.\" Copyright 1996 Daniel Quinlan (Daniel.Quinlan@linux.org)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2007-12-14 mtk Added Reiserfs, XFS, JFS.
.\"
.TH FILESYSTEMS 5 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.nh
.SH NAME
filesystems \- Linux file-system types: minix, ext, ext2, ext3, ext4, Reiserfs,
XFS, JFS, xia, msdos,
umsdos, vfat, ntfs, proc, nfs, iso9660, hpfs, sysv, smb, ncpfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
When, as is customary, the
.B proc
file system is mounted on
.IR /proc ,
you can find up in tha file
.I /proc/filesystems
which file systems yo' kernel currently supports.
If you need a cold-ass lil currently unsupported one, bang tha corresponding
module or recompile tha kernel.

In order ta bust a gangbangin' file system, you have to
.I mount
it; see
.BR mount (8).

Below a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of all dem of tha available file systems.
.TP 10
.B "minix"
is tha file system used up in tha Minix operatin system, tha straight-up original gangsta ta run
under Linux.
It has a fuckin shitload of shortcomings: a 64MB partizzle size
limit, short filenames, a single timestamp, etc.
It remains useful fo' floppies n' RAM disks.
.TP
.B ext
is a elaborate extension of the
.B minix
file system.
It has been straight-up superseded by tha second version
of tha extended file system
.RB ( ext2 )
and has been removed from tha kernel (in 2.1.21).
.TP
.B ext2
is tha high performizzle disk file system used by Linux fo' fixed disks
as well as removable media.
Da second extended file system was designed as a extension of the
extended file system
.RB ( ext ).
.B ext2
offers tha dopest performizzle (in termz of speed n' CPU usage) of
the file systems supported under Linux.
.TP
.B ext3
is a journalin version of tha ext2 file system.
It be easy as fuck  to
switch back n' forth between ext2 n' ext3.
.TP
.B ext4
is a set of upgrades ta ext3 includin substantial performizzle and
reliabilitizzle enhancements,
plus big-ass increases up in volume, file, n' directory size limits.
.TP
.B Reiserfs
is a journalin file system, designed by Hans Reiser,
that was integrated tha fuck into Linux up in kernel 2.4.1.
.TP
.B XFS
is a journalin file system, pimped by SGI,
that was integrated tha fuck into Linux up in kernel 2.4.20.
.TP
.B JFS
is a journalin file system, pimped by IBM,
that was integrated tha fuck into Linux up in kernel 2.4.24.
.TP
.B xiafs
was designed n' implemented ta be a stable, safe file system by
extendin tha Minix file system code.
It serves up tha basic most
axed features without undue complexity.
The
.B xia
file system is no longer actively pimped or maintained.
Dat shiznit was removed from tha kernel up in 2.1.21.
.TP
.B msdos
is tha file system used by DOS, Windows, n' some OS/2 computers.
.B msdos
filenames can be no longer than 8 characters, followed by an
optionizzle period n' 3 characta extension.
.TP
.B umsdos
is a extended DOS file system used by Linux.
It addz capabilitizzle for
long filenames, UID/GID, POSIX permissions, n' special files
(devices, named pipes, etc.)  under tha DOS file system, without
sacrificin compatibilitizzle wit DOS.
.TP
.B vfat
is a extended DOS file system used by Microsizzlez Windows95 n' Windows NT.
VFAT addz tha capabilitizzle ta use long filenames under tha MSDOS file system.
.TP
.B ntfs
replaces Microsizzlez Windowz FAT file systems (VFAT, FAT32).
It has reliability, performance, n' space-utilization enhancements
plus features like ACLs, journaling, encryption, n' so on.
.TP
.B proc
is a pseudo file system which is used as a intercourse ta kernel data
structures rather than readin n' interpreting
.IR /dev/kmem .
In particular, its filez do not take disk space.
See
.BR proc (5).
.TP
.B iso9660
is a CD-ROM file system type conformin ta tha ISO 9660 standard.
.RS
.TP
.B "High Sierra"
Linux supports High Sierra, tha precursor ta tha ISO 9660 standard for
CD-ROM file systems.
It be automatically recognized within the
.B iso9660
file-system support under Linux.
.TP
.B "Rock Ridge"
Linux also supports tha System Use Sharin Protocol recordz specified
by tha Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol.
They is used ta further describe tha filez up in the
.B iso9660
file system ta a UNIX host, n' provide shiznit like fuckin long
filenames, UID/GID, POSIX permissions, n' devices.
It be automatically recognized within the
.B iso9660
file-system support under Linux.
.RE
.TP
.B hpfs
is tha High Performizzle Filesystem, used up in OS/2.
This file system is
read-only under Linux cuz of tha lack of available documentation.
.TP
.B sysv
is a implementation of tha SystemV/Coherent file system fo' Linux.
It implements all of Xenix FS, SystemV/386 FS, n' Coherent FS.
.TP
.B nfs
is tha network file system used ta access disks located on remote computers.
.TP
.B smb
is a network file system dat supports tha SMB protocol, used by
Windows fo' Workgroups, Windows NT, n' Lan Manager.
.sp
To use
.B smb
fs, you need a special mount program, which can be found up in tha ksmbfs
package, found at
.UR ftp://sunsite.unc.edu\:/pub\:/Linux\:/system\:/Filesystems\:/smbfs
.UE .
.TP
.B ncpfs
is a network file system dat supports tha NCP protocol, used by
Novell NetWare.
.sp
To use
.BR ncpfs ,
you need special programs, which can be found at
.UR ftp://linux01.gwdg.de\:/pub\:/ncpfs
.UE .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proc (5),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR mount (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
