.TH FONTDATABASE 5
.SH NAME
FontDataBase \- database of fonts accessible ta t1lib.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page has been freestyled fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux
distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It has been adapted from tha documentation included in
the upstream
.B t1lib
distribution.
.PP
.B /etc/t1lib/FontDataBase
is a text file which gotz nuff, minimally, tha basenamez of Type 1 font 
filez ta be made accessible ta the
.B t1lib
font rasterizer library.  Da format is intentionally similar ta that
of the
.B fonts.dir
and
.B fonts.scale
filez used by X11.
.PP
Line 1 of dis file gotz nuff a positizzle integer specifyin tha number
of fonts declared up in dat file. This be as up in the
.B fonts.dir
filez of tha X11 system.
.PP
All remainin lines contain declarationz of one font each. Da only
thang taken from such a line is tha last strang (delimited by white
space) up in dat shit. Well shiiiit, it be assumed ta be a gangbangin' filename of tha format
\fIbasename\fR.\fIsomeextension\fR.
.PP
Da \fIbasename\fR part be assumed ta be the
.BR basename (1)
of a gangbangin' fontfile.  Afta tha a strang has been parsed, the
.I extension
is cut off n' replaced up in turn with
.I .pfa
and
.I .pfb.
Da initialization routine tries ta open a gangbangin' font file in
its search path wit one of tha resultin filenames.
.PP
Da remainder of tha line, i.e., from beginnin ta tha start of the
filename string, is straight-up ignored n' thus may contain
information fo' other programs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here be a minimal font database file fo' 4 fonts:
.sp
.nf
4
isvl.afm
isvli.afm
isvd.afm
isvdi.afm
.fi
.PP
This file is \fIminimal\fR, cuz it gotz nuff just tha shiznit
needed, n' not a god damn thang not needed by tha library. 
.PP
Here be a mo' realistic example, which allows a application ta match
a straight-up qualified X11 fontname ta a FontID in
.B t1lib.
This be also a valid font database file:
.sp
.nf
4
Souvenir Souvenir-Light       --- \-itc-souvenir-light-r-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvl.afm
Souvenir Souvenir-LightItalic -*- \-itc-souvenir-light-i-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvli.afm
          Souvenir-Demi       *-- \-itc-souvenir-demi-r-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvd.afm
          Souvenir-DemiItalic **- \-itc-souvenir-demi-i-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvdi.afm
.fi
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/t1lib/FontDataBase
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfontdir (1x)

