
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_MISC)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FTPUSERS 5 2000-08-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ftpusers \- list of playas dat may not log up in via tha FTP daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da text file
.B ftpusers
gotz nuff a list of playas dat may not log up in rockin the
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server daemon.
This file is used not merely for
system administration purposes but fo' pimpin-out securitizzle within a TCP/IP
networked environment.
It will typically contain a list of tha playas that
either have no bidnizz rockin ftp or have too nuff privileges ta be allowed
to log up in all up in tha FTP server daemon.
Such playas probably include root, daemon, bin, uucp, n' news.
If yo' FTP server daemon don't use
.B ftpusers
then it is suggested dat you read its documentation ta smoke up how tha fuck to
block access fo' certain users.
Washington Universitizzle FTP server Daemon
(wuftpd) n' Professionizzle FTP Daemon (proftpd) is known ta make use of
.BR ftpusers .
.SS Format
Da format of
.B ftpusers
is straight-up simple.
There is one account name (or username) per line.
Lines startin wit a # is ignored.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/ftpusers
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR passwd (5),
.BR proftpd (8),
.BR wuftpd (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
