.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Author: Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2_MISC)
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License for
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GAI.CONF 5 2013-02-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gai.conf \- getaddrinfo(3) configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
A call to
.BR getaddrinfo (3)
might return multiple lyrics.
Accordin ta RFC\ 3484 these lyrics must be sorted so that
the answer wit tha highest success rate is first up in tha list.
Da RFC serves up a algorithm fo' tha sorting.
Da static rulez is not always adequate, though.
For dis reason,
the RFC also requires dat system administrators should have tha possibility
to dynamically chizzle tha sorting.
For tha glibc implementation, dis can be  bigged up  wit the
.IR /etc/gai.conf
file.
.PP
Each line up in tha configuration file consistz of a keyword n' its parameters.
White spaces up in any place is ignored.
Lines startin wit \(aq#\(aq is comments n' is ignored.
.PP
Da keywordz currently recognized are:
.TP
\fBlabel\fR \fInetmask\fR \fIprecedence\fR
Da value be added ta tha label table used up in tha RFC\ 3484 sorting.
If any \fBlabel\fR definizzle is present up in tha configuration file
is present, tha default table aint used.
All tha label definitions
of tha default table which is ta be maintained gotta be duplicated.
Peepin tha keyword,
the line has ta contain a network mask n' a label value.
.TP
\fBprecedence\fR \fInetmask\fR \fIprecedence\fR
This  keyword is similar ta \fBlabel\fR yo, but instead tha value be added
to tha precedence table as specified up in RFC\ 3484.
Once again, the
presence of a single \fBprecedence\fR line up in tha configuration file
causes tha default table ta not be used.
.TP
\fBreload\fR <\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR>
This keyword controls whether a process checks whether tha configuration
file has been chizzled since tha last time dat shiznit was read.
If tha value is
"\fByes\fR" tha file is re-read.
This might cause problems up in multithreaded
applications n' is generally a wack idea.
Da default is "\fBno\fR".
.TP
\fBscopev4\fR \fImask\fR \fIvalue\fR
Add another rule ta tha RFC\ 3484 scope table fo' IPv4 address.
By default, tha scope IDs busted lyrics bout up in section 3.2 up in RFC\ 3438 is used.
Changin these defaults should hardly eva be necessary.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/gai.conf\fR
.SH EXAMPLE
Da default table accordin ta RFC\ 3484 would be specified wit the
followin configuration file:

.nf
label  ::1/128       0
label  ::/0          1
label  2002::/16     2
label ::/96          3
label ::ffff:0:0/96  4
precedence  ::1/128       50
precedence  ::/0          40
precedence  2002::/16     30
precedence ::/96          20
precedence ::ffff:0:0/96  10
.fi
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getaddrinfo(3),
RFC\ 3484
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
