.TH GENERIC 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
generic
\-
Postfix generic table format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/generic\fR

\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" /etc/postfix/generic\fR

\fBpostmap -q - /etc/postfix/generic <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBgeneric\fR(5) table specifies a address
mappin dat applies when mail is delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is the
opposite of \fBcanonical\fR(5) mapping, which applies when
mail is received.

Typically, one would use tha \fBgeneric\fR(5) table on a
system dat aint gots a valid Internizzle domain name and
that uses suttin' like \fIlocaldomain.local\fR instead.
Da \fBgeneric\fR(5) table is then used by tha \fBsmtp\fR(8)
client ta transform local mail addresses tha fuck into valid Internet
mail addresses when mail has ta be busted across tha Internet.
See tha EXAMPLE section all up in tha end of dis document.

Da \fBgeneric\fR(5) mappin affects both message header
addresses (i.e. addresses dat step tha fuck up inside lyrics) and
message envelope addresses (for example, tha addresses that
are used up in SMTP protocol commands).

Normally, tha \fBgeneric\fR(5) table is specified as a
text file dat serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1)
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or
\fBdb\fR format, is used fo' fast searchin by tha mail
system. Execute tha command "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/generic\fR"
to rebuild a indexed file afta changin tha corresponding
text file.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions, or lookups
can be pimped up ta TCP-based server n' shit. In dem case, tha lookups
are done up in a slightly different way as busted lyrics bout below under
"REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES" or "TCP-BASED TABLES".
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da search strang is folded ta lowercase before database
lookup fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3, tha search strang aint case
folded wit database types like fuckin regexp: or pcre: whose
lookup fieldz can match both upper n' lower case.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da input format fo' tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command be as bigs up:
.IP "\fIpattern result\fR"
When \fIpattern\fR matches a mail address, replace it by the
correspondin \fIresult\fR.
.IP "blank lines n' comments"
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP "multi-line text"
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With lookups from indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked
tablez like fuckin NIS, LDAP or SQL, patterns is tried up in tha order as
listed below:
.IP "\fIuser\fR@\fIdomain address\fR"
Replace \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR by \fIaddress\fR. This form
has tha highest precedence.
.IP "\fIuser address\fR"
Replace \fIuser\fR@\fIsite\fR by \fIaddress\fR when \fIsite\fR is
equal ta $\fBmyorigin\fR, when \fIsite\fR is listed in
$\fBmydestination\fR, or when it is listed up in $\fBinet_interfaces\fR
or $\fBproxy_interfaces\fR.
.IP "@\fIdomain address\fR"
Replace other addresses up in \fIdomain\fR by \fIaddress\fR.
This form has tha lowest precedence.
.SH "RESULT ADDRESS REWRITING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da lookup result is subject ta address rewriting:
.IP \(bu
When tha result has tha form @\fIotherdomain\fR, the
result becomes tha same ol' dirty \fIuser\fR up in \fIotherdomain\fR.
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_at_myorigin=yes\fR", append "\fB@$myorigin\fR"
to addresses without "@domain".
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_dot_mydomain=yes\fR", append
"\fB.$mydomain\fR" ta addresses without ".domain".
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
When a mail address localpart gotz nuff tha optionizzle recipient delimiter
(e.g., \fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR), tha lookup order becomes:
\fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser+foo\fR,
\fIuser\fR, n' @\fIdomain\fR.

Da \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR parameta controls whether
an unmatched address extension (\fI+foo\fR) is propagated ta the
result of table lookup.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions. For a thugged-out description of
regular expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5)
or \fBpcre_table\fR(5).

Each pattern be a regular expression dat be applied ta tha entire
address bein looked up. Thus, \fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not
broken up tha fuck into they \fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts,
nor is \fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups, with
the additionizzle feature dat parenthesized substrings from the
pattern can be interpolated as \fB$1\fR, \fB$2\fR n' so on.
.SH "TCP-BASED TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when lookups
are pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of tha TCP
client/server lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each lookup operation uses tha entire address once.  Thus,
\fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not fucked up tha fuck into their
\fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts, nor is
\fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin shows a generic mappin wit a indexed file.
When mail is busted ta a remote host via SMTP, dis replaces
\fIhis@localdomain.local\fR by his ISP mail address, replaces
\fIher@localdomain.local\fR by her ISP mail address, and
replaces other local addresses by his ISP account, with
an address extension of \fI+local\fR (this example assumes
that tha ISP supports "+" steez address extensions).

.na
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtp_generic_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/generic

/etc/postfix/generic:
    his@localdomain.local   hisaccount@hisisp.example
    her@localdomain.local   heraccount@herisp.example
    @localdomain.local      hisaccount+local@hisisp.example

.ad
.fi
Execute tha command "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/generic\fR"
whenever tha table is chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Instead of \fBhash\fR, some
systems use \fBdbm\fR database files. To smoke up what
tablez yo' system supports use tha command "\fBpostconf
-m\fR".
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da table format do not KNOW quotin conventions.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP \fBsmtp_generic_maps\fR
Address mappin lookup table fo' envelope n' header sender
and recipient addresses while deliverin mail via SMTP.
.IP \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR
A list of address rewritin or forwardin mechanizzlez dat propagate
an address extension from tha original gangsta address ta tha result.
Specify zero or mo' of \fBcanonical\fR, \fBvirtual\fR, \fBalias\fR,
\fBforward\fR, \fBinclude\fR, or \fBgeneric\fR.
.PP
Other parametaz of interest:
.IP \fBinet_interfaces\fR
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis system receives mail on.
Yo ass need ta stop n' start Postfix when dis parameta chizzles.
.IP \fBproxy_interfaces\fR
Other intercourses dat dis machine receives mail on by way of a
proxy agent or network address translator.
.IP \fBmydestination\fR
List of domains dat dis mail system considaz local.
.IP \fBmyorigin\fR
Da domain dat be appended ta locally-posted mail.
.IP \fBballer_request_special\fR
Give special treatment ta \fBballer-\fIxxx\fR n' \fIxxx\fB-request\fR
addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
smtp(8), Postfix SMTP client
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, address rewritin guide
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
STANDARD_CONFIGURATION_README, configuration examples
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
A genericstable feature appears up in tha Sendmail MTA.

This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
