.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GROUP 5 2010-10-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
group \- user crew file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I /etc/group
file be a text file dat defines tha crews on tha system.
There is one entry per line, wit tha followin format:
.sp
.RS
group_name:password:GID:user_list
.RE
.sp
Da fieldz is as bigs up:
.TP 12
.I group_name
the name of tha group.
.TP
.I password
the (encrypted) crew password.
If dis field is empty, no password is needed.
.TP
.I GID
the numeric crew ID.
.TP
.I user_list
a list of tha usernames dat is thugz of dis group, separated by commas.
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.SH BUGS
As tha 4.2BSD
.BR initgroups (3)
man page says: No-one seems ta keep
.I /etc/group
up-to-date.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR newgrp (1),
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
