.\" $Id: hesiod.conf.5,v 1.3 2006-03-27 20:53:15 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 by tha Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"   notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"   notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer in
.\"   tha documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HESIOD.CONF 5 "30 November 1996"
.SH NAME
hesiod.conf \- Configuration file fo' tha Hesiod library
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file hesiod.conf determines tha behavior of tha Hesiod library.
Blank lines n' lines beginnin wit a `#' characta is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  All
other lines should be of tha form
.I variable
=
.IR value ,
where tha value should be a single word. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Possible variablez and
values are:
.IP lhs
Specifies tha domain prefix used fo' Hesiod queries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  In almost all
cases, you should specify ``lhs=.ns''.  Da default value if you do
not specify a lhs value is no domain prefix, which aint compatible
with most Hesiod domains.
.IP rhs
Specifies tha default Hesiod domain; dis value may be overridden by
the
.B HES_DOMAIN
environment variable.  Yo ass must specify a rhs line fo' tha Hesiod
library ta work properly.
.IP classes
Specifies which DNS classes Hesiod should do lookups in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Possible
values is IN (the preferred class) n' HS (the deprecated class,
still used by some cribs).  Yo ass may specify both classes separated by
a comma ta try one class first n' then tha other if no entry is
available up in tha straight-up original gangsta class.  Da default value of tha classes
variable is ``IN,HS''.
.SH SEE ALSO
hesiod(3)
.SH BUGS
There default value fo' ``lhs'' should probably be mo' reasonable.
