
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Minor polishing, aeb
.\" Modified, 2002-06-16, Mike Coleman
.\"
.TH HOSTS 5 2002-06-16 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
hosts \- static table lookup fo' hostnames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/hosts
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page raps bout tha format of the
.I /etc/hosts
file.
This file be a simple text file dat associates IP addresses
with hostnames, one line per IP address.
For each host a single
line should be present wit tha followin shiznit:
.RS
.PP
IP_address canonical_hostname [aliases...]
.RE
.PP
Fieldz of tha entry is separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.
Text from a "#" characta until tha end of tha line is
a comment, n' is ignored.
Host names may contain only alphanumeric
characters, minus signs ("\-"), n' periodz (".").
They must begin wit an
alphabetic characta n' end wit a alphanumeric character.
Optionizzle aliases provide fo' name chizzles, alternate spellings,
shorta hostnames, or generic hostnames (for example,
.IR localhost ).
.PP
Da Berkeley Internizzle Name Domain (BIND) Server implements the
Internizzle name server fo' UNIX systems.
It augments or replaces the
.I /etc/hosts
file or hostname lookup, n' frees a host from relyin on
.I /etc/hosts
bein up ta date n' complete.
.PP
In modern systems, even though tha host table has been superseded by
DNS, it is still widely used for:
.TP
.B bootstrapping
Most systems gotz a lil' small-ass host table containin tha name n' address
information fo' blingin hosts on tha local network.
This is useful
when DNS aint hustlin, fo' example durin system bootup.
.TP
.B NIS
Sites dat use NIS use tha host table as input ta tha NIS host
database.
Even though NIS can be used wit DNS, most NIS cribs still
use tha host table wit a entry fo' all local hosts as a funky-ass backup.
.TP
.B isolated nodes
Straight-up lil' small-ass cribs dat is isolated from tha network use tha host table
instead of DNS.
If tha local shiznit rarely chizzles, n' the
network aint connected ta tha Internet, DNS offers lil
advantage.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/hosts
.SH NOTES
Modifications ta dis file normally take effect immediately,
except up in cases where tha file is cached by applications.
.SS Oldschool notes
RFC\ 952 gave tha original gangsta format fo' tha host table, though it has
since chizzled.

Before tha advent of DNS, tha host table was tha only way of resolving
hostnames on tha fledglin Internet.
Indeed, dis file could be
created from tha straight-up legit host data base maintained all up in tha Network
Hype Control Centa (NIC), though local chizzlez was often
required ta brang it up ta date regardin unstraight-up legit aliases and/or
unknown hosts.
Da NIC no longer maintains tha hosts.txt files,
though lookin round all up in tha time of freestylin (circa 2000), there are
historical hosts.txt filez on tha WWW.
I just found three, from 92,
94, n' 95.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
127.0.0.1       localhost
192.168.1.10    foo.mydomain.org       foo
192.168.1.13    bar.mydomain.org       bar
146.82.138.7    master.debian.org      master
209.237.226.90  www.opensource.org
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hostname (1),
.BR resolver (3),
.BR resolver (5),
.BR hostname (7),
.BR named (8)

Internizzle RFC\ 952
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" This manual page was freestyled by Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>,
.\" fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux system.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
