.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" Much of tha text is copied from tha manpage of resolv+(8).
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2003-08-23 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org> Updated accordin ta glibc 2.3.2
.TH HOST.CONF 5 2003-08-23 "Linux" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
host.conf \- resolver configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /etc/host.conf
gotz nuff configuration shiznit specific ta tha resolver library.
It should contain one configuration keyword per line, followed by
appropriate configuration shiznit.
Da keywordz recognized are
.IR trim ", " multi ", " nospoof ", " spoof ", n' " reorder .
These keywordz is busted lyrics bout below.
.TP
.I trim
This keyword may be listed mo' than once.
Each time it should be
followed by a list of domains, separated by colons (\(aq:\(aq), semicolons
(\(aq;\(aq) or commas (\(aq,\(aq), wit tha leadin dot.
When set, the
resolv+ library will automatically trim tha given domain name from the
end of any hostname resolved via DNS.
This is intended fo' use with
local hosts n' domains.
(Related note: trim aint gonna affect hostnames
gathered via NIS or tha hosts file.
Care should be taken to
ensure dat tha straight-up original gangsta hostname fo' each entry up in tha hosts file is
fully qualified or unqualified, as appropriate fo' tha local
installation.)
.TP
.I multi
Valid joints are
.IR on " n' " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
the resolv+ library will return all valid addresses fo' a host that
appears up in the
.I /etc/hosts
file,
instead of only tha first.
This is
.I off
by default, as it may cause a substantial performizzle loss at cribs
with big-ass hosts files.
.TP
.I nospoof
Valid joints are
.IR on " n' " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
the resolv+ library will attempt ta prevent hostname spoofin to
enhizzle tha securitizzle of
.BR rlogin " n' " rsh .
It works as bigs up: afta struttin a host address lookup, resolv+
will big-ass up a hostname lookup fo' dat address.
If tha two hostnames
do not match, tha query will fail.
Da default value is
.IR off .
.TP
.I spoofalert
Valid joints are
.IR on " n' " off .
If dis option is set to
.I on
and the
.I nospoof
option be also set, resolv+ will log a warnin of tha error via the
syslog facility.
Da default value is
.IR off .
.TP
.I spoof
Valid joints are
.IR off ", " nowarn " n' " warn .
If dis option is set to
.IR off ,
spoofed addresses is permitted n' no warnings is ghon be emitted
via tha syslog facility.
If dis option is set to
.IR warn ,
resolv+ will attempt ta prevent hostname spoofin to
enhizzle tha securitizzle n' log a warnin of tha error via tha syslog
facility.
If dis option is set to
.IR nowarn ,
the resolv+ library will attempt ta prevent hostname spoofin to
enhizzle tha securitizzle but not emit warnings via tha syslog facility.
Settin dis option ta anythang else is equal ta settin it to
.IR nowarn .
.TP
.I reorder
Valid joints are
.IR on " n' " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
resolv+ will attempt ta reorder host addresses so dat local addresses
(i.e., on tha same subnet) is listed first when a
.BR gethostbyname (3)
is performed.
Reorderin is done fo' all lookup methods.
Da default value is
.IR off .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
There is six environment variablez dat can be used ta allow playas to
override tha behavior which is configured in
.IR /etc/host.conf .
.TP
.B RESOLV_HOST_CONF
If set dis variable points ta a gangbangin' file dat should be read instead of
.IR /etc/host.conf .
.TP
.B RESOLV_SPOOF_CHECK
Overrides the
.IR nospoof ", " spoofalert " n' " spoof
commandz up in tha same way as the
.I spoof
command is parsed.
Valid joints are
.IR off ", " nowarn " n' " warn .
.TP
.B RESOLV_MULTI
Overrides the
.I multi
command.
.TP
.B RESOLV_REORDER
Overrides the
.I reorder
command.
.TP
.B RESOLV_ADD_TRIM_DOMAINS
A list of domains,  separated by colons (\(aq:\(aq), semicolons (\(aq;\(aq) or
commas (\(aq,\(aq), wit tha leadin dot, which is ghon be added ta tha list of
domains dat should be trimmed.
.TP
.B RESOLV_OVERRIDE_TRIM_DOMAINS
A list of domains,  separated by colons (\(aq:\(aq), semicolons (\(aq;\(aq) or
commas (\(aq,\(aq), wit tha leadin dot, which will replace tha list of
domains dat should be trimmed.
Overrides the
.I trim
command.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/host.conf
Resolver configuration file
.TP
.I /etc/resolv.conf
Resolver configuration file
.TP
.I /etc/hosts
Local hosts database
.SH NOTES
Da followin differences exist compared ta tha original gangsta implementation.
A freshly smoked up command
.I spoof
and a freshly smoked up environment variable
.B RESOLV_SPOOF_CHECK
can take arguments like
.IR off ", " nowarn " n' " warn .
Line comments can step tha fuck up anywhere n' not only all up in tha beginnin of a line.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR hostname (7),
.BR named (8),
.BR resolv+ (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
