
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file may be distributed under tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH HOSTS.EQUIV 5 2003-08-24 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
/etc/hosts.equiv \- list of hosts n' playas dat is granted "trusted"
.B r
command access ta yo' system
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hosts.equiv
file allows or denies hosts n' playas ta use
the \fBr\fP-commandz (e.g.,
.BR rlogin ,
.B rsh
or
.BR rcp )
without
supplyin a password.
.PP
Da file uses tha followin format:
.TP
\fI[ + | \- ]\fP \fI[hostname]\fP \fI[username]\fP
.PP
The
.I hostname
is tha name of a host which is logically equivalent
to tha local host.
Users logged tha fuck into dat host is allowed ta access
like-named user accounts on tha local host without supplyin a password.
The
.I hostname
may be (optionally) preceded by a plus (+) sign.
If tha plus sign is used ridin' solo it allows any host ta access yo' system.
Yo ass can explicitly deny access ta a host by precedin the
.I hostname
by a minus (\-) sign.
Users from dat host must always supply a password.
For securitizzle reasons you should always use tha FQDN of tha hostname and
not tha short hostname.
.PP
The
.I username
entry grants a specific user access ta all user
accounts (except root) without supplyin a password.
That means the
user is NOT restricted ta like-named accounts.
The
.I username
may
be (optionally) preceded by a plus (+) sign.
Yo ass can also explicitly
deny access ta a specific user by precedin the
.I username
with
a minus (\-) sign.
This say dat tha user aint trusted no matter
what other entries fo' dat host exist.
.PP
Netgroups can be specified by precedin tha netgroup by a @ sign.
.PP
Be mad careful when rockin tha plus (+) sign.
A simple typographical
error could result up in a standalone plus sign.
A standalone plus sign is
a wildcard characta dat means "any host"!
.SH FILES
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
.SH NOTES
Some systems will honor tha contentz of dis file only when it has baller
root n' no write permission fo' anybody else.
Some exceptionally
paranoid systems even require dat there be no other hard links ta tha file.
.PP
Modern systems use tha Pluggable Authentication Modulez library (PAM).
With PAM a standalone plus sign is considered a wildcard
characta which means "any host" only when tha word
.I promiscuous
is added ta tha auth component line up in yo' PAM file for
the particular service
.RB "(e.g., " rlogin ).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rhosts (5),
.BR rlogind (8),
.BR rshd (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
