.\" This file is distributed under tha same license as tha ibus
.\" package.
.\" Copyright (C) Takao Fujiwara <takao.fujiwara1@gmail.com>, 2013.
.\"
.TH IBUS.CONF "5" "August 2013" "1.5.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ibus.conf
\- X input preload/configuration file fo' ibus

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/ibus.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
IBus be a Intelligent Input Bus. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a freshly smoked up input framework fo' Linux
OS. Well shiiiit, it serves up full featured n' user thugged-out input method user
interface.  It also may help pimpers ta pimp input method doggystyle.

.PP
.B ibus.conf
is a cold-ass lil configuration file containin X input settin joints ta be read in
and set by /etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc\-common.
.I imsettings-switch(1)
is called from XDG auto\-start n' invokes
xinitrc\-common.
.LP
If dis file is tha alias of
.I /etc/X11/xinit/xinputrc
for tha system setting
or
.I [$XDG_CONFIG_HOME|$HOME/.config]/imsettings/xinputrc
for tha user setting, tha settin can be default.
.I im\-chooser(1)
can chizzle tha user setting.
.LP
Da configuration options are:
.TP
\fBXIM\fP
XIM name fo' XMODIFIERS
.TP
\fBXIM_PROGRAM\fP
XIM executable program name
.TP
\fBXIM_ARGS\fP
XIM arguments fo' XIM_PROGRAM
.TP
\fBSHORT_DESC\fP
XIM human readable name for
.I im\-chooser(1)
.TP
\fBICON\fP
icon file for
.I im\-chooser(1)
.TP
\fBPREFERENCE_PROGRAM\fP
XIM setup program for
.I im\-chooser(1)
.TP
\fBGTK_IM_MODULE\fP
IM environment valuable fo' GTK+ applications.
.TP
\fBQT_IM_MODULE\fP
IM environment valuable fo' QT applications.

.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at http://code.google.com/p/ibus/issues/list

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibus\-daemon (1)
.BR imsettings\-switch (1)
.BR im\-chooser (1)
.BR X (7)
