.\"
.\" idmapd.conf(5)
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT (c) 2008
.\" Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of Michigan
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted ta use, copy, create derivatizzle works
.\" n' redistribute dis software n' such derivatizzle works
.\" fo' any purpose, so long as tha name of Da Universitizzle of
.\" Michigan aint used up in any advertisin or publicity
.\" pertainin ta tha use of distribution of dis software
.\" without specific, freestyled prior authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If the
.\" above copyright notice or any other identification of the
.\" Universitizzle of Michigan is included up in any copy of any
.\" portion of dis software, then tha disclaimer below must
.\" also be included.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT REPRESENTATION
.\" FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS TO ITS FITNESS FOR ANY
.\" PURPOSE, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY BY THE UNIVERSITY OF
.\" MICHIGAN OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
.\" WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
.\" REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF IT HAS BEEN OR IS HEREAFTER ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGES.
.\"
.TH idmapd.conf 5 "19 Nov 2008"
.SH NAME
idmapd.conf \- configuration file fo' libnfsidmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
Configuration file fo' libnfsidmap.  Used by idmapd n' svcgssd ta map NFSv4 name ta n' from ids.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B idmapd.conf
configuration file consistz of nuff muthafuckin sections, initiated by stringz of the
form [General] n' [Mapping].  Each section may contain linez of tha form
.nf
  variable = value
.fi
Da recognized sections n' they recognized variablez is as bigs up:
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Da [General] section
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "[General] section variables"
.nf


.fi
.TP
.B Verbosity
Verbositizzle level of debugging
(Default: 0)
.TP
.B Domain
Da local NFSv4 domain name.  An NFSv4 domain be a namespace with
a unique username<->UID n' groupname<->GID mapping.
(Default: Hostz fully-qualified DNS domain name)
.TP
.B Local-Realms
A comma-separated list of Kerberos realm names dat may be considered equivalent ta the
local realm name.  For example, playas juser@ORDER.EDU n' juser@MAIL.ORDER.EDU
may be considered ta be tha same user up in tha specified
.B Domain.
(Default: tha hostz default realm name)
.br
.B Note:
If a value is specified here, tha default local realm must be included as well.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Da [Mapping] section
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "[Mapping] section variables"
.nf

.fi
.TP
.B Nobody-User
Local user name ta be used when a mappin cannot be completed.
.TP
.B Nobody-Group
Local crew name ta be used when a mappin cannot be completed.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Da [Translation] section
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "[Translation] section variables"
.nf

.fi
.TP
.B Method
A comma-separated, ordered list of mappin methodz (plug-ins)
to use when mappin between NFSv4 names n' local IDs.  Each
specified method is tried up in order until a mappin is found,
or there be no mo' methodz ta try.  Da methodz included in
the default distribution include "nsswitch", "umich_ldap", and
"static".
(Default: nsswitch)
.TP
.B GSS-Methods
An optionizzle comma-separated, ordered list of mappin methodz (plug-ins)
to use when mappin between GSS Authenticated names n' local IDs.
(Default: tha same list as specified for
.B Method)
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Da [Static] section
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "[Static] section variables"
.nf

.fi
Da "static" translation method uses a static list of GSS-Authenticated
names ta local user names.  Entries up in tha list iz of tha form:
.nf
 principal@REALM = localusername
.fi
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Da [UMICH_SCHEMA] section
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "[UMICH_SCHEMA] section variables"
.nf

.fi
If tha "umich_ldap" translation method is specified, tha following
variablez within tha [UMICH_SCHEMA] section is used.
.TP
.B LDAP_server
LDAP server name or address
(Required if rockin UMICH_LDAP)
.TP
.B LDAP_base
Absolute LDAP search base.
(Required if rockin UMICH_LDAP)
.TP
.B LDAP_people_base
Absolute LDAP search base fo' playas accounts.
(Default: The
.B LDAP_base
value)
.TP
.B LDAP_group_base
Absolute LDAP search base fo' crew accounts.
(Default: The
.B LDAP_base
value)
.TP
.B LDAP_canonicalize_name
Whether or not ta big-ass up name canonicalization on the
name given as
.B LDAP_server
(Default: "true")
.TP
.B LDAP_use_ssl
Set ta "true" ta enable SSL communication wit tha LDAP server.
(Default: "false")
.TP
.B LDAP_ca_cert
Location of a trusted CA certificate used when SSL is enabled
(Required if
.B LDAP_use_ssl
is true)
.TP
.B NFSv4_person_objectclass
Da object class name fo' playas accounts up in yo' local LDAP schema
(Default: NFSv4RemotePerson)
.TP
.B NFSv4_name_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name ta be used fo' NFSv4 user names
(Default: NFSv4Name)
.TP
.B NFSv4_uid_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name ta be used fo' uidNumber
(Default: uidNumber)
.TP
.B GSS_principal_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name fo' GSSAPI Principal names
(Default: GSSAuthName)
.TP
.B NFSv4_acctname_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name ta be used fo' account names
(Default: uid)
.TP
.B NFSv4_group_objectclass
Da object class name fo' crew accounts up in yo' local LDAP schema
(Default: NFSv4RemoteGroup)
.TP
.B NFSv4_gid_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name ta be used fo' gidNumber
(Default: gidNumber)
.TP
.B NFSv4_group_attr
Yo crazy-ass local schemaz attribute name ta be used fo' NFSv4 crew names
(Default: NFSv4Name)
.TP
.B LDAP_use_memberof_for_groups
Some LDAP servers do a funky-ass betta thang wit indexin where searching
all up in all tha crews searchin fo' tha user up in tha memberuid
list.  Others like SunOne directory dat search can takes minutes
if there be thousandz of groups. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So setting
.B LDAP_use_memberof_for_groups
to legit up in tha configuration file will use tha memberof listz of 
the account n' search all up in only dem crews ta obtain gids.
(Default: false)
.TP
.B NFSv4_member_attr
If
.B LDAP_use_memberof_for_groups
is true, dis is tha attribute ta be searched for.
(Default: memberUid)
.TP
.B NFSv4_grouplist_filter
An optionizzle search filta fo' determinin crew membership.
(No Default)
.TP
.B LDAP_timeout_seconds
Number of secondz before timin up a LDAP request
(Default: 4)
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" An Example
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
An example
.I /etc/idmapd.conf
file:
.nf


[General]

Verbositizzle = 0
Domain = domain.org
Local-Realms = DOMAIN.ORG,MY.DOMAIN.ORG,YOUR.DOMAIN.ORG

[Mapping]

Nobody-User = nfsnobody
Nobody-Group = nfsnobody

[Translation]

Method = umich_ldap,nsswitch
GSS-Methodz = umich_ldap,static

[Static]

johndoe@OTHER.DOMAIN.ORG = johnny

[UMICH_SCHEMA]

LDAP_server = ldap.domain.org
LDAP_base = dc=org,dc=domain

.fi
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Additionizzle sections
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idmapd (8)
.BR svcgssd (8)
.\".SH COMPATIBILITY
.\".SH STANDARDS
.\".SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.\".SH AUTHORS
.\".SH HISTORY
.SH BUGS
Report bugs ta <nfsv4@linux-nfs.org>
.\".SH CAVEATS
