.\" $Id: isdnlog.users.5.in,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH isdnlog.users 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"

.PD 0
.SH NAME
/etc/isdn/isdnlog.users \- user base isdnlog config file

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is only needed if isdnlog is started wit tha "-xX" / "xisdn="
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If dis file do not exist, isdnlog will create a thugged-out default file
and print a warning. This file gotz nuff shiznit bout which users
are permitted ta use isdnlog clients, n' what tha fuck they privileges are.
This file is checked every last muthafuckin time a cold-ass lil connection ta isdnlog is made; thus,
it is possible ta edit dis file n' have tha chizzlez effectizzle immediately
without havin ta stop n' start isdnlog.

For now there be no real usable clients fo' isdnlog, so dis file
aint straight-up useful all up in tha moment.

.SH FORMAT
Warning: tha format of dis file may chizzle up in tha future.

Blank lines is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If a line has a "#", dis char n' tha rest of
the line is ignored as comment. If tha last char of a line be a "\"  the
line n' tha next line is considered one line.  These charactas are
considered special:
"$@#,;\", ta use one of these, you must prepend a "\" ta escape dat shit.

Da file consistz of lines; each line begins wit tha name of a user.
Afta tha userz name tha privileges given ta dis user is specified
(on tha same line). Da followin privileges is possible, separated
by semicolons ";" :

.RS 0
.TP 4
.B ALL
All of tha privileges below is given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should only be given ta root.

.TP
.B MSN=msn[,msn...]
Only shiznit bout events concernin tha specified msns is given.
This includes incomin n' outgoin calls, n' protocol shiznit.
Any number of msns may be given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Wildcardz (like fuckin used up in isdn.conf)
are permitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. With "MSN=*" all msns is allowed.
.br
Unknown numbers (e.g. from outgoin calls from other isdn devices or
incomin calls from analog connections) cannot be specified wit MSN=.
Da only way ta allow these calls ta be peeped is by givin "MSN=*".

.TP
.B PROTOCOL
Da shiznit specified ta isdnlog by tha -xX flag (see isdnlog(8))
is allowed.

.TP
\fBI4LCONF\fR (planned)
This gives permission ta chizzle isdn4linux properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This should
only be allowed ta root.

.TP
\fBADDRESSBOOK\fR (planned)
This make it possible ta retrieve / store shiznit bout a
calla or called number.
.RE


.B Users
.br
At tha beginnin of tha file it is possible ta specify playas wit hostnames:

.in +4
.nf
fred@vom.jupita MSN=4711?
root@host1.at.home ALL
.fi
.in -4

Here tha user "fred" can only connect ta isdnlog from tha host "vom.jupiter".
Similarly, tha user "root" is only allowed when on host "host1.at.home".

.B Groups
.br
Afta tha lines wit hostnames, it is possible ta define crews of
users n' hostnames fo' realz. A crew be lookin like a section as busted lyrics bout in
isdn.conf(5). Well shiiiit, it begins wit a line such as:

.in +4
[My_Group]
.in -4

and endz wit tha beginnin of tha next crew or tha end of tha file.
Group names is not case sensitive. In fact, crew names is not
actually used (except fo' \fB[world]\fR, peep below).

In a group, lines consist of a username \fIor\fR a hostname. Lines
with a username must also contain dem privileges dat tha user has.
No privileges can be listed wit a hostname.

.in +4
.nf
heinz MSN=*;PROTOCOL
@host1
@host2
otto MSN=47111,47112
@host3
.fi
.in -4

Da above example allows tha playas heinz n' otto ta connect from any
of tha hosts host1, host2 n' host3. Da user heinz can peep shiznit
about all msns, user otto can only peep shiznit bout msns 47111 and
47112.

If mah playas be allowed ta do anything, then it is enough ta put only
the followin line tha fuck into tha file "isdnlog.users":

.in +4
[world]
.in -4

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/isdn/isdnlog.users
This file.                                                       

.SH SEE ALSO
.B isdnlog(1) 
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
