.\" $Id: isdnformat.5.in,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH isdnformat 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
isdnformat \- common isdn config file format

.SH DESCRIPTION
This playa page raps bout tha format of all isdn config files.

.SH FORMAT
Empty lines is ignored.

If a # is encountered, dis characta n' tha rest of tha line is
ignored (itz considered a cold-ass lil comment). Yo ass can prepend a funky-ass backslash \\ to
prevent dis n' use tha # character.

If tha last characta of a line be a funky-ass backslash \\, tha next line is
a continuation of tha current line.

Da file format is like smb.conf or win.ini: there be sections and
entries within tha section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha syntax was expanded with
subsections; these can be nested as often as you like.

All whitespace (space n' tabs) all up in tha end of the
line is ignored.

Section n' entry names is case insensitive.

Values is case sensitive, of course (the case is preserved).

Section n' entry names may not use tha charactas "*?|&/"; if one of
these is encountered, it is ignored.

At tha beginnin of tha line you may use as much whitespace
as you like.

A section has tha format "[" NAME "]". Yo ass may use whitespace
between tha braces n' tha name, or none at all.

An entry has tha format ENTRY "=" VALUE. Yo ass may use
whitespace before n' afta tha equal sign, or none at all.

A subsection starts wit ENTRY "=" "{"  n' endz wit "}". Yo ass may use
sections, entries n' subsections between tha start n' tha end tag.

Beware: unlike samba or windows tha semicolon is 
.B not
used fo' comments !

Yo ass can use
.B INCLUDE(File)
to include a gangbangin' file. If tha filename aint absolute, itz considered
relatizzle ta tha directory of tha includin document. Yo ass may use it
anywhere up in a gangbangin' file yo, but there may be no space charactas up in the
file!

All subsections started up in a include file must end up in dat include
file, so tha number of opened n' closed brackets must match.

Beware: recursive includin will cause tha program ta break. The
library do not prevent all dis bullshit.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
Now maintained by Pizzle Slootman <paul@isdn4linux.de>.
