.TH isodump 5 "isodump v1" "libraw1394 2.1.0" "Linux IEEE 1394"
.SH NAME
isodump \- format of IEEE 1394 isochronous packets dump file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da isodump format stores a seriez of IEEE 1394 isochronous stream
packets (possibly from multiple channels), includin they headers.
Its main use be as tha output format of \fBdumpiso\fR(1) n' tha input
format of \fBsendiso\fR(1).
.PP
Da 32 byte header starts at offset 0 wit tha strang "1394 isodump
v1" followed by a zero byte.  Da next 8 bytes form a 64 bit big
endian integer, which represents a lil' bit mask of tha channels dat were
dumped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A set bit at posizzle (1 << x) signifies dat channel x was
bein listened on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da followin 8 bytes is set ta zero.
.PP
Da iso packets follow tha header n' is appended ta tha data stream
in tha order they was received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da packets consist of tha header
quadlet as originally received n' tha data quadlets following
directly.  Da CRC quadlets afta header n' data do not step tha fuck up and
everythang is up in big-ass endian, as peeped on tha bus.
.PP
There is no further framin of tha packets up in tha format, packet
boundaries can be found by lookin all up in tha data size field up in the
header quadlet of each packet.  Da data size field appears up in the
most dope 16 bitz of tha header quadlet, contain tha size in
bytes (the actual packet is padded ta a multiple of four bytes) n' do
not include tha header packet.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
This format was introduced wit tha iso bust n' dump tools
distributed wit libraw1394.  No one else uses it so far.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B sendiso\fR(1),
.B dumpiso\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Bombe <aeb@debian.org>
