.TH lcovrc 5 "LCOV 1.10" 2012\-10\-10 "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
lcovrc \- lcov configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I lcovrc
file gotz nuff configuration shiznit fo' the
.B lcov
code coverage tool (see
.BR lcov (1)).
.br

Da system\-wide configuration file is located at
.IR /etc/lcovrc .
To chizzle settings fo' a single user, place a cold-ass lil customized copy of dis file at
location
.IR ~/.lcovrc .
Where available, command\-line options override configuration file settings.

Lines up in a cold-ass lil configuration file can either be:
.IP "     *"
empty lines or lines consistin only of white space characters. These lines are
ignored.
.IP "     *"
comment lines which start wit a hash sign ('#'). These is treated like empty
lines n' is ghon be ignored.
.IP "     *"
statements up in tha form
.RI ' key " = " value '.
A list of valid statements n' they description can be found in
section 'OPTIONS' below.
.PP

.B Example configuration:
.IP
#
.br
# Example LCOV configuration file
.br
#
.br

# External steez shizzle file
.br
#genhtml_css_file = gcov.css
.br

# Coverage rate limits
.br
genhtml_hi_limit = 90
.br
genhtml_med_limit = 75
.br

# Width of line coverage field up in source code view
.br
genhtml_line_field_width = 12
.br

# Width of branch coverage field up in source code view
.br
genhtml_branch_field_width = 16
.br

# Width of overview image
.br
genhtml_overview_width = 80
.br

# Resolution of overview navigation
.br
genhtml_nav_resolution = 4
.br

# Offset fo' source code navigation
.br
genhtml_nav_offset = 10
.br

# Do not remove unused test descriptions if non\-zero
.br
genhtml_keep_descriptions = 0
.br

# Do not remove prefix from directory names if non\-zero
.br
genhtml_no_prefix = 0
.br

# Do not create source code view if non\-zero
.br
genhtml_no_source = 0
.br

# Specify size of tabs
.br
genhtml_num_spaces = 8
.br

# Highlight lines wit converted\-only data if non\-zero
.br
genhtml_highlight = 0
.br

# Include color legend up in HTML output if non\-zero
.br
genhtml_legend = 0
.br

# Include HTML file at start of HTML output
.br
#genhtml_html_prolog = prolog.html
.br

# Include HTML file at end of HTML output
.br
#genhtml_html_epilog = epilog.html
.br

# Use custom HTML file extension
.br
#genhtml_html_extension = html
.br

# Compress all generated html filez wit gzip.
.br
#genhtml_html_gzip = 1
.br

# Include sorted overview pages
.br
genhtml_sort = 1
.br

# Include function coverage data display
.br
#genhtml_function_coverage = 1
.br

# Include branch coverage data display
.br
#genhtml_branch_coverage = 1
.br

# Specify tha characta set of all generated HTML pages
.br
genhtml_charset=UTF\-8
.br

# Location of tha gcov tool
.br
#geninfo_gcov_tool = gcov
.br

# Adjust test names if non\-zero
.br
#geninfo_adjust_testname = 0
.br

# Calculate a cold-ass lil checksum fo' each line if non\-zero
.br
geninfo_checksum = 0
.br

# Enable libtool compatibilitizzle mode if non\-zero
.br
geninfo_compat_libtool = 0
.br

# Specify whether ta capture coverage data fo' external source
.br
# files
.br
#geninfo_external = 1
.br

# Use gcovz --all-blocks option if non-zero
.br
#geninfo_gcov_all_blocks = 1
.br

# Specify compatiblitizzle modes (same as \-\-compat option
.br
# of geninfo)
.br
#geninfo_compat = libtool=on, hammer=auto, split_crc=auto
.br

# Adjust path ta source filez by removin or changin path
.br
# components dat match tha specified pattern (Perl regular
.br
# expression format)
.br
#geninfo_adjust_src_path = /tmp/build => /usr/src

# Specify if geninfo should try ta automatically determine
.br
# tha base-directory when collectin coverage data.
.br
geninfo_auto_base = 1
.br

# Directory containin gcov kernel files
.br
lcov_gcov_dir = /proc/gcov
.br

# Location fo' temporary directories
.br
lcov_tmp_dir = /tmp
.br

# Show full paths durin list operation if non\-zero
.br
lcov_list_full_path = 0
.br

# Specify tha maximum width fo' list output. This value is
.br
# ignored when lcov_list_full_path is non\-zero.
.br
lcov_list_width = 80
.br

# Specify tha maximum cementage of file names which may be
.br
# truncated when choosin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory prefix up in list output.
.br
# This value is ignored when lcov_list_full_path is non\-zero.
.br
lcov_list_truncate_max = 20

# Specify if function coverage data should be collected and
.br
# processed.
.br
lcov_function_coverage = 1
.br

# Specify if branch coverage data should be collected and
.br
# processed.
.br
lcov_branch_coverage = 0
.br
.PP

.SH OPTIONS

.BR genhtml_css_file " ="
.I filename
.IP
Specify a external steez shizzle file. Use dis option ta modify tha appearizzle of tha HTML output as generated by
.BR genhtml .
Durin output generation, a cold-ass lil copy of dis file is ghon be placed up in tha output
directory.
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-css\-file command line option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

By default, a standard CSS file is generated.
.PP

.BR genhtml_hi_limit "  ="
.I hi_limit
.br
.BR genhtml_med_limit " ="
.I med_limit
.br
.IP
Specify coverage rate limits fo' classifyin file entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Use dis option to
modify tha coverage rates (in cement) fo' line, function n' branch coverage at
which a result is classified as high, medium or low coverage. This
classification affects tha color of tha correspondin entries on tha overview
pagez of tha HTML output:
.br

High:   hi_limit  <= rate <= 100        default color: green
.br
Medium: med_limit <= rate < hi_limit    default color: orange
.br
Low:    0         <= rate < med_limit   default color: red
.br

Defaults is 90 n' 75 cement.
.PP

.BR genhtml_line_field_width " ="
.I number_of_characters
.IP
Specify tha width (in characters) of tha source code view column containing
line coverage shiznit.
.br

Default is 12.
.PP

.BR genhtml_branch_field_width " ="
.I number_of_characters
.IP
Specify tha width (in characters) of tha source code view column containing
branch coverage shiznit.
.br

Default is 16.
.PP

.BR genhtml_overview_width " ="
.I pixel_size
.IP
Specify tha width (in pixel) of tha overview image pimped when generatin HTML
output rockin tha \-\-frames option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 80.
.PP

.BR genhtml_nav_resolution " ="
.I lines
.IP
Specify tha resolution of overview mastabation when generatin HTML output using
the \-\-frames option of
.BR genhtml .
This number specifies tha maximum difference up in lines between tha posizzle a
user selected from tha overview n' tha posizzle tha source code window is
scrolled to.
.br

Default is 4.
.PP


.BR genhtml_nav_offset " ="
.I lines
.IP
Specify tha overview mastabation line offset as applied when generatin HTML
output rockin tha \-\-frames option of
.BR genhtml.
.br

Clickin a line up in tha overview image should show tha source code view at
a posizzle a lil' bit further up, so dat tha axed line aint tha first
line up in tha window.  This number specifies dat offset.
.br

Default is 10.
.PP


.BR genhtml_keep_descriptions " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, keep unused test descriptions when generatin HTML output using
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-keep\-descriptions option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_no_prefix " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, do not try ta find n' remove a cold-ass lil common prefix from directory names.
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-no\-prefix option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_no_source " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, do not create a source code view when generatin HTML output using
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-no\-source option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_num_spaces " ="
.I num
.IP
Specify tha number of spaces ta use as replacement fo' tab charactas up in the
HTML source code view as generated by
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-num\-spaces option of
.BR genthml .
.br

Default is 8.

.PP

.BR genhtml_highlight " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, highlight lines wit converted\-only data in
HTML output as generated by
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-highlight option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_legend " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, include a legend explainin tha meanin of color codin up in tha HTML
output as generated by
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-legend option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_html_prolog " ="
.I filename
.IP
If set, include tha contentz of tha specified file all up in tha beginnin of HTML
output.

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-html\-prolog option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is ta use no extra prolog.
.PP

.BR genhtml_html_epilog " ="
.I filename
.IP
If set, include tha contentz of tha specified file all up in tha end of HTML output.

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-html\-epilog option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is ta use no extra epilog.
.PP

.BR genhtml_html_extension " ="
.I extension
.IP
If set, use tha specified strang as filename extension fo' generated HTML files.

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-html\-extension option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default extension is "html".
.PP

.BR genhtml_html_gzip " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If set, compress all html filez rockin gzip.

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-html\-gzip option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default extension is 0.
.PP

.BR genhtml_sort " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, create overview pages sorted by coverage rates when generating
HTML output using
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option can be set ta 0 by rockin tha \-\-no\-sort option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR genhtml_function_coverage " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, include function coverage data when generatin HTML output using
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option can be set ta 0 by rockin tha \-\-no\-function\-coverage option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR genhtml_branch_coverage " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, include branch coverage data when generatin HTML output using
.BR genhtml .
.br

This option can be set ta 0 by rockin tha \-\-no\-branch\-coverage option of
.BR genhtml .
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR genhtml_charset " ="
.I charset
.IP
Specify tha characta set of all generated HTML pages.
.br

Use dis option if tha source code gotz nuff charactas which is not
part of tha default characta set. Note dat dis option is ignored
when a cold-ass lil custom HTML prolog is specified (see also
.BR genhtml_html_prolog ).
.br

Default is UTF-8.
.PP
.BR geninfo_gcov_tool " ="
.I path_to_gcov
.IP
Specify tha location of tha gcov tool (see
.BR gcov (1))
which is used ta generate coverage shiznit from data files. 
.br

Default is 'gcov'.
.PP

.BR geninfo_adjust_testname " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero,  adjust test names ta include operatin system shiznit
when capturin coverage data.
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR geninfo_checksum " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, generate source code checksums when capturin coverage data.
Checksums is useful ta prevent mergin coverage data from incompatible
source code versions but checksum generation increases tha size of coverage
filez n' tha time used ta generate dem files.
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-checksum n' \-\-no\-checksum command line
option of
.BR geninfo .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR geninfo_compat_libtool " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, enable libtool compatibilitizzle mode. When libtool compatibility
mode is enabled, lcov will assume dat tha source code relatin ta a .da file
located up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory named ".libs" can be found up in its parent directory.
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-compat\-libtool n' \-\-no\-compat\-libtool
command line option of
.BR geninfo .
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR geninfo_external " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, capture coverage data fo' external source files.

External source filez is filez which is not located up in one of tha directories
(includin sub-directories)
specified by tha \-\-directory or \-\-base\-directory options of
.BR lcov / geninfo .

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR geninfo_gcov_all_blocks " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, call tha gcov tool wit option --all-blocks.

Usin --all-blocks will produce mo' detailed branch coverage shiznit for
each line. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set dis option ta zero if you do not need detailed branch coverage
information ta speed up tha process of capturin code coverage or ta work
around a funky-ass bug up in some versionz of gcov which will cause it ta endlessly loop
when analysin some files.

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR geninfo_compat " ="
.IR mode = value [, mode = value ,...]
.IP
Specify dat geninfo should enable one or mo' compatibilitizzle modes
when capturin coverage data.

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-compat command line option of
.BR geninfo .

Default is 'libtool=on, hammer=auto, split_crc=auto'.
.PP

.BR geninfo_adjust_src_path " ="
.IR pattern " => " replacement
.br
.BR geninfo_adjust_src_path " ="
.I pattern
.IP
Adjust source paths when capturin coverage data.

Use dis option up in thangs where geninfo cannot find tha erect
path ta source code filez of a project. By providin a
.I pattern
in Perl regular expression format (see
.BR perlre (1))
and a optionizzle replacement string, you can instruct geninfo to
remove or chizzle partz of tha incorrect source path.

.B Example:
.br

1. When geninfo reports dat it cannot find source file
.br

    /path/to/src/.libs/file.c
.br

while tha file is straight-up located in
.br

    /path/to/src/file.c
.br

use tha followin parameter:
.br

    geninfo_adjust_src_path = /.libs

This will remove all "/.libs" strings from tha path.

2. When geninfo reports dat it cannot find source file
.br

    /tmp/build/file.c
.br

while tha file is straight-up located in
.br

    /usr/src/file.c
.br

use tha followin parameter:
.br

    geninfo_adjust_src_path = /tmp/build => /usr/src
.br

This will chizzle all "/tmp/build" strings up in tha path ta "/usr/src".
.PP

.BR geninfo_auto_base " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non\-zero, apply a heuristic ta determine tha base directory when
collectin coverage data.
.br

Use dis option when rockin geninfo on projects built wit libtool or
similar build environments dat work wit multiple base directories,
i.e. environments, where tha current hustlin directory when invokin the
compila ist not tha same directory up in which tha source code file is
located, n' up in addition, is different between filez of tha same project.
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR lcov_gcov_dir " ="
.I path_to_kernel_coverage_data
.IP
Specify tha path ta tha directory where kernel coverage data can be found
or leave undefined fo' auto-detection.
.br

Default be auto-detection.
.PP

.BR lcov_tmp_dir " ="
.I temp
.IP
Specify tha location of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory used fo' temporary files.
.br

Default is '/tmp'.
.PP

.BR lcov_list_full_path " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
If non-zero, print tha full path ta source code filez durin a list operation.
.br

This option correspondz ta tha \-\-list\-full\-path option of
.BR lcov .
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.BR lcov_list_max_width " ="
.IR width
.IP
Specify tha maximum width fo' list output. This value is ignored when
lcov_list_full_path is non\-zero.
.br

Default is 80.
.PP

.BR lcov_list_truncate_max
.B " ="
.IR cementage
.IP
Specify tha maximum cementage of file names which may be truncated when
choosin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory prefix up in list output. This value is ignored when
lcov_list_full_path is non\-zero.
.br

Default is 20.
.PP

.BR lcov_function_coverage " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
Specify whether lcov should handle function coverage data.
.br

Settin dis option ta 0 can reduce memory n' CPU time consumption
when lcov is collectin n' processin coverage data, as well as
reduce tha size of tha resultin data files. Note dat setting
.B genhtml_function_coverage
will override dis option fo' HTML generation.
.br

Default is 1.
.PP

.BR lcov_branch_coverage " ="
.IR 0 | 1
.IP
Specify whether lcov should handle branch coverage data.
.br

Settin dis option ta 0 can reduce memory n' CPU time consumption
when lcov is collectin n' processin coverage data, as well as
reduce tha size of tha resultin data files. Note dat setting
.B genhtml_branch_coverage
will override dis option fo' HTML generation.
.br

Default is 0.
.PP

.SH FILES

.TP
.I /etc/lcovrc
Da system\-wide
.B lcov
configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.lcovrc
Da individual per\-user configuration file.
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lcov (1),
.BR genhtml (1),
.BR geninfo (1),
.BR gcov (1)
