.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDIF 5 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldif \- LDAP Data Interchange Format
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da LDAP Data Interchange Format (LDIF) is used ta represent LDAP
entries n' chizzle recordz up in text form. LDAP tools, such as
.BR ldapadd (1)
and
.BR ldapsearch (1),
read n' write LDIF entry
records.
.BR ldapmodify (1)
readz LDIF chizzle records.
.LP
This manual page serves up a funky-ass basic description of LDIF.  A
formal justification of LDIF is published up in RFC 2849.
.SH ENTRY RECORDS
.LP
LDIF entry recordz is used ta represent directory entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da basic
form of a entry record is:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	dn: <distinguished name>
	<attrdesc>: <attrvalue>
	<attrdesc>: <attrvalue>
	<attrdesc>:: <base64-encoded-value>
	<attrdesc>:< <URL>
	...
.ft
.fi
.LP
Da value may be specified as UTF-8 text or as base64 encoded data,
or a URI may be provided ta tha location of tha attribute value.
.LP
A line may be continued by startin tha next line wit a single space
or tab, e.g.,
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	dn: cn=Barbara J Jensen,dc=exam
	 ple,dc=com
.ft
.fi
.LP
Lines beginnin wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sharp sign ('#') is ignored.
.LP
Multiple attribute joints is specified on separate lines, e.g.,
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	cn: Barbara J Jensen
	cn: Babs Jensen
.ft
.fi
.LP
If a value gotz nuff a non-printin character, or begins
with a space or a cold-ass lil colon ':', tha <attrtype> is followed by a
double colon n' tha value is encoded up in base 64 notation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. e.g.,
the value " begins wit a space" would be encoded like this:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	cn:: IGJlZ2lucyB3aXRoIGEgc3BhY2U=
.ft
.fi
.LP
If tha attribute value is located up in a gangbangin' file, tha <attrtype> is
followed by a ':<' n' a gangbangin' file: URI.  e.g., tha value contained
in tha file /tmp/value would be listed like this:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	cn:< file:///tmp/value
.ft
.fi
Other URI schemes (ftp,http) may be supported as well.
.LP
Multiple entries within tha same LDIF file is separated by blank
lines.
.SH ENTRY RECORD EXAMPLE
Here be a example of a LDIF file containin three entries.
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	dn: cn=Barbara J Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	cn: Barbara J Jensen
	cn: Babs Jensen
	objectclass: person
	description:< file:///tmp/babs
	sn: Jensen

	dn: cn=Bjorn J Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	cn: Bjorn J Jensen
	cn: Bjorn Jensen
	objectclass: person
	sn: Jensen

	dn: cn=Jizzifer J Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	cn: Jizzifer J Jensen
	cn: Jizzifer Jensen
	objectclass: person
	sn: Jensen
	jpegPhoto:: /9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAAAAAQABAAD/2wBDABALD
	 A4MChAODQ4SERATGCgaGBYWGDEjJR0oOjM9PDkzODdASFxOQ
	 ERXRTc4UG1RV19iZ2hnPk1xeXBkeFxlZ2P/2wBDARESEhgVG
	...
.ft
.fi
.LP
Note dat tha description up in Barbara Jensenz entry is
read from file:///tmp/babs n' tha jpegPhoto up in Jennifer
Jensenz entry is encoded rockin base 64.
.SH CHANGE RECORDS
LDIF chizzle recordz is used ta represent directory chizzle requests.
Each chizzle record starts wit line indicatin tha distinguished
name of tha entry bein chizzled:
.LP
.nf
	dn: <distinguishedname>
.fi
.LP
.nf
	changetype: <[modify|add|delete|modrdn]>
.fi
.LP
Finally, tha chizzle shiznit itself is given, tha format of which
dependz on what tha fuck kind of chizzle was specified above.  For a \fIchangetype\fP
of \fImodify\fP, tha format is one or mo' of tha following:
.LP
.nf
	add: <attributetype>
	<attrdesc>: <value1>
	<attrdesc>: <value2>
	...
	\-
.fi
.LP
Or, fo' a replace modification:
.LP
.nf
	replace: <attributetype>
	<attrdesc>: <value1>
	<attrdesc>: <value2>
	...
	\-
.fi
.LP
If no \fIattributetype\fP lines is given ta replace,
the entire attribute is ta be deleted (if present).
.LP
Or, fo' a thugged-out delete modification:
.LP
.nf
	delete: <attributetype>
	<attrdesc>: <value1>
	<attrdesc>: <value2>
	...
	\-
.fi
.LP
If no \fIattributetype\fP lines is given ta delete,
the entire attribute is ta be deleted.
.LP
For a \fIchangetype\fP of \fIadd\fP, tha format is:
.LP
.nf
	<attrdesc1>: <value1>
	<attrdesc1>: <value2>
	...
	<attrdescN>: <value1>
	<attrdescN>: <value2>
.fi
.LP
For a \fIchangetype\fP of \fImodrdn\fP or \fImoddn\fP,
the format is:
.LP
.nf
	newrdn: <newrdn>
	deleteoldrdn: 0 | 1
	newsuperior: <DN>
.fi
.LP
where a value of 1 fo' deleteoldrdn means ta delete tha joints
formin tha oldschool rdn from tha entry, n' a value of 0 means to
leave tha joints as non-distinguished attributes up in tha entry.
Da newsuperior line is optionizzle and, if present, specifies the
new superior ta move tha entry to.
.LP
For a \fIchangetype\fP of \fIdelete\fP, no additionizzle shiznit
is needed up in tha record.
.LP
Note dat attribute joints may be presented rockin base64 or in
filez as busted lyrics bout fo' entry records.  Lines up in chizzle records
may be continued up in tha manner busted lyrics bout fo' entry recordz as
well. 
.SH CHANGE RECORD EXAMPLE
Da followin sample LDIF file gotz nuff a cold-ass lil chizzle record
of each type of chizzle.
.LP
.nf
	dn: cn=Babs Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	changetype: add
	objectclass: person
	objectclass: extensibleObject
	cn: babs
	cn: babs jensen
	sn: jensen

	dn: cn=Babs Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	changetype: modify
	add: givenName
	givenName: Barbara
	givenName: babs
	\-
	replace: description
	description: tha fabulous babs
	\-
	delete: sn
	sn: jensen
	\-

	dn: cn=Babs Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
	changetype: modrdn
	newrdn: cn=Barbara J Jensen
	deleteoldrdn: 0
	newsuperior: ou=People,dc=example,dc=com

	dn: cn=Barbara J Jensen,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com
	changetype: delete
.fi

.SH INCLUDE STATEMENT
Da LDIF parser has been extended ta support an
.B include
statement fo' referencin other LDIF files.  The
.B include
statement must be separated from other recordz by a funky-ass blank line.
Da referenced file is specified rockin a gangbangin' file: URI n' all of its
contents is incorporated as if they was part of tha original
LDIF file fo' realz. As above, other URI schemes may be supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For example:
.LP
.nf
	dn: dc=example,dc=com
	objectclass: domain
	dc: example

	include: file:///tmp/example.com.ldif

	dn: dc=example,dc=org
	objectclass: domain
	dc: example
.fi
This feature aint part of tha LDIF justification up in RFC 2849 but
is sposed ta fuckin step tha fuck up in a gangbangin' future revision of dis spec. Well shiiiit, it is supported
by the
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
and
.BR slapadd (8)
commands.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR slapd\-ldif (5).
.LP
"LDAP Data Interchange Format," Good, G., RFC 2849.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 278 stdin
