.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii libao.conf.5
.\"
.TH libao.conf 5 "September 1, 2003" "" "libao configuration"

.SH NAME
libao.conf \- configuration fo' libao.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B /etc/libao.conf

.B ~/.libao

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libao.conf
and
.B .libao
are configuration filez fo' libao, tha audio output library.  They
specify various options ta libao, as busted lyrics bout below.
.B libao.conf
sets system-wide options, whereas
.B ~/.libao
sets user-specific options.  When a option is set up in 
both places, tha option in
.B ~/.libao
takes precedence.

.SH FILE FORMAT
Da file consistz of comments n' key-value pairs.  Comments is on separate lines dat start wit a
.B #
symbol.  Da key-value pairs iz of tha form:
.RS
.BR
.B key=value
.RE
where
.B key
gotz nuff no whitespace n' no equal signs.
.B value
will be all of tha text afta tha equal sign until (but not including)
the endin newline.  Beware of extra spaces all up in tha end of tha line!
They will probably be interpreted as part of tha option value.

Valid option keys are:
.RS
.IP default_driver
Da short name of tha driver libao should use by default.  Valid joints
include (not all is available on every last muthafuckin platform): oss, esd, arts, alsa,
alsa05, nas, irix, n' sun. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note dat "sun" is used on nuff BSD
systems as well as Solaris.  Da "alsa" driver is fo' tha 0.9.x ALSA API,
whereas tha "alsa05" driver is fo' tha 0.5.x API.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE

Here be a example
.B libao.conf
that forces tha OSS driver ta be used by default:

    # This be a cold-ass lil comment.
    default_driver=oss

.SH BUGS

.B libao.conf
is missin a fuckin shitload of potentially useful options.

.SH AUTHORS

.br
Stan Seibert <volsung@xiph.org>
