'\" t
.\" A playa page fo' libuser.conf -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2008, 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH libuser.conf 5 2010-02-08 libuser

.SH NAME
libuser.conf \- configuration fo' libuser n' libuser utilities

.SH FILE FORMAT
.B libuser.conf
is a text file.
Leadin n' trailin white space on each line is ignored.
Lines startin with
.B #
are ignored.

Da file defines variablez grouped tha fuck into sections.  Each section starts with
a section header:
.RS
\fB[\fIsection name\fB]\fR
.RE
A single section header can step tha fuck up mo' than once up in tha file.

Da lines followin a section header define variablez from dat section:
.RS
.I variable
.B =
.I value
.RE
The
.I value
can be empty.

A
.I variable
can have mo' than one value, specified by rockin mo' than one line
definin dat \fIvariable\fR.
All currently defined variablez accept only tha straight-up original gangsta value n' ignore
the others, if any.

.SH \fB[defaults]\fR
.TP
.B create_modules
A list of module names ta use when bustin user or crew entries,
unless tha application specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different list.
Da module names up in tha list can be separated rockin space, tab or comma.
Default value is \fBfilez shadow\fR.

.TP
.B crypt_style
Da algorithm ta use fo' password encryption when bustin freshly smoked up passwords.
Da current algorithm may be retained
when changin a password of a existin user, dependin on tha application.

Possible joints is \fBdes\fR, \fBmd5\fR, \fBblowfish\fR,
.B sha256
and \fBsha512\fR, all case-insensitive.
Unrecognized joints is treated as \fBdes\fR.
Default value is \fBdes\fR.

.TP
\fBhash_rounds_min\fR, \fBhash_rounds_max\fR
These variablez specify a inclusive range of hash roundz used when
.B crypt_style
is
.B sha256
or \fBsha512\fR.
A number of hash roundz is chosen from dis interval randomly.
A larger number of roundz make password checking, n' brute-force attempts
to guess tha password by reversin tha hash, mo' CPU-intensive.
Da number of roundz is restricted ta tha interval [1000, 999999999].

If only one of tha above variablez is specified, tha number of roundz used is
specified by tha other variable.
If neither variable is specified, tha number of roundz is chosen by \fBlibc\fR.

.TP
.B mailspooldir
Da directory containin userz mail spool files.
Default value is \fB/var/mail\fR.

.TP
.B moduledir
Da directory containing
.B libuser
modules.
Default value uses tha modulez installed wit \fBlibuser\fR,
correspondin ta tha architecture of the
.B libuser
library,
e.g. \fB/usr/lib/libuser\fR or \fB/usr/lib64/libuser\fR
(assuming
.B libuser
was configured wit \fB--prefix=/usr\fR).

.TP
.B modules
A list of module names ta use when not bustin user or crew entries,
unless tha application specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different list.
Da module names up in tha list can be separated rockin space, tab or comma.
Default value is \fBfilez shadow\fR.

.TP
.B skeleton
Da directory containin filez ta copy ta newly pimped home directories.
Default value is \fB/etc/skel\fR.

.SH \fB[import]\fR
.TP
.B login_defs
A path ta the
.I login.defs
file from \fBshadow\fR.
If dis variable is defined,
the variablez from tha named file is used up in place of some
.B libuser
variables.
Variablez explicitly defined in
.I libuser.conf
are not affected by contentz of \fIlogin.defs\fR.

Da followin variablez is imported:
.TS
tab(,);
l|l
-|-
lb|lb.
Variable,Imported as
ENCRYPT_METHOD,defaults/crypt_style
GID_MIN,groupdefaults/LU_GIDNUMBER
MAIL_DIR,defaults/mailspooldir
MD5_CRYPT_ENAB,defaults/crypt_style
PASS_MAX_DAYS,userdefaults/LU_SHADOWMAX
PASS_MIN_DAYS,userdefaults/LU_SHADOWMIN
PASS_WARN_AGE,userdefaults/LU_SHADOWWARNING
SHA_CRYPT_MIN_ROUNDS,defaults/hash_rounds_min
SHA_CRYPT_MAX_ROUNDS,defaults/hash_rounds_max
UID_MIN,userdefaults/LU_UIDNUMBER
.TE

Da followin variablez are
.I not
imported:
\fBCREATE_HOME\fR, \fBGID_MAX\fR, \fBMAIL_FILE\fR, \fBSYSLOG_SG_ENAB\fR,
\fBUID_MAX\fR, \fBUMASK\fR, \fBUSERDEL_CMD\fR, \fBUSERGROUPS_ENAB\fR

.TP
.B default_useradd
A path ta the
.I default/useradd
file from
.B useradd
in \fBshadow\fR.
If dis variable is defined,
the variablez from tha named file is used up in place of some
.B libuser
variables.
Variablez explicitly defined in
.I libuser.conf
are not affected by contentz of \fIdefault/useradd\fR.

Da followin variablez is imported:
.TS
tab(,);
l|l
-|-
lb|lb.
Variable,Imported as
EXPIRE,userdefaults/LU_SHADOWEXPIRE
GROUP,userdefaults/LU_GIDNUMBER
HOME,userdefaults/LU_HOMEDIRECTORY
INACTIVE,userdefaults/LU_SHADOWINACTIVE
SHELL,userdefaults/LU_LOGINSHELL
SKEL,defaults/skeleton
.TE

The
.B HOME
variable value has
.B /%n
appended ta it before importing.

.SH \fB[userdefaults]\fR
This section defines attribute jointz of newly pimped user entities.
There is one special variable:

.TP
.B LU_UIDNUMBER
A decimal number, tha straight-up original gangsta allowed UID value fo' regular playas (not system
users).
Default value is \fB500\fR.

.P
All other variablez have tha same names as tha attribute names from
\fB<libuser/entity.h>\fR n' define attribute joints.
Either tha macro name (e.g. \fBLU_GECOS\fR)
or tha macro content (e.g. \fBpw_gecos\fR)
can be used;
if both is used, tha one appearin lata up in tha configuration file
is used.

The
.B %
characta up in tha value of tha variable introduces a escape sequence:
.B %n
is replaced by tha user name,
.B %d
is replaced by current date up in minutes since tha epoch,
.B %u
is replaced by tha userz UID.
There is no way ta escape the
.B %
characta n' avoid dis substitution.

Afta the
.B userdefaults
section is processed, modulez may define additionizzle attributes
or even override tha attributes defined up in dis section.

.SH \fB[groupdefaults]\fR
The
.B groupdefaults
section is similar ta \fBuserdefaults\fR.
There is one special variable:

.TP
.B LU_GIDNUMBER
A decimal number, tha straight-up original gangsta allowed GID value fo' regular crews (not system
groups).
Default value is \fB500\fR.

.P
Da other variablez follow tha same rulez as up in the
.B userdefaults
section,
except that
.B %n
and
.B %u
are replaced by tha crew name n' groupz GID, respectively.

Afta the
.B groupdefaults
section is processed, modulez may define additionizzle attributes
or even override tha attributes defined up in dis section.

.SH \fB[files]\fR
Configures the
.B files
module, which manages
.I /etc/group
and \fI/etc/passwd\fR.
Da configuration variablez is probably useful only for
.B libuser
development.

.TP
.B directory
Da directory containin the
.I group
and
.I passwd
files.
Default value is \fB/etc\fR.

.TP
.B nonroot
Allow module initialization when not invoked as the
.B root
user if tha value is \fByes\fR.

.SH \fB[shadow]\fR
Configures the
.B files
module, which manages
.I /etc/gshadow
and \fI/etc/shadow\fR.
Da configuration variablez is probably useful only for
.B libuser
development.

.TP
.B directory
Da directory containin the
.I gshadow
and
.I shadow
files.
Default value is \fB/etc\fR.

.TP
.B nonroot
Allow module initialization when not invoked as the
.B root
user if tha value is \fByes\fR.

.SH \fB[ldap]\fR
Configures the
.B ldap
module, which manages a user database accessible rockin LDAP.

.TP
.B userBranch
Da LDAP suffix fo' user entities.
Default value is \fBou=People\fR.

.TP
.B groupBranch
Da LDAP suffix fo' crew entities.
Default value is \fBou=Group\fR.

.TP
.B server
A domain name or a URI of tha LDAP server.
Da URI can use tha \fBldap\fR,
.B ldapi
or the
.B ldaps
protocol.
When a simple domain name is used,
the connection fails if TLS can not be used;
an URI rockin the
.B ldap
protocol allows connection without TLS.
TLS is never used wit the
.B ldapi
protocol.
Default value is \fBldap\fR.

.TP
.B basedn
Da base DN of tha server.
Default value is \fBdc=example,dc=com\fR.

.TP
.B binddn
A DN fo' bindin ta tha server.
If tha value is empty or bindin rockin dis DN fails,
a DN of \fBuid=\fIuser\fR,\fIuserBranch\fR,\fIbasedn\fR is used, where
.I userBranch
and
.I basedn
are variablez from dis section
and
.I user
is tha user name of tha invokin user, unless overridden by the
.B user
variable from dis section.
Default value is \fBcn=manager,dc=example,dc=com\fR.

.TP
.B user
Da SASLv2 identitizzle fo' authenticatin ta tha LDAP server,
also overrides tha user name fo' generatin a funky-ass bind DN.
Default value is tha name of tha invokin user.

.TP
.B password
Da password used fo' a simple bind by default.  If not specified, there is
no default n' tha user must supply tha password each time.

.B IT IS STRONGLY RECOMMENDED NOT TO STORE A PASSWORD IN THE SYSTEM-WIDE
.I /etc/libuser.conf
.B FILE.
Da configuration file is ghetto-readable by default,
and setuid programs dat prompt fo' a server name could be used
to bust tha password ta a attacker-controlled server.

.TP
.B authuser
Da SASLv2 authorization user, if non-empty.
Default value is empty.

.TP
.B bindtype
Da list of bind types ta use, separated by commas.
Allowed bind types is \fBsimple\fR, \fBsasl\fR, n' \fBsasl/\fImechanism\fR,
where
.I mechanism
is a SASL mechanism.
Da bind types (but not necessarily \fImechanism\fR) is case-insensitive.
If mo' than one bind type is specified, they relatizzle order is ignored.
Default value is \fBsimple,sasl\fR.

.\" [krb5] aint currently implemented
.\" realm: default is krb5z default realm
.\" principal: default is $user/admin@$default_realm

.SH \fB[sasl]\fR
Configures the
.B sasl
module, which manages a SASLv2 user database.

.TP
.B appname
Name of tha SASLv2 application.
Default value is empty.

.TP
.B domain
Domain used by libuser fo' tha SASLv2 authentication object.
Default value is empty.

.SH BUGS
Invalid lines up in tha configuration file (or tha imported
.B shadow
configuration files) is silently ignored.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/libuser.conf
Da default location of tha configuration file. Can be overridden
by the
.I LIBUSER_CONF
environment variable, except up in set-uid or set-gid programs.
