.TH "local.users" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
local.users \- Da SELinux local playas configuration file
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da file gotz nuff local user definitions up in tha form of policy language user statements n' is only found on olda SELinux systems as it has been deprecated n' replaced by tha \fBsemange\fR(8) skillz.
.sp
This file is only read by \fBselinux_mkload_policy\fR(3) when \fBSETLOCALDEFS\fR up in tha SELinux \fIconfig\fR file (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)) is set ta \fI1\fR.
.sp
.BR selinux_users_path "(3) "
will return tha actizzle policy path ta tha directory where dis file is located. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default local playas file is:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/contexts/users/local.users
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is tha entry from tha selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Da file consistz of one or mo' entries terminated wit '\fB;\fR', each on a separate line as bigs up:
.RS
\fBuser \fIseuser_id \fBrolez \fIrole_id\fR [[\fBlevel \fIlevel\fR] [\fBrange \fIrange\fR]]\fB;\fR
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
.B user
.RS
Da user keyword.
.RE
.I seuser_id
.RS
Da SELinux user identifier.
.RE
.B roles
.RS
Da rolez keyword.
.RE
.I role_id
.RS
One or mo' previously declared role identifiers. Multiple role identifiers consist of a space separated list enclosed up in braces '{}'.
.RE
.B level
.RS
If MLS/MCS is configured, tha level keyword.
.RE
.I level
.RS
Da playas default securitizzle level. Note dat only tha sensitivitizzle component of tha level (e.g. s0) is required.
.RE
.B range
.RS
If MLS/MCS is configured, tha range keyword.
.RE
.I range
.RS
Da current n' clearizzle levels dat tha user can run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These is separated by a hyphen '\fB-\fR' as shown up in tha \fBEXAMPLE\fR section.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
# ./users/local.users
.br
user test_u rolez staff_r level s0 range s0 \- s15:c0.c1023;
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " semanage "(8), " selinux_users_path "(3), " selinux_config "(5), " selinux_mkload_policy "(3) "
