.\"
.\" "$Id: mailto.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   mailto.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH mailto.conf 5 "CUPS" "12 July 2006" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
mailto.conf \- configuration file fo' cups email notifier
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fImailto.conf\fR file defines tha local mail server and
email notification preferences fo' CUPS.
.LP
Each line up in tha file can be a cold-ass lil configuration directive, a funky-ass blank line,
or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment lines start wit tha # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
.TP 5
Cc \fIcc-address@domain.com\fR
.br
Specifies a additionizzle recipient fo' all email notifications.
.TP 5
From \fIfrom-address@domain.com\fR
.br
Specifies tha sender of email notifications.
.TP 5
Sendmail \fIsendmail command n' options\fR
.br
Specifies tha sendmail command ta use when bustin  email
notifications. Only one \fISendmail\fR or \fISMTPServer\fR line
may be present up in tha \fImailto.conf\fR file. If multiple lines
are present, only tha last one is used.
.TP 5
SMTPServer \fIservername\fR
.br
Specifies a SMTP server ta bust email notifications to. Only one
\fISendmail\fR or \fISMTPServer\fR line may be present up in the
\fImailto.conf\fR file. If multiple lines is present, only the
last one is used.
.TP 5
Subject \fIsubject-prefix\fR
.br
Specifies a prefix strang fo' tha subject line of a email notification.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: mailto.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
