.TH MASTER 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
master
\-
Postfix masta process configuration file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix mail system is implemented by lil' small-ass number of
(mostly) client commandz dat is invoked by users, n' by
a larger number of skillz dat run up in tha background.

Postfix skillz is implemented by daemon processes. These
run up in tha background under control of tha \fBmaster\fR(8)
process.  Da master.cf configuration file defines how tha fuck a
client program connects ta a service, n' what tha fuck daemon
program runs when a steez is requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Most daemon
processes is short-lived n' terminizzle voluntarily after
servin \fBmax_use\fR clients, or afta inactivitizzle for
\fBmax_idle\fR or mo' unitz of time.

All daemons specified here must drop a rhyme a Postfix-internal
protocol. In order ta execute non-Postfix software use the
\fBlocal\fR(8), \fBpipe\fR(8) or \fBspawn\fR(8) skillz, or
run tha server under control by \fBinetd\fR(8) or equivalent.
.PP
Afta changin master.cf you must execute "\fBpostfix reload\fR"
to reload tha configuration.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da general format of tha master.cf file be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as are
lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.IP \(bu
Each logical line defines a single Postfix service.
Each steez is identified by its name n' type as busted lyrics about
below.  When multiple lines specify tha same steez name
and type, only tha last one is remembered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Otherwise, the
order of master.cf steez definitions do not matter.
.PP
Each logical line consistz of eight fieldz separated by
whitespace.  These is busted lyrics bout below up in tha order as they
appear up in tha master.cf file.

Where applicable a gangbangin' field of "-" requests dat tha built-in
default value be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For boolean fieldz specify "y" or
"n" ta override tha default value.
.IP "\fBService name\fR"
Da steez name syntax dependz on tha steez type as
busted lyrics bout next.
.IP "\fBService type\fR"
Specify one of tha followin steez types:
.RS
.IP \fBinet\fR
Da steez listens on a TCP/IP socket n' be accessible
via tha network.

Da steez name is specified as \fIhost:port\fR, denoting
the host n' port on which freshly smoked up connections should be
accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da host part (and colon) may be omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Either
host or port may be given up in symbolic form (host or service
name) or up in numeric form (IP address or port number).
Host shiznit may be enclosed inside "[]" yo, but dis form
is not necessary.
.sp
Examples: a steez named \fB127.0.0.1:smtp\fR or \fB::1:smtp\fR
receives
mail via tha loopback intercourse only; n' a steez named
\fB10025\fR accepts connections on TCP port 10025 via
all intercourses configured wit tha \fBinet_interfaces\fR
parameter.

.sp
Note: wit Postfix version 2.2 n' lata specify
"\fBinet_interfaces = loopback-only\fR" up in main.cf, instead
of hard-codin loopback IP address shiznit up in master.cf
or up in main.cf.
.IP \fBunix\fR
Da steez listens on a UNIX-domain socket n' be accessible
for local clients only.

Da steez name be a pathname relatizzle ta tha Postfix
queue directory (pathname controlled wit tha \fBqueue_directory\fR
configuration parameta up in main.cf).
.sp
On Solaris systems tha \fBunix\fR type is implemented with
streams sockets.
.IP \fBfifo\fR
Da steez listens on a FIFO (named pipe) n' be accessible
for local clients only.

Da steez name be a pathname relatizzle ta tha Postfix
queue directory (pathname controlled wit tha \fBqueue_directory\fR
configuration parameta up in main.cf).
.IP \fBpass\fR
Da steez listens on a UNIX-domain socket, n' be accessible
to local clients only. Well shiiiit, it receives one open connection (file
descriptor passing) per connection request.

Da steez name be a pathname relatizzle ta tha Postfix
queue directory (pathname controlled wit tha \fBqueue_directory\fR
configuration parameta up in main.cf).
.sp
On Solaris systems tha \fBpass\fR type is implemented with
streams sockets.

This feature be available az of Postfix version 2.5.
.RE
.IP "\fBPrivate (default: y)\fR"
Whether or not access is restricted ta tha mail system.
Internizzle (type \fBinet\fR) skillz can't be private.
.IP "\fBUnprivileged (default: y)\fR"
Whether tha steez runs wit root privileges or as the
balla of tha Postfix system (the balla name is controlled
by tha \fBmail_baller\fR configuration variable up in the
main.cf file).
.sp
Da \fBlocal\fR(8), \fBpipe\fR(8), \fBspawn\fR(8), and
\fBvirtual\fR(8) daemons require privileges.
.IP "\fBChroot (default: y)\fR"
Whether or not tha steez runs chrooted ta tha mail queue
directory (pathname is controlled by tha \fBqueue_directory\fR
configuration variable up in tha main.cf file).
.sp
Chroot should not be used wit tha \fBlocal\fR(8),
\fBpipe\fR(8), \fBspawn\fR(8), n' \fBvirtual\fR(8) daemons.
Although the
\fBproxymap\fR(8) server can run chrooted, bustin so defeats
most of tha purpose of havin dat steez up in tha first
place.
.sp
Da filez up in tha examples/chroot-setup subdirectory of the
Postfix source archive show set up a Postfix chroot environment
on a variety of systems. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also BASIC_CONFIGURATION_README
for thangs related ta hustlin daemons chrooted.
.IP "\fBWake up time (default: 0)\fR"
Automatically raise up tha named steez afta tha specified
number of seconds. Da raise up is implemented by connecting
to tha steez n' bustin  a raise up request.  A , biatch? at the
end of tha wake-up time field requests dat no wake up
events be busted before tha last time a steez is used.
Specify 0 fo' no automatic wake up.
.sp
Da \fBpickup\fR(8), \fBqmgr\fR(8) n' \fBflush\fR(8)
daemons require a raise up timer.
.IP "\fBProcess limit (default: $default_process_limit)\fR"
Da maximum number of processes dat may execute this
service simultaneously. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify 0 fo' no process count limit.
.sp
NOTE: Some Postfix skillz must be configured as a
single-process steez (for example, \fBqmgr\fR(8)) and
some skillz must be configured wit no process limit (for
example, \fBcleanup\fR(8)).  These limits must not be
changed.
.IP "\fBCommand name + arguments\fR"
Da command ta be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Charactas dat is special
to tha shell like fuckin ">" or "|" have no special meaning
here, n' quotes cannot be used ta protect arguments
containin whitespace.
.sp
Da command name is relatizzle ta tha Postfix daemon directory
(pathname is controlled by tha \fBdaemon_directory\fR
configuration variable).
.sp
Da command argument syntax fo' specific commandz is
specified up in tha respectizzle daemon manual page.
.sp
Da followin command-line options have tha same effect for
all daemon programs:
.RS
.IP \fB-D\fR
Run tha daemon under control by tha command specified with
the \fBdebugger_command\fR variable up in tha main.cf
configuration file.  See DEBUG_README fo' hints n' tips.
.IP "\fB-o \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR"
Override tha named main.cf configuration parameter n' shit. The
parameta value can refer ta other parametas as \fI$name\fR
etc., just like up in main.cf.  See \fBpostconf\fR(5) for
syntax.
.sp
NOTE 1: do not specify whitespace round tha "=" or in
parameta joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. To specify a parameta value dat gotz nuff
whitespace, use commas instead of spaces, or specify the
value up in main.cf. Example:
.sp
.nf
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    submission inet .... smtpd
        -o smtpd_mumble=$submission_mumble
.sp
/etc/postfix/main.cf
    submission_mumble = text wit whitespace...
.fi
.sp
NOTE 2: Over-zealous use of parameta overrides make the
Postfix configuration hard ta KNOW n' maintain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  At
a certain point, it might be easier ta configure multiple
instancez of Postfix, instead of configurin multiple
personalitizzles via master.cf.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Increase tha verbose loggin level. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify multiple \fB-v\fR
options ta cook up a Postfix daemon process mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
master(8), process manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
BASIC_CONFIGURATION_README, basic configuration
DEBUG_README, Postfix debugging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Initial version by
Magnus Baeck
Lund Institute of Technology
Sweden

Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
