.\"
.\" "$Id: mime.convs.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   mime.convs playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH mime.convs 5 "CUPS" "20 March 2006" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
mime.convs \- mime type conversion file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fImime.convs\fR file defines tha filtas dat is available
for convertin filez from one format ta another n' shit. Da standard
filtas support text, PDF, PostScript, HP-GL/2, n' nuff types of
image files.
.LP
Additionizzle filtas can be added ta tha \fImime.convs\fR file or
(preferably) ta other filez up in tha CUPS configuration directory.
.LP
Each line up in tha \fImime.convs\fR file be a cold-ass lil comment, blank, or filter
line. Comment lines start wit tha # character n' shit. Filta lines specify
the source n' destination MIME types along wit a relatizzle cost
associated wit tha filta n' tha filta ta run:
.br
.nf

super/type super/type cost filter
application/postscript application/vnd.cups-rasta 50 pstoraster
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: mime.convs.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
