.\"
.\" "$Id: mime.types.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   mime.types playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH mime.types 5 "CUPS" "16 May 2009" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
mime.types \- mime type description file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fImime.types\fR file defines tha recognized file types.
.LP
Additionizzle file types can be added ta \fImime.types\fR or
(preferably) up in additionizzle filez up in tha CUPS configuration
directory wit tha extension ".types".
.LP
Each line up in tha \fImime.types\fR file be a cold-ass lil comment, blank, or
rule line. Comment lines start wit tha # character n' shit. Rule lines
start wit tha MIME type name n' is optionally followed by a
seriez of file recognizzle rulez dat is used ta automatically
identify print n' wizzy files:
.br
.nf

    super/type rule [ ... ruleN]
.fi
MIME type names is case-insensitizzle n' is sorted up in ascendin alphanumeric
order fo' tha purposez of matching. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha "TYPE MATCHING AND PRIORITY"
section fo' mo' shiznit.
.LP
Da rulez may be grouped rockin parenthesis, joined rockin "+" fo' a
logical AND n' "," or whitespace fo' a logical OR, n' negated using
"!".
.SH RULES
Rulez take two forms - a gangbangin' filename extension by itself n' functions wit test
values inside parenthesis. Da followin functions is available:
.TP 5
match("pattern")
.br
Pattern match on filename
.TP 5
ascii(offset,length)
.br
True if bytes is valid printable ASCII (CR, NL, TAB, BS, 32-126)
.TP 5
printable(offset,length)
.br
True if bytes is printable 8-bit chars (CR, NL, TAB, BS, 32-126, 128-254)
.TP 5
priority(number)
.br
Specifies tha relatizzle prioritizzle of dis MIME type. Da default prioritizzle is 100.
Larger joints have higher prioritizzle while smalla joints have lower priority.
.TP 5
string(offset,"string")
.br
True if bytes is identical ta string
.TP 5
istring(offset,"string")
.br
True if a cold-ass lil case-insensitizzle comparison of tha bytes is identical
.TP 5
char(offset,value)
.br
True if byte is identical
.TP 5
short(offset,value)
.br
True if 16-bit integer is identical
.TP 5
int(offset,value)
.br
True if 32-bit integer is identical
.TP 5
locale("string")
.br
True if current locale matches string
.TP 5
gotz nuff(offset,range,"string")
.br
True if tha range gotz nuff tha string
.SH STRING CONSTANTS
Strin constants can be specified inside quotes ("") fo' strings
containin whitespace n' angle brackets (<>) fo' hexadecimal
strings.
.SH TYPE MATCHING AND PRIORITY
When CUPS need ta determine tha MIME type of a given file, it checks every
MIME type defined up in tha .types files. When two types have tha same matching
rules, tha type chosen will depend on tha type name n' priority, wit higher-
prioritizzle types bein used over lower-prioritizzle ones. If tha types have tha same
priority, tha type names is sorted alphanumerically up in ascendin order n' the
first type is chosen.
.LP
For example, if two types "text/bar" n' "text/foo" is defined as matchin the
extension "doc", normally tha type "text/bar" is ghon be chosen since its name is
alphanumerically smalla than "text/foo". But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if "text/foo" also defines a
higher prioritizzle than "text/bar", "text/foo" is ghon be chosen instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: mime.types.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
