.TH mpd.conf 5
.SH NAME
mpd.conf \- Music Player Daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmpd.conf\fP is tha configuration file fo' mpd(1).  If not specified on the
command line, MPD first searches fo' it at \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mpd/mpd.conf\fP
then at \fB~/.mpdconf\fP then at \fB~/.mpd/mpd.conf\fP n' then in
\fB/etc/mpd.conf\fP.

Lines beginnin wit a "#" characta is comments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  All other non-empty lines
specify parametas n' they joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  These lines contain tha parameta name
and parameta value (surrounded by double quotes) separated by whitespace
(either tabs or spaces).  For example:

parameta "value"

Da exception ta dis rule is tha audio_output parameter, which iz of tha form:

audio_output {
.br
        parameter1 "value"
        parameter2 "value"
.br
}

Parametas dat take a gangbangin' file or directory as a argument should use absolute
paths.

See \fBdocs/mpdconf.example\fP up in tha source tarbizzle fo' a example
configuration file.

This manual aint complete, it lists only da most thugged-out blingin options.
Please read tha MPD user manual fo' a cold-ass lil complete configuration guide:
<\fBhttp://www.musicpd.org/doc/user/\fP>
.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS
.TP
.B db_file <file>
This specifies where tha db file is ghon be stored.
.TP
.B log_file <file>
This specifies where tha log file should be located.
Da special value "syslog" make MPD use tha local syslog daemon.
.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.TP
.B sticker_file <file>
Da location of tha sticker database.  This be a thugged-out database which
manages dynamic shiznit attached ta joints.
.TP
.B pid_file <file>
This specifies tha file ta save mpdz process ID in.
.TP
.B music_directory <directory>
This specifies tha directory where noize is located.
If you do not configure this, you can only play streams.
.TP
.B playlist_directory <directory>
This specifies tha directory where saved playlists is stored.
If you do not configure this, you cannot save playlists.
.TP
.B state_file <file>
This specifies if a state file is used n' where it is located. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da state of
mpd is ghon be saved ta dis file when mpd is terminated by a TERM signal or by
the "kill" command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When mpd is restarted, it will read tha state file and
restore tha state of mpd (includin tha playlist).
.TP
.B restore_paused <yes or no>
Put MPD tha fuck into pause mode instead of startin playback afta startup.
.TP
.B user <username>
This specifies tha user dat MPD will run as, if set.  MPD should
never run as root, n' you may use dis option ta make MPD chizzle its
user id afta initialization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Do not use dis option if you start MPD
as a unprivileged user.
.TP
.B bind_to_address <ip address or hostname or any>
This specifies which address mpd bindz ta n' listens on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Multiple
bind_to_address parametas may be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is "any", which binds
to all available addresses.

Yo ass can set a port dat is different from tha global port setting,
e.g. "localhost:6602".  IPv6 addresses must be enclosed up in square
brackets if you wanna configure a port, e.g. "[::1]:6602".

To bind ta a Unix domain socket, specify a absolute path or a path starting
with a tilde (~).  For a system-wide MPD, we suggest tha path
"\fB/var/run/mpd/socket\fP".
.TP
.B port <port>
This specifies tha port dat mpd listens on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is 6600.
.TP
.B log_level <default, secure, or verbose>
This specifies how tha fuck verbose logs are.  "default" is minimal logging, "secure"
reports from what tha fuck address a cold-ass lil connection is opened, n' when it is closed, and
"verbose" recordz excessive amountz of shiznit fo' debuggin purposes.  The
default is "default".
.TP
.B follow_outside_symlinks <yes or no>
Control if MPD will follow symbolic links pointin outside tha noize dir.
Yo ass must recreate tha database afta changin dis option.
Da default is "yes".
.TP
.B follow_inside_symlinks <yes or no>
Control if MPD will follow symbolic links pointin inside tha noize dir,
potentially addin duplicates ta tha database.
Yo ass must recreate tha database afta changin dis option.
Da default is "yes".
.TP
.B zeroconf_enabled <yes or no>
If fo'sho, n' MPD has been compiled wit support fo' Avahi or Bonjour, service
information is ghon be published wit Zeroconf.  Da default is yes.
.TP
.B zeroconf_name <name>
If Zeroconf is enabled, dis is tha steez name ta publish.  This name should
be unique ta yo' local network yo, but name collisions is ghon be properly dealt
with.  Da default is "Music Player".
.TP
.B password <password@permissions>
This specifies a password fo' access ta mpd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da format is
"password@permissions" where permissions be a cold-ass lil comma delimited list composed
of "read", "add", "control", and/or "admin".  "read" allows fo' readin of the
database, displayin tha current playlist, n' current statuz of mpd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  "add"
allows fo' addin joints n' loadin playlists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  "control" allows fo' all other
player n' playlist manipulations.  "admin" allows tha db ta be updated n' for
the client ta bust a cap up in mpd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  An example value is "somePassword@read,add".  Multiple
password parametas may be specified.
.TP
.B default_permissions <permissions>
This specifies tha permissionz of a cold-ass lil client dat has not been authenticated
usin a password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da format of permissions is specified up in tha description of
the "password" config parameter n' shit.  If no passwordz is specified, tha default is
"read,add,control,admin", otherwise it is "" (no permissions).
.TP
.B audio_output
See \fBDESCRIPTION\fP n' tha various \fBAUDIO OUTPUT PARAMETERS\fP sections
for tha format of dis parameter n' shit.  Multiple audio_output sections may be
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If no audio_output section is specified, then MPD will scan fo' a
usable audio output.
.TP
.B audio_output_format <sample_rate:bits:channels>
This specifies tha sample rate, bits per sample, n' number of channels of
audio dat is busted ta each audio output.  Note dat audio outputs may specify
their own audio format which is ghon be used fo' actual output ta tha audio
device.  An example is "44100:16:2" fo' 44100Hz, 16 bits, n' 2 channels.  The
default is ta use tha audio format of tha input file.
Any of tha three attributes may be a asterisk ta specify dat this
attribute should not be enforced
.TP
.B samplerate_converta <integer or prefix>
This specifies tha libsamplerate converta ta use.  Da supplied value should
either be a integer or a prefix of tha name of a cold-ass lil converter n' shit.  Da default is
"Fastest Sinc Interpolator".

At tha time of dis writing, tha followin convertas is available:
.RS
.TP
Best Sinc Interpolator (0)

Band limited sinc interpolation, dopest quality, 97dB SNR, 96% BW.
.TP
Medium Sinc Interpolator (1)

Band limited sinc interpolation, medium quality, 97dB SNR, 90% BW.
.TP
Fastest Sinc Interpolator (2)

Band limited sinc interpolation, fastest, 97dB SNR, 80% BW.
.TP
ZOH Interpolator (3)

Zero order hold interpolator, straight-up fast, straight-up skanky qualitizzle wit audible
distortions.
.TP
Linear Interpolator (4)

Linear interpolator, straight-up fast, skanky quality.
.TP
internal

Skanky quality, no floatin point operations.  This is tha default (and
only chizzle) if MPD was compiled without libsamplerate.
.RE
.IP
For a up-to-date list of available converters, please peep tha libsamplerate
documentation (available online at <\fBhttp://www.mega\-nerd.com/SRC/\fP>).
.TP
.B replaygain <off or mixtape or track or auto>
If specified, mpd will adjust tha volume of joints played rockin ReplayGain tags
(see <\fBhttp://www.replaygain.org/\fP>).  Settin dis ta "album" will adjust
volume rockin tha mixtapez ReplayGain tags, while settin it ta "track" will
adjust it rockin tha track ReplayGain tags.  "auto" uses tha track ReplayGain
tags if random play be activated otherwise tha mixtape ReplayGain tags. Currently
only FLAC, Ogg Vorbis, Musepack, n' MP3 (all up in ID3v2 ReplayGain tags, not
APEv2) is supported.
.TP
.B replaygain_preamp <\-15 ta 15>
This is tha bust (in dB) applied ta joints wit ReplayGain tags.
.TP
.B volume_normalization <yes or no>
If fo'sho, mpd will normalize tha volume of joints as they play.  Da default is no.
.TP
.B audio_buffer_size <size up in KiB>
This specifies tha size of tha audio buffer up in kibibytes.  Da default is 4096,
pimpin' enough fo' nearly 12 secondz of CD-qualitizzle audio.
.TP
.B buffer_before_play <0-100%>
This specifies how tha fuck much of tha audio buffer should be filled before playin a
song.  Try increasin dis if you hear skippin when manually changin joints.
Da default is 10%, a lil over 1 second of CD-qualitizzle audio wit tha default
buffer size.
.TP
.B http_proxy_host <hostname>
This settin is deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Use tha "proxy" settin up in tha "curl"
input block.  See MPD user manual fo' details.
.TP
.B connection_timeout <seconds>
If a cold-ass lil client do not bust any freshly smoked up data up in dis time period, tha connection is
closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is 60.
.TP
.B max_connections <number>
This specifies tha maximum number of clients dat can be connected ta mpd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
default is 5.
.TP
.B max_playlist_length <number>
This specifies tha maximum number of joints dat can be up in tha playlist.  The
default is 16384.
.TP
.B max_command_list_size <size up in KiB>
This specifies tha maximum size a cold-ass lil command list can be.  Da default is 2048.
.TP
.B max_output_buffer_size <size up in KiB>
This specifies tha maximum size of tha output buffer ta a cold-ass lil client.  Da default
is 8192.
.TP
.B filesystem_charset <charset>
This specifies tha characta set used fo' tha filesystem.  A list of supported
characta sets can be obtained by hustlin "iconv \-l".  Da default is
determined from tha locale when tha db was originally pimped.
.TP
.B id3v1_encodin <charset>
This specifies tha characta set which ID3v1 tags is encoded in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A list of
supported characta sets can be obtained by hustlin "iconv \-l".  Da default is
to let libid3tag convert dem (from ISO-8859-1, as tha standard specifies) and
do no additionizzle conversion.
.TP
.B gapless_mp3_playback <yes or no>
This specifies whether ta support gapless playback of MP3s which have the
necessary headers.  Useful if yo' MP3s have headaz wit incorrect
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If you have such MP3s, it is highly recommended dat you fix them
usin vbrfix (available from <http://www.willwap.co.uk/Programs/vbrfix.php>)
instead of disablin gapless MP3 playback.  Da default is ta support gapless
MP3 playback.
.TP
.B save_absolute_paths_in_playlists <yes or no>
This specifies whether relatizzle or absolute paths fo' cold lil' woo wop filenames is used
when savin playlists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da default is "no".
.TP
.B metadata_to_use <tags>
This specifies tha tag types dat is ghon be scanned fo' n' made available to
clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Note dat you must recreate (not update) yo' database fo' chizzlez to
this parameta ta take effect.  Possible joints is artist, mixtape, title,
track, name, genre, date, composer, muthafucka, comment, disc,
musicdomez_artistid, musicdomez_albumid, musicdomez_albumartistid,
musicdomez_trackid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Multiple tags may be specified as a cold-ass lil comma separated list.
An example value is "artist,album,title,track".  Da special value "none" may
be used ridin' solo ta disable all metadata.  Da default is ta use all known tag
types except fo' comments n' dem startin wit "musicdomez".
.TP
.B auto_update <yes or no>
This specifies tha whether ta support automatic update of noize database when
filez is chizzled up in music_directory. Da default is ta disable autoupdate
of database.
.TP
.B auto_update_depth <N>
Limit tha depth of tha directories bein peeped it, 0 means only watch
the noize directory itself.  There is no limit by default.
.TP
.B despotify_user <name>
This specifies tha user ta use when loggin up in ta Spotify rockin tha despotify plugins.
.TP
.B despotify_password <name>
This specifies tha password ta use when loggin up in ta Spotify rockin tha despotify plugins.
.TP
.B despotify_high_bitrate <yes or no>
This specifies if tha axed bitrate fo' Spotify should be high or not yo. Higher sounds
betta but requires mo' processin n' higher bandwidth. Default is yes.
.TP
.SH REQUIRED AUDIO OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.TP
.B type <type>
This specifies tha audio output type.  See tha list of supported outputs up in mpd
\-\-version fo' possible joints.
.TP
.B name <name>
This specifies a unique name fo' tha audio output.
.SH OPTIONAL AUDIO OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.TP
.B format <sample_rate:bits:channels>
This specifies tha sample rate, bits per sample, n' number of channels of
audio dat is busted ta tha audio output device.  See documentation fo' the
\fBaudio_output_format\fP parameta fo' mo' details.  Da default is ta use
whatever audio format is passed ta tha audio output.
Any of tha three attributes may be a asterisk ta specify dat this
attribute should not be enforced
.TP
.B replay_gain_handlez <software, mixer or none>
Specifies how tha fuck replay bust be applied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is "software",
which uses a internal software volume control.  "mixer" uses the
configured (hardware) mixer control.  "none" disablez replay bust on
this audio output.
.SH OPTIONAL ALSA OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.TP
.B thang <dev>
This specifies tha thang ta use fo' audio output.  Da default is "default".
.TP
.B mixer_type <hardware, software or none>
Specifies which mixer should be used fo' dis audio output: the
hardware mixer (available fo' ALSA, OSS n' PulseAudio), tha software
mixer or no mixer ("none").  By default, tha hardware mixer is used
for devices which support it, n' none fo' tha others.
.TP
.B mixer_device <mixer dev>
This specifies which mixer ta use.  Da default is "default".  To use
the second sound card up in a system, use "hw:1".
.TP
.B mixer_control <mixer ctrl>
This specifies which mixer control ta use (sometimes referred ta as
the "device").  Da default is "PCM".  Use "amixer scontrols" ta see
the list of possible controls.
.TP
.B mixer_index <mixer index>
A number identifyin tha index of tha named mixer control.  This is
probably only useful if yo' alsa thang has mo' than one
identically\-named mixer control.  Da default is "0".  Use "amixer
scontrols" ta peep tha list of controls wit they indexes.
.TP
.B use_mmap <yes or no>
Settin dis allows you ta use memory-mapped I/O.  Certain hardware setups may
benefit from dis yo, but most do not.  Most playas do not need ta set all dis bullshit.  The
default is ta not use memory-mapped I/O.
.TP
.B auto_resample <yes or no>
Settin dis ta "no" disablez ALSAz software resampling, if the
hardware do not support a specific sample rate.  This lets MPD do
the resampling.  "yes" is tha default n' allows ALSA ta resample.
.TP
.B auto_channels <yes or no>
Settin dis ta "no" disablez ALSAz channel conversion, if the
hardware do not support a specific number of channels.  Default: "yes".
.TP
.B auto_format <yes or no>
Settin dis ta "no" disablez ALSAz sample format conversion, if the
hardware do not support a specific sample format.  Default: "yes".
.TP
.B buffer_time <time up in microseconds>
This sets tha length of tha hardware sample buffer up in microseconds.  Increasing
it may help ta reduce or eliminizzle skippin on certain setups.  Most playas do
not need ta chizzle all dis bullshit.  Da default is 500000 microsecondz (0.5 seconds).
.TP
.B period_time <time up in microseconds>
This sets tha time between hardware sample transfers up in microseconds.
Increasin dis can reduce CPU usage while lowerin it can reduce underrun
errors on bandwidth-limited devices.  Some playas have reported phat thangs up in dis biatch
with dis set ta 50000 yo, but not all devices support joints dis high.  Most
users do not need ta chizzle all dis bullshit.  Da default is 256000000 / sample_rate(kHz),
or 5804 microsecondz fo' CD-qualitizzle audio.
.SH FILES
.TP
.BI ~/.mpdconf
User configuration file.
.TP
.BI /etc/mpd.conf
Global configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
mpd(1), mpc(1)
