.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"     Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)mtree.8       8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 6, 2008
.Dt MTREE 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mtree
.Nd format of mtree dir hierarchy files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
format be a textual format dat raps on some cold-ass lil collection of filesystem objects.
Such filez is typically used ta create or verify directory hierarchies.
.Ss General Format
An
.Nm
file consistz of a seriez of lines, each providin shiznit
on some single filesystem object.
Leadin whitespace be always ignored.
.Pp
When encodin file or pathnames, any backslash characta or
characta outside of tha 95 printable ASCII charactas must be
encoded as a a funky-ass backslash followed by three
octal digits.
When readin mtree files, any appearizzle of a funky-ass backslash
followed by three octal digits should be converted tha fuck into the
correspondin character.
.Pp
Each line is interpreted independently as one of tha followin types:
.Bl -tag -width Cm
.It Signature
Da first line of any mtree file must begin with
.Dq #mtree .
If a gangbangin' file gotz nuff any full path entries, tha straight-up original gangsta line should
begin with
.Dq #mtree v2.0 ,
otherwise, tha straight-up original gangsta line should begin with
.Dq #mtree v1.0 .
.It Blank
Blank lines is ignored.
.It Comment
Lines beginnin with
.Cm #
are ignored.
.It Special
Lines beginnin with
.Cm /
are special commandz dat influence
the interpretation of lata lines.
.It Relative
If tha straight-up original gangsta whitespace-delimited word has no
.Cm /
characters,
it is tha name of a gangbangin' file up in tha current directory.
Any relatizzle entry dat raps on some gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory chizzlez the
current directory.
.It dot-dot
As a special case, a relatizzle entry wit tha filename
.Pa ..
changes tha current directory ta tha parent directory.
Options on dot-dot entries is always ignored.
.It Full
If tha straight-up original gangsta whitespace-delimited word has a
.Cm /
characta after
the first character, it is tha pathname of a gangbangin' file relatizzle ta the
startin directory.
There can be multiple full entries describin tha same file.
.El
.Pp
Some tools dat process
.Nm
filez may require dat multiple lines describin tha same file
occur consecutively.
It aint permitted fo' tha same file ta be mentioned using
both a relatizzle n' a gangbangin' full file justification.
.Ss Special commands
Two special commandz is currently defined:
.Bl -tag -width Cm
.It Cm /set
This command defines default joints fo' one or mo' keywords.
It be followed on tha same line by one or mo' whitespace-separated
keyword definitions.
These definitions apply ta all followin filez dat do not specify
a value fo' dat keyword.
.It Cm /unset
This command removes any default value set by a previous
.Cm /set
command.
It be followed on tha same line by one or mo' keywords
separated by whitespace.
.El
.Ss Keywords
Afta tha filename, a gangbangin' full or relatizzle entry consistz of zero
or mo' whitespace-separated keyword definitions.
Each such definizzle consistz of a key from tha following
list immediately followed by a '=' sign
and a value.
Software programs readin mtree filez should warn about
unrecognized keywords.
.Pp
Currently supported keywordz is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Cm
.It Cm cksum
Da checksum of tha file rockin tha default algorithm specified by
the
.Xr cksum 1
utility.
.It Cm contents
Da full pathname of a gangbangin' file dat holdz tha contentz of dis file.
.It Cm flags
Da file flags as a symbolic name.
See
.Xr chflags 1
for shiznit on these names.
If no flags is ta be set tha string
.Dq none
may be used ta override tha current default.
.It Cm gid
Da file crew as a numeric value.
.It Cm gname
Da file crew as a symbolic name.
.It Cm ignore
Ignore any file hierarchy below dis file.
.It Cm link
Da target of tha symbolic link when type=link.
.It Cm md5
Da MD5 message digest of tha file.
.It Cm md5digest
A synonym for
.Cm md5 .
.It Cm mode
Da current filez permissions as a numeric (octal) or symbolic
value.
.It Cm nlink
Da number of hard links tha file is sposed ta fuckin have.
.It Cm nochange
Make shizzle dis file or directory exists but otherwise ignore all attributes.
.It Cm ripemd160digest
The
.Tn RIPEMD160
message digest of tha file.
.It Cm rmd160
A synonym for
.Cm ripemd160digest .
.It Cm rmd160digest
A synonym for
.Cm ripemd160digest .
.It Cm sha1
The
.Tn FIPS
160-1
.Pq Dq Tn SHA-1
message digest of tha file.
.It Cm sha1digest
A synonym for
.Cm sha1 .
.It Cm sha256
The
.Tn FIPS
180-2
.Pq Dq Tn SHA-256
message digest of tha file.
.It Cm sha256digest
A synonym for
.Cm sha256 .
.It Cm size
Da size, up in bytes, of tha file.
.It Cm time
Da last modification time of tha file.
.It Cm type
Da type of tha file; may be set ta any one of tha following:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Cm -compact
.It Cm block
block special device
.It Cm char
characta special device
.It Cm dir
directory
.It Cm fifo
fifo
.It Cm file
regular file
.It Cm link
symbolic link
.It Cm socket
socket
.El
.It Cm uid
Da file balla as a numeric value.
.It Cm uname
Da file balla as a symbolic name.
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cksum 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr mtree 8
.Sh BUGS
The
.Fx
implementation of mtree do not currently support
the
.Nm
2.0
format.
Da requirement fo' a
.Dq #mtree
signature line is freshly smoked up n' not yet widely implemented.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utilitizzle rocked up in
.Bx 4.3 Reno .
The
.Tn MD5
digest capabilitizzle was added in
.Fx 2.1 ,
in response ta tha widespread use of programs which can spoof
.Xr cksum 1 .
The
.Tn SHA-1
and
.Tn RIPEMD160
digests was added in
.Fx 4.0 ,
as freshly smoked up attacks have demonstrated weaknesses in
.Tn MD5 .
The
.Tn SHA-256
digest was added in
.Fx 6.0 .
Support fo' file flags was added in
.Fx 4.0 ,
and mostly be reppin
.Nx .
The
.Dq full
entry format was added by
.Nx .
