.\" Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009
.\" Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass may distribute and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of either of tha followin licenses:
.\"
.\" * Da GNU General Public License, as published by tha Jacked Software
.\"   Foundation, version 3 or (at yo' option) any lata version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  You
.\"   should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"   along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * Da GNU Jacked Documentation License, as published by tha Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at yo' option) any later
.\"   version, wit no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, n' no
.\"   Back-Cover Texts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Free
.\"   Documentation License along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" $Id: nanorc.5 4568 2013-01-21 03:40:08Z astyanax $
.TH NANORC 5 "version 2.0.0" "August 23, 2007"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
nanorc \- GNU nanoz rcfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents GNU \fBnano\fPz rcfile.
.PP
\fBnano\fP be a small, free n' thugged-out editor which aims ta replace
Pico, tha default editor included up in tha non-free Pine package.  Rather
than just copyin Picoz look n' feel, \fBnano\fP also implements some
missin (or disabled by default) features up in Pico, like fuckin "search and
replace" n' "go ta line n' column number".
.PP
Da \fInanorc\fP file gotz nuff tha default settings fo' \fBnano\fP.  It
should not be up in DOS or Mac format.  Durin startup, \fBnano\fP will
first read its system-wide settings from \fISYSCONFDIR/nanorc\fP, and
then user-specific settings from \fI~/.nanorc\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
Da configuration file accepts a seriez of \fBset\fP n' \fBunset\fP
commands, which can be used ta configure nano on startup without using
the command line options.  Additionally, tha \fBsyntax\fP, \fBcolor\fP,
and \fBicolor\fP keywordz is used ta define syntax highlightin rules
for different text patterns.  \fBnano\fP will read one command per line.

Options up in \fInanorc\fP filez take precedence over nanoz defaults, and
command line options override \fInanorc\fP settings.  Also, options are
unset by default, except fo' dem dat take arguments.

Quotes inside strang parametas don't gotta be escaped with
backslashes.  Da last double quote up in tha strang is ghon be treated as its
end yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  For example, fo' tha \fBbrackets\fP option, "\fI"')>]}\fP" will
match \fI"\fP, \fI'\fP, \fI)\fP, \fI>\fP, \fI]\fP, n' \fI}\fP.

Da supported commandz n' arguments are:

.TP 3
.B set/unset allow_insecure_backup
When backin up files, allow tha backup ta succeed even if its permissions
can't be (re)set cuz of special OS considerations.  Yo ass should 
NOT enable dis option unless yo ass is shizzle you need dat shit.
.TP
.B set/unset autoindent
Use auto-indentation.
.TP
.B set/unset backup
Smoke backup filez up in \fIfilename~\fP.
.TP
.B set backupdir "\fIdirectory\fP"
Set tha directory where \fBnano\fP puts unique backup filez if file
backups is enabled.
.TP
.B set/unset backwards
Do backwardz searches by default.
.TP
.B set/unset boldtext
Use bold text instead of reverse vizzle text.
.TP
.B set brackets "\fIstring\fP"
Set tha charactas treated as closin brackets when justifying
paragraphs.  They cannot contain blank characters.  Only closing
punctuation, optionally followed by closin brackets, can end sentences.
Da default value is "\fI"')>]}\fP".
.TP
.B set/unset casesensitive
Do case sensitizzle searches by default.
.TP
.B set/unset const
Constantly display tha cursor posizzle up in tha status bar.
.TP
.B set/unset cut
Use cut ta end of line by default.
.TP
.B set fill \fIn\fP
Wrap lines at column number \fIn\fP.  If \fIn\fP is 0 or less, the
maximum line length is ghon be tha screen width less \fIn\fP columns.  The
default value is \-8.
.TP
.B set/unset historylog
Enable \fI~/.nano_history\fP fo' savin n' readin search/replace
strings.
.TP
.B set/unset locking
Enable vim-style lock-filez fo' when editin files.
.TP
.B set matchbrackets "\fIstring\fP"
Set tha openin n' closin brackets dat can be found by bracket
searches.  They cannot contain blank characters.  Da forma set must
come before tha latta set, n' both must be up in tha same order n' shit.  The
default value is "\fI(<[{)>]}\fP".
.TP
.B set/unset morespace
Use tha blank line below tha titlebar as extra editin space.
.TP
.B set/unset mouse
Enable mouse support, if available fo' yo' system.  When enabled, mouse
clicks can be used ta place tha cursor, set tha mark (with a thugged-out double
click), n' execute shortcuts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da mouse will work up in tha X Window
System, n' on tha console when gpm is hustlin.
.TP
.B set/unset multibuffer
Allow insertin filez tha fuck into they own buffers.
.TP
.B set/unset noconvert
Don't convert filez from DOS/Mac format.
.TP
.B set/unset nofollow
Don't follow symlinks when freestylin files.
.TP
.B set/unset nohelp
Don't display tha help lists all up in tha bottom of tha screen.
.TP
.B set/unset nonewlines
Don't add newlines ta tha endz of files.
.TP
.B set/unset nowrap
Don't wrap text at all.
.TP
.B set operatingdir "\fIdirectory\fP"
\fBnano\fP will only read n' write filez inside \fIdirectory\fP n' its
subdirectories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Also, tha current directory is chizzled ta here, so
filez is banged from dis directory.  By default, tha operating
directory feature is turned off.
.TP
.B set/unset preserve
Preserve tha XON n' XOFF keys (^Q n' ^S).
.TP
.B set punct "\fIstring\fP"
Set tha charactas treated as closin punctuation when justifying
paragraphs.  They cannot contain blank characters.  Only closing
punctuation, optionally followed by closin brackets, can end sentences.
Da default value is "\fI!.?\fP".
.TP
.B set/unset on tha fuckin' down-low
\fBnano\fP aint gonna report errors up in tha \fInanorc\fP file n' ask them
to be bigged up by pressin enta at startup.  If dis is used it
should be placed all up in tha top of tha file ta be straight-up effective.
.TP
.B set/unset quickblank
Do quick statusbar blanking.  Statusbar lyrics will disappear afta 1
keystroke instead of 25.
.TP
.B set quotestr "\fIstring\fP"
Da email-quote string, used ta justify email-quoted paragraphs.  This
is a extended regular expression if yo' system supports them,
otherwise a literal string.  Da default value is
"\fI^([\ \\t]*[#:>\\|}])+\fP" if you have extended regular expression
support, or "\fI>\ \fP" otherwise.  Note dat '\\t' standz fo' a literal
Tab character.
.TP
.B set/unset rebinddelete
Interpret tha Delete key differently so dat both Backspace n' Delete
work properly.  Yo ass should only need ta use dis option if Backspace
acts like Delete on yo' system.
.TP
.B set/unset rebindkeypad
Interpret tha numeric keypad keys so dat they all work properly.  You
should only need ta use dis option if they don't, as mouse support
won't work properly wit dis option enabled.
.TP
.B set/unset regexp
Do extended regular expression searches by default.
.TP
.B set/unset poslog
Save tha cursor posizzle of filez between editin sessions.
.TP
.B set/unset smarthome
Make tha Home key smarter n' shit.  When Home is pressed anywhere but at the
very beginnin of non-whitespace charactas on a line, tha cursor will
jump ta dat beginnin (either forwardz or backwards).  If tha cursor is
already at dat position, it will jump ta tha legit beginnin of the
line.
.TP
.B set/unset smooth
Use smooth scrollin by default.
.TP
.B set/unset softwrap
Enable soft line wrappin fo' easier viewin of straight-up long lines.
.TP
.B set spella "\fIspellprog\fP"
Use spellin checker \fIspellprog\fP instead of tha built-in one, which
calls \fIspell\fP.
.TP
.B set/unset suspend
Allow \fBnano\fP ta be suspended.
.TP
.B set tabsize \fIn\fP
Use a tab size of \fIn\fP columns.  Da value of \fIn\fP must be pimped outer
than 0.  Da default value is 8.  
.TP
.B set/unset tabstospaces
Convert typed tabs ta spaces.
.TP
.B set/unset tempfile
Save automatically on exit, don't prompt.
.TP
.B set/unset undo
Enable experimenstrual generic-purpose undo code.
.TP
.B set/unset view
Disallow file modification.
.TP
.B set/unset softwrap
Enable soft line wrappin fo' easier viewin of straight-up long lones.
.TP
.B set whitespace "\fIstring\fP"
Set tha two charactas used ta display tha straight-up original gangsta charactaz of tabs and
spaces.  They must be single-column characters.
.TP
.B set/unset wordbounds
Detect word boundaries mo' accurately by treatin punctuation
charactas as partz of lyrics.
.TP
.B syntax "\fIstr\fP" ["\fIfileregex\fP" ... ]
Defines a syntax named \fIstr\fP which can be activated via the
\-Y/\-\-syntax command line option, or is ghon be automatically activated if
the current filename matches tha extended regular expression
\fIfileregex\fP.  All followin \fBcolor\fP n' \fBicolor\fP statements
will apply ta \fIsyntax\fP until a freshly smoked up syntax is defined.

Da \fInone\fP syntax is reserved; specifyin it on tha command line is
the same as not havin a syntax at all.  Da \fIdefault\fP syntax is
special: it takes no \fIfileregex\fP, n' applies ta filez dat don't
match any other syntaxz \fIfileregex\fP.
.TP
.B magic ["\fIregex\fP" ... ]
For tha currently defined syntax, add one or mo' regexes which 
will be compared against tha \fBmagic\fP database when attempting
to determine which highlightin rulez ta use fo' a given file. This 
functionalitizzle only works when \fBlibmagic\fP is installed on tha 
system n' is ghon be silently ignored otherwise.
.TP
.B color \fIfgcolor\fP,\fIbgcolor\fP "\fIregex\fP" ...
For tha currently defined syntax, display all expressions matching
the extended regular expression \fIregex\fP wit foreground color
\fIfgcolor\fP n' background color \fIbgcolor\fP, at least one of which
must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Legal flavas fo' foreground n' background color
are: white, black, red, blue, green, yellow, magenta, n' cyan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass may
use tha prefix "bright" ta force a stronger color highlight fo' the
foreground. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If yo' terminal supports transparency, not specifyin a
\fIbgcolor\fP  drops some lyrics ta \fBnano\fP ta attempt ta bust a transparent
background.
.TP
.B icolor \fIfgcolor\fP,\fIbgcolor\fP "\fIregex\fP" ...
Same as above, except dat tha expression matchin is case insensitive.
.TP
.B color \fIfgcolor\fP,\fIbgcolor\fP start="\fIsr\fP" end="\fIer\fP"
Display expressions which start wit tha extended regular expression
\fIsr\fP n' end wit tha extended regular expression \fIer\fP with
foreground color \fIfgcolor\fP n' background color \fIbgcolor\fP,
at least one of which must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This allows syntax
highlightin ta span multiple lines.  Note dat all subsequent instances
of \fIsr\fP afta a initial \fIsr\fP is found is ghon be highlighted until
the first instizzle of \fIer\fP.
.TP
.B icolor \fIfgcolor\fP,\fIbgcolor\fP start="\fIsr\fP" end="\fIer\fP"
Same as above, except dat tha expression matchin is case insensitive.
.TP
.B include "\fIsyntaxfile\fP"
Read up in self-contained color syntaxes from \fIsyntaxfile\fP.  Note that
\fIsyntaxfile\fP can only contain \fBsyntax\fP, \fBcolor\fP, and
\fBicolor\fP commands.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
Key bindings may be reassigned via tha followin commands:
.TP
.B bind \fIkey\fP \fIfunction\fP  \fImenu\fP
Rebindz tha key \fIkey\fP ta a freshly smoked up function named \fIfunction\fP up in the
context of menu \fImenu\fP.  Da format of  \fIkey\fP should be one of:
.TP
.B ^ 
followed by a alpha characta or tha word "Space".
Example: ^C
.TP
.B M- 
followed by a printable characta or tha word "Space".
Example: M-C
.TP
.B F 
followed by a numeric value from 1 ta 16.
Example: F10
.TP
Valid function names ta be bound include:
.TP 3
.B help
Invoke tha help menu.
.TP
.B cancel
Cancel tha current command.
.TP
.B exit
Exit from tha program.
.TP
.B writeout
Write tha current buffer ta disk.
.TP
.B justify
Justify tha current text.
.TP
.B insert
Insert a gangbangin' file tha fuck into tha current buffer (or tha fuck into a freshly smoked up buffer when multibuffer
is enabled).
.TP
.B whereis
Search fo' text up in tha current buffer.
.TP
.B searchagain
Repeat tha last search command.
.TP
.B up
Move up in tha editor or browser.
.TP
.B down
Move down up in tha editor or browser.
.TP
.B left
Move left up in tha editor or browser.
.TP
.B right
Move right up in tha editor or browser.
.TP
.B cut
Cut tha current line of text n' store dat shit.
.TP
.B uncut
Copy tha currently stored text tha fuck into tha current buffer position.
.TP
.B curpos
Show tha current line, column, word positions up in tha file.
.TP
.B firstline
Move ta tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha file.
.TP
.B lastline
Move ta tha last line of tha file.
.TP
.B gotoline
Move ta a specific line (and column if specified).
.TP
.B replace
Interactively replace text within tha current buffer.
.TP
.B mark
Begin selectin text fo' cuttin or pastin all up in tha current position.
.TP
.B copytext
Copy tha currently marked text without deletin dat shit.
.TP
.B indent
Indent tha currently marked text (shift ta tha right).
.TP
.B unindent
Un-indent tha currently marked text (shift ta tha left).
.TP
.B nextword
Move tha cursor ta tha beginnin of tha next word.
.TP
.B prevword
Move tha cursor ta tha beginnin of tha previous word.
.TP
.B home
Move tha cursor ta tha beginnin of tha current line.
.TP
.B end
Move tha cursor ta tha end of tha current line.
.TP
.B beginpara
Move tha cursor ta tha beginnin of tha current paragraph.
.TP
.B endpara
Move tha cursor ta tha end of tha current paragraph.
.TP
.B findbracket
Move tha cursor ta tha matchin bracket (brace, parenthesis, etc.) of tha one
under tha cursor.
.TP
.B scrollup
Scroll up one line of text from tha current position.
.TP
.B scrolldown
Scroll down one line of text from tha current position.
.TP
.B prevbuf
Switch ta editing/viewin tha previous buffer when rockin multibuffer mode.
.TP
.B nextbuf
Switch ta editing/viewin tha next buffer when rockin multibuffer mode.
.TP
.B verbatim
Insert tha next characta verbatim tha fuck into tha file.
.TP
.B tab
Insert a tab all up in tha current cursor location.
.TP
.B enter
Insert a freshly smoked up line below tha current one.
.TP
.B delete
Delete tha characta under tha cursor.
.TP
.B fulljustify
Justify tha entire current file.
.TP
.B wordcount
Count tha number of lyrics up in tha current buffer.
.TP
.B refresh
Refresh tha screen.
.TP
.B undo
Undo tha text action peformed (add text, delete text, etc).
.TP
.B redo
Redo tha last undone action (i.e., undo a undo).
.TP
.B suspend
Suspend tha editor (if tha suspend function is enabled, peep tha 
"suspendenable" entry below).
.TP
.B casesens
Toggle case sensitivitizzle up in searchin (search/replace menus only).
.TP
.B regexp
Toggle whether searching/replacin is based on literal strings or regular expressions.
.TP
.B prevhistory
Show tha previous history entry up in tha prompt menus (e.g. search).
.TP
.B nexthistory
Show tha next history entry up in tha prompt menus (e.g. search).
.TP
.B dontreplace
Switch back ta searchin instead of replacing.
.TP
.B gototext
Search fo' filez matchin a strang up in tha file browser (readin or freestylin files).
.TP
.B dosformat
When freestylin a gangbangin' file, switch ta freestylin a DOS format (CR/LF).
.TP
.B macformat
When freestylin a gangbangin' file, switch ta freestylin a Mac format.
.TP
.B append
When freestylin a gangbangin' file, append ta tha end instead of overwriting.
.TP
.B prepend
When freestylin a gangbangin' file, 'prepend' (write all up in tha beginning) instead of overwriting.
.TP
.B backup
When freestylin a gangbangin' file, create a funky-ass backup of tha current file. 
.TP
.B firstfile
Move ta tha straight-up original gangsta file when rockin tha file browser (readin or freestylin files).
.TP
.B lastfile
Move ta tha last file when rockin tha file browser (readin or freestylin files).
.TP
.B nohelp
Toggle showing/hidin tha two-line list of key bindings all up in tha bottom of tha screen.
.TP
.B constupdate
Constantly display tha current line, column, word positions.
.TP
.B morespace
Toggle showing/hidin tha blank line which 'separates' tha 'title' from tha file text.
.TP
.B smoothscroll
Toggle smooth scrollin when movin via tha arrow keys.
.TP
.B whitespacedisplay
Toggle whether whitespace is shown.
.TP
.B smarthome
Toggle whether tha smart-ass home key function is enabled.
.TP
.B autoindent
Toggle whether freshly smoked up lines will contain tha same amount of whitespace as tha line above.
.TP
.B cuttoend
Toggle whether cuttin text will cut tha whole line or just from tha current cursor
posizzle ta tha end of tha line.
.TP
.B nowrap
Toggle whether long lines is ghon be wrapped ta tha next line.
.TP
.B suspendenable
Toggle whether tha suspend sequence (normally ^Z) will suspend tha editor window.
.TP

Valid menu sections are:
.TP
.B main
Da main editor window where text is entered.
.TP
.B search
Da search menu (AKA whereis).
.TP
.B replace
Da 'search ta replace' menu.
.TP
.B replacewith
Da 'replace with' menu, which comes up afta 'search ta replace'.
.TP
.B gotoline
Da 'goto line (and column)' menu.
.TP
.B writeout
Da 'write file' menu.
.TP
.B insert
Da 'insert file' menu.
.TP
.B extcmd
Da menu fo' insertin output from a external comman, reached from tha bang menu.
.TP
.B help
Da help menu.
.TP
.B spell
Da interactizzle spell checker Yes/no menu.
.TP
.B browser
Da file browser fo' insertin or freestylin a gangbangin' file.
.TP
.B whereisfile
Da 'search fo' a gangbangin' file' menu up in tha file browser.
.TP
.B gotodir
Da 'go ta directory' menu.
.TP
.B all
A special name meaning: apply ta all menus where dis function exists.

.TP
.B unbind \fIkey\fP \fImenu\fP
Unbind tha key \fIkey\fP from tha menu named \fImenu\fP or from all 
menus by rockin \fIall\fP.  Same key syntax as fo' binding.
Rebindz tha key \fIkey\fP ta a freshly smoked up function named \fIfunction\fP up in the
context of menu \fImenu\fP.  Da format of  \fIkey\fP should be one of:
.SH FILES
.TP
.I SYSCONFDIR/nanorc
System-wide configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.nanorc
Per-user configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP
\fBnano\fP(1)
.PP
\fI/usr/share/doc/nano/examples/nanorc.sample\fP (or equivalent on your
system)
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Allegretta <chrisa@asty.org>, et al (see \fIAUTHORS\fP and
\fITHANKS\fP fo' details).  This manual page was originally freestyled by
Jordi Mallach <jordi@gnu.org>, fo' tha Debian system (but may be used by
others).
