.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1989, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)ftp.1	6.18 (Berkeley) 7/30/91
.\"	from: ftp.1,v 1.2 1997/06/08 20:01:35 dholland Exp
.\"     $Id: netrc.5,v 1.12 2000/07/30 23:56:59 dholland Exp $
.\"
.Dd September 23, 1997
.Dt NETRC 5
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm netrc, .netrc
.Nd user configuration fo' ftp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This file gotz nuff configuration n' autologin shiznit fo' tha 
File Transfer Protocol client 
.Xr ftp 1 .
.Pp
The
.Pa .netrc
file gotz nuff login n' initialization shiznit
used by tha auto-login process.
It resides up in tha userz home directory.
Da followin tokens is recognized; they may be separated by spaces,
tabs, or new-lines:
.Bl -tag -width password
.It Ic machine Ar name
Identify a remote machine
.Ar name .
Da auto-login process searches the
.Pa .netrc
file fo' a
.Ic machine
token dat matches tha remote machine specified on the
.Nm ftp
command line or as an
.Ic open
command argument.
Once a match is made, tha subsequent
.Pa .netrc
tokens is processed,
stoppin when tha end of file is reached or another
.Ic machine
or a
.Ic default
token is encountered.
.It Ic default
This is tha same ol' dirty as
.Ic machine
.Ar name
except that
.Ic default
matches any name.
There can be only one
.Ic default
token, n' it must be afta all
.Ic machine
tokens.
This is normally used as:
.Pp
.Dl default login anonymous password user@site
.Pp
thereby givin tha user
.Ar automatic
anonymous ftp login to
machines not specified in
.Pa .netrc .
This can be overridden
by rockin the
.Fl n
flag ta disable auto-login.
.It Ic login Ar name
Identify a user on tha remote machine.
If dis token is present, tha auto-login process will initiate
a login rockin tha specified
.Ar name .
.It Ic password Ar string
Supply a password.
If dis token is present, tha auto-login process will supply the
specified strang if tha remote server requires a password as part
of tha login process.
Note dat if dis token is present up in the
.Pa .netrc
file fo' any user other
than
.Ar anonymous  ,
.Nm ftp
will abort tha auto-login process if the
.Pa .netrc
is readable by
mah playas besides tha user.
.It Ic account Ar string
Supply a additionizzle account password.
If dis token is present, tha auto-login process will supply the
specified strang if tha remote server requires a additional
account password, or tha auto-login process will initiate an
.Dv ACCT
command if it do not.
.It Ic macdef Ar name
Define a macro.
This token functions like the
.Nm ftp
.Ic macdef
command functions.
A macro is defined wit tha specified name; its contents begin wit the
next
.Pa .netrc
line n' continue until a null line (consecutizzle new-line
characters) is encountered.
If a macro named
.Ic init
is defined, it be automatically executed as tha last step up in the
auto-login process.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr ftpd 8
