
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2008-09-04, mtk, taken from Debian downstream, wit all dem light edits
.\"
.TH NETWORKS 5 2008-09-04 "GNU/Linux" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
networks \- network name shiznit
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /etc/networks
is a plain ASCII file dat raps bout known DARPA networks n' symbolic
names fo' these networks.
Each line represents a network n' has tha followin structure:

.RS
.I name number aliases ...
.RE

where tha fieldz is delimited by spaces or tabs.
Empty lines is ignored.
Da hash characta (\fB#\fP) indicates tha start of a cold-ass lil comment:
this character, n' tha remainin charactas up to
the end of tha current line,
are ignored by library functions dat process tha file.

Da field descriptions are:
.TP
.I name
Da symbolic name fo' tha network.
Network names can contain any printable charactas execept
white-space charactas or tha comment character.
.TP
.I number
Da straight-up legit number fo' dis network up in numbers-and-dots notation (see
.BR inet (3)).
Da trailin ".0" (for tha host component of tha network address) may be omitted.
.TP
.I aliases
Optionizzle aliases fo' tha network.
.LP

This file is read by the
.BR route (8)
and
.BR netstat (8)
utilities.
Only Class A, B or C networks is supported, partitioned networks
(i.e., network/26 or network/28) is not supported by dis facility.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/networks
Da networks definizzle file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getnetbyaddr (3),
.BR getnetbyname (3),
.BR getnetent (3),
.BR netstat (8),
.BR route (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
