.\"@(#)nfsmount.conf.5"
.TH NFSMOUNT.CONF 5 "9 October 2012"
.SH NAME
nfsmount.conf - Configuration file fo' NFS mounts
.SH SYNOPSIS
Configuration file fo' NFS mounts dat allows options
to be set globally, per server or per mount point.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da configuration file is made up of multiple sections 
followed by variablez associated wit dat section.
A section is defined by a strang enclosed by 
.BR [
and 
.BR ]
branches.
Variablez is assignment statements dat assign joints 
to particular variablez rockin tha  
.BR = 
operator, as up in 
.BR Proto=Tcp .
Da variablez dat can be assigned is exactly tha set of NFS specific
mount options listed in
.BR nfs (5).
.PP
Sections is fucked up tha fuck into three basic categories:
Global options, Server options n' Mount Point options.
.HP
.B [ NFSMount_Global_Options ]
- This statically named section
defines all of tha global mount options dat can be 
applied ta every last muthafuckin NFS mount.
.HP
.B [ Server \(lqServer_Name\(rq ] 
- This section defines all tha mount options dat should 
be used on mounts ta a particular NFS server n' shit. Da 
.I \(lqServer_Name\(rq
strings need ta be surrounded by '\(lq' n' 
be a exact match of tha server name used up in tha 
.B mount
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.HP
.B [ MountPoint \(lqMount_Point\(rq ]
- This section defines all tha mount options dat 
should be used on a particular mount point.
Da 
.I \(lqMount_Point\(rq
strin need ta be surrounded by '\(lq' n' be a 
exact match of tha mount point used up in tha 
.BR mount 
command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
These is some example linez of how tha fuck sections n' variables
are defined up in tha configuration file.
.PP
[ NFSMount_Global_Options ]
.br
    Proto=Tcp
.RS
.HP
Da TCP/IPv4 protocol is ghon be used on every last muthafuckin NFS mount.
.HP
.RE
[ Server \(lqnfsserver.foo.com\(rq ]
.br
    rsize=32k
.br
    wsize=32k
.br
    proto=udp6
.HP
.RS
A 32k (32768 bytes) block size is ghon be used as tha read n' write
size on all mounts ta tha 'nfsserver.foo.com' server n' shit.  UDP/IPv6
is tha protocol ta be used.
.HP
.RE
.BR 
[ MountPoint \(lq/export/home\(rq ]
.br
    Background=True
.RS
.HP
All mounts ta tha '/export/home' export is ghon be performed in
the background (i.e. done asynchronously).
.HP
.SH FILES
.TP 10n
.I /etc/nfsmount.conf
Default NFS mount configuration file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nfs (5),
.BR mount (8),
