.TH NISPLUS_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
nisplus_table
\-
Postfix NIS+ client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" "nisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.\fB"\fR

\fBpostmap -q - "nisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.\fB"\fR <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix mail system uses optionizzle lookup tables.
These tablez is probably up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format.
Alternatively, lookup tablez can be specified as NIS+
databases.

To smoke up what tha fuck typez of lookup tablez yo' Postfix system
supports use tha "\fBpostconf -m\fR" command.

To test Postfix NIS+ lookup tables, use tha "\fBpostmap -q\fR"
command as busted lyrics bout up in tha SYNOPSIS above.
.SH "QUERY SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Most of tha NIS+ query is specified via tha NIS+ map name. The
general format of a Postfix NIS+ map name be as bigs up:

.fi
    \fBnisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.name\fB.:\fIcolumn\fR
.fi

Postfix NIS+ map names differ from what tha fuck one normally
would use wit commandz like fuckin \fBniscat\fR:
.IP \(bu
With each NIS+ table lookup, "\fB%s\fR" is replaced by a
version of tha lookup string.  There can be only one
"\fB%s\fR" instizzle up in a Postfix NIS+ map name.
.IP \(bu
Postfix NIS+ map names use "\fB;\fR" instead of "\fB,\fR",
because tha latta characta is special up in tha Postfix
main.cf file.  Postfix replaces "\fB;\fR" charactas in
the map name by "\fB,\fR" before makin NIS+ queries.
.IP \(bu
Da ":\fIcolumn\fR" part up in tha NIS+ map name aint part
of tha actual NIS+ query. Instead, it specifies tha number
of tha table column dat serves up tha lookup result. When
no ":\fIcolumn\fR" is specified tha straight-up original gangsta column (1) is used.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
A NIS+ aliases map might be queried as bigs up:

.nf
    alias_maps = dbm:/etc/mail/aliases,
        nisplus:[alias=%s];mail_aliases.org_dir.$mydomain.:1
.fi

This queries tha local aliases file before tha NIS+ file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Geoff Gibbs
UK-HGMP-RC
Hinxton
Cambridge
CB10 1SB, UK

Adopted n' adapted by:
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
