.TH NOTMUCH-HOOKS 5 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"

.SH NAME
notmuch-hooks \- hooks fo' notmuch

.SH SYNOPSIS
 $DATABASEDIR/.notmuch/hooks/*

.SH DESCRIPTION
Hooks is scripts (or arbitrary executablez or symlinks ta such) dat notmuch
invokes before n' afta certain actions. These scripts reside in
the .notmuch/hooks directory within tha database directory n' must have
executable permissions.

Da currently available hooks is busted lyrics bout below.
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B pre\-new
This hook is invoked by the
.B new
command before scannin or importin freshly smoked up lyrics tha fuck into tha database. If this
hook exits wit a non-zero status, notmuch will abort further processin of the
.B new
command.

Typically dis hook is used fo' fetchin or deliverin freshly smoked up mail ta be imported
into tha database.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B post\-new
This hook is invoked by the
.B new
command afta freshly smoked up lyrics done been imported tha fuck into tha database n' initial tags
have been applied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da hook aint gonna be run if there done been any errors during
the scan or import.

Typically dis hook is used ta big-ass up additionizzle query\-based taggin on the
imported lyrics.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
