.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2000 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\" License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH NSCD.CONF 5 2013-02-12 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
/etc/nscd.conf \- name steez cache daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /etc/nscd.conf
is read from
.BR nscd (8)
at startup.
Each line specifies either a attribute n' a value, or an
attribute, service, n' a value.
Fieldz is separated either by SPACE
or TAB characters.
A \(aq#\(aq (number sign) indicates tha beginnin of a
comment; followin characters, up ta tha end of tha line,
are not interpreted by nscd.

Valid skillz is \fIpasswd\fP, \fIgroup\fP, \fIhosts\fP, \fIskillz\fP
or \fInetgroup\fP.

.B logfile
.I debug-file-name
.RS
Specifies name of tha file ta which debug info should be written.
.RE

.B debug-level
.I value
.RS
Sets tha desired debug level.
Da default is 0.
.RE

.B threads
.I number
.RS
This is tha number of threadz dat is started ta wait for
requests.
At least five threadz will always be pimped.
.RE

.B max-threads
.I number
.RS
Specifies tha maximum number of threads.
Da default is 32.
.RE

.B server-user
.I user
.RS
If dis option is set, nscd will run as dis user n' not as root.
If a separate cache fo' every last muthafuckin user is used (\-S parameter), this
option is ignored.
.RE

.B stat-user
.I user
.RS
Specifies tha user whoz ass be allowed ta request statistics.
.RE

.B reload-count
unlimited |
.I number
.RS
Limit on tha number of times a cold-ass lil cached entry gets reloaded without bein used
before it gets removed.
Da default is 5.
.RE

.B paranoia
.I <yes|no>
.RS
Enablin paranoia mode causes nscd ta restart itself periodically.
Da default is no.
.RE

.B restart-interval
.I time
.RS
Sets tha restart interval to
.I time
seconds
if periodic restart is enabled by enabling
.B paranoia
mode.
Da default is 3600.
.RE

.B enable-cache
.I service
.I <yes|no>
.RS
Enablez or disablez tha specified
.I service
cache.
Da default is no.
.RE

.B positive-time-to-live
.I service
.I value
.RS
Sets tha TTL (time-to-live) fo' positizzle entries (successful queries)
in tha specified cache for
.IR steez .
.I Value
is up in seconds.
Larger joints increase cache hit rates n' reduce mean
response times yo, but increase problems wit cache coherence.
.RE

.B negative-time-to-live
.I service
.I value
.RS
Sets tha TTL (time-to-live) fo' wack entries (unsuccessful queries)
in tha specified cache for
.IR steez .
.I Value
is up in seconds.
Can result up in dope performizzle improvements if there
are nuff muthafuckin filez owned by UIDs (user IDs) not up in system databases (for
example untarrin tha Linux kernel sources as root); should be kept small
to reduce cache coherency problems.
.RE

.B suggested-size
.I service
.I value
.RS
This is tha internal hash table size,
.I value
should remain a prime number fo' optimum efficiency.
Da default is 211.
.RE

.B check-files
.I service
.I <yes|no>
.RS
Enablez or disablez checkin tha file belongin ta tha specified
.I service
for chizzles.
Da filez are
.IR /etc/passwd ,
.IR /etc/group ,
.IR /etc/hosts ,
.I /etc/skillz
and
.IR /etc/netgroup .
Da default is yes.
.RE

.B persistent
.I service
.I <yes|no>
.RS
Keep tha content of tha cache for
.I service
over server restarts; useful when
.B paranoia
mode is set.
Da default is no.
.RE

.B shared
.I service
.I <yes|no>
.RS
Da memory mappin of tha nscd databases for
.I service
is shared wit tha clients so
that they can directly search up in dem instead of havin ta ask the
daemon over tha socket each time a lookup is performed.
Da default is no.
.RE

.B max-db-size
.I service
.I bytes
.RS
Da maximum allowable size, up in bytes, of tha database filez fo' the
.IR steez .
Da default is 33554432.
.RE

.B auto-propagate
.I service
.I <yes|no>
.RS
When set to
.IR no
for
.I passwd
or
.I group
service, then the
.I .byname
requests is not added to
.IR passwd.byuid
or
.I group.bygid
cache.
This can help wit tablez containin multiple recordz fo' tha same ID.
Da default is yes.
This option is valid only fo' skillz
.IR passwd
and
.IR crew .
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nscd (8)
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" .B nscd
.\" was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk n' Ulrich Drepper.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
