.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Author: Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2_MISC)
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License for
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH NSS 5 2013-02-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nss \- Name Service Switch configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each call ta a gangbangin' function which retrieves data from a system database
like tha password or crew database is handled by tha Name Service
Switch implementation up in tha GNU C library.
Da various skillz
provided is implemented by independent modules, each of which
naturally varies widely from tha other.
.PP
Da default implementations comin wit tha GNU C library is by
default conservatizzle n' do not use unsafe data.
This might be straight-up costly up in some thangs, especially when tha databases
are large.
Some modulez allow tha system administrator ta request
takin shortcuts if these is known ta be safe.
It be then tha system administratorz responsibilitizzle ta ensure tha assumption
is erect.
.PP
There is other modulez where tha implementation chizzled over time.
If a implementation used ta sacrifice speed fo' memory consumption
it might create problems if tha preference is switched.
.PP
The
.I /etc/default/nss
file gotz nuff a fuckin shitload of variable assignments.
Each variable controls tha behavior of one or more
NSS modules.
White spaces is ignored.
Lines beginnin wit \(aq#\(aq
are treated as comments.
.PP
Da variablez currently recognized are:
.TP
\fBNETID_AUTHORITATIVE =\fR \fITRUE\fR|\fIFALSE\fR
If set ta TRUE, tha NIS backend fo' the
.BR initgroups (3)
function will accept tha shiznit
from the
.I netid.byname
NIS map as authoritative.
This can speed up tha function hella if the
.I group.byname
map is large.
Da content of the
.I netid.byname
map is used \fBas is\fR.
Da system administrator has ta make shizzle it is erectly generated.
.TP
\fBSERVICES_AUTHORITATIVE =\fR \fITRUE\fR|\fIFALSE\fR
If set ta TRUE, tha NIS backend fo' the
.BR getservbyname (3)
and
.BR getservbyname_r (3)
functions will assume dat the
.I skillz.byservicename
NIS map exists n' be authoritative, particularly
that it gotz nuff both keys wit /proto n' without /proto fo' both
primary steez names n' steez aliases.
Da system administrator has ta make shizzle it is erectly generated.
.TP
\fBSETENT_BATCH_READ =\fR \fITRUE\fR|\fIFALSE\fR
If set ta TRUE, tha NIS backend fo' the
.BR setpwent (3)
and
.BR setgrent (3)
functions will read tha entire database at once n' then
hand up tha requests one by one from memory wit every last muthafuckin corresponding
.BR getpwent (3)
or
.BR getgrent (3)
call respectively.
Otherwise each
.BR getpwent (3)
or
.BR getgrent (3)
call might result up in a network communication wit tha server ta get
the next entry.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/default/nss\fR
.SH EXAMPLE
Da default configuration correspondz ta tha followin configuration file:

.nf
NETID_AUTHORITATIVE=FALSE
SERVICES_AUTHORITATIVE=FALSE
SETENT_BATCH_READ=FALSE
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fInsswitch.conf\fR
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
