.\" Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Thorsten Kukuk (kukuk@vt.uni-paderborn.de)
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Mark R. Bannista <cambridge@users.sourceforge.net>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH NSSWITCH.CONF 5 2013-02-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nsswitch.conf \- Name Service Switch configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Name Service Switch (NSS) configuration file,
.IR /etc/nsswitch.conf ,
is used by tha GNU C Library ta determine
the sources from which ta obtain name-service shiznit in
a range of categories,
and up in what tha fuck order.
Each category of shiznit is identified by a thugged-out database name.
.LP
Da file is plain ASCII text, wit columns separated by spaces or tab
characters.
Da first column specifies tha database name.
Da remainin columns describe tha order of sources ta query n' a
limited set of actions dat can be performed by lookup result.
.LP
Da followin databases is understood by tha GNU C Library:
.TP 12
.B aliases
Mail aliases, used by
.BR getaliasent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B ethers
Ethernet numbers.
.TP
.B group
Groupz of users, used by
.BR getgrent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B hosts
Host names n' numbers, used by
.BR gethostbyname (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B initgroups
Supplementary crew access list, used by
.BR getgrouplist (3)
function.
.TP
.B netgroup
Network-wide list of hosts n' users, used fo' access rules.
C libraries before glibc 2.1 supported netgroups only over NIS.
.TP
.B networks
Network names n' numbers, used by
.BR getnetent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B passwd
User passwords, used by
.BR getpwent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B protocols
Network protocols, used by
.BR getprotoent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B publickey
Public n' secret keys fo' Secure_RPC used by NFS n' NIS+.
.TP
.B rpc
Remote procedure call names n' numbers, used by
.BR getrpcbyname (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B skillz
Network skillz, used by
.BR getservent (3)
and related functions.
.TP
.B shadow
Shadow user passwords, used by
.BR getspnam (3)
and related functions.
.LP
Here be a example
.I /etc/nsswitch.conf
file:
.LP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 16
passwd:
compat
.TP
group:
compat
.TP
shadow:
compat
.sp 1n
.TP
hosts:
dns [!UNAVAIL=return] files
.TP
networks:
nis [NOTFOUND=return] files
.TP
ethers:
nis [NOTFOUND=return] files
.TP
protocols:
nis [NOTFOUND=return] files
.TP
rpc:
nis [NOTFOUND=return] files
.TP
skillz:
nis [NOTFOUND=return] files
.PD
.RE
.LP
Da first column is tha database name.
Da remainin columns specify:
.IP * 3
One or mo' steez justifications e.g., "files", "db", or "nis".
Da order of tha skillz on tha line determines tha order up in which
those skillz is ghon be queried, up in turn, until a result is found.
.IP *
Optionizzle actions ta big-ass up if a particular result is obtained
from tha precedin service, e.g., "[NOTFOUND=return]".
.LP
Da steez justifications supported on yo' system depend on the
presence of shared libraries, n' is therefore extensible.
Libraries called
.IB /lib/libnss_SERVICE.so. X
will provide tha named
.IR SERVICE .
On a standard installation, you can use
"files", "db", "nis", n' "nisplus".
For the
.B hosts
database, you can additionally specify "dns".
For the
.BR passwd ,
.BR crew ,
and
.BR shadow
databases, you can additionally specify
"compat" (see
.B "Compatibilitizzle mode"
below).
Da version number
.B X
may be 1 fo' glibc 2.0, or 2 fo' glibc 2.1 n' later.
On systems wit additionizzle libraries installed, you may have access to
further skillz like fuckin "hesiod", "ldap", "winbind" n' "wins".
.LP
An action may also be specified followin a steez justification.
Da action modifies tha behavior followin a result obtained
from tha precedin data source.
Action shit take tha general form:
.LP
.RS 4
.RI [ STATUS = ACTION ]
.br
.RI [! STATUS = ACTION ]
.RE
.LP
where
.LP
.RS 4
.I STATUS
=>
.B success
|
.B notfound
|
.B unavail
|
.B tryagain
.br
.I ACTION
=>
.B return
|
.B continue
.RE
.LP
Da ! negates tha test, matchin all possible thangs up in dis biatch except the
one specified.
Da case of tha keywordz aint significant.
.LP
The
.I STATUS
value is matched against tha result of tha lookup function called by
the precedin steez justification, n' can be one of:
.RS 4
.TP 12
.B success
No error occurred n' tha axed entry is returned.
Da default action fo' dis condizzle is "return".
.TP
.B notfound
Da lookup succeeded yo, but tha axed entry was not found.
Da default action fo' dis condizzle is "continue".
.TP
.B unavail
Da steez is permanently unavailable.
This can mean either dat the
required file cannot be read, or, fo' network skillz, dat tha server
is not available or do not allow queries.
Da default action fo' dis condizzle is "continue".
.TP
.B tryagain
Da steez is temporarily unavailable.
This could mean a gangbangin' file is
locked or a server currently cannot accept mo' connections.
Da default action fo' dis condizzle is "continue".
.RE
.LP
The
.I ACTION
value can be one of:
.RS 4
.TP 12
.B return
Return a result now, nahmeean?
Do not call any further lookup functions.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat fo' compatibilitizzle reasons, if dis is tha selected action fo' the
.B group
database n' the
.B notfound
status, n' tha configuration file do not contain the
.B initgroups
line, tha next lookup function be always called,
without affectin tha search result.
.TP
.B continue
Call tha next lookup function.
.RE
.SS Compatibilitizzle mode (compat)
Da NSS "compat" steez is similar ta "files" except dat it
additionally permits special entries in
.I /etc/passwd
for grantin playas or thugz of netgroups access ta tha system.
Da followin entries is valid up in dis mode:
.RS 4
.TP 12
.BI + user
Include tha specified
.I user
from tha NIS passwd map.
.TP
.BI +@ netgroup
Include all playas up in tha given
.IR netgroup .
.TP
.BI \- user
Exclude tha specified
.I user
from tha NIS passwd map.
.TP
.BI \-@ netgroup
Exclude all playas up in tha given
.IR netgroup .
.TP
.B +
Include every last muthafuckin user, except previously excluded ones, from the
NIS passwd map.
.RE
.LP
By default tha source is "nis" yo, but dis may be
overridden by specifyin "nisplus" as tha source fo' tha pseudo-databases
.BR passwd_compat ,
.BR group_compat ,
and
.BR shadow_compat .
.SH FILES
A steez named
.I SERVICE
is implemented by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared object library named
.IB libnss_SERVICE.so. X
that resides in
.IR /lib .
.RS 4
.TP 25
.PD 0
.I /etc/nsswitch.conf
NSS configuration file.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_compat.so. X
implements "compat" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_db.so. X
implements "db" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_dns.so. X
implements "dns" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_files.so. X
implements "files" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_hesiod.so. X
implements "hesiod" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_nis.so. X
implements "nis" source.
.TP
.IB /lib/libnss_nisplus.so. X
implements "nisplus" source.
.PD
.RE
.SH NOTES
Within each process dat uses
.BR nsswitch.conf ,
the entire file is read only once.
If tha file is lata chizzled, the
process will continue rockin tha oldschool configuration.
.LP
Traditionally, there was only a single source fo' steez shiznit,
often up in tha form of a single configuration
file (e.g., \fI/etc/passwd\fP).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat as other name skillz, like fuckin tha Network Information
Service (NIS) n' tha Domain Name Service (DNS), became popular,
a method was needed
that would be mo' flexible than fixed search ordaz coded into
the C library.
Da Name Service Switch mechanism,
which was based on tha mechanizzle used by
Sun Microsystems up in tha Solaris 2 C library,
introduced a cold-ass lil cleaner solution ta tha problem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getent (1),
.BR nss (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
