.TH ntp.conf 5
.SH NAME
ntp.conf - Server Options
.SH \ 

Peepin be a thugged-out description of tha configuration commandz up in NTPv4. There is two classez of commands, configuration commandz dat configure a association wit a remote server, peer or reference clock, n' auxilliary commandz dat specify environmenstrual variablez dat control various related operations. 

Da various modes busted lyrics bout on tha Association Management page is determined by tha command keyword n' tha DNS name or IP address fo' realz. Addresses is classed by type as (s) a remote server or peer (IPv4 class A, B n' C), (b) tha IP broadcast address of a local intercourse, (m) a multicast address (IPv4 class D), or (r) a reference clock address (127.127.x.x). For type m addresses tha IANA has assigned tha multicast crew address IPv4 224.0.1.1 n' IPv6 ff05::101 (site local) exclusively ta NTP yo, but other nonconflictin addresses can be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

If tha Basic Socket Interface Extensions fo' IPv6 (RFC-2553) is detected, support fo' tha IPv6 address crew is generated up in addizzle ta tha default IPv4 address crew. IPv6 addresses can be identified by tha presence of colons ":" up in tha address field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! IPv6 addresses can be used almost everywhere where IPv4 addresses can be used, wit tha exception of reference clock addresses, which is always IPv4. Note dat up in contexts where a host name is expected, a \fB-4\fR qualifier precedin tha host name forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv4 namespace, while a \fB-6\fR qualifier forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv6 namespace.

.SH CONFIGURATION COMMANDS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBserver \fIaddress\fB [options ...]\fR
.TP 8
\fBpeer \fIaddress\fB [options ...]\fR
.TP 8
\fBbroadcast \fIaddress\fB [options ...]\fR
.TP 8
\fBmanycastclient \fIaddress\fB [options ...]\fR
.TP 8
\fBpool \fIaddress\fB [options ...]\fR
.TP 8
\fBunpeer [\fIaddress\fB | \fIassocid\fB]\fR
These commandz specify tha time server name or address ta be used n' tha mode up in which ta operate. Da \fIaddress\fR can be either a DNS name or a IPv4 or IPv6 address up in standard notation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In general, multiple commandz of each type can be used fo' different server n' peer addresses or multicast groups. 
.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBserver\fR
For type s n' r addresses (only), dis command mobilizes a persistent client mode association wit tha specified remote server or local reference clock. If tha \fBpreempt\fR flag is specified, a preemptable client mode association is mobilized instead.
.TP 8
\fBpeer\fR
For type s addresses (only), dis command mobilizes a persistent symmetric-actizzle mode association wit tha specified remote peer.
.TP 8
\fBbroadcast\fR
For type b n' m addressees (only), dis command mobilizes a persistent broadcast or multicast server mode association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Note dat type b lyrics go only ta tha intercourse specified yo, but type m lyrics git all up in all intercourses.
.TP 8
\fBmanycastclient\fR
For type m addresses (only), dis command mobilizes a manycast client mode association fo' tha multicast crew address specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In dis mode tha address must match tha address specified on tha \fBmanycastserver\fR command of one or mo' designated manycast servers.
.TP 8
\fBpool\fR
For type s lyrics (only) dis command mobilizes a cold-ass lil client mode association fo' servers implementin tha pool automatic server discovery scheme busted lyrics bout on tha Association Management page. Da address be a DNS name up in tha form \fB\fIarea\fB\[char46]pool.ntp.org\fR, where \fB\fIarea\fB\fR be a qualifier designatin tha server geographic area like fuckin \fBus\fR or \fBeurope\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBunpeer\fR
This command removes a previously configured association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An address or association ID can be used ta identify tha association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Either a IP address or DNS name can be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This command is most useful when supplied via \fBntpq\fR runtime configuration commandz \fB:config\fR n' \fBconfig-from-file\fR\[char46]
.RE

.RE

.SH COMMAND OPTIONS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBautokey\fR
Send n' receive packets authenticated by tha Autokey scheme busted lyrics bout up in tha Authentication Options page. This option is mutually exclusive wit tha \fBkey\fR option.
.TP 8
\fBburst\fR
When tha server is reachable, bust a funky-ass burst of eight packets instead of tha usual one. Da packet spacin is normally 2 s; however, tha spacin between tha straight-up original gangsta n' second packets can be chizzled wit tha \fBcalldelay\fR command ta allow additionizzle time fo' a modem or ISDN call ta complete. This option is valid only wit tha \fBserver\fR command n' type s addressesa. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a recommended option when tha \fBmaxpoll\fR option is pimped outa than 10 (1024 s).
.TP 8
\fBiburst\fR
When tha server is unreachable, bust a funky-ass burst of eight packets instead of tha usual one. Da packet spacin is normally 2 s; however, tha spacin between tha straight-up original gangsta n' second packets can be chizzled wit tha \fBcalldelay\fR command ta allow additionizzle time fo' a modem or ISDN call ta complete. This option is valid only wit tha \fBserver\fR command n' type s addresses. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a recommended option wit dis command.
.TP 8
\fBkey\fR \fI\fBkey\fI\fR
Send n' receive packets authenticated by tha symmetric key scheme busted lyrics bout up in tha Authentication Options page. Da \fI\fBkey\fI\fR specifies tha key identifier wit joints from 1 ta 65534, inclusive. This option is mutually exclusive wit tha \fBautokey\fR option.
.TP 8
\fBminpoll \fIminpoll
.TP 8
\fB\fR\fBmaxpoll \fImaxpoll\fB\fR
These options specify tha minimum n' maximum poll intervals fo' NTP lyrics, up in secondz as a juice of two. Da maximum poll interval defaults ta 10 (1024 s) yo, but can be increased by tha \fBmaxpoll\fR option ta a upper limit of 17 (36 h). Da minimum poll interval defaults ta 6 (64 s) yo, but can be decreased by tha \fBminpoll\fR option ta a lower limit of 3 (8 s).
.TP 8
\fBmode \fIoption\fB\fR
Pass tha \fB\fIoption\fB\fR ta a reference clock driver, where \fB\fIoption\fB\fR be a integer up in tha range from 0 ta 255, inclusive. This option is valid only wit type r addresses.
.TP 8
\fBnoselect\fR
Marks tha server or peer ta be ignored by tha selection algorithm but visible ta tha monitorin program. This option is ignored wit tha \fBbroadcast\fR command.
.TP 8
\fBpreempt\fR
Specifies tha association as preemptable rather than tha default persistent. This option is ignored wit tha \fBbroadcast\fR command n' is most useful wit tha \fBmanycastclient\fR n' \fBpool\fR commands.
.TP 8
\fBprefer\fR
Mark tha server as preferred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! All other thangs bein equal, dis host is ghon be chosen fo' synchronization among a set of erectly operatin hosts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Mitigation Rulez n' tha \fBprefer\fR Keyword page fo' further shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is valid only wit tha \fBserver\fR n' \fBpeer\fR commands.
.TP 8
\fBtrue\fR
Mark tha association ta assume truechimer status; dat is, always survive tha selection n' clusterin algorithms. This option can be used wit any association yo, but is most useful fo' reference clocks wit big-ass jitta on tha serial port n' precision pulse-per-second (PPS) signals. Caution: dis option defeats tha algorithms designed ta cast up falsetickers n' can allow these sources ta set tha system clock. This option is valid only wit tha \fBserver\fR n' \fBpeer\fR commands.
.TP 8
\fBttl \fIttl\fB\fR
This option specifies tha time-to-live \fI\fBttl\fI\fR fo' tha \fBbroadcast\fR command n' tha maximum \fI\fBttl\fI\fR fo' tha expandin rang search used by tha \fBmanycastclient\fR command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Selection of tha proper value, which defaults ta 127, is suttin' of a funky-ass black art n' should be coordinated wit tha network administrator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This option is invalid wit type r addresses.
.TP 8
\fBversion \fIversion\fB\fR
Specifies tha version number ta be used f or outgoin NTP packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Versions 1-4 is tha chizzles, wit version 4 tha default.
.TP 8
\fBxleave\fR
Operate up in interleaved mode (symmetric n' broadcast modes only). (see NTP Interleaved Modes) 
.RE

.SH AUXILLIARY COMMANDS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBbroadcastclient\fR
Enable reception of broadcast server lyrics ta any local intercourse (type b address). Ordinarily, upon receivin a funky-ass broadcast message fo' tha last time, tha broadcast client measures tha nominal server propagation delay rockin a funky-ass brief client/server exchange, afta which it continues up in listen-only mode. If a nonzero value is specified up in tha \fBbroadcastdelay\fR command, tha value becomes tha delay n' tha volley aint executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Note: tha \fBnovolley\fR option has been deprecated fo' future enhancements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Note that, up in order ta avoid accidental or malicious disruption up in dis mode, both tha server n' client should operate rockin symmetric key or hood key authentication as busted lyrics bout up in tha Authentication Options page. Note dat tha \fBnovolley\fR keyword is incompatible wit hood key authentication.
.TP 8
\fBmanycastserver \fIaddress\fB [...]\fR
Enable reception of manycast client lyrics (type m)to tha multicast crew address(es) (type m) specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! At least one address is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note that, up in order ta avoid accidental or malicious disruption, both tha server n' client should operate rockin symmetric key or hood key authentication as busted lyrics bout up in tha Authentication Options page.
.TP 8
\fBmulticastclient \fIaddress\fB [...]\fR
Enable reception of multicast server lyrics ta tha multicast crew address(es) (type m) specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Upon receivin a message fo' tha last time, tha multicast client measures tha nominal server propagation delay rockin a funky-ass brief client/server exchange wit tha server, then entas tha broadcast client mode, up in which it synchronizes ta succeedin multicast lyrics. Note that, up in order ta avoid accidental or malicious disruption up in dis mode, both tha server n' client should operate rockin symmetric key or hood key authentication as busted lyrics bout up in tha Authentication Options page. 
.RE

.SH BUGS

Da syntax checkin aint picky; some combinationz of wack n' even hilarious options n' modes may not be detected.

.SH SEE ALSO

ntpd(8), ntp_auth(5), ntp_mon(5), ntp_acc(5), ntp_clock(5), ntp_misc(5)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

