.TH ntp_misc 5
.SH NAME
ntp_misc - Miscellaneous Options
.SH \ 

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBbroadcastdelay \fIseconds\fB\fR
Da broadcast n' multicast modes require a special calibration ta determine tha network delay between tha local n' remote servers. Ordinarily, dis is done automatically by tha initial protocol exchanges between tha client n' server n' shit. In some cases, tha calibration procedure may fail cuz of network or server access controls, fo' example. This command specifies tha default delay ta be used under these circumstances. Typically (for Ethernet), a number between 0.003 n' 0.007 secondz be appropriate.
.TP 8
\fBdriftfile \fIdriftfile\fB { \fItolerance\fB ]\fR
This command specifies tha complete path n' name of tha file used ta record tha frequency of tha local clock oscillator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fB-f\fR command linke option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha file exists, it is read at startup up in order ta set tha initial frequency n' then updated once per minute or mo' wit tha current frequency computed by tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha file name is specified yo, but tha file itself do not exist, tha starts wit a initial frequency of zero n' creates tha file when freestylin it fo' tha last time. If dis command aint given, tha daemon will always start wit a initial frequency of zero.
Da file format consistz of a single line containin a single floatin point number, which recordz tha frequency offset measured up in parts-per-mazillion (PPM). Da file is updated by first freestylin tha current drift value tha fuck into a temporary file n' then renamin dis file ta replace tha oldschool version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This implies dat \fBntpd\fR must have write permission fo' tha directory tha drift file is located in, n' dat file system links, symbolic or otherwise, should be avoided.
Da parameta \fBtolerance\fR is tha wander threshold ta skip freestylin tha freshly smoked up value. If tha value of wander computed from recent frequency chizzlez is pimped outa than dis threshold tha file is ghon be updated once per hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If below tha threshold, tha file aint gonna be written.
.TP 8
\fBenable [ auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | monitor | ntp | pps | stats]\fR
.TP 8
\fBdisable [ auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | monitor | ntp | pps | stats ]\fR
Provides a way ta enable or disable various system options. Flags not mentioned is unaffected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Note dat all of these flags can be controlled remotely rockin tha \fBntpdc\fR utilitizzle program. 
.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBauth\fR
Enablez tha server ta synchronize wit unconfigured peers only if tha peer has been erectly authenticated rockin either hood key or private key cryptography. Da default fo' dis flag is enable.
.TP 8
\fBbclient\fR
Enablez tha server ta listen fo' a message from a funky-ass broadcast or multicast server, as up in tha \fBmulticastclient\fR command wit default address. Da default fo' dis flag is disable.
.TP 8
\fBcalibrate\fR
Enablez tha calibrate feature fo' reference clocks. Da default fo' dis flag is disable.
.TP 8
\fBkernel\fR
Enablez tha kernel time discipline, if available. Da default fo' dis flag is enable if support be available, otherwise disable.
.TP 8
\fBmonitor\fR
Enablez tha monitorin facility. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBntpdc\fR program n' tha \fBmonlist\fR command or further shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default fo' dis flag is enable.
.TP 8
\fBntp\fR
Enablez time n' frequency discipline. In effect, dis switch opens n' closes tha feedback loop, which is useful fo' testing. Da default fo' dis flag is enable.
.TP 8
\fBstats\fR
Enablez tha statistics facility. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Monitorin Options page fo' further shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default fo' dis flag is disable.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBincludefile \fIincludefile\fB\fR
This command allows additionizzle configuration commandz ta be included from a separate file. Include filez may be nested ta a thugged-out depth of five; upon reachin tha end of any include file, command processin resumes up in tha previous configuration file. This option is useful fo' cribs dat run \fBntpd\fR on multiple hosts, wit (mostly) common options (e.g., a restriction list).
.TP 8
\fBinterface [listen | ignore | drop] [all | ipv4 | ipv6 | wildcard | \fIname\fB | \fIaddress\fB[/\fIprefixlen\fB]]\fR
This command controls which network addresses \fBntpd\fR opens, n' whether input is dropped without processing. Da first parameta determines tha action fo' addresses which match tha second parameter n' shit. That parameta specifies a cold-ass lil class of addresses, or a specific intercourse name, or a address. In tha address case, \fB\fIprefixlen\fB\fR determines how tha fuck nuff bits must match fo' dis rule ta apply. \fBignore\fR prevents openin matchin addresses, \fBdrop\fR causes \fBntpd\fR ta open tha address n' drop all received packets without examination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Multiple \fBinterface\fR commandz can be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da last rule which matches a particular address determines tha action fo' dat shit. \fBinterface\fR commandz is disabled if any \fB-I\fR, \fB--interface\fR, \fB-L\fR, or \fB--novirtualips\fR command-line options is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If none of dem options is used n' no \fBinterface\fR actions is specified up in tha configuration file, all available network addresses is opened. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fBnic\fR command be a alias fo' \fBinterface\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBleapfile \fIleapfile\fB\fR
This command loadz tha NIST leapsecondz file n' initializes tha leapsecond joints fo' tha next leapsecond time, expiration time n' TAI offset. Da file can be obtained directly from NIST nationistic time servers rockin \fBftp\fR as tha ASCII file \fBpub/leap-seconds\fR\[char46]
While not strictly a securitizzle function, tha Autokey protocol serves up means ta securely retrieve tha current or updated leapsecond joints from a server.
.TP 8
\fBlogconfig \fIconfigkeyword\fB\fR
This command controls tha amount n' type of output freestyled ta tha system \fBsyslog\fR facilitizzle or tha alternate \fBlogfile\fR log file fo' realz. All \fI\fBconfigkeyword\fI\fR keywordz can be prefixed wit \fB=\fR, \fB+\fR n' \fB-\fR, where \fB=\fR sets tha \fBsyslogmask\fR, \fB+\fR addz n' \fB-\fR removes lyrics. \fBsyslog lyrics\fR can be controlled up in four classes (\fBclock\fR, \fBpeer\fR, \fBsys\fR n' \fBsync\fR). Within these classes four typez of lyrics can be controlled: shiznital lyrics (\fBinfo\fR), event lyrics (\fBevents\fR), statistics lyrics (\fBstatistics\fR) n' status lyrics (\fBstatus\fR).
Configuration keywordz is formed by concatenatin tha message class wit tha event class. Da \fBall\fR prefix can be used instead of a message class fo' realz. A message class may also be followed by tha \fBall\fR keyword ta enable/disable all lyrics of tha respectizzle message class. By default, \fBlogconfig\fR output is set ta \fBallsync\fR\[char46]
Thus, a minimal log configuration could be lookin like this:
\fBlogconfig=syncstatus +sysevents\fR
This would just list tha synchronizations state of \fBntpd\fR n' tha major system events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For a simple reference server, tha followin minimum message configuration could be useful:
\fBlogconfig allsync +allclock\fR
This configuration will list all clock shiznit n' synchronization shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All other events n' lyrics bout peers, system events n' so on is suppressed.
.TP 8
\fBlogfile \fIlogfile\fB\fR
This command specifies tha location of a alternate log file ta be used instead of tha default system \fBsyslog\fR facility. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fB-l \fRcommand line option.
.TP 8
\fBphone \fIdial\fB1 \fIdial\fB2 ...\fR
This command is used up in conjunction wit tha ACTS modem driver (type 18). Da arguments consist of a maximum of 10 telephone numbers used ta dial USNO, NIST or European time skillz. Da Hayes command ATDT is normally prepended ta tha number, which can contain other modem control codes as well.
.TP 8
\fBsaveconfigdir \fIdirectory_path\fB\fR
Specify tha directory up in which ta write configuration snapshots axed wit \fBntpq\fRz saveconfig command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fBsaveconfigdir\fR do not step tha fuck up in tha configuration file, saveconfig requests is rejected by ntpd.
.TP 8
\fBsetvar \fIvariable\fB [default]\fR
This command addz a additionizzle system variable. These variablez can be used ta distribute additionizzle shiznit like fuckin tha access policy. If tha variable of tha form \fB\fIname\fB = \fIvalue\fB\fR is followed by tha \fBdefault\fR keyword, tha variable is ghon be listed as part of tha default system variablez (\fBntpq rv\fR command). These additionizzle variablez serve shiznital purposes only. They is not related ta tha protocol other dat they can be listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da known protocol variablez will always override any variablez defined via tha \fBsetvar\fR mechanism. There is three special variablez dat contain tha namez of all variable of tha same group. Da \fBsys_var_list\fR holdz tha namez of all system variables. Da \fBpeer_var_list\fR holdz tha namez of all peer variablez n' tha \fBclock_var_list\fR holdz tha namez of tha reference clock variables.
.TP 8
\fBtinker [ allan \fIallan\fB | dispersion \fIdispersion\fB | freq \fIfreq\fB | huffpuff \fIhuffpuff\fB | panic \fIpanic\fB | step \fIstep\fB | stepout \fIstepout\fB ]\fR
This command altas certain system variablez used by tha clock discipline algorithm. Da default jointz of these variablez done been carefully optimized fo' a wide range of network speedz n' reliabilitizzle expectations. Straight-up rarely is it necessary ta chizzle tha default joints; but, some folks can't resist twistin tha knobs. Da options is as bigs up:

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBallan \fIallan\fB\fR
Spedifies tha Allan intercept, which be a parameta of tha PLL/FLL clock discipline algorithm, up in secondz wit default 1500 s.
.TP 8
\fBdispersion \fIdispersion\fB\fR
Specifies tha dispersion increase rate up in parts-per-mazillion (PPM) wit default 15 PPM.
.TP 8
\fBfreq \fIfreq\fB\fR
Spedifies tha frequency offset up in parts-per-mazillion (PPM) wit default tha value up in tha frequency file.
.TP 8
\fBhuffpuff \fIhuffpuff\fB\fR
Spedifies tha huff-n'-puff filta span, which determines da most thugged-out recent interval tha algorithm will search fo' a minimum delay. Da lower limit is 900 s (15 m) yo, but a mo' reasonable value is 7200 (2 hours).
.TP 8
\fBpanic \fIpanic\fB\fR
Spedifies tha panic threshold up in secondz wit default 1000 s. If set ta zero, tha panic sanitizzle check is disabled n' a cold-ass lil clock offset of any value is ghon be accepted.
.TP 8
\fBstep \fIstep\fB\fR
Spedifies tha step threshold up in seconds. Da default without dis command is 0.128 s. If set ta zero, step adjustments aint NEVER gonna occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Note: Da kernel time discipline is disabled if tha step threshold is set ta zero or pimped outa than 0.5 s.
.TP 8
\fBstepout \fIstepout\fB\fR
Specifies tha stepout threshold up in seconds. Da default without dis command is 900 s. If set ta zero, popcorn spikes aint gonna be suppressed.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBtos [ beacon \fIbeacon\fB | ceilin \fIceiling\fB | cohort {0 | 1} | floor \fIfloor\fB | maxclock \fImaxclock \fB| maxdist \fImaxdist\fB | minclock \fIminclock\fB | mindist \fImindist \fB| minsane \fIminsane\fB | orphan \fIstratum\fB ]\fR
This command altas certain system variablez used by tha the clock selection n' clusterin algorithms. Da default jointz of these variablez done been carefully optimized fo' a wide range of network speedz n' reliabilitizzle expectations. Straight-up rarely is it necessary ta chizzle tha default joints; but, some folks can't resist twistin tha knobs. Well shiiiit, it can be used ta select tha qualitizzle n' quantitizzle of peers used ta synchronize tha system clock n' is most useful up in dynamic server discovery schemes. Da options is as bigs up:

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBbeacon \fIbeacon\fB\fR
Da manycast server sendz packets at intervalz of 64 s if less than \fBmaxclock\fR servers is available. Otherwise, it sendz packets all up in tha \fI\fBbeacon\fI\fR interval up in seconds. Da default is 3600 s. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Automatic Server Discovery page fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBceilin \fIceiling\fB\fR
Specify tha maximum stratum (exclusive) fo' aaight server packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is 16. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Automatic Server Discovery page fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBcohort { 0 | 1 }\fR
Specify whether (1) or whether not (0) a server packet is ghon be accepted fo' tha same stratum as tha client. Da default is 0. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Automatic Server Discovery page fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBfloor \fIfloor\fB\fR
Specify tha minimum stratum (inclusive) fo' aaight server packest. Da default is 1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Automatic Server Discovery page fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBmaxclock \fImaxclock\fB\fR
Specify tha maximum number of servers retained by tha server discovery schemes. Da default is 10. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Automatic Server Discovery page fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBmaxdist \fImaxdistance\fB\fR
Specify tha synchronization distizzle threshold used by tha clock selection algorithm. Da default is 1.5 s. This determines both tha minimum number of packets ta set tha system clock n' tha maximum roundtrip delay. Well shiiiit, it can be decreased ta improve reliabilitizzle or increased ta synchronize clocks on tha Moon or hoods.
.TP 8
\fBminclock \fIminclock\fB\fR
Specify tha number of servers used by tha clusterin algorithm as tha minimum ta include on tha muthafucka list. Da default is 3. This be also tha number of servers ta be averaged by tha combinin algorithm.
.TP 8
\fBmindist \fImindistance\fB\fR
Specify tha minimum distizzle used by tha selection n' anticlockhop algorithm. Larger joints increase tha tolerizzle fo' outliers; smalla joints increase tha selectivity. Da default is .001 s. In some cases, like fuckin reference clocks wit high jitta n' a PPS signal, it is useful ta increase tha value ta insure tha intersection interval be always nonempty.
.TP 8
\fBminsane \fIminsane\fB\fR
Specify tha number of servers used by tha selection algorithm as tha minimum ta set tha system clock. Da default is 1 fo' legacy purposes; however, fo' critical applications tha value should be somewhat higher but less than \fBminclock\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBorphan \fIstratum\fB\fR
Specify tha orphan stratum wit default 16. If less than 16 dis is tha stratum assumed by tha root servers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Association Management page fo' further details.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBtrap \fIhost_address\fB [port \fIport_number\fB] [interface \fIinterfSace_address\fB]\fR
This command configures a trap receiver all up in tha given host address n' port number fo' bustin  lyrics wit tha specified local intercourse address. If tha port number is unspecified, a value of 18447 is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha intercourse address aint specified, tha message is busted wit a source address of tha local intercourse tha message is busted all up in cause I gots dem finger-lickin' chickens wit tha siz-auce. Note dat on a multihomed host tha intercourse used may vary from time ta time wit routin chizzles.
Da trap receiver will generally log event lyrics n' other shiznit from tha server up in a log file. While such monitor programs may also request they own trap dynamically, configurin a trap receiver will ensure dat no lyrics is lost when tha server is started.
.TP 8
\fBttl \fIhop\fB ...\fR
This command specifies a list of TTL joints up in increasin order n' shit. up ta 8 joints can be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In manycast mode these joints is used up in turn up in a expanding-rin search. Da default is eight multiplez of 32 startin at 31.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

ntp.conf(5)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

