.TH ntp_mon 5
.SH NAME
ntp_mon - Monitorin Options
.SH \ 

.SH INTRODUCTION

Da \fBntpd\fR includes a cold-ass lil comprehensive monitorin facilitizzle which collects statistical data of various types n' writes tha data ta filez associated wit each type at defined events or intervals. Da filez associated wit a particular type is collectively called tha generation file set fo' dat type. Da filez up in tha file set is tha thugz of dat set.

File sets have names specific ta tha type n' generation epoch. Da names is constructed from three concatenated elements \fI\fBprefix\fI\fR, \fI\fBfilename\fI\fR n' \fI\fBsuffix\fI\fR:

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fI\fBprefix\fI\fR
Da directory path specified up in tha \fBstatsdir\fR command.
.TP 8
\fI\fBname\fI\fR
Da name specified by tha \fBfile\fR option of tha \fBfilegen\fR command.
.TP 8
\fI\fBsuffix\fI\fR
A strang of elements bdginnin wit . (dot) followed by a fuckin shitload of elements dependin on tha file set type. 
.RE

Statistics filez can be managed rockin scripts, examplez of which is up in tha \fB\[char46]/scripts\fR directory. Usin these or similar scripts n' Unix \fBcron\fR thangs, tha filez can be automatically summarized n' archived fo' retrospectizzle analysis.

.SH MONITORING COMMANDS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBfilegen \fIname\fB file \fIfilename\fB [type \fItype\fB] [link | nolink] [enable | disable]\fR

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fI\fBname\fI\fR
Specifies tha file set type from tha list up in tha next section.
.TP 8
\fBfile \fIfilename\fB\fR
Specfies tha file set name.
.TP 8
\fBtype \fItypename\fB\fR
Specifies tha file set interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Da followin intervals is supported wit default \fBday\fR:

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBnone\fR
Da file set is straight-up a single plain file.
.TP 8
\fBpid\fR
One file set member is pimped fo' every last muthafuckin incarnation of \fBntpd\fR\[char46] Da file name suffix is tha strang .\fBn\fR, where \fBn\fR is tha process ID of tha \fBntpd\fR server process.
.TP 8
\fBday\fR
One file set member is pimped per day. It make me wanna hollar playa! A dizzle is defined as tha period between 00:00 n' 23:59 UTC. Da file name suffix is tha strang .\fByyyymmdd\fR, where \fByyyy\fR is tha year, \fBmm\fR tha month of tha year n' \fBdd\fR tha dizzle of tha month. Thus, member pimped on 10 December 1992 would have suffix \fB\[char46]19921210\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBweek\fR
One file set member is pimped per week. Da week is defined as tha dizzle of year modulo 7. Da file name suffix is tha strang .\fByyyyWww\fR, where \fByyyy\fR is tha year, \fBW\fR standz fo' itself n' \fBww\fR tha week number startin from 0. For example, Da member pimped on 10 January 1992 would have suffix \fB\[char46]1992W1\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBmonth\fR
One file set member is pimped per month. Da file name suffix is tha strang .\fByyyymm\fR, where \fByyyy\fR is tha year n' \fBmm\fR tha month of tha year startin from 1. For example, Da member pimped on 10 January 1992 would have suffix \fB\[char46]199201\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fByear\fR
One file set member is generated per year. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da file name suffix is tha strang .\fByyyy\fR, where \fByyyy\fR is tha year. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. For example, Da member pimped on 1 January 1992 would have suffix \fB\[char46]1992\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fBage\fR
One file set member is generated every last muthafuckin 24 minutez of \fBntpd\fR operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da filename suffix is tha strang \fB\[char46]adddddddd\fR, where \fBa\fR standz fo' itself n' \fBdddddddd\fR is tha \fBntpd\fR hustlin time up in secondz all up in tha start of tha correspondin 24-hour period.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBlink | nolink\fR
It be convenient ta be able ta access tha current file set thugz by file name yo, but without tha suffix. This feature is enabled by \fBlink\fR n' disabled by \fBnolink\fR\[char46] If enabled, which is tha default, a hard link from tha current file set member ta a gangbangin' file without suffix is pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. When there be already a gangbangin' file wit dis name n' tha number of links ta dis file is one, it is renamed by appendin a thugged-out dot, tha letta \fBC\fR, n' tha pid of tha \fBntpd\fR server process. When tha number of links is pimped outa than one, tha file is unlinked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This allows tha current file ta be accessed by a cold-ass lil constant name.
.TP 8
\fBenable | disable\fR
Enable or disable tha recordin function, wit default \fBenable\fR\[char46] These options is intended fo' remote configutation commands.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBstatsdir \fIdirectory_path\fB\fR
Specify tha directory path prefix fo' statistics file names. 
.RE

.SH FILE SET TYPES

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBclockstats\fR
Record reference clock statistics. Each update received from a reference clock driver appendz one line ta tha \fBclockstats\fR file set:
\fB49213 525.624 127.127.4.1 93 226 00:08:29.606 D\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB49213\fR % MJD % date
\fB525.624\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB127.127.4.1\fR % IP % reference clock address
\fB\fImessage\fB\fR % text % log message
.TE

Da \fB\fImessage\fB\fR field includes tha last timecode received up in decoded ASCII format, where meaningful naaahhmean, biatch? In some cases a phat deal of additionizzle shiznit is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See shiznit specific ta each reference clock fo' further details.
.TP 8
\fBcryptostats\fR
Record dope events up in tha Autokey protocol. This option requires tha OpenSSL cryptographic software library. Each event appendz one line ta tha \fBcryptostats\fR file set:
\fB49213 525.624 128.4.1.1 \fImessage\fB\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB49213\fR % MJD % date
\fB525.624\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB128.4.1.1\fR % IP % source address (\fB0.0.0.0\fR fo' system)
\fB\fImessage\fB\fR % text % log message
.TE

Da \fB\fImessage\fB\fR field includes tha message type n' certain ancillary shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Authentication Options page fo' further shiznit.
.TP 8
\fBloopstats\fR
Record clock discipline loop statistics. Each system clock update appendz one line ta tha \fBloopstats\fR file set:
\fB50935 75440.031 0.000006019 13.778 0.000351733 0.013380 6\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB50935\fR % MJD % date
\fB75440.031\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB0.000006019\fR % s % clock offset
\fB13.778\fR % PPM % frequency offset
\fB0.000351733\fR % s % RMS jitter
\fB0.013380\fR % PPM % RMS frequency jitta (aka wander)
\fB6 \fR % log2 s % clock discipline loop time constant
.TE

.TP 8
\fBpeerstats\fR
Record peer statistics. Each NTP packet or reference clock update received appendz one line ta tha \fBpeerstats\fR file set:
\fB48773 10847.650 127.127.4.1 9714 -0.001605376 0.000000000 0.001424877 0.000958674\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB48773\fR % MJD % date
\fB10847.650\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB127.127.4.1\fR % IP % source address
\fB9714\fR % hex % status word
\fB-0.001605376\fR % s % clock offset
\fB0.000000000 \fR % s % roundtrip delay
\fB0.001424877\fR % s % dispersion
\fB0.000958674\fR % s % RMS jitter
.TE

Da status field is encoded up in hex format as busted lyrics bout up in Appendix B of tha NTP justification RFC 1305.
.TP 8
\fBprotostats\fR
Record dope peer, system n' [rptpcp; events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Each dope event appendz one line ta tha \fBprotostats\fR file set:
\fB49213 525.624 128.4.1.1 963a 8a \fImessage\fB\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB49213\fR % MJD % date
\fB525.624\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB128.4.1.1\fR % IP % source address (\fB0.0.0.0\fR fo' system)
\fB963a\fR % code % status word
\fB8a\fR % code % event message code
\fB\fImessage\fB\fR % text % event message
.TE

Da event message code n' \fB\fImessage\fB\fR field is busted lyrics bout on tha Event Lyrics n' Status Lyrics page.
.TP 8
\fBrawstats\fR
Record timestamp statistics. Each NTP packet received appendz one line ta tha \fBrawstats\fR file set:
\fB50928 2132.543 128.4.1.1 128.4.1.20 3102453281.584327000 3102453281.58622800031 02453332.540806000 3102453332.541458000\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB50928\fR % MJD % date
\fB2132.543\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB128.4.1.1\fR % IP % source address
\fB128.4.1.20\fR % IP % destination address
\fB3102453281.584327000\fR % NTP s % origin timestamp
\fB3102453281.586228000\fR % NTP s % receive timestamp
\fB3102453332.540806000 \fR % NTP s % transmit timestamp
\fB3102453332.541458000\fR % NTP s % destination timestamp
.TE

.TP 8
\fBsysstats\fR
Record system statistics. Each minute one line be appended ta tha \fBsysstats\fR file set up in tha followin format:
\fB50928 2132.543 3600 81965 0 9546 56 512 540 10 4 147 1\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB50928\fR % MJD % date
\fB2132.543\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB3600\fR % s % time since reset
\fB81965\fR % # % packets received
\fB0\fR % # % packets fo' dis host
\fB9546\fR % # % current versions
\fB56\fR % # % oldschool version
\fB512\fR % # % access denied
\fB540\fR % # % wack length or format
\fB10\fR % # % wack authentication
\fB4\fR % # % declined
\fB147\fR % # % rate exceeded
\fB1\fR % # % kiss-o'-death packets sent
.TE

.TP 8
\fBtimingstats\fR
(Only available when tha deamon is compiled wit process time debuggin support (--enable-debug-timin - costs performance). Record processin time statistics fo' various selected code paths.
\fB53876 36.920 10.0.3.5 1 0.000014592 input processin delay\fR

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l.
Item % Units % Description
\fB53876\fR % MJD % date
\fB36.920\fR % s % time past midnight
\fB10.0.3.5\fR % IP % server address
\fB1\fR % # % event count
\fB0.000014592\fR % s % total time
\fB\fImessage\fB\fR % text % code path description (see source)
.TE

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

ntp.conf(5), ntp_decode(5)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

