.TH ntp_acc 5
.SH NAME
ntp_acc - Access Control Options
.SH \ 

.SH ACCESS CONTROL SUPPORT

Da \fBntpd\fR daemon implements a general purpose access control list (ACL) containin address/match entries sorted first by increasin address joints n' then by increasin mask joints fo' realz. A match occurs when tha bitwise AND of tha mask n' tha packet source address is equal ta tha bitwise AND of tha mask n' address up in tha list. Da list is searched up in order wit tha last match found definin tha restriction flags associated wit tha entry.

An example may clarify how tha fuck it works. Our campus has two class-B networks, 128.4 fo' tha ECE n' CIS departments n' 128.175 fo' tha rest of campus. Letz assume (not true!) dat subnet 128.4.1 cribs critical skillz like class rostas n' spread sheets fo' realz. A suitable ACL might be

.nf
restrict default nopeer					# deny freshly smoked up associations
restrict 128.175.0.0 mask 255.255.0.0 		# allow campus access
restrict 128.4.0.0 mask 255.255.0.0 none	# allow ECE n' CIS access
restrict 128.4.1.0 mask 255.255.255.0 notrust # require authentication on subnet 1
restrict time.nist.gov						# allow access

.fi
While dis facilitizzle may be useful fo' keepin unwanted, fucked up or malicious clients from congestin innocent servers, it should not be considered a alternatizzle ta tha NTP authentication facilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Source address based restrictions is easily circumvented by a thugged-out determined cracker.

.SH ACCESS CONTROL COMMANDS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fBdiscard [ average \fIavg\fB ][ minimum \fImin\fB ] [ monitor \fIprob\fB ]\fR 
Set tha parametaz of tha rate control facilitizzle which protects tha server from client abuse. If tha \fBlimited\fR flag is present up in tha ACL, packets dat violate these limits is discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If up in addizzle tha \fBkod\fR restriction is present, a kiss-o'-death packet is returned.

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBaverage \fIavg\fB\fR 
Specify tha minimum average interpacket spacin (minimum average headway time) up in log2 s wit default 3.
.TP 8
\fBminimum \fImin\fB\fR 
Specify tha minimum interpacket spacin (guard time) up in log2 s wit default 1.
.TP 8
\fBmonitor\fR 
Specify tha probabilitizzle of discard fo' packets dat overflow tha rate-control window. This be a performizzle optimization fo' servers wit aggregate arrivalz of 1000 packets per second or more.
.RE

.TP 8
\fBrestrict \fIaddress\fB [mask \fImask\fB] [\fIflag\fB][...]\fR 
Da \fB\fIaddress\fB\fR argument expressed up in dotted-quad form is tha address of a host or network fo' realz. Alternatively, tha \fB\fIaddress\fB\fR argument can be a valid host DNS name. Da \fB\fImask\fB\fR argument expressed up in dotted-quad form defaults ta 255.255.255.255, meanin dat tha \fB\fIaddress\fB\fR is treated as tha address of a individual host fo' realz. A default entry (address 0.0.0.0, mask 0.0.0.0) be always included n' be always tha straight-up original gangsta entry up in tha list. Note dat tha text strang \fBdefault\fR, wit no mask option, may be used ta indicate tha default entry.
Some flags have tha effect ta deny service, some have tha effect ta enable steez n' some is conditioned by other flags. Da flags. is not orthogonal, up in dat mo' restrictizzle flags will often make less restrictizzle ones redundant. Da flags dat deny steez is classed up in two categories, dem dat restrict time steez n' dem dat restrict shiznital queries n' attempts ta do run-time reconfiguration of tha server n' shit. One or mo' of tha followin flags may be specified: 

.RS 8
.TP 8
\fBflake\fR 
Discard received NTP packets wit probabilitizzle 0.1; dat is, on average drop one packet up in ten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is fo' testin n' amusement. Da name be reppin Bob Bradenz \fIflakeway\fR, which once did a similar thang fo' early Internizzle testing.
.TP 8
\fBignore\fR 
Deny packetz of all kinds, includin \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR queries.
.TP 8
\fBkod\fR 
Send a kiss-o'-death (KoD) packet if tha \fBlimited\fR flag is present n' a packet violates tha rate limits established by tha \fBdiscard\fR command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! KoD packets is theyselves rate limited fo' each source address separately. If dis flag aint present, packets dat violate tha rate limits is discarded.
.TP 8
\fBlimited\fR 
Deny time steez if tha packet violates tha rate limits established by tha \fBdiscard\fR command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This do not apply ta \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR queries.
.TP 8
\fBlowpriotrap\fR 
Declare traps set by matchin hosts ta be low priority. Da number of traps a server can maintain is limited (the current limit is 3). Traps is probably assigned on a gangbangin' first come, first served basis, wit lata trap requestors bein denied service. This flag modifies tha assignment algorithm by allowin low prioritizzle traps ta be overridden by lata requests fo' aiiight prioritizzle traps. 
.TP 8
\fBmssntp\fR 
Enable Microsizzlez Windows MS-SNTP authentication rockin Actizzle Directory skillz. Note: Potential playas should be aware dat these skillz involve a TCP connection ta another process dat could potentially block, denyin skillz ta other users. Therefore, dis flag should be used only fo' a thugged-out dedicated server wit no clients other than MS-SNTP. 
.TP 8
\fBnomodify\fR 
Deny \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR queries which attempt ta modify tha state of tha server (i.e., run time reconfiguration). Queries which return shiznit is permitted.
.TP 8
\fBnoquery\fR 
Deny \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR queries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Time steez aint affected.
.TP 8
\fBnopeer\fR 
Deny packets dat might mobilize a association unless authenticated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This includes broadcast, symmetric-actizzle n' manycast server packets when a cold-ass lil configured association do not exist. Note dat dis flag do not apply ta packets dat do not attempt ta mobilize a association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 8
\fBnoserve\fR 
Deny all packets except \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR queries.
.TP 8
\fBnotrap\fR 
Decline ta provide mode 6 control message trap steez ta matchin hosts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da trap steez be a subsystem of tha \fBntpdc\fR control message protocol which is intended fo' use by remote event loggin programs.
.TP 8
\fBnotrust\fR 
Deny packets dat is not cryptographically authenticated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Note carefully how tha fuck dis flag interacts wit tha \fBauth\fR option of tha \fBenable\fR n' \fBdisable\fR commands. If \fBauth\fR is enabled, which is tha default, authentication is required fo' all packets dat might mobilize a association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If \fBauth\fR is disabled yo, but tha \fBnotrust\fR flag aint present, a association can be mobilized whether or not authenticated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If \fBauth\fR is disabled yo, but tha \fBnotrust\fR flag is present, authentication is required only fo' tha specified address/mask range. 
.TP 8
\fBntpport\fR
.TP 8
\fBnon-ntpport\fR
This is straight-up a match algorithm modifier, rather than a restriction flag. Its presence causes tha restriction entry ta be matched only if tha source port up in tha packet is tha standard NTP UDP port (123). Both \fBntpport\fR n' \fBnon-ntpport\fR may be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fBntpport\fR is considered mo' specific n' is sorted lata up in tha list.
.TP 8
\fBversion\fR
Deny packets dat do not match tha current NTP version.
.RE

Default restriction list entries wit tha flags \fBignore, ntpport\fR, fo' each of tha local hostz intercourse addresses is banged tha fuck into tha table at startup ta prevent tha server from attemptin ta synchronize ta its own time fo' realz. A default entry be also always present, though if it is otherwise unconfigured; no flags is associated wit tha default entry (i.e., every last muthafuckin thang besides yo' own NTP server is unrestricted). 
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

ntp.conf(5)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

