.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:46:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 18:12:27 1994 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jun 18 01:53:57 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Mon Jan  5 20:24:40 MET 1998 by Mike Haardt
.\"  (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.TH PASSWD 5 2012-05-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR /etc/passwd
file be a text file dat raps bout user login accounts fo' tha system.
It should have read permission allowed fo' all playas (many utilities, like
.BR ls (1)
use it ta map user IDs ta usernames) yo, but write access only fo' the
superuser.
.PP
In tha phat oldschool minutes there was no pimped out problem wit dis general
read permission.
All Y'all could read tha encrypted passwordz yo, but the
hardware was too slow ta crack a well-chosen password, n' moreover the
basic assumption used ta be dat of a gangbangin' thugged-out user-community.
These minutes nuff playas run some version of tha shadow password suite, where
.I /etc/passwd
has a \(aqx\(aq characta up in tha password field,
and tha encrypted passwordz is in
.IR /etc/shadow ,
which is readable by tha superuser only.
.PP
If tha encrypted password, whether in
.I /etc/passwd
or in
.IR /etc/shadow ,
is a empty string, login be allowed without even askin fo' a password.
Note dat dis functionalitizzle may be intentionally disabled up in applications,
or configurable (for example rockin tha "nullok" or "nonull" arguments to
pam_unix.so).
.PP
If tha encrypted password in
.I /etc/passwd
is "\fI*NP*\fP" (without tha quotes),
the shadow record should be obtained from a NIS+ server.
.PP
Regardless of whether shadow passwordz is used, nuff system administrators
use a asterisk (*) up in tha encrypted password field ta make sure
that dis user can not authenticate him- or her muthafuckin ass rockin a
password.
(But peep NOTES below.)
.PP
If you create a freshly smoked up login, first put a asterisk (*) up in tha password field,
then use
.BR passwd (1)
to set dat shit.
.PP
Each line of tha file raps on some single user,
and gotz nuff seven colon-separated fields:
.sp
.RS
name:password:UID:GID:GECOS:directory:shell
.RE
.sp
Da field is as bigs up:
.TP 12
.I name
This is tha userz login name.
It should not contain capital letters.
.TP
.I password
This is either tha encrypted user password,
an asterisk (*), or tha letta \(aqx\(aq.
(See
.BR pwconv (8)
for a explanation of \(aqx\(aq.)
.TP
.I UID
Da privileged
.I root
login account (superuser) has tha user ID 0.
.TP
.I GID
This is tha numeric primary crew ID fo' dis user.
(Additionizzle crews fo' tha user is defined up in tha system crew file; see
.BR crew (5)).
.TP
.I GECOS
This field (sometimes called tha "comment field")
is optionizzle n' used only fo' shiznital purposes.
Usually, it gotz nuff tha full username.
Some programs (for example,
.BR finger (1))
display shiznit from dis field.
.IP
GECOS standz fo' "General Electric Comprehensive Operatin System",
which was renamed ta GCOS when
GEz big-ass systems division was sold ta Honeywell.
Dennis Ritchie has reported: "Sometimes we busted printa output or
batch thangs ta tha GCOS machine.
Da gcos field up in tha password file was a place ta stash the
information fo' tha $IDENTcard.
Not elegant."
.TP
.I directory
This is tha userz home directory:
the initial directory where tha user is placed afta loggin in.
Da value up in dis field is used ta set the
.B HOME
environment variable.
.TP
.I shell
This is tha program ta run at login (if empty, use
.IR /bin/sh ).
If set ta a nonexistent executable, tha user is ghon be unable ta login
through
.BR login (1).
Da value up in dis field is used ta set the
.B SHELL
environment variable.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/passwd
.SH NOTES
If you wanna create user groups, there must be a entry in
.IR /etc/group ,
or no crew will exist.
.PP
If tha encrypted password is set ta a asterisk (*), tha user is ghon be unable
to login using
.BR login (1),
but may still login using
.BR rlogin (1),
run existin processes n' initiate freshly smoked up ones through
.BR rsh (1),
.BR cron (8),
.BR at (1),
or mail filters, etc.
Tryin ta lock a account by simply changin the
shell field yieldz tha same ol' dirty result n' additionally allows tha use of
.BR su (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR su (1),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR crew (5),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
