.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2003,2005,2008 Solar Designer
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry V. Levin
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Portionz of dis software was pimped fo' tha FreeBSD Project by
.\" ThinkSec AS n' NAI Labs, tha Securitizzle Research Division of Network
.\" Associates, Inc.  under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.\" ("CBOSS"), as part of tha DARPA CHATS research program.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote
.\"    shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libpam/modules/pam_passwdqc/pam_passwdqc.8,v 1.4 2002/05/30 14:49:57 ru Exp $
.\" $Owl: Owl/packages/passwdqc/passwdqc/passwdqc.conf.5,v 1.11 2013/04/23 14:14:07 solar Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 13, 2010
.Dt PASSWDQC.CONF 5
.Os "Openwall Project"
.Sh NAME
.Nm passwdqc.conf
.Nd libpasswdqc configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
libpasswdqc be a simple password strength checkin library.
In addizzle ta checkin regular passwords, it offers support for
passphrases n' can provide randomly generated ones.
A
.Nm
configuration file may be used ta override default libpasswdqc settings.
.Sh FORMAT
A
.Nm
file consistz of 0 or mo' linez of tha followin format:
.Dl Ar option Ns = Ns Ar value
.Pp
Empty lines n' lines beginnin with
.Dq Li #
are ignored.
Whitespace charactas between the
.Ar option ,
.Dq Li = ,
and
.Ar value
are not allowed.
.Sh DIRECTIVE OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm config Ns = Ns Ar FILE
Load tha specified configuration
.Ar FILE
in the
.Cm passwdqc.conf
format.
This file may define any options busted lyrics bout up in dis manual,
includin load of yet another configuration file yo, but loops is not allowed.
.El
.Sh PASSWORD QUALITY CONTROL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.Sm off
.It Xo
.Cm min No =
.Ar N0 , N1 , N2 , N3 , N4
.Xc
.Sm on
.Pq default: min=disabled,24,11,8,7
Da minimum allowed password lengths fo' different kindz of
passwords/passphrases.
Da keyword
.Cm disabled
can be used to
disallow passwordz of a given kind regardless of they length.
Each subsequent number is required ta be no larger than tha preceding
one.
.Pp
.Ar N0
is used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from one character
class only.
Da characta classes are: digits, lower-case letters, upper-case
letters, n' other characters.
There be also a special class for
.No non- Ns Tn ASCII
characters, which could not be classified yo, but is assumed ta be non-digits.
.Pp
.Ar N1
is used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from two character
classes dat do not hook up tha requirements fo' a passphrase.
.Pp
.Ar N2
is used fo' passphrases.
Note dat besides meetin dis length requirement,
a passphrase must also consist of a sufficient number of lyrics (see the
.Cm passphrase
option below).
.Pp
.Ar N3
and
.Ar N4
are used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from three
and four characta classes, respectively.
.Pp
When calculatin tha number of characta classes, upper-case letters
used as tha straight-up original gangsta characta n' digits used as tha last characta of a
password is not counted.
.Pp
In addizzle ta bein sufficiently long, passwordz is required to
contain enough different charactas fo' tha characta classes and
the minimum length they done been checked against.
.Pp
.It Cm max Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm max Ns = Ns 40
Da maximum allowed password length.
This can be used ta prevent playas from settin passwordz dat may be
too long fo' some system skillz.
Da value 8 is treated specially: if
.Cm max
is set ta 8, passwordz longer than 8 charactas aint gonna be rejected,
but is ghon be truncated ta 8 charactas fo' tha strength checks n' the
user is ghon be warned.
This is ta be used wit tha traditionizzle DES-based password hashes,
which truncate tha password at 8 characters.
.Pp
It be blingin dat you do set
.Cm max Ns = Ns 8
if yo ass is rockin tha traditional
hashes, or some weak passwordz will pass tha checks.
.It Cm passphrase Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm passphrase Ns = Ns 3
Da number of lyrics required fo' a passphrase, or 0 ta disable the
support fo' user-chosen passphrases.
.It Cm match Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm match Ns = Ns 4
Da length of common substrin required ta conclude dat a password is
at least partially based on shiznit found up in a cold-ass lil characta string,
or 0 ta disable tha substrin search.
Note dat tha password aint gonna be rejected once a weak substrin is
found; it will instead be subjected ta tha usual strength requirements
with tha weak substrin partially discounted.
.Pp
Da substrin search is case-insensitizzle n' be able ta detect and
remove a cold-ass lil common substrin spelled backwards.
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Cm similar No = Cm permit | deny
.Sm on
.Xc
.Pq default: Cm similar Ns = Ns Cm deny
Whether a freshly smoked up password be allowed ta be similar ta tha oldschool one.
Da passwordz is considered ta be similar when there be a sufficiently
long common substrin n' tha freshly smoked up password wit tha substrin partially
discounted would be weak.
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Cm random No = Ar N
.Op , Cm only
.Sm on
.Xc
.Pq default: Cm random Ns = Ns 47
Da size of randomly-generated passphrases up in bits (24 ta 85),
or 0 ta disable dis feature.
Any passphrase dat gotz nuff tha offered randomly-generated strang will be
allowed regardless of other possible restrictions.
.Pp
The
.Cm only
modifier can be used ta disallow user-chosen passwords.
.El
.Sh PAM MODULE OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Cm enforce No = Cm none | playas | everyone
.Sm on
.Xc
.Pq default: Cm enforce Ns = Ns Cm everyone
Da PAM module can be configured ta warn of weak passwordz only yo, but not
actually enforce phat passwords.
The
.Cm users
settin will enforce phat passwordz fo' invocations by non-root playas only.
.It Cm non-unix
Normally, tha PAM module uses
.Xr getpwnam 3
to obtain tha userz underground login shiznit n' use dat during
the password strength checks.
This behavior can be disabled wit the
.Cm non-unix
option.
.It Cm retry Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm retry Ns = Ns 3
Da number of times tha PAM module will ask fo' a freshly smoked up password if the
user fails ta provide a sufficiently phat password n' enta it twice
the last time.
.It Cm ask_oldauthtok Ns Op = Ns Cm update
Ask fo' tha oldschool password as well.
Normally, tha PAM module leaves dis task fo' subsequent modules.
With no argument, the
.Cm ask_oldauthtok
option will cause tha PAM module ta ask fo' tha oldschool password durin the
preliminary check phase. If the
.Cm ask_oldauthtok
option is specified wit the
.Cm update
argument, tha PAM module will do dat durin tha update phase.
.It Cm check_oldauthtok
This  drops some lyrics ta tha PAM module ta validate tha oldschool password before givin a
new password prompt.
Normally, dis task is left fo' subsequent modules.
.Pp
Da primary use fo' dis option is when
.Cm ask_oldauthtok Ns = Ns Cm update
is also specified, up in which case no other module gets a cold-ass lil chizzle ta ask
for n' validate tha password.
Of course, dis will only work with
.Ux
passwords.
.It Cm use_first_pass , use_authtok
Use tha freshly smoked up password obtained by other modulez stacked before tha PAM
module.  This disablez user interaction within tha PAM module.
Da only difference between
.Cm use_first_pass
and
.Cm use_authtok
is dat tha forma is incompatible with
.Cm ask_oldauthtok .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/passwdqc.conf .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getpwnam 3 ,
.Xr pam_passwdqc 8 .
.Pp
http://www.openwall.com/passwdqc/
.Sh AUTHORS
Da pam_passwdqc module was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by
.An Solar Designer Aq solar at openwall.com .
This manual page was derived from
.Xr pam_passwdqc 8 .  Da latter, derived from tha author's
documentation, was freestyled fo' the
.Fx
Project by
ThinkSec AS n' NAI Labs, tha Securitizzle Research Division of Network
Associates, Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.Pq Dq CBOSS ,
as part of tha DARPA CHATS research program.
