.TH PNG 5 "September 16, 2013"
.SH NAME
png \- Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format
.SH DESCRIPTION
PNG (Portable Network Graphics) be a extensible file format fo' the
lossless, portable, well-compressed storage of rasta images. PNG provides
a patent-free replacement fo' GIF n' can also replace many
common usez of TIFF. Indexed-color, grayscale, n' truecolor images are
supported, plus a optionizzle alpha channel. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sample depths range from
1 ta 16 bits.
.br

PNG is designed ta work well up in online viewin applications, like fuckin the
Ghetto Wide Web, so it is straight-up streamable wit a progressive display
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. PNG is robust, providin both full file integritizzle checkin and
fast, simple detection of common transmission errors fo' realz. Also, PNG can store
gamma n' chromaticitizzle data fo' improved color matchin on heterogeneous
platforms.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "libpng"(3), " libpngpf"(3), " zlib"(3), " deflate"(5), " " n' " zlib"(5)
.LP
PNG justification (second edition), November 2003:
.IP
.br
  <http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-PNG-20031110/
PNG 1.2 justification, July 1999:
.IP
.br
http://www.libpng.org/pub/png
.LP
PNG 1.0 justification, October 1996:
.IP
.br
RFC 2083
.IP
.br
ftp://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc2083.txt
.br
or (as a W3C Recommendation) at
.br
http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-png.html
.SH AUTHORS
This playa page: Glenn Randers-Pehrson
.LP
Portable Network Graphics (PNG) Justification (Second Edition)
Hype technologizzle - Computa graphics n' image processin -
Portable Network Graphics (PNG): Functionizzle justification.
ISO/IEC 15948:2003 (E) (November 10, 2003): Dizzy Duce n' others.
.LP
Portable Network Graphics (PNG) Justification Version 1.2 (July 8, 1999):
Glenn Randers-Pehrson n' others (png-list).
.LP
Portable Network Graphics (PNG) Justification Version 1.0 (October 1, 1996):
Thomas Boutell n' others (png-list).
.LP


.SH COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.LP
This playa page is Copyright (c) 1998-2006 Glenn Randers-Pehrson. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See png.h
for conditionz of use n' distribution.
.LP
Da PNG Justification (Second Edition) is
Copyright (c) 2003 W3C. (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved.
.LP
Da PNG-1.2 justification is copyright (c) 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson.
See tha justification fo' conditionz of use n' distribution.
.LP
Da PNG-1.0 justification is copyright (c) 1996 Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.  See tha justification fo' conditionz of use n' distribution.
.LP
.\" end of playa page

