.TH POSTCONF 5 
.SH NAME
postconf
\-
Postfix configuration parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBpostconf\fR \fIparameter\fR ...

\fBpostconf -e\fR "\fIparameter=value\fR" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix main.cf configuration file specifies a lil' small-ass subset
of all tha parametas dat control tha operation of tha Postfix
mail system. Parametas not specified up in main.cf is left at their
default joints.
.PP
Da general format of tha main.cf file be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
Each logical line has tha form "parameta = value".
Whitespace round tha "=" is ignored, as is whitespace at the
end of a logical line.
.IP \(bu
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as is lines
whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line dat starts
with whitespace continues a logical line.
.IP \(bu
A parameta value may refer ta other parameters.
.RS
.IP \(bu 
Da expressions "$name", "${name}" or "$(name)" are
recursively replaced by tha value of tha named parameter.
.IP \(bu
Da expression "${name?value}" expandz ta "value" when
"$name" is non-empty. This form is supported wit Postfix
version 2.2 n' later.
.IP \(bu
Da expression "${name:value}" expandz ta "value" when
"$name" is empty. This form is supported wit Postfix
version 2.2 n' later.
.IP \(bu
Specify "$$" ta produce a single "$" character.
.RE
.IP \(bu
When tha same parameta is defined multiple times, only tha last
instizzle is remembered.
.IP \(bu
Otherwise, tha order of main.cf parameta definitions do not matter.
.PP
Da remainder of dis document be a thugged-out description of all Postfix
configuration parameters. Default joints is shown afta tha 
parameta name up in parentheses, n' can be looked up wit the
"\fBpostconf -d\fR" command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.PP
Note: dis aint a invitation ta make chizzlez ta Postfix
configuration parameters. Unnecessary chizzlez can impair the
operation of tha mail system.
.SH 2bounce_notice_recipient (default: postmaster)
Da recipient of undeliverable mail dat cannot be returned to
the sender n' shit.  This feature is enabled wit tha notify_classes
parameter.
.SH access_map_defer_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code for
an \fBaccess\fR(5) map "defer" action, includin "defer_if_permit"
or "defer_if_reject". Prior ta Postfix 2.6, tha response
is hard-coded as "450".
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH access_map_reject_code (default: 554)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code for
an \fBaccess\fR(5) map "reject" action.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH address_verify_cache_cleanup_interval (default: 12h)
Da amount of time between \fBverify\fR(8) address verification
database cleanup runs. This feature requires dat tha database
supports tha "delete" n' "sequence" operators.  Specify a zero
interval ta disable database cleanup.
.PP
Afta each database cleanup run, tha \fBverify\fR(8) daemon logs the
number of entries dat was retained n' dropped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A cleanup run is
logged as "partial" when tha daemon terminates early afta "\fBpostfix
reload\fR", "\fBpostfix stop\fR", or no requests fo' $max_idle
seconds.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7.
.SH address_verify_default_transhiznit (default: $default_transport)
Overrides tha default_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_local_transhiznit (default: $local_transport)
Overrides tha local_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_map (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Lookup table fo' persistent address verification status
storage.  Da table is maintained by tha \fBverify\fR(8) service, and
is opened before tha process releases privileges.
.PP
Da lookup table is persistent by default (Postfix 2.7 n' later).
Specify a empty table name ta keep tha shiznit up in volatile
memory which is lost afta "\fBpostfix reload\fR" or "\fBpostfix
stop\fR". This is tha default wit Postfix version 2.6 n' earlier.
.PP
Specify a location up in a gangbangin' file system dat aint gonna fill up. If the
database becomes corrupted, tha ghetto comes ta a end yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. To recover
delete (NOT: truncate) tha file n' do "\fBpostfix reload\fR".
.PP
Postfix daemon processes do not use root privileges when opening
this file (Postfix 2.5 n' later).  Da file must therefore be
stored under a Postfix-owned directory like fuckin tha data_directory.
As a migration aid, a attempt ta open tha file under a non-Postfix
directory is repimped up ta tha Postfix-owned data_directory, n' a
warnin is logged.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
address_verify_map = hash:/var/lib/postfix/verify
address_verify_map = btree:/var/lib/postfix/verify
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_negative_cache (default: yes)
Enable cachin of failed address verification probe thangs up in dis biatch.  When
this feature is enabled, tha cache may pollute quickly wit garbage.
When dis feature is disabled, Postfix will generate a address
probe fo' every last muthafuckin lookup.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_negative_expire_time (default: 3d)
Da time afta which a gangbangin' failed probe expires from tha address
verification cache.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_negative_refresh_time (default: 3h)
Da time afta which a gangbangin' failed address verification probe needz to
be refreshed.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_poll_count (default: normal: 3, overload: 1)
How tha fuck nuff times ta query tha \fBverify\fR(8) steez fo' tha completion
of a address verification request up in progress.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server polls tha \fBverify\fR(8) service
up ta three times under non-overload conditions, n' only once when
under overload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  With Postfix version 2.5 n' earlier, tha SMTP
server always polls tha \fBverify\fR(8) steez up ta three times by
default.
.PP
Specify 1 ta implement a cold-ass lil crude form of greylisting, dat is, always
defer tha straight-up original gangsta delivery request fo' a freshly smoked up address.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Postfix <= 2.6 default
address_verify_poll_count = 3
# Skanky manz greylisting
address_verify_poll_count = 1
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_poll_delay (default: 3s)
Da delay between queries fo' tha completion of a address
verification request up in progress.
.PP
Da default pollin delay is 3 seconds.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_positive_expire_time (default: 31d)
Da time afta which a successful probe expires from tha address
verification cache.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_positive_refresh_time (default: 7d)
Da time afta which a successful address verification probe needs
to be refreshed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da address verification status aint updated
when tha probe fails (optimistic caching).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_relay_transhiznit (default: $relay_transport)
Overrides tha relay_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_relayhost (default: $relayhost)
Overrides tha relayhost parameta settin fo' address verification
probes. This shiznit can be overruled wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_sender (default: $double_bounce_sender)
Da sender address ta use up in address verification probes; prior
to Postfix 2.5 tha default was "postmaster". To
avoid problems wit address probes dat is busted up in response to
address probes, tha Postfix SMTP server excludes tha probe sender
address from all SMTPD access blocks.
.PP
Specify a empty value (address_verify_sender =) or <> if you want
to use tha null sender address. Beware, some cribs reject mail from
<>, even though RFCs require dat such addresses be accepted.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
address_verify_sender = <>
address_verify_sender = postmaster@my.domain
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_sender_dependent_default_transport_maps (default: $sender_dependent_default_transport_maps)
Overrides tha sender_dependent_default_transport_maps parameter
settin fo' address verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH address_verify_sender_dependent_relayhost_maps (default: $sender_dependent_relayhost_maps)
Overrides tha sender_dependent_relayhost_maps parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH address_verify_sender_ttl (default: 0s)
Da time between chizzlez up in tha time-dependent portion of address
verification probe sender addresses. Da time-dependent portion is
appended ta tha localpart of tha address specified wit the
address_verify_sender parameter n' shit. This feature is ignored when the
probe sender addresses is tha null sender, i.e. tha address_verify_sender
value is empty or <>.
.PP
Historically, tha probe sender address was fixed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This has
caused such addresses ta end up on spammer mailin lists, n' has
resulted up in wasted network n' processin resources.
.PP
To enable time-dependent probe sender addresses, specify a
non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optionizzle one-letter
suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Specify a value of at least
several hours, ta avoid problems wit sendaz dat use greylisting.
Avoid sick TTL joints, ta make tha result less predictable.  Time
units are: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH address_verify_service_name (default: verify)
Da name of tha \fBverify\fR(8) address verification service. This service
maintains tha statuz of sender and/or recipient address verification
probes, n' generates probes on request by other Postfix processes.
.SH address_verify_transport_maps (default: $transport_maps)
Overrides tha transport_maps parameta settin fo' address verification
probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH address_verify_virtual_transhiznit (default: $virtual_transport)
Overrides tha virtual_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH alias_database (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da alias databases fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery dat is updated with
"\fBnewaliases\fR" or wit "\fBsendmail -bi\fR".
.PP
This be a separate configuration parameta cuz not all the
tablez specified wit $alias_maps gotta be local files.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/mail/aliases
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH alias_maps (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da alias databases dat is used fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBaliases\fR(5) fo' syntax details.
.PP
Da default list is system dependent.  On systems wit NIS, the
default is ta search tha local alias database, then tha NIS alias
database.
.PP
If you chizzle tha alias database, run "\fBpostalias /etc/aliases\fR"
(or wherever yo' system stores tha mail alias file), or simply
run "\fBnewaliases\fR" ta build tha necessary DBM or DB file.
.PP
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent disallows regular expression substitution
of $1 etc. up in alias_maps, cuz dat would open a securitizzle hole.
.PP
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent will silently ignore requests ta use
the \fBproxymap\fR(8) server within alias_maps. Instead it will open the
table directly. Before Postfix version 2.2, tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases, nis:mail.aliases
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH allow_mail_to_commandz (default: alias, forward)
Restrict \fBlocal\fR(8) mail delivery ta external commands.  Da default
is ta disallow delivery ta "|command" up in :include:  filez (see
\fBaliases\fR(5) fo' tha text dat defines dis terminology).
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of: \fBalias\fR, \fBforward\fR or \fBinclude\fR,
in order ta allow commandz up in \fBaliases\fR(5), .forward filez or in
:include:  files, respectively.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
allow_mail_to_commandz = alias,forward,include
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH allow_mail_to_filez (default: alias, forward)
Restrict \fBlocal\fR(8) mail delivery ta external files. Da default is
to disallow "/file/name" destinations up in :include:  filez (see
\fBaliases\fR(5) fo' tha text dat defines dis terminology).
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of: \fBalias\fR, \fBforward\fR or \fBinclude\fR,
in order ta allow "/file/name" destinations up in \fBaliases\fR(5), .forward
filez n' up in :include:  files, respectively.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
allow_mail_to_filez = alias,forward,include
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH allow_min_user (default: no)
Allow a sender or recipient address ta have `-' as tha first
character n' shit.  By
default, dis aint allowed, ta avoid accidents wit software that
passes email addresses via tha command line. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such software
would not be able ta distinguish a malicious address from a
bona fide command-line option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Although dis can be prevented by
insertin a "--" option terminator tha fuck into tha command line, dis is
hard as fuck ta enforce consistently n' globally.
.PP
Az of Postfix version 2.5, dis feature is implemented by
\fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8).  With earlier versions dis feature was implemented
by \fBqmgr\fR(8) n' was limited ta recipient addresses only.
.SH allow_percent_hack (default: yes)
Enable tha rewritin of tha form "user%domain" ta "user@domain".
This is enabled by default.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address rewriting
happens only when one of tha followin conditions is true:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
allow_percent_hack = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH allow_untrusted_routin (default: no)
Forward mail wit sender-specified routin (user[@%!]remote[@%!]site)
from untrusted clients ta destinations matchin $relay_domains.
.PP
By default, dis feature is turned off.  This closes a nasty open
relay loophole where a funky-ass backup MX host can be tricked tha fuck into forwarding
junk mail ta a primary MX host which then spams it up ta tha ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass.
.PP
This parameta also controls if non-local addresses wit sender-specified
routin can match Postfix access tables. By default, such addresses
cannot match Postfix access tables, cuz tha address be ambiguous.
.SH alternate_config_directories (default: empty)
A list of non-default Postfix configuration directories dat may
be specified wit "-c config_directory" on tha command line, or
via tha MAIL_CONFIG environment parameter.
.PP
This list must be specified up in tha default Postfix configuration
directory, n' is used by set-gid Postfix commandz like fuckin \fBpostqueue\fR(1)
and \fBpostdrop\fR(1).
.SH always_add_missing_headaz (default: no)
Always add (Resent-) From:, To:, Date: or Message-ID: headers
when not present.  Postfix 2.6 n' lata add these headaz only
when clients match tha local_header_rewrite_clients parameter
setting.  Earlier Postfix versions always add these headers; this
may break DKIM signatures dat cover non-existent headers.
.SH always_bcc (default: empty)
Optionizzle address dat receives a "blind carbon copy" of each message
that is received by tha Postfix mail system.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.3 n' lata tha BCC address be added as if it
was specified wit NOTIFY=NONE. Da sender aint gonna be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable, as long as all down-stream
software implements RFC 3461.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.2 n' earlier tha sender is ghon be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable.
.PP
Note: automatic BCC recipients is produced only fo' freshly smoked up mail.
To avoid maila loops, automatic BCC recipients is not generated
afta Postfix forwardz mail internally, or afta Postfix generates
mail itself.
.SH anvil_rate_time_unit (default: 60s)
Da time unit over which client connection rates n' other rates
are calculated.
.PP
This feature is implemented by tha \fBanvil\fR(8) steez which be available
in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Da default interval is relatively short. Because of tha high
frequency of thugged-out shit, tha \fBanvil\fR(8) server uses volatile memory
only. Thus, shiznit is lost whenever tha process terminates.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH anvil_status_update_time (default: 600s)
How tha fuck frequently tha \fBanvil\fR(8) connection n' rate limitin server
logs peak usage shiznit.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH append_at_myorigin (default: yes)
With locally submitted mail, append tha strang "@$myorigin" ta mail
addresses without domain shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With remotely submitted mail,
append tha strang "@$remote_header_rewrite_domain" instead.
.PP
Note 1: dis feature is enabled by default n' must not be turned off.
Postfix do not support domain-less addresses.
.PP
Note 2: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address rewriting
happens only when one of tha followin conditions is true:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.SH append_dot_mydomain (default: yes)
With locally submitted mail, append tha strang ".$mydomain" to
addresses dat have no ".domain" shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With remotely submitted
mail, append tha strang ".$remote_header_rewrite_domain"
instead.
.PP
Note 1: dis feature is enabled by default. If disabled, playas aint gonna be
able ta bust mail ta "user@partialdomainname" but gonna git to
specify full domain names instead.
.PP
Note 2: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address rewriting
happens only when one of tha followin conditions is true:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.SH application_event_drain_time (default: 100s)
How tha fuck long tha \fBpostkick\fR(1) command waits fo' a request ta enta the
Postfix daemon process input buffer before givin up.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH authorized_flush_users (default: static:mah playas)
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta flush tha queue.
.PP
By default, all playas is allowed ta flush tha queue.  Access is
always granted if tha invokin user is tha super-user or the
$mail_balla user n' shit.  Otherwise, tha real UID of tha process is looked
up up in tha system password file, n' access is granted only if the
correspondin login name is on tha access list.  Da username
"unknown" is used fo' processes whose real UID aint found up in the
password file.
.PP
Specify a list of user names, "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Da list is matched left to
right, n' tha search stops on tha straight-up original gangsta match fo' realz. A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced
by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table is matched when a name
matches a lookup key (the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long
lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern"
to exclude a name from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported
only up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH authorized_mailq_users (default: static:mah playas)
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta view tha queue.
.PP
By default, all playas is allowed ta view tha queue.  Access is
always granted if tha invokin user is tha super-user or the
$mail_balla user n' shit.  Otherwise, tha real UID of tha process is looked
up up in tha system password file, n' access is granted only if the
correspondin login name is on tha access list.  Da username
"unknown" is used fo' processes whose real UID aint found up in the
password file.
.PP
Specify a list of user names, "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Da list is matched left to
right, n' tha search stops on tha straight-up original gangsta match fo' realz. A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced
by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table is matched when a name
matches a lookup key (the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long
lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern"
to exclude a user name from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is
supported only up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH authorized_submit_users (default: static:mah playas)
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta submit mail wit tha \fBsendmail\fR(1)
command (and wit tha privileged \fBpostdrop\fR(1) helper command).
.PP
By default, all playas is allowed ta submit mail.  Otherwise, the
real UID of tha process is looked up in tha system password file,
and access is granted only if tha correspondin login name is on
the access list.  Da username "unknown" is used fo' processes
whose real UID aint found up in tha password file. To deny mail
submission access ta all playas specify a empty list.
.PP
Specify a list of user names, "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Da list is matched left ta right,
and tha search stops on tha straight-up original gangsta match fo' realz. A "/file/name" pattern is
replaced by its contents;
a "type:table" lookup table is matched when a name matches a lookup key
(the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long lines by startin the
next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a user
name from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only in
Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
authorized_submit_users = !www, static:all
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH authorized_verp_clients (default: $mynetworks)
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta specify tha XVERP command.
This command requests dat mail be served up one recipient at a
time wit a per recipient return address.
.PP
By default, only trusted clients is allowed ta specify XVERP.
.PP
This parameta was introduced wit Postfix version 1.1.  Postfix
version 2.1 renamed dis parameta ta smtpd_authorized_verp_clients
and chizzled tha default ta none.
.PP
Specify a list of network/netmask patterns, separated by commas
and/or whitespace. Da mask specifies tha number of bits up in the
network part of a host address. Yo ass can also specify hostnames or
\&.domain names (the initial dot causes tha domain ta match any name
below it),  "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns.  A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table
is matched when a table entry matches a lookup strang (the lookup
result is ignored).  Continue long lines by startin tha next line
with whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only in
Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha authorized_verp_clients value, n' up in files
specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain the
":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.SH backwards_bounce_logfile_compatibilitizzle (default: yes)
Produce additionizzle \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile recordz dat can be read by
Postfix versions before 2.0. Da current n' mo' extensible "name =
value" format is needed up in order ta implement mo' sophisticated
functionality.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH berkeley_db_create_buffer_size (default: 16777216)
Da per-table I/O buffer size fo' programs dat create Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.  Specify a funky-ass byte count.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH berkeley_db_read_buffer_size (default: 131072)
Da per-table I/O buffer size fo' programs dat read Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.  Specify a funky-ass byte count.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH best_mx_transhiznit (default: empty)
Where tha Postfix SMTP client should serve up mail when it detects
a "mail loops back ta mah dirty ass" error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This happens when
the local MTA is tha dopest SMTP mail exchanger fo' a thugged-out destination
not listed up in $mydestination, $inet_interfaces, $proxy_interfaces,
$virtual_alias_domains, or $virtual_mailbox_domains.  By default,
the Postfix SMTP client returns such mail as undeliverable.
.PP
Specify, fo' example, "best_mx_transhiznit = local" ta pass tha mail
from tha Postfix SMTP client ta tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent. You
can specify
any message delivery "transport" or "transport:nexthop" dat is
defined up in tha master.cf file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBtransport\fR(5) manual page
for tha syntax n' meanin of "transport" or "transport:nexthop".
.PP
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis feature is high-rollin' cuz it tizzles up a Postfix
SMTP client process while tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent is bustin its
work. Well shiiiit, it is mo' efficient (for Postfix) ta list all hosted domains
in a table or database.
.SH biff (default: yes)
Whether or not ta use tha local biff service.  This steez sends
"new mail" notifications ta playas whoz ass have axed freshly smoked up mail
notification wit tha UNIX command "biff y".
.PP
For compatibilitizzle reasons dis feature is on by default.  On systems
with fuckin shitloadz of interactizzle users, tha biff steez can be a performance
drain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Specify "biff = no" up in main.cf ta disable.
.SH body_checks (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection as specified in
the \fBbody_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix versions before 2.0, these rulez inspect
all content afta tha primary message headers.
.SH body_checks_size_limit (default: 51200)
How tha fuck much text up in a message body segment (or attachment, if you
prefer ta use dat term) is subjected ta body_checks inspection.
Da amount of text is limited ta avoid scannin big-ass attachments.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH bounce_notice_recipient (default: postmaster)
Da recipient of postmasta notifications wit tha message headers
of mail dat Postfix did not serve up n' of SMTP conversation
transcriptz of mail dat Postfix did not receive.  This feature is
enabled wit tha notify_classes parameter.
.SH bounce_queue_lifetime (default: 5d)
Consider a funky-ass bounce message as undeliverable, when delivery fails
with a temporary error, n' tha time up in tha queue has reached the
bounce_queue_lifetime limit.  By default, dis limit is tha same
as fo' regular mail.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is d (days).
.PP
Specify 0 when mail delivery should be tried only once.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH bounce_service_name (default: bounce)
Da name of tha \fBbounce\fR(8) service. This steez maintains a record
of failed delivery attempts n' generates non-delivery notifications.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH bounce_size_limit (default: 50000)
Da maximal amount of original gangsta message text dat is busted up in a
non-delivery notification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a funky-ass byte count.  A message is
returned as either message/rfc822 (the complete original) or as
text/rfc822-headaz (the headaz only).  With Postfix version 2.4
and earlier, a message be always returned as message/rfc822 n' is
truncated when it exceedz tha size limit.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
If you increase dis limit, then you should increase the
mime_nesting_limit value proportionally.
.IP \(bu
Be careful when makin chizzles.  Excessively big-ass joints
will result up in tha loss of non-delivery notifications, when a funky-ass bounce
message size exceedz a local or remote MTAz message size limit.
.br
.SH bounce_template_file (default: empty)
Pathname of a cold-ass lil configuration file wit bounce message templates.
These override tha built-in templatez of delivery status notification
(DSN) lyrics fo' undeliverable mail, fo' delayed mail, successful
delivery, or delivery verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da \fBbounce\fR(5) manual page
raps bout how tha fuck ta edit n' test template files.
.PP
Template message body text may contain $name references to
Postfix configuration parameters. Da result of $name expansion can
be peepshowed wit "\fBpostconf -b \fIfile_name\fR\fR" before tha file
is placed tha fuck into tha Postfix configuration directory.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH broken_sasl_auth_clients (default: no)
Enable inter-operabilitizzle wit remote SMTP clients dat implement a obsolete
version of tha AUTH command (RFC 4954). Examplez of such clients
are MicroSoft Outlook Express version 4 n' MicroSoft Exchange
version 5.0.
.PP
Specify "broken_sasl_auth_clients = yes" ta have Postfix advertise
AUTH support up in a non-standard way.
.SH canonical_classes (default: envelope_sender, envelope_recipient, header_sender, header_recipient)
What addresses is subject ta canonical_maps address mapping.
By default, canonical_maps address mappin be applied ta envelope
sender n' recipient addresses, n' ta header sender n' header
recipient addresses.
.PP
Specify one or mo' of: envelope_sender, envelope_recipient,
header_sender, header_recipient
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH canonical_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' message headaz and
envelopes. Da mappin be applied ta both sender n' recipient
addresses, up in both envelopes n' up in headers, as controlled
with tha canonical_classes parameter n' shit. This is typically used
to clean up dirty addresses from legacy mail systems, or ta replace
login names by Firstname.Lastname.  Da table format n' lookups
are documented up in \fBcanonical\fR(5). For a overview of Postfix address
manipulations peep tha ADDRESS_REWRITING_README document.
.PP
If you use dis feature, run "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/canonical\fR" to
build tha necessary DBM or DB file afta every last muthafuckin chizzle. Da chizzles
will become visible afta a minute or so.  Use "\fBpostfix reload\fR"
to eliminizzle tha delay.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address mapping
happens only when message header address rewritin is enabled:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
canonical_maps = dbm:/etc/postfix/canonical
canonical_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/canonical
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH cleanup_service_name (default: cleanup)
Da name of tha \fBcleanup\fR(8) service. This steez rewrites addresses
into tha standard form, n' performs \fBcanonical\fR(5) address mapping
and \fBvirtual\fR(5) aliasing.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH command_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da location of all postfix administratizzle commands.
.SH command_execution_directory (default: empty)
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent hustlin directory fo' delivery to
external command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Failure ta chizzle directory causes tha delivery
to be deferred.
.PP
Da followin $name expansions is done on command_execution_directory
before tha directory is chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Expansion happens up in tha context
of tha delivery request.  Da result of $name expansion is filtered
with tha characta set dat is specified wit the
execution_directory_expansion_filta parameter.
.IP "\fB$user\fR"
Da recipientz username.
.br
.IP "\fB$shell\fR"
Da recipientz login shell pathname.
.br
.IP "\fB$home\fR"
Da recipientz home directory.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient\fR"
Da full recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fB$extension\fR"
Da optionizzle recipient address extension.
.br
.IP "\fB$domain\fR"
Da recipient domain.
.br
.IP "\fB$local\fR"
Da entire recipient localpart.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient_delimiter\fR"
Da system-wide recipient address extension delimiter.
.br
.IP "\fB${name?value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR is non-empty.
.br
.IP "\fB${name:value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR is empty.
.br
.br
.PP
Instead of $name you can also specify ${name} or $(name).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH command_expansion_filta (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows in
$name expansionz of $mailbox_command n' $command_execution_directory.
Charactas outside the
allowed set is replaced by underscores.
.SH command_time_limit (default: 1000s)
Time limit fo' delivery ta external commands. This limit is used
by tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent, n' is tha default time limit for
delivery by tha \fBpipe\fR(8) delivery agent.
.PP
Note: if you set dis time limit ta a big-ass value you must update the
global ipc_timeout parameta as well.
.SH config_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files. This can be overruled via tha following
mechanisms:
.IP \(bu
Da MAIL_CONFIG environment variable (daemon processes
and commands).
.IP \(bu
Da "-c" command-line option (commandz only).
.br
.PP
With Postfix command dat run wit set-gid privileges, a
config_directory override requires either root privileges, or it
requires dat tha directory is listed wit tha alternate_config_directories
parameta up in tha default main.cf file.
.SH connection_cache_protocol_timeout (default: 5s)
Time limit fo' connection cache connect, bust or receive
operations.  Da time limit is enforced up in tha client.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH connection_cache_service_name (default: scache)
Da name of tha \fBscache\fR(8) connection cache service.  This service
maintains a limited pool of cached sessions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH connection_cache_status_update_time (default: 600s)
How tha fuck frequently tha \fBscache\fR(8) server logs usage statistics with
connection cache hit n' miss rates fo' logical destinations n' for
physical endpoints.
.SH connection_cache_ttl_limit (default: 2s)
Da maximal time-to-live value dat tha \fBscache\fR(8) connection
cache server
allows. Requests dat specify a larger TTL is ghon be stored wit the
maximum allowed TTL. Da purpose of dis additionizzle control is to
protect tha infrastructure against careless people. Da cache TTL
is already bounded by $max_idle.
.SH content_filta (default: empty)
Afta tha message is queued, bust tha entire message ta the
specified \fItransport:destination\fR. Da \fItransport\fR name
specifies tha straight-up original gangsta field of a mail delivery agent definizzle in
master.cf; tha syntax of tha next-hop \fIdestination\fR is busted lyrics about
in tha manual page of tha correspondin delivery agent.  Mo'
information bout external content filtas is up in tha Postfix
FILTER_README file.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
This settin has lower precedence than a FILTER action
that is specified up in a \fBaccess\fR(5), \fBheader_checks\fR(5) or \fBbody_checks\fR(5)
table.
.IP \(bu
Da meanin of a empty next-hop filta \fIdestination\fR
is version dependent.  Postfix 2.7 n' lata will use tha recipient
domain; earlier versions will use $myhostname.  Specify
"default_filter_nexthop = $myhostname" fo' compatibilitizzle wit Postfix
2.6 or earlier, or specify a cold-ass lil content_filta value wit a explicit
next-hop \fIdestination\fR.
.br
.SH cyrus_sasl_config_path (default: empty)
Search path fo' Cyrus SASL application configuration files,
currently used only ta locate tha $smtpd_sasl_path.conf file.
Specify zero or mo' directories separated by a cold-ass lil colon character,
or a empty value ta use Cyrus SASLz built-in search path.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' lata when compiled
with Cyrus SASL 2.1.22 or later.
.SH daemon_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da directory wit Postfix support programs n' daemon programs.
These should not be invoked directly by humans. Da directory must
be owned by root.
.SH daemon_table_open_error_is_fatal (default: no)
How tha fuck a Postfix daemon process handlez errors while openin lookup
tables: gradual degradation or immediate termination.
.IP "\fB no \fR (default)"
Gradual degradation: a
daemon process logs a message of type "error" n' continues execution
with reduced functionality. Features dat do not depend on the
unavailable table will work normally, while features dat depend
on tha table will result up in a type "warning" message.
.br
When
the notify_classes parameta value gotz nuff tha "data" class, the
Postfix SMTP server n' client will report transcriptz of sessions
with a error cuz a table is unavailable.
.br
.IP "\fB yeaaaa \fR (historical behavior)"
Immediate
termination: a thugged-out daemon process logs a type "fatal" message and
terminates immediately.  This option reduces tha number of possible
code paths all up in Postfix, n' may therefore be slightly more
secure than tha default.
.br
.br
.PP
For tha sake of sanity, tha number of type "error" lyrics is
limited ta 13 over tha gametime of a thugged-out daemon process.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH daemon_timeout (default: 18000s)
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH data_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da directory wit Postfix-writable data filez (for example:
caches, pseudo-random numbers).  This directory must be owned by
the mail_balla account, n' must not be shared wit non-Postfix
software.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH debug_peer_level (default: 2)
Da increment up in verbose loggin level when a remote client or
server matches a pattern up in tha debug_peer_list parameter.
.SH debug_peer_list (default: empty)
Optionizzle list of remote client or server hostname or network
address patterns dat cause tha verbose loggin level ta increase
by tha amount specified up in $debug_peer_level.
.PP
Specify domain names, network/netmask patterns, "/file/name"
patterns or "type:table" lookup tables. Da right-hand side result
from "type:table" lookups is ignored.
.PP
Pattern matchin of domain names is controlled by the
parent_domain_matches_subdomains parameter.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
debug_peer_list = 127.0.0.1
debug_peer_list = example.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH debugger_command (default: empty)
Da external command ta execute when a Postfix daemon program is
invoked wit tha -D option.
.PP
Use "command .. & chill 5" so dat tha debugger can attach before
the process marches on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use a X-based debugger, be shizzle to
set up yo' XAUTHORITY environment variable before startin Postfix.
.PP
Note: tha command is subject ta $name expansion, before it is
passed ta tha default commmand interpreter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "$$" to
produce a single "$" character.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
debugger_command =
    PATH=/usr/bin:/usr/X11R6/bin
    ddd $daemon_directory/$process_name $process_id & chill 5
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH default_database_type (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da default database type fo' use up in \fBnewaliases\fR(1), \fBpostalias\fR(1)
and \fBpostmap\fR(1) commands. On nuff UNIX systems tha default type is
either \fBdbm\fR or \fBhash\fR. Da default settin is frozen
when tha Postfix system is built.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
default_database_type = hash
default_database_type = dbm
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH default_delivery_slot_cost (default: 5)
How tha fuck often tha Postfix queue managerz schedula be allowed to
preempt delivery of one message wit another.
.PP
Each transhiznit maintains a so-called "available delivery slot counter"
for each message. One message can be preempted by another one when
the other message can be served up rockin no mo' delivery slots
(i.e., invocationz of delivery agents) than tha current message
counta has accumulated (or will eventually accumulate - peep about
slot loans below). This parameta controls how tha fuck often is tha counter
incremented - it happens afta each default_delivery_slot_cost
recipients done been delivered.
.PP
Da cost of 0 is used ta disable tha preemptin schedulin straight-up.
Da minimum value tha schedulin algorithm can use is 2 - use it
if you wanna maximize tha message throughput rate fo' realz. Although there
is no maximum, it don't make much sense ta use joints above say
50.
.PP
Da only reason why tha value of 2 aint tha default is tha way
this parameta affects tha delivery of mailing-list mail. In the
worst case, they delivery can take somewhere between (cost+1/cost)
and (cost/cost-1) times mo' than if tha preemptizzle schedula was
disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default value of 5 turns up ta provide reasonable
message response times while makin shizzle tha mailing-list deliveries
are not extended by mo' than 20-25 cement even up in da most thugged-out shitty case.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_cost ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
default_delivery_slot_cost = 0
default_delivery_slot_cost = 2
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH default_delivery_slot_discount (default: 50)
Da default value fo' transport-specific _delivery_slot_discount
settings.
.PP
This parameta speedz up tha moment when a message preemption can
happen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Instead of waitin until tha full amount of delivery slots
required be available, tha preemption can happen when
transport_delivery_slot_discount cement of tha required amount
plus transport_delivery_slot_loan still remains ta be accumulated.
Note dat tha full amount will still gotta be accumulated before
another preemption can take place later.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_discount ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_delivery_slot_loan (default: 3)
Da default value fo' transport-specific _delivery_slot_loan
settings.
.PP
This parameta speedz up tha moment when a message preemption can
happen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Instead of waitin until tha full amount of delivery slots
required be available, tha preemption can happen when
transport_delivery_slot_discount cement of tha required amount
plus transport_delivery_slot_loan still remains ta be accumulated.
Note dat tha full amount will still gotta be accumulated before
another preemption can take place later.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_loan ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit (default: 1)
How tha fuck nuff pseudo-cohorts must suffer connection or handshake
failure before a specific destination is considered unavailable
(and further delivery is suspended). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify zero ta disable this
feature fo' realz. A destinationz pseudo-cohort failure count is reset each
time a thugged-out delivery completes without connection or handshake failure
for dat specific destination.
.PP
A pseudo-cohort is tha number of deliveries equal ta a thugged-out destination's
delivery concurrency.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit ta specify
a transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5. Da default setting
is compatible wit earlier Postfix versions.
.SH default_destination_concurrency_limit (default: 20)
Da default maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same
destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is tha default limit fo' delivery via tha \fBlmtp\fR(8),
\fBpipe\fR(8), \fBsmtp\fR(8) n' \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agents.
With per-destination recipient limit > 1, a thugged-out destination be a thugged-out domain,
otherwise it aint nuthin but a recipient.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_limit ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback (default: 1)
Da per-destination amount of delivery concurrency negative
feedback, afta a thugged-out delivery completes wit a cold-ass lil connection or handshake
failure. Feedback joints is up in tha range 0..1 inclusive. With
negatizzle feedback, concurrency is decremented all up in tha beginnin of
a sequence of length 1/feedback. This is unlike positizzle feedback,
where concurrency is incremented all up in tha end of a sequence of length
1/feedback.
.PP
Az of Postfix version 2.5, wack feedback cannot reduce
delivery concurrency ta zero.  Instead, a thugged-out destination is marked
dead (further delivery suspended) afta tha failed pseudo-cohort
count reaches $default_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit
(or $\fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit).
To make tha schedula straight-up immune ta connection or handshake
failures, specify a zero feedback value n' a zero failed pseudo-cohort
limit.
.PP
Specify one of tha followin forms:
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR \fR"
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR / \fInumber\fR \fR"
Constant feedback. Da value must be up in tha range 0..1 inclusive.
Da default settin of "1" is compatible wit Postfix versions
before 2.5, where a thugged-out destinationz delivery concurrency is throttled
down ta zero (and further delivery suspended) afta a single failed
pseudo-cohort.
.br
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR / concurrency \fR"
Variable feedback of "\fInumber\fR / (delivery concurrency)".
Da \fInumber\fR must be up in tha range 0..1 inclusive. With
\fInumber\fR equal ta "1", a thugged-out destinationz delivery concurrency
is decremented by 1 afta each failed pseudo-cohort.
.br
.br
.PP
A pseudo-cohort is tha number of deliveries equal ta a thugged-out destination's
delivery concurrency.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback
to specify a transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR
is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5. Da default setting
is compatible wit earlier Postfix versions.
.SH default_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback (default: 1)
Da per-destination amount of delivery concurrency positive
feedback, afta a thugged-out delivery completes without connection or handshake
failure. Feedback joints is up in tha range 0..1 inclusive.  The
concurrency increases until it reaches tha per-destination maximal
concurrency limit. With positizzle feedback, concurrency is incremented
at tha end of a sequence wit length 1/feedback. This is unlike
negatizzle feedback, where concurrency is decremented all up in tha start
of a sequence of length 1/feedback.
.PP
Specify one of tha followin forms:
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR \fR"
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR / \fInumber\fR \fR"
Constant feedback.  Da value must be up in tha range 0..1
inclusive. Da default settin of "1" is compatible wit Postfix
versions before 2.5, where a thugged-out destinationz delivery concurrency
doublez afta each successful pseudo-cohort.
.br
.IP "\fB\fInumber\fR / concurrency \fR"
Variable feedback of "\fInumber\fR / (delivery concurrency)".
Da \fInumber\fR must be up in tha range 0..1 inclusive. With
\fInumber\fR equal ta "1", a thugged-out destinationz delivery concurrency
is incremented by 1 afta each successful pseudo-cohort.
.br
.br
.PP
A pseudo-cohort is tha number of deliveries equal ta a thugged-out destination's
delivery concurrency.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback
to specify a transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR
is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH default_destination_rate_delay (default: 0s)
Da default amount of delay dat is banged between individual
deliveries ta tha same destination; tha resultin behavior depends
on tha value of tha correspondin per-destination recipient limit.
.IP \(bu
With a cold-ass lil correspondin per-destination recipient limit >
1, tha rate delay specifies tha time between deliveries ta the
\fIsame domain\fR.  Different domains is served up in parallel,
subject ta tha process limits specified up in master.cf.
.IP \(bu
With a cold-ass lil correspondin per-destination recipient limit equal
to 1, tha rate delay specifies tha time between deliveries ta the
\fIsame recipient\fR. Different recipients is served up in
parallel, subject ta tha process limits specified up in master.cf.
.br
.PP
To enable tha delay, specify a non-zero time value (an integral
value plus a optionizzle one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time
unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks). Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
NOTE: tha delay is enforced by tha queue manager n' shit. Da delay
timer state do not survive "\fBpostfix reload\fR" or "\fBpostfix
stop\fR".
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_rate_delay ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
NOTE: wit a non-zero _destination_rate_delay, specify a
\fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit of 10
or mo' ta prevent Postfix from deferrin all mail fo' tha same
destination afta only one connection or handshake error.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH default_destination_recipient_limit (default: 50)
Da default maximal number of recipients per message delivery.
This is tha default limit fo' delivery via tha \fBlmtp\fR(8), \fBpipe\fR(8),
\fBsmtp\fR(8) n' \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agents.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value of 1 affects email deliveries
as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
It chizzlez tha meanin of tha correspondin per-destination
concurrency limit, from concurrency of deliveries ta tha \fIsame
domain\fR tha fuck into concurrency of deliveries ta tha \fIsame recipient\fR.
Different recipients is served up in parallel, subject ta the
process limits specified up in master.cf.
.IP \(bu
It chizzlez tha meanin of tha correspondin per-destination
rate delay, from tha delay between deliveries ta tha \fIsame
domain\fR tha fuck into tha delay between deliveries ta tha \fIsame
recipient\fR.  Again, different recipients is served up in parallel,
subject ta tha process limits specified up in master.cf.
.IP \(bu
It chizzlez tha meanin of other correspondin per-destination
settings up in a similar manner, from settings fo' delivery ta the
\fIsame domain\fR tha fuck into settings fo' delivery ta tha \fIsame
recipient\fR.
.br
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_destination_recipient_limit ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_extra_recipient_limit (default: 1000)
Da default value fo' tha extra per-transhiznit limit imposed on the
number of in-memory recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This extra recipient space is
reserved fo' tha cases when tha Postfix queue managerz scheduler
preempts one message wit another n' suddenly needz some extra
recipients slots fo' tha chosen message up in order ta avoid performance
degradation.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_extra_recipient_limit ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_filter_nexthop (default: empty)
When a cold-ass lil content_filta or FILTER request specifies no explicit
next-hop destination, use $default_filter_nexthop instead; when
that value is empty, use tha domain up in tha recipient address.
Specify "default_filter_nexthop = $myhostname" fo' compatibility
with Postfix version 2.6 n' earlier, or specify a explicit next-hop
destination wit each content_filta value or FILTER action.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH default_minimum_delivery_slots (default: 3)
How tha fuck nuff recipients a message must have up in order ta invoke the
Postfix queue managerz schedulin algorithm at all.  Lyrics
which would never accumulate at least dis nuff delivery slots
(subject ta slot cost parameta as well) is never preempted.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_minimum_delivery_slots ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_privs (default: no muthafucka)
Da default muthafuckin rights used by tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent fo' delivery
to external file or command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  These muthafuckin rights is used when delivery
is axed from a \fBaliases\fR(5) file dat is owned by \fBroot\fR, or
when delivery is done on behalf of \fBroot\fR. \fBDO NOT SPECIFY A
PRIVILEGED USER OR THE POSTFIX OWNER\fR.
.SH default_process_limit (default: 100)
Da default maximal number of Postfix lil pimp processes dat provide
a given service. This limit can be overruled fo' specific skillz
in tha master.cf file.
.SH default_rbl_reply (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da default Postfix SMTP server response template fo' a request dat is
rejected by a RBL-based restriction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This template can be overruled
by specific entries up in tha optionizzle rbl_reply_maps lookup table.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.PP
Da template is subject ta exactly one level of $name substitution:
.IP "\fB$client\fR"
Da client hostname n' IP address, formatted as name[address].
.br
.IP "\fB$client_address\fR"
Da client IP address.
.br
.IP "\fB$client_name\fR"
Da client hostname or "unknown". Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See reject_unknown_client_hostname
for mo' details.
.br
.IP "\fB$reverse_client_name\fR"
Da client hostname from address->name lookup, or "unknown".
See reject_unknown_reverse_client_hostname fo' mo' details.
.br
.IP "\fB$helo_name\fR"
Da hostname given up in HELO or EHLO command or empty string.
.br
.IP "\fB$rbl_class\fR"
Da blacklisted entitizzle type: Client host, Helo command, Sender
address, or Recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fB$rbl_code\fR"
Da numerical SMTP response code, as specified wit the
maps_rbl_reject_code configuration parameter n' shit. Note: Da numerical
SMTP response code is required, n' must step tha fuck up all up in tha start of the
reply. With Postfix version 2.3 n' lata dis shiznit may be followed
by a RFC 3463 enhanced status code.
.br
.IP "\fB$rbl_domain\fR"
Da RBL domain where $rbl_what is blacklisted.
.br
.IP "\fB$rbl_reason\fR"
Da reason why $rbl_what is blacklisted, or a empty string.
.br
.IP "\fB$rbl_what\fR"
Da entitizzle dat is blacklisted (an IP address, a hostname, a thugged-out domain
name, or a email address whose domain was blacklisted).
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient\fR"
Da recipient address or <> up in case of tha null address.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient_domain\fR"
Da recipient domain or empty string.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient_name\fR"
Da recipient address localpart or <> up in case of null address.
.br
.IP "\fB$sender\fR"
Da sender address or <> up in case of tha null address.
.br
.IP "\fB$sender_domain\fR"
Da sender domain or empty string.
.br
.IP "\fB$sender_name\fR"
Da sender address localpart or <> up in case of tha null address.
.br
.IP "\fB${name?text}\fR"
Expandz ta `text' if $name aint empty.
.br
.IP "\fB${name:text}\fR"
Expandz ta `text' if $name is empty.
.br
.br
.PP
Instead of $name you can also specify ${name} or $(name).
.PP
Note: when a enhanced status code is specified up in a RBL reply
template, it is subject ta modification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da followin transformations
are needed when tha same RBL reply template is used fo' client,
helo, sender, or recipient access restrictions.
.IP \(bu
When rejectin a sender address, tha Postfix SMTP server
will transform a recipient DSN status (e.g., 4.1.1-4.1.6) tha fuck into the
correspondin sender DSN status, n' vice versa.
.IP \(bu
When rejectin non-address shiznit (like fuckin tha HELO
command argument or tha client hostname/address), tha Postfix SMTP
server will transform a sender or recipient DSN status tha fuck into a generic
non-address DSN status (e.g., 4.0.0).
.br
.SH default_recipient_limit (default: 20000)
Da default per-transhiznit upper limit on tha number of in-memory
recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  These limits take prioritizzle over tha global
qmgr_message_recipient_limit afta tha message has been assigned
to tha respectizzle transports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See also default_extra_recipient_limit
and qmgr_message_recipient_minimum.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_recipient_limit ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.SH default_recipient_refill_delay (default: 5s)
Da default per-transhiznit maximum delay between recipients refills.
When not all message recipients fit tha fuck into tha memory at once, keep loading
more of dem at least once every last muthafuckin dis nuff seconds.  This is used to
make shizzle tha recipients is refilled up in timely manner even when
$default_recipient_refill_limit is too high fo' too slow deliveries.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_recipient_refill_delay ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH default_recipient_refill_limit (default: 100)
Da default per-transhiznit limit on tha number of recipients refilled at
once.  When not all message recipients fit tha fuck into tha memory at once, keep
loadin mo' of dem up in batchez of at least dis nuff at a time.  See also
$default_recipient_refill_delay, which may result up in recipient batches
lower than dis when dis limit is too high fo' too slow deliveries.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_recipient_refill_limit ta specify a
transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transport.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH default_transhiznit (default: smtp)
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
destinations dat do not match $mydestination, $inet_interfaces,
$proxy_interfaces, $virtual_alias_domains, $virtual_mailbox_domains,
or $relay_domains.  This shiznit can be overruled wit the
sender_dependent_default_transport_maps parameta n' wit the
\fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
In order of decreasin precedence, tha nexthop destination is taken
from $sender_dependent_default_transport_maps, $default_transport,
$sender_dependent_relayhost_maps, $relayhost, or from tha recipient
domain.
.PP
Specify a strang of tha form \fItransport:nexthop\fR, where \fItransport\fR
is tha name of a mail delivery transhiznit defined up in master.cf.
Da \fI:nexthop\fR destination is optional; its syntax is documented
in tha manual page of tha correspondin delivery agent.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
default_transhiznit = uucp:relayhostname
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH default_verp_delimitas (default: +=)
Da two default VERP delimita characters. These is used when
no explicit delimitas is specified wit tha SMTP XVERP command
or wit tha "\fBsendmail -V\fR" command-line option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify
charactas dat is allowed by tha verp_delimiter_filta setting.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 1.1 n' later.
.SH defer_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is rejected by tha "defer" restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH defer_service_name (default: defer)
Da name of tha defer service. This steez is implemented by the
\fBbounce\fR(8) daemon n' maintains a record
of failed delivery attempts n' generates non-delivery notifications.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH defer_transports (default: empty)
Da namez of message delivery transports dat should not serve up mail
unless one of mah thugs thangs "\fBsendmail -q\fR" or equivalent. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify zero
or mo' namez of mail delivery transports names dat step tha fuck up in the
first field of master.cf.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
defer_transports = smtp
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH delay_logging_resolution_limit (default: 2)
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Specify a number up in tha range 0..6.
.PP
Big-Ass delay joints is rounded off ta a integral number seconds;
delay joints below tha delay_logging_resolution_limit is logged
as "0", n' lil' small-ass delay joints is logged wit at most two-digit
precision.
.PP
Da format of tha "delays=a/b/c/d" loggin be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
a = time from message arrival ta last actizzle queue entry
.IP \(bu
b = time from last actizzle queue entry ta connection setup
.IP \(bu
c = time up in connection setup, includin DNS, EHLO n' STARTTLS
.IP \(bu
d = time up in message transmission
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH delay_notice_recipient (default: postmaster)
Da recipient of postmasta notifications wit tha message headers
of mail dat cannot be served up within $delay_warning_time time
units.
.PP
See also: delay_warning_time, notify_classes.
.SH delay_warning_time (default: 0h)
Da time afta which tha sender receives a cold-ass lil copy of tha message
headaz of mail dat is still queued.
.PP
To enable dis feature, specify a non-zero time value (an integral
value plus a optionizzle one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time
unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is h (hours).
.PP
See also: delay_notice_recipient, notify_classes.
.SH deliver_lock_attempts (default: 20)
Da maximal number of attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.SH deliver_lock_delay (default: 1s)
Da time between attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH destination_concurrency_feedback_debug (default: no)
Make tha queue managerz feedback algorithm verbose fo' performance
analysis purposes.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH detect_8bit_encoding_header (default: yes)
Automatically detect 8BITMIME body content by lookin at
Content-Transfer-Encoding: message headers; historically, this
behavior was hard-coded ta be "always on".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH disable_dns_lookups (default: no)
Disable DNS lookups up in tha Postfix SMTP n' LMTP clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When
disabled, hosts is looked up wit tha getaddrinfo() system
library routine which normally also looks up in /etc/hosts.
.PP
DNS lookups is enabled by default.
.SH disable_mime_input_processin (default: no)
Turn off MIME processin while receivin mail. This means dat no
special treatment is given ta Content-Type: message headers, and
that all text afta tha initial message headaz is considered to
be part of tha message body.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.PP
Mime input processin is enabled by default, n' is needed up in order
to recognize MIME headaz up in message content.
.SH disable_mime_output_conversion (default: no)
Disable tha conversion of 8BITMIME format ta 7BIT format.  Mime
output conversion is needed when tha destination do not advertise
8BITMIME support.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH disable_verp_bounces (default: no)
Disable bustin  one bounce report per recipient.
.PP
Da default, one per recipient, is what tha fuck ezmlm needs.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 1.1 n' later.
.SH disable_vrfy_command (default: no)
Disable tha SMTP VRFY command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This stops some steez used to
harvest email addresses.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
disable_vrfy_command = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH dnsblog_reply_delay (default: 0s)
A debuggin aid ta artificially delay DNS responses.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH dnsblog_service_name (default: dnsblog)
Da name of tha \fBdnsblog\fR(8) steez entry up in master.cf. This
service performs DNS white/blacklist lookups.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH dont_remove (default: 0)
Don't remove queue filez n' save dem ta tha "saved" mail queue.
This be a thugged-out debuggin aid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To inspect tha envelope shiznit and
content of a Postfix queue file, use tha \fBpostcat\fR(1) command.
.SH double_bounce_sender (default: double-bounce)
Da sender address of postmasta notifications dat is generated
by tha mail system fo' realz. All mail ta dis address is silently discarded,
in order ta terminizzle mail bounce loops.
.SH duplicate_filter_limit (default: 1000)
Da maximal number of addresses remembered by tha address
duplicate filta fo' \fBaliases\fR(5) or \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias expansion, or
for \fBshowq\fR(8) queue displays.
.SH empty_address_default_transport_maps_lookup_key (default: <>)
Da sender_dependent_default_transport_maps search strang that
will be used instead of tha null sender address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH empty_address_recipient (default: MAILER-DAEMON)
Da recipient of mail addressed ta tha null address.  Postfix do
not accept such addresses up in SMTP commandz yo, but they may still be
created locally as tha result of configuration or software error.
.SH empty_address_relayhost_maps_lookup_key (default: <>)
Da sender_dependent_relayhost_maps search strang dat will be
used instead of tha null sender address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later n' shit. With
earlier versions, sender_dependent_relayhost_maps lookups were
skipped fo' tha null sender address.
.SH enable_errors_to (default: no)
Report mail delivery errors ta tha address specified wit the
non-standard Errors-To: message header, instead of tha envelope
sender address (this feature is removed wit Postfix version 2.2, is
turned off by default wit Postfix version 2.1, n' be always turned on
with olda Postfix versions).
.SH enable_long_queue_idz (default: no)
Enable long, non-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).  The
benefit of non-repeatin names is simpla logfile analysis and
easier queue migration (there is no need ta run "postsuper" to
change queue file names dat don't match they message file inode
number).
.PP
Note: peep below fo' how tha fuck ta prepare long queue file names
for migration ta Postfix <= 2.8.
.PP
Changin tha parameta value ta "yes" has tha followin effects:
.IP \(bu
Existin queue file names is not affected.
.IP \(bu
New queue filez is pimped wit names like fuckin 3Pt2mN2VXxznjll.
These is encoded up in a 52-characta alphabet dat gotz nuff digits
(0-9), upper-case lettas (B-Z) n' lower-case lettas (b-z). For
safety reasons tha vowels (AEIOUaeiou) is excluded from tha alphabet.
Da name format is: 6 or mo' charactas fo' tha time up in seconds,
4 charactas fo' tha time up in microseconds, tha 'z'; tha remainder
is tha file inode number encoded up in tha straight-up original gangsta 51 charactaz of the
52-characta alphabet.
.IP \(bu
New lyrics gotz a Message-ID header with
\fIqueueID\fR@\fImyhostname\fR.
.IP \(bu
Da mailq (postqueue -p) output has a wider Queue ID column.
Da number of whitespace-separated fieldz aint chizzled.
.IP \(bu
Da hash_queue_depth algorithm uses tha straight-up original gangsta characters
of tha queue file creation time up in microseconds, afta conversion
into hexadecimal representation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This produces tha same ol' dirty queue hashing
behavior as if tha queue file name was pimped wit "enable_long_queue_ids
= no".
.br
.PP
Changin tha parameta value ta "no" has tha followin effects:
.IP \(bu
Existin long queue file names is renamed ta tha short
form (while hustlin "postfix reload" or "postsuper").
.IP \(bu
New queue filez is pimped wit names like fuckin C3CD21F3E90
from a hexadecimal alphabet dat gotz nuff digits (0-9) n' upper-case
lettas (A-F). Da name format is: 5 charactas fo' tha time in
microseconds; tha remainder is tha file inode number.
.IP \(bu
New lyrics gotz a Message-ID header with
\fIYYYYMMDDHHMMSS.queueid\fR@\fImyhostname\fR, where
\fIYYYYMMDDHHMMSS\fR is tha year, month, day, hour, minute and
second.
.IP \(bu
Da mailq (postqueue -p) output has tha same ol' dirty format as
with Postfix <= 2.8.
.IP \(bu
Da hash_queue_depth algorithm uses tha straight-up original gangsta characters
of tha queue file name, wit tha hexadecimal representation of the
file creation time up in microseconds.
.br
.PP
Before migration ta Postfix <= 2.8, tha followin commands
are required ta convert long queue file names tha fuck into short names:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# postfix stop
# postconf enable_long_queue_ids=no
# postsuper
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
Repeat tha postsupa command until it reports no mo' queue file
name chizzles.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH enable_original_recipient (default: yes)
Enable support fo' tha X-Original-To message header n' shit. This header
is needed fo' multi-recipient mailboxes.
.PP
When dis parameta is set ta fo'sho, tha \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon performs
duplicate elimination on distinct pairz of (original gangsta recipient,
rewritten recipient), n' generates non-empty original gangsta recipient
queue file records.
.PP
When dis parameta is set ta no, tha \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon performs
duplicate elimination on tha rewritten recipient address only, and
generates empty original gangsta recipient queue file records.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later n' shit. With Postfix
version 2.0, support fo' tha X-Original-To message header be always turned
on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Postfix versions before 2.0 have no support fo' tha X-Original-To
message header.
.SH error_notice_recipient (default: postmaster)
Da recipient of postmasta notifications bout mail delivery
problems dat is caused by policy, resource, software or protocol
errors.  These notifications is enabled wit tha notify_classes
parameter.
.SH error_service_name (default: error)
Da name of tha \fBerror\fR(8) pseudo delivery agent. This steez always
returns mail as undeliverable.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH execution_directory_expansion_filta (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows
in $name expansionz of $command_execution_directory.  Characters
outside tha allowed set is replaced by underscores.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH expand_baller_alias (default: no)
When deliverin ta a alias "aliasname" dat has a "baller-aliasname"
companion alias, set tha envelope sender address ta tha expansion
of tha "baller-aliasname" alias. Normally, Postfix sets tha envelope
sender address ta tha name of tha "baller-aliasname" alias.
.SH export_environment (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da list of environment variablez dat a Postfix process will export
to non-Postfix processes. Da TZ variable is needed fo' sane
time keepin on System-V-ish systems.
.PP
Specify a list of names and/or name=value pairs, separated by
whitespace or comma. Da name=value form is supported with
Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
export_environment = TZ PATH=/bin:/usr/bin
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH extract_recipient_limit (default: 10240)
Da maximal number of recipient addresses dat Postfix will extract
from message headaz when mail is submitted wit "\fBsendmail -t\fR".
.PP
This feature was removed up in Postfix version 2.1.
.SH fallback_relay (default: empty)
Optionizzle list of relay hosts fo' SMTP destinations dat can't be
found or dat is unreachable. With Postfix 2.3 dis parameter
is renamed ta smtp_fallback_relay.
.PP
By default, mail is moonwalked back ta tha sender when a thugged-out destination is
not found, n' delivery is deferred when a thugged-out destination is unreachable.
.PP
Da fallback relays must be SMTP destinations. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a thugged-out domain,
host, host:port, [host]:port, [address] or [address]:port; tha form
[host] turns off MX lookups.  If you specify multiple SMTP
destinations, Postfix will try dem up in tha specified order.
.PP
Note: before Postfix 2.2, do not use tha fallback_relay feature
when relayin mail
for a funky-ass backup or primary MX domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Mail would loop between the
Postfix MX host n' tha fallback_relay host when tha final destination
is unavailable.
.IP \(bu
In main.cf specify "relay_transhiznit = relay",
.IP \(bu
In master.cf specify "-o fallback_relay =" (i.e., empty) at
the end of tha relay entry.
.IP \(bu
In transhiznit maps, specify "relay:\fInexthop...\fR"
as tha right-hand side fo' backup or primary MX domain entries.
.br
.PP
Postfix version 2.2 n' lata aint gonna use tha fallback_relay feature
for destinations dat it is MX host for.
.SH fallback_transhiznit (default: empty)
Optionizzle message delivery transhiznit dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent should use fo' names dat is not found up in tha \fBaliases\fR(5)
or UNIX password database.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.SH fallback_transport_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient message delivery
transports fo' recipients dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent could
not find up in tha \fBaliases\fR(5) or UNIX password database.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.PP
For safety reasons, dis feature do not allow $number
substitutions up in regular expression maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH fast_flush_domains (default: $relay_domains)
Optionizzle list of destinations dat is eligible fo' per-destination
logfilez wit mail dat is queued ta dem destinations.
.PP
By default, Postfix maintains "fast flush" logfilez only for
destinations dat tha Postfix SMTP server is willin ta relay to
(i.e. tha default is: "fast_flush_domains = $relay_domains"; see
the relay_domains parameta up in tha \fBpostconf\fR(5) manual).
.PP
Specify a list of hosts or domains, "/file/name" patterns or
"type:table" lookup tables, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace fo' realz. A
"/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table"
lookup table is matched when tha domain or its parent domain appears
as lookup key.
.PP
Specify "fast_flush_domains =" (i.e., empty) ta disable tha feature
altogether.
.SH fast_flush_purge_time (default: 7d)
Da time afta which a empty per-destination "fast flush" logfile
is deleted.
.PP
Yo ass can specify tha time as a number, or as a number followed by
a letta dat indicates tha time unit: s=seconds, m=minutes, h=hours,
d=days, w=weeks.  Da default time unit is days.
.SH fast_flush_refresh_time (default: 12h)
Da time afta which a non-empty but unread per-destination "fast
flush" logfile need ta be refreshed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da contentz of a logfile
are refreshed by requestin delivery of all lyrics listed up in the
logfile.
.PP
Yo ass can specify tha time as a number, or as a number followed by
a letta dat indicates tha time unit: s=seconds, m=minutes, h=hours,
d=days, w=weeks.  Da default time unit is hours.
.SH fault_injection_code (default: 0)
Force specific internal tests ta fail, ta test tha handlin of
errors dat is hard as fuck ta reproduce otherwise.
.SH flush_service_name (default: flush)
Da name of tha \fBflush\fR(8) service. This steez maintains per-destination
logfilez wit tha queue file namez of mail dat is queued fo' them
destinations.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH fork_attempts (default: 5)
Da maximal number of attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.SH fork_delay (default: 1s)
Da delay between attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).  Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH forward_expansion_filta (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows in
$name expansionz of $forward_path.  Charactas outside the
allowed set is replaced by underscores.
.SH forward_path (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent search list fo' findin a .forward
file wit user-specified delivery methods. Da first file dat is
found is used.
.PP
Da followin $name expansions is done on forward_path before
the search straight-up happens. Da result of $name expansion is
filtered wit tha characta set dat is specified wit the
forward_expansion_filta parameter.
.IP "\fB$user\fR"
Da recipientz username.
.br
.IP "\fB$shell\fR"
Da recipientz login shell pathname.
.br
.IP "\fB$home\fR"
Da recipientz home directory.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient\fR"
Da full recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fB$extension\fR"
Da optionizzle recipient address extension.
.br
.IP "\fB$domain\fR"
Da recipient domain.
.br
.IP "\fB$local\fR"
Da entire recipient localpart.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient_delimiter\fR"
Da system-wide recipient address extension delimiter.
.br
.IP "\fB${name?value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR is non-empty.
.br
.IP "\fB${name:value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR is empty.
.br
.br
.PP
Instead of $name you can also specify ${name} or $(name).
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
forward_path = /var/forward/$user
forward_path =
    /var/forward/$user/.forward$recipient_delimiter$extension,
    /var/forward/$user/.forward
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH frozen_delivered_to (default: yes)
Update tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agentz scam of tha Delivered-To:
address (see prepend_delivered_header) only once, all up in tha start of
a delivery attempt; do not update tha Delivered-To: address while
expandin aliases or .forward files.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later n' shit. With older
Postfix releases, tha behavior be as if dis parameta is set to
"no". Da oldschool settin can be high-rollin' wit deeply nested aliases
or .forward files. When a alias or .forward file chizzlez the
Delivered-To: address, it tizzles up one queue file n' one cleanup
process instizzle while mail is bein forwarded.
.SH hash_queue_depth (default: 1)
Da number of subdirectory levels fo' queue directories listed with
the hash_queue_names parameter n' shit. Queue hashin is implemented by
bustin one or mo' levelz of directories wit one-characta names.
Originally, these directory names was equal ta tha straight-up original gangsta characters
of tha queue file name, wit tha hexadecimal representation of the
file creation time up in microseconds.
.PP
With long queue file names, queue hashin produces tha same
results as wit short names. Da file creation time up in microseconds
is converted tha fuck into hexadecimal form before tha result is used for
queue hashing.  Da base 16 encodin gives finer control over the
number of subdirectories than is possible wit tha base 52 encoding
of long queue file names.
.PP
Afta changin tha hash_queue_names or hash_queue_depth parameter,
execute tha command "\fBpostfix reload\fR".
.SH hash_queue_names (default: deferred, defer)
Da namez of queue directories dat is split across multiple
subdirectory levels.
.PP
Before Postfix version 2.2, tha default list of hashed queues
was hella larger n' shit. Claims bout improvements up in file system
technologizzle suggest dat hashin of tha incomin n' actizzle queues
is no longer needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Fewer hashed directories speed up tha time
needed ta restart Postfix.
.PP
Afta changin tha hash_queue_names or hash_queue_depth parameter,
execute tha command "\fBpostfix reload\fR".
.SH header_address_token_limit (default: 10240)
Da maximal number of address tokens is allowed up in a address
message header n' shiznit yo. Hype dat exceedz tha limit is discarded.
Da limit is enforced by tha \fBcleanup\fR(8) server.
.SH header_checks (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of primary non-MIME
message headers, as specified up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.SH header_size_limit (default: 102400)
Da maximal amount of memory up in bytes fo' storin a message header.
If a header is larger, tha excess is discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da limit is
enforced by tha \fBcleanup\fR(8) server.
.SH helpful_warnings (default: yes)
Log warnings bout problematic configuration settings, n' provide
helpful suggestions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH home_mailbox (default: empty)
Optionizzle pathname of a mailbox file relatizzle ta a \fBlocal\fR(8) user's
home directory.
.PP
Specify a pathname endin up in "/" fo' qmail-style delivery.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
home_mailbox = Mailbox
home_mailbox = Maildir/
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH hopcount_limit (default: 50)
Da maximal number of Received:  message headaz dat be allowed
in tha primary message headaz fo' realz. A message dat exceedz tha limit
is bounced, up in order ta stop a maila loop.
.SH html_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da location of Postfix HTML filez dat describe how tha fuck ta build,
configure or operate a specific Postfix subsystem or feature.
.SH ignore_mx_lookup_error (default: no)
Ignore DNS MX lookups dat produce no response.  By default,
the Postfix SMTP client defers delivery n' tries again n' again n' again afta some
delay.  This behavior is required by tha SMTP standard.
.PP
Specify "ignore_mx_lookup_error = yes" ta force a DNS A record
lookup instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This violates tha SMTP standard n' can result in
mis-delivery of mail.
.SH import_environment (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process. Examplez of relevant
parameters:
.IP "\fBTZ\fR"
Needed fo' sane time keepin on most System-V-ish systems.
.br
.IP "\fBDISPLAY\fR"
Needed fo' debuggin Postfix daemons wit a X-windows debugger.
.br
.IP "\fBXAUTHORITY\fR"
Needed fo' debuggin Postfix daemons wit a X-windows debugger.
.br
.IP "\fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR"
Needed ta make "\fBpostfix -c\fR" work.
.br
.br
.PP
Specify a list of names and/or name=value pairs, separated by
whitespace or comma. Da name=value form is supported with
Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.SH in_flow_delay (default: 1s)
Time ta pause before acceptin a freshly smoked up message, when tha message
arrival rate exceedz tha message delivery rate. This feature is
turned on by default (itz disabled on SCO UNIX cuz of a SCO bug).
.PP
With tha default 100 Postfix SMTP server process limit, "in_flow_delay
= 1s" limits tha mail inflow ta 100 lyrics per second above the
number of lyrics served up per second.
.PP
Specify 0 ta disable tha feature. Valid delays is 0..10.
.SH inet_interfaces (default: all)
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives
mail on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "all" ta receive mail on all network
interfaces (default), n' "loopback-only" ta receive mail
on loopback network intercourses only (Postfix version 2.2 n' later).  The
parameta also controls delivery of mail ta user@[ip.address].
.PP
Note 1: you need ta stop n' start Postfix when dis parameta chizzles.
.PP
Note 2: address shiznit may be enclosed inside [],
but dis form aint required here.
.PP
When inet_interfaces specifies just one IPv4 and/or IPv6 address
that aint a loopback address, tha Postfix SMTP client will use
this address as tha IP source address fo' outbound mail. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support
for IPv6 be available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.PP
On a multi-homed firewall wit separate Postfix instances listenin on the
"inside" n' "outside" intercourses, dis can prevent each instizzle from
bein able ta reach remote SMTP servers on tha "other side" of the
firewall. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Setting
smtp_bind_address ta 0.0.0.0 avoidz tha potential problem for
IPv4, n' settin smtp_bind_address6 ta :: solves tha problem
for IPv6.
.PP
A betta solution fo' multi-homed firewalls is ta leave inet_interfaces
at tha default value n' instead use explicit IP addresses in
the master.cf SMTP server definitions.  This preserves tha Postfix
SMTP client's
loop detection, by ensurin dat each side of tha firewall knows dat the
other IP address is still tha same host. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin $inet_interfaces ta a
single IPv4 and/or IPV6 address is primarily useful wit virtual
hostin of domains on
secondary IP addresses, when each IP address serves a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different domain
(and has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different $myhostname setting).
.PP
See also tha proxy_interfaces parameter, fo' network addresses that
are forwarded ta Postfix by way of a proxy or address translator.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
inet_interfaces = all (DEFAULT)
inet_interfaces = loopback-only (Postfix version 2.2 n' later)
inet_interfaces = 127.0.0.1
inet_interfaces = 127.0.0.1, [::1] (Postfix version 2.2 n' later)
inet_interfaces = 192.168.1.2, 127.0.0.1
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH inet_protocols (default: all)
Da Internizzle protocols Postfix will attempt ta use when making
or acceptin connections. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify one or mo' of "ipv4"
or "ipv6", separated by whitespace or commas. Da form
"all" is equivalent ta "ipv4, ipv6" or "ipv4", depending
on whether tha operatin system implements IPv6.
.PP
With Postfix 2.8 n' earlier tha default is "ipv4". For backwards
compatibilitizzle wit these releases, tha Postfix 2.9 n' lata upgrade
procedure appendz a explicit "inet_protocols = ipv4" settin to
main.cf when no explicit settin is present. This compatibility
workaround is ghon be phased up as IPv6 deployment becomes mo' common.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Note: you MUST stop n' start Postfix afta changin this
parameter.
.PP
On systems dat pre-date IPV6_V6ONLY support (RFC 3493), an
IPv6 server will also accept IPv4 connections, even when IPv4 is
turned off wit tha inet_protocols parameter n' shit.  On systems with
IPV6_V6ONLY support, Postfix will use separate server sockets for
IPv6 n' IPv4, n' each will accept only connections fo' the
correspondin protocol.
.PP
When IPv4 support is enabled via tha inet_protocols parameter,
Postfix will look up DNS type A records, n' will convert
IPv4-in-IPv6 client IP addresses (::ffff:1.2.3.4) ta they original
IPv4 form (1.2.3.4).  Da latta is needed on hosts dat pre-date
IPV6_V6ONLY support (RFC 3493).
.PP
When IPv6 support is enabled via tha inet_protocols parameter,
Postfix will do DNS type AAAA record lookups.
.PP
When both IPv4 n' IPv6 support is enabled, tha Postfix SMTP
client will attempt ta connect via IPv6 before attemptin ta use
IPv4.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
inet_protocols = ipv4
inet_protocols = all (DEFAULT)
inet_protocols = ipv6
inet_protocols = ipv4, ipv6
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH initial_destination_concurrency (default: 5)
Da initial per-destination concurrency level fo' parallel delivery
to tha same destination.
With per-destination recipient limit > 1, a thugged-out destination be a thugged-out domain,
otherwise it aint nuthin but a recipient.
.PP
Use \fItransport\fR_initial_destination_concurrency ta specify
a transport-specific override, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf
name of tha message delivery transhiznit (Postfix 2.5 n' later).
.PP
Warning: wit concurrency of 1, one wack message can be enough to
block all mail ta a crib.
.SH internal_mail_filter_classes (default: empty)
What categoriez of Postfix-generated mail is subject to
before-queue content inspection by non_smtpd_milters, header_checks
and body_checks.  Specify zero or mo' of tha following, separated
by whitespace or comma.
.IP "\fBbounce\fR"
Inspect tha content of delivery
status notifications.
.br
.IP "\fBnotify\fR"
Inspect tha content of postmaster
notifications by tha \fBsmtp\fR(8) n' \fBsmtpd\fR(8) processes.
.br
.br
.PP
NOTE: It aint nuthin but generally not safe ta enable content inspection of
Postfix-generated email lyrics. Da user is warned.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH invalid_hostname_reject_code (default: 501)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when tha client
HELO or EHLO command parameta is rejected by tha reject_invalid_helo_hostname
restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH ipc_idle (default: version dependent)
Da time afta which a cold-ass lil client closes a idle internal communication
channel.  Da purpose is ta allow Postfix daemon processes to
terminizzle voluntarily afta they become idle. This is used, for
example, by tha Postfix address resolvin n' rewritin clients.
.PP
With Postfix 2.4 tha default value was reduced from 100s ta 5s.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH ipc_timeout (default: 3600s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.  Da purpose is ta break outta deadlock
situations. If tha time limit is exceeded tha software aborts wit a
fatal error.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH ipc_ttl (default: 1000s)
Da time afta which a cold-ass lil client closes a actizzle internal communication
channel.  Da purpose is ta allow Postfix daemon processes to
terminizzle voluntarily
afta reachin they client limit.  This is used, fo' example, by
the Postfix address resolvin n' rewritin clients.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH line_length_limit (default: 2048)
Upon input, long lines is chopped up tha fuck into piecez of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines is reconstructed.
.SH lmtp_address_preference (default: ipv6)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_address_preference
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH lmtp_assume_final (default: no)
When a remote LMTP server announces no DSN support, assume that
the
server performs final delivery, n' bust "delivered" delivery status
notifications instead of "relayed". Da default settin is backwards
compatible ta avoid tha infinitesimal possibilitizzle of breaking
existin LMTP-based content filters.
.SH lmtp_bind_address (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_bind_address configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_bind_address6 (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_bind_address6 configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_body_checks (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_body_checks configuration
parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_cache_connection (default: yes)
Keep Postfix LMTP client connections open fo' up ta $max_idle
seconds. When tha LMTP client receives a request fo' tha same
connection tha connection is reused.
.PP
This parameta be available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' earlier.
With Postfix version 2.3 n' later, peep lmtp_connection_cache_on_demand,
lmtp_connection_cache_destinations, or lmtp_connection_reuse_time_limit.
.PP
Da effectivenizz of cached connections is ghon be determined by the
number of remote LMTP servers up in use, n' tha concurrency limit specified
for tha Postfix LMTP client. Cached connections is closed under any of
the followin conditions:
.IP \(bu
Da Postfix LMTP client idle time limit is reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This limit is
specified wit tha Postfix max_idle configuration parameter.
.IP \(bu
A delivery request specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different destination than the
one currently cached.
.IP \(bu
Da per-process limit on tha number of delivery requests is
reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This limit is specified wit tha Postfix max_use
configuration parameter.
.IP \(bu
Upon tha onset of another delivery request, tha remote LMTP server
associated wit tha current session do not respond ta tha RSET
command.
.br
.PP
Most of these limitations done been wit tha Postfix
a connection cache dat is shared among multiple LMTP client
programs.
.SH lmtp_cname_overrides_servername (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_cname_overrides_servername
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_connect_timeout (default: 0s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' completin a TCP connection, or
zero (use tha operatin system built-in time limit).  When no
connection can be made within tha deadline, tha LMTP client tries
the next address on tha mail exchanger list.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
lmtp_connect_timeout = 30s
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH lmtp_connection_cache_destinations (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_connection_cache_destinations
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_connection_cache_on_demand (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_connection_cache_on_demand
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_connection_cache_time_limit (default: 2s)
Da LMTP-specific version of the
smtp_connection_cache_time_limit configuration parameter.
See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_connection_reuse_time_limit (default: 300s)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_connection_reuse_time_limit
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_data_done_timeout (default: 600s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha LMTP ".",
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response.  When no response
is received within tha deadline, a warnin is logged dat tha mail
may be served up multiple times.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_data_init_timeout (default: 120s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha LMTP DATA command,
and
for receivin tha remote LMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_data_xfer_timeout (default: 180s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha LMTP message
content.
When tha connection stalls fo' mo' than $lmtp_data_xfer_timeout
the LMTP client terminates tha transfer.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_defer_if_no_mx_address_found (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_defer_if_no_mx_address_found
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_destination_concurrency_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_limit)
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha lmtp message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by
the queue manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha first
field up in tha entry up in tha master.cf file.
.SH lmtp_destination_recipient_limit (default: $default_destination_recipient_limit)
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha lmtp
message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by tha queue
manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha straight-up original gangsta field in
the entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value of 1 chizzlez tha meanin of
lmtp_destination_concurrency_limit from concurrency per domain into
concurrency per recipient.
.SH lmtp_discard_lhlo_keyword_address_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote LMTP server address, with
case insensitizzle listz of LHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix LMTP client will ignore up in tha LHLO
response
from a remote LMTP server n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See lmtp_discard_lhlo_keywordz for
details. Da table aint indexed by hostname fo' consistency with
smtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_discard_lhlo_keywordz (default: empty)
A case insensitizzle list of LHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix LMTP client will ignore up in tha LHLO
response
from a remote LMTP server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
Specify tha \fBsilent-discard\fR pseudo keyword ta prevent
this action from bein logged.
.IP \(bu
Use tha lmtp_discard_lhlo_keyword_address_maps feature to
discard LHLO keywordz selectively.
.br
.SH lmtp_dns_resolver_options (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_dns_resolver_options
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH lmtp_enforce_tls (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_enforce_tls configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_generic_maps (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_generic_maps configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_header_checks (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_header_checks configuration
parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_host_lookup (default: dns)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_host_lookup configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_lhlo_name (default: $myhostname)
Da hostname ta bust up in tha LMTP LHLO command.
.PP
Da default value is tha machine hostname.  Specify a hostname or
[ip.add.re.ss].
.PP
This shiznit can be specified up in tha main.cf file fo' all LMTP
clients, or it can be specified up in tha master.cf file fo' a specific
client, fo' example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    mylmtp ... lmtp -o lmtp_lhlo_name=foo.bar.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_lhlo_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha LHLO command,
and fo' receivin tha initial remote LMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).  Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_line_length_limit (default: 990)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_line_length_limit
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_mail_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha MAIL FROM command,
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_mime_header_checks (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_mime_header_checks
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_mx_address_limit (default: 5)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_mx_address_limit configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_mx_session_limit (default: 2)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_mx_session_limit configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_nested_header_checks (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_nested_header_checks
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_per_record_deadline (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_per_record_deadline
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH lmtp_pix_workaround_delay_time (default: 10s)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_pix_workaround_delay_time
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_pix_workaround_maps (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_pix_workaround_maps
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH lmtp_pix_workaround_threshold_time (default: 500s)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_pix_workaround_threshold_time
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_pix_workaroundz (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_pix_workaround
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH lmtp_quit_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha QUIT command,
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_quote_rfc821_envelope (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_quote_rfc821_envelope
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_randomize_addresses (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_randomize_addresses
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_rcpt_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha RCPT TO command,
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_reply_filta (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_reply_filter
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH lmtp_rset_timeout (default: 20s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha RSET command,
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response. Da LMTP client
sendz RSET in
order ta finish a recipient address probe, or ta verify dat a
cached connection is still kickin it.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH lmtp_sasl_auth_cache_name (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_auth_cache_time (default: 90d)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sasl_auth_cache_time
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_auth_enable (default: no)
Enable SASL authentication up in tha Postfix LMTP client.
.SH lmtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_mechanism_filta (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sasl_mechanism_filter
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_password_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle Postfix LMTP client lookup tablez wit one username:password entry
per host or domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If a remote host or domain has no username:password
entry, then tha Postfix LMTP client aint gonna attempt ta authenticate
to tha remote host.
.SH lmtp_sasl_path (default: empty)
Implementation-specific shiznit dat is passed all up in to
the SASL plug-in implementation dat is selected with
\fBlmtp_sasl_type\fR.  Typically dis specifies tha name of a
configuration file or rendezvous point.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_security_options (default: noplaintext, noanonymous)
SASL securitizzle options; az of Postfix 2.3 tha list of available
features dependz on tha SASL client implementation dat is selected
with \fBlmtp_sasl_type\fR.
.PP
Da followin securitizzle features is defined fo' tha \fBcyrus\fR
client SASL implementation:
.IP "\fBnoplaintext\fR"
Disallow authentication methodz dat use plaintext passwords.
.br
.IP "\fBnoactive\fR"
Disallow authentication methodz dat is vulnerable ta non-dictionary
actizzle attacks.
.br
.IP "\fBnodictionary\fR"
Disallow authentication methodz dat is vulnerable ta passive
doggtionary attack.
.br
.IP "\fBnoanonymous\fR"
Disallow anonymous logins.
.br
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
lmtp_sasl_security_options = noplaintext
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH lmtp_sasl_tls_security_options (default: $lmtp_sasl_security_options)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sasl_tls_security_options
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_tls_verified_security_options (default: $lmtp_sasl_tls_security_options)
Da LMTP-specific version of the
smtp_sasl_tls_verified_security_options configuration parameter.
See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sasl_type (default: cyrus)
Da SASL plug-in type dat tha Postfix LMTP client should use
for authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da available types is listed wit the
"\fBpostconf -A\fR" command.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_send_dummy_mail_auth (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_send_dummy_mail_auth
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH lmtp_send_xforward_command (default: no)
Send a XFORWARD command ta tha remote LMTP server when tha LMTP LHLO
server response announces XFORWARD support.  This allows a \fBlmtp\fR(8)
delivery agent, used fo' content filta message injection, to
forward tha name, address, protocol n' HELO name of tha original
client ta tha content filta n' downstream queuin LMTP server.
Before you chizzle tha value ta fo'sho, it is dopest ta make shizzle that
your content filta supports dis command.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH lmtp_sender_dependent_authentication (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_sender_dependent_authentication
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_skip_5xx_greetin (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_skip_5xx_greeting
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_skip_quit_response (default: no)
Wait fo' tha response ta tha LMTP QUIT command.
.SH lmtp_starttls_timeout (default: 300s)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_starttls_timeout configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tcp_port (default: 24)
Da default TCP port dat tha Postfix LMTP client connects to.
.SH lmtp_tls_CAfile (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_CAfile
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_CApath (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_CApath
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_block_early_mail_reply (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_block_early_mail_reply
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_cert_file (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_cert_file
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_ciphers (default: export)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_ciphers configuration
parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_dcert_file (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_dcert_file
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_dkey_file (default: $lmtp_tls_dcert_file)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_dkey_file
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_eccert_file (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_eccert_file configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH lmtp_tls_eckey_file (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_eckey_file configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH lmtp_tls_enforce_peername (default: yes)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_enforce_peername
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_fingerprint_digest (default: md5)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_fingerprint_digest
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_key_file (default: $lmtp_tls_cert_file)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_key_file
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_loglevel (default: 0)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_loglevel
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_mandatory_protocols (default: !SSLv2)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_note_starttls_offer (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_note_starttls_offer
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_per_site (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_per_site configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_policy_maps (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_policy_maps
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_protocols (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_protocols configuration
parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_scert_verifydepth (default: 9)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_scert_verifydepth
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_secure_cert_match (default: nexthop)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_secure_cert_match
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_security_level (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_security_level configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_session_cache_database (default: empty)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_session_cache_database
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_session_cache_timeout (default: 3600s)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_session_cache_timeout
configuration parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_tls_verify_cert_match (default: hostname)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_verify_cert_match
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_use_tls (default: no)
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_use_tls configuration
parameter n' shit.  See there fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH lmtp_xforward_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha XFORWARD command,
and fo' receivin tha remote LMTP server response.
.PP
In case of problems tha client do NOT try tha next address on
the mail exchanger list.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH local_command_shell (default: empty)
Optionizzle shell program fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery ta non-Postfix command.
By default, non-Postfix commandz is executed directly; commands
are given ta given ta tha default shell (typically, /bin/sh) only
when they contain shell meta charactas or shell built-in commands.
.PP
"sendmailz restricted shell" (smrsh) is what tha fuck most playas will
use up in order ta restrict what tha fuck programs can be run from e.g. .forward
filez (smrsh is part of tha Sendmail distribution).
.PP
Note: when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell program is specified, it is invoked even
when tha command gotz nuff no shell built-in commandz or meta
characters.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
local_command_shell = /some/where/smrsh -c
local_command_shell = /bin/bash -c
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH local_destination_concurrency_limit (default: 2)
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries via tha local mail
delivery transhiznit ta tha same recipient (when
"local_destination_recipient_limit = 1") or tha maximal number of
parallel deliveries ta tha same local domain (when
"local_destination_recipient_limit > 1"). This limit is enforced by
the queue manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha first
field up in tha entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
A low limit of 2 is recommended, just up in case one of mah thugs has an
expensive shell command up in a .forward file or up in a alias (e.g.,
a mailin list manager).  Yo ass don't wanna run fuckin shitloadz of dem at
the same time.
.SH local_destination_recipient_limit (default: 1)
Da maximal number of recipients per message delivery via the
local mail delivery transport. This limit is enforced by tha queue
manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha straight-up original gangsta field in
the entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value > 1 chizzlez tha meanin of
local_destination_concurrency_limit from concurrency per recipient
into concurrency per domain.
.SH local_header_rewrite_clients (default: permit_inet_interfaces)
Rewrite message header addresses up in mail from these clients and
update incomplete addresses wit tha domain name up in $myorigin or
$mydomain; either don't rewrite message headaz from other clients
at all, or rewrite message headaz n' update incomplete addresses
with tha domain specified up in tha remote_header_rewrite_domain
parameter.
.PP
See tha append_at_myorigin n' append_dot_mydomain parameters
for detailz of how tha fuck domain names is appended ta incomplete addresses.
.PP
Specify a list of zero or mo' of tha following:
.IP "\fBpermit_inet_interfaces\fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
client IP address matches $inet_interfaces. This is enabled by
default.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_mynetworks\fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
client IP address matches any network or network address listed in
$mynetworks. This settin aint gonna prevent remote mail header
address rewritin when mail from a remote client is forwarded by
a neighborin system.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_sasl_authenticated \fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
client is successfully authenticated via tha RFC 4954 (AUTH)
protocol.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_tls_clientcerts \fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
remote SMTP client TLS certificate fingerprint or hood key fingerprint
(Postfix 2.9 n' later) is listed up in $relay_clientcerts.
Da fingerprint digest algorithm is configurable via the
smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest parameta (hard-coded as md5 prior to
Postfix version 2.5).
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_tls_all_clientcerts \fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
remote SMTP client TLS certificate is successfully verified, regardless of
whether it is listed on tha server, n' regardless of tha certifying
authority.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_address_map \fItype:table\fR \fR"
.IP "\fB\fItype:table\fR \fR"
Append tha domain name up in $myorigin or $mydomain when the
client IP address matches tha specified lookup table.
Da lookup result is ignored, n' no subnet lookup is done. This
is suitable for, e.g., pop-before-smtp lookup tables.
.br
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
Da Postfix < 2.2 backwardz compatible setting: always rewrite
message headers, n' always append mah own domain ta incomplete
header addresses.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da purist (and default) setting: rewrite headaz only up in mail
from Postfix sendmail n' up in SMTP mail from dis machine.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
local_header_rewrite_clients = permit_inet_interfaces
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da intermediate setting: rewrite header addresses n' append
$myorigin or $mydomain shiznit only wit mail from Postfix
sendmail, from local clients, or from authorized SMTP clients.
.PP
Note: dis settin aint gonna prevent remote mail header address
rewritin when mail from a remote client is forwarded by a neighboring
system.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
local_header_rewrite_clients = permit_mynetworks,
    permit_sasl_authenticated permit_tls_clientcerts
    check_address_map hash:/etc/postfix/pop-before-smtp
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.SH local_recipient_maps (default: proxy:unix:passwd.byname $alias_maps)
Lookup tablez wit all names or addressez of local recipients:
a recipient address is local when its domain matches $mydestination,
$inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.  Specify @domain as a
wild-card fo' domains dat aint gots a valid recipient list.
Technically, tablez listed wit $local_recipient_maps is used as
lists: Postfix need ta know only if a lookup strang is found or
not yo, but it do not use tha result from table lookup.
.PP
If dis parameta is non-empty (the default), then tha Postfix SMTP
server will reject mail fo' unknown local users.
.PP
To turn off local recipient checkin up in tha Postfix SMTP server,
specify "local_recipient_maps =" (i.e. empty).
.PP
Da default settin assumes dat you use tha default Postfix local
delivery agent fo' local delivery. Yo ass need ta update the
local_recipient_maps settin if:
.IP \(bu
Yo ass redefine tha local delivery agent up in master.cf.
.IP \(bu
Yo ass redefine tha "local_transport" settin up in main.cf.
.IP \(bu
Yo ass use tha "luser_relay", "mailbox_transport", or "fallback_transport"
feature of tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent.
.br
.PP
Details is busted lyrics bout up in tha LOCAL_RECIPIENT_README file.
.PP
Beware: if tha Postfix SMTP server runs chrooted, you need ta access
the passwd file via tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) service, up in order ta overcome
chroot access restrictions. Da alternative, maintainin a cold-ass lil copy of
the system password file up in tha chroot jail aint practical.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
local_recipient_maps =
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH local_transhiznit (default: local:$myhostname)
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination
for final delivery ta domains listed wit mydestination, n' for
[ipaddress] destinations dat match $inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.
This shiznit can be overruled wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
By default, local mail is served up ta tha transhiznit called "local",
which is just tha name of a steez dat is defined tha master.cf file.
.PP
Specify a strang of tha form \fItransport:nexthop\fR, where \fItransport\fR
is tha name of a mail delivery transhiznit defined up in master.cf.
Da \fI:nexthop\fR destination is optional; its syntax is documented
in tha manual page of tha correspondin delivery agent.
.PP
Beware: if you override tha default local delivery agent then you
need ta review tha LOCAL_RECIPIENT_README document, otherwise the
SMTP server may reject mail fo' local recipients.
.SH luser_relay (default: empty)
Optionizzle catch-all destination fo' unknown \fBlocal\fR(8) recipients.
By default, mail fo' unknown recipients up in domains dat match
$mydestination, $inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces is returned
as undeliverable.
.PP
Da followin $name expansions is done on luser_relay:
.IP "\fB$domain\fR"
Da recipient domain.
.br
.IP "\fB$extension\fR"
Da recipient address extension.
.br
.IP "\fB$home\fR"
Da recipientz home directory.
.br
.IP "\fB$local\fR"
Da entire recipient address localpart.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient\fR"
Da full recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fB$recipient_delimiter\fR"
Da system-wide recipient address extension delimiter.
.br
.IP "\fB$shell\fR"
Da recipientz login shell.
.br
.IP "\fB$user\fR"
Da recipient username.
.br
.IP "\fB${name?value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR has a non-empty value.
.br
.IP "\fB${name:value}\fR"
Expandz ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR has a empty value.
.br
.br
.PP
Instead of $name you can also specify ${name} or $(name).
.PP
Note: luser_relay works only fo' tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent.
.PP
Note: if you use dis feature fo' accounts not up in tha UNIX password
file, then you must specify "local_recipient_maps =" (i.e. empty)
in tha main.cf file, otherwise tha Postfix SMTP server will reject mail
for non-UNIX accounts wit "User unknown up in local recipient table".
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
luser_relay = $user@other.host
luser_relay = $local@other.host
luser_relay = admin+$local
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mail_name (default: Postfix)
Da mail system name dat is displayed up in Received: headers, in
the SMTP greetin banner, n' up in bounced mail.
.SH mail_balla (default: postfix)
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.  Specify tha name of a unprivileged user account
that do not share a user or crew ID wit other accounts, n' that
owns no other files
or processes on tha system.  In particular, don't specify no muthafucka
or daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  PLEASE USE A DEDICATED USER ID AND GROUP ID.
.PP
When dis parameta value is chizzled you need ta re-run "\fBpostfix
set-permissions\fR" (with Postfix version 2.0 n' earlier:
"\fB/etc/postfix/post-install set-permissions\fR".
.SH mail_release_date (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da Postfix release date, up in "YYYYMMDD" format.
.SH mail_spool_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da directory where \fBlocal\fR(8) UNIX-style mailboxes is kept. The
default settin dependz on tha system type. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a name ending
in / fo' maildir-style delivery.
.PP
Note: maildir delivery is done wit tha privilegez of tha recipient.
If you use tha mail_spool_directory settin fo' maildir style
delivery, then you must create tha top-level maildir directory in
advance. Postfix aint gonna create dat shit.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
mail_spool_directory = /var/mail
mail_spool_directory = /var/spool/mail
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mail_version (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da version of tha mail system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Stable releases is named
\fImajor\fR.\fIminor\fR.\fIpatchlevel\fR. Experimenstrual releases
also include tha release date. Da version strang can be used in,
for example, tha SMTP greetin banner.
.SH mailbox_command (default: empty)
Optionizzle external command dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent should
use fo' mailbox delivery.  Da command is run wit tha user ID and
the primary crew ID privilegez of tha recipient.  Exception:
command delivery fo' root executes wit $default_privs privileges.
This aint a problem, cuz 1) mail fo' root should always be
aliased ta a real user n' 2) don't log up in as root, use "su" instead.
.PP
Da followin environment variablez is exported ta tha command:
.IP "\fBCLIENT_ADDRESS\fR"
Remote client network address fo' realz. Available up in Postfix version 2.2 and
later.
.br
.IP "\fBCLIENT_HELO\fR"
Remote client EHLO command parameter n' shiznit fo' realz. Available up in Postfix version 2.2
and later.
.br
.IP "\fBCLIENT_HOSTNAME\fR"
Remote client hostname fo' realz. Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBCLIENT_PROTOCOL\fR"
Remote client protocol fo' realz. Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBDOMAIN\fR"
Da domain part of tha recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fBEXTENSION\fR"
Da optionizzle address extension.
.br
.IP "\fBHOME\fR"
Da recipient home directory.
.br
.IP "\fBLOCAL\fR"
Da recipient address localpart.
.br
.IP "\fBLOGNAME\fR"
Da recipientz username.
.br
.IP "\fBORIGINAL_RECIPIENT\fR"
Da entire recipient address, before any address rewritin or
aliasing.
.br
.IP "\fBRECIPIENT\fR"
Da full recipient address.
.br
.IP "\fBSASL_METHOD\fR"
SASL authentication method specified up in tha remote client AUTH
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBSASL_SENDER\fR"
SASL sender address specified up in tha remote client MAIL FROM
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBSASL_USER\fR"
SASL username specified up in tha remote client AUTH command.
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBSENDER\fR"
Da full sender address.
.br
.IP "\fBSHELL\fR"
Da recipientz login shell.
.br
.IP "\fBUSER\fR"
Da recipient username.
.br
.br
.PP
Unlike other Postfix configuration parameters, tha mailbox_command
parameta aint subjected ta $name substitutions. This is ta make
it easier ta specify shell syntax (see example below).
.PP
If you can, avoid shell meta charactas cuz they will force
Postfix ta run a high-rollin' shell process. If you delivering
via Procmail then hustlin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell won't cook up a noticeable difference
in tha total cost.
.PP
Note: if you use tha mailbox_command feature ta serve up mail
system-wide, you must set up a alias dat forwardz mail fo' root
to a real user.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
mailbox_command = /some/where/procmail
mailbox_command = /some/where/procmail -a "$EXTENSION"
mailbox_command = /some/where/maildrop -d "$USER"
        -f "$SENDER" "$EXTENSION"
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mailbox_command_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient external commandz ta use
for \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox delivery.  Behavior be as wit mailbox_command.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.SH mailbox_delivery_lock (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
How tha fuck ta lock a UNIX-style \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox before attemptin delivery.
For a list of available file lockin methods, use tha "\fBpostconf
-l\fR" command.
.PP
This settin is ignored wit \fBmaildir\fR steez delivery,
because such deliveries is safe without explicit locks.
.PP
Note: Da \fBdotlock\fR method requires dat tha recipient UID or
GID has write access ta tha parent directory of tha mailbox file.
.PP
Note: tha default settin of dis parameta is system dependent.
.SH mailbox_size_limit (default: 51200000)
Da maximal size of any \fBlocal\fR(8) individual mailbox or maildir
file, or zero (no limit).  In fact, dis limits tha size of any
file dat is freestyled ta upon local delivery, includin filez written
by external commandz dat is executed by tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent.
.PP
This limit must not be smalla than tha message size limit.
.SH mailbox_transhiznit (default: empty)
Optionizzle message delivery transhiznit dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent should use fo' mailbox delivery ta all local recipients,
whether or not they is found up in tha UNIX passwd database.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.SH mailbox_transport_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient message delivery
transports ta use fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox delivery, whether or not the
recipients is found up in tha UNIX passwd database.
.PP
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery features from high ta low
is: aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps, mailbox_transport,
mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command, home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory,
fallback_transport_maps, fallback_transhiznit n' luser_relay.
.PP
For safety reasons, dis feature do not allow $number
substitutions up in regular expression maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH mailq_path (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies where tha Postfix
\fBmailq\fR(1) command is installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This command can be used to
list tha Postfix mail queue.
.SH manpage_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Where tha Postfix manual pages is installed.
.SH maps_rbl_domains (default: empty)
Obsolete feature: use tha reject_rbl_client feature instead.
.SH maps_rbl_reject_code (default: 554)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is blocked by tha reject_rbl_client, reject_rhsbl_client,
reject_rhsbl_reverse_client, reject_rhsbl_sender or
reject_rhsbl_recipient restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH masquerade_classes (default: envelope_sender, header_sender, header_recipient)
What addresses is subject ta address masquerading.
.PP
By default, address masqueradin is limited ta envelope sender
addresses, n' ta header sender n' header recipient addresses.
This allows you ta use address masqueradin on a mail gateway while
still bein able ta forward mail ta playas on individual machines.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of: envelope_sender, envelope_recipient,
header_sender, header_recipient
.SH masquerade_domains (default: empty)
Optionizzle list of domains whose subdomain structure is ghon be stripped
off up in email addresses.
.PP
Da list is processed left ta right, n' processin stops at the
first match.  Thus,
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
masquerade_domains = foo.example.com example.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
strips "user@any.thing.foo.example.com" ta "user@foo.example.com",
but strips "user@any.thing.else.example.com" ta "user@example.com".
.PP
A domain name prefixed wit ! means do not masquerade dis domain
or its subdomains. Thus,
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
masquerade_domains = !foo.example.com example.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
does not chizzle "user@any.thing.foo.example.com" or "user@foo.example.com",
but strips "user@any.thing.else.example.com" ta "user@example.com".
.PP
Note: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address masquerading
happens only when message header address rewritin is enabled:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
masquerade_domains = $mydomain
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH masquerade_exceptions (default: empty)
Optionizzle list of user names dat is not subjected ta address
masquerading, even when they address matches $masquerade_domains.
.PP
By default, address masqueradin make no exceptions.
.PP
Specify a list of user names, "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Da list is matched left to
right, n' tha search stops on tha straight-up original gangsta match fo' realz. A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced
by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table is matched when a name
matches a lookup key (the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long
lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern"
to exclude a name from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported
only up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
masquerade_exceptions = root, mailer-daemon
masquerade_exceptions = root
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH master_service_disable (default: empty)
Selectively disable \fBmaster\fR(8) listener ports by steez type
or by steez name n' type.  Specify a list of steez types
("inet", "unix", "fifo", or "pass") or "name.type" tuples, where
"name" is tha straight-up original gangsta field of a master.cf entry n' "type" be a
service type fo' realz. As wit other Postfix matchlists, a search stops at
the first match.  Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a steez from the
list. By default, all \fBmaster\fR(8) listener ports is enabled.
.PP
Note: dis feature do not support "/file/name" or "type:table"
patterns, nor do it support wildcardz like fuckin "*" or "all". This
is intentional.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Turn on all \fBmaster\fR(8) listener ports (the default).
master_service_disable =
# Turn off only tha main SMTP listener port.
master_service_disable = smtp.inet
# Turn off all TCP/IP listener ports.
master_service_disable = inet
# Turn off all TCP/IP listener ports except "foo".
master_service_disable = !foo.inet, inet
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH max_idle (default: 100s)
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.  This
parameter
is ignored by tha Postfix queue manager n' by other long-lived
Postfix daemon processes.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH max_use (default: 100)
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.  This parameter
is ignored by tha Postfix queue
manager n' by other long-lived Postfix daemon processes.
.SH maximal_backoff_time (default: 4000s)
Da maximal time between attempts ta serve up a thugged-out deferred message.
.PP
This parameta should be set ta a value pimped outa than or equal
to $minimal_backoff_time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also $queue_run_delay.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH maximal_queue_lifetime (default: 5d)
Consider a message as undeliverable, when delivery fails wit a
temporary error, n' tha time up in tha queue has reached the
maximal_queue_lifetime limit.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is d (days).
.PP
Specify 0 when mail delivery should be tried only once.
.SH message_reject_charactas (default: empty)
Da set of charactas dat Postfix will reject up in message
content.  Da usual C-like escape sequences is recognized: \ea
\eb \ef \en \er \et \ev \e\fIddd\fR (up ta three octal digits) and
\e\e.
.PP
Note 1: dis feature do not recognize text dat requires MIME
decoding. Well shiiiit, it inspects raw message content, just like header_checks
and body_checks.
.PP
Note 2: dis feature is disabled wit "receive_override_options
= no_header_body_checks".
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
message_reject_charactas = \e0
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH message_size_limit (default: 10240000)
Da maximal size up in bytez of a message, includin envelope shiznit.
.PP
Note: be careful when makin chizzles.  Excessively lil' small-ass joints
will result up in tha loss of non-delivery notifications, when a funky-ass bounce
message size exceedz tha local or remote MTAz message size limit.
.SH message_strip_charactas (default: empty)
Da set of charactas dat Postfix will remove from message
content.  Da usual C-like escape sequences is recognized: \ea
\eb \ef \en \er \et \ev \e\fIddd\fR (up ta three octal digits) and
\e\e.
.PP
Note 1: dis feature do not recognize text dat requires MIME
decoding. Well shiiiit, it inspects raw message content, just like header_checks
and body_checks.
.PP
Note 2: dis feature is disabled wit "receive_override_options
= no_header_body_checks".
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
message_strip_charactas = \e0
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_command_timeout (default: 30s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  a SMTP command ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks). Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_connect_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta completion of a SMTP connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See MILTER_README
for a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_connect_timeout (default: 30s)
Da time limit fo' connectin ta a Milta (mail filter)
application, n' fo' negotiatin protocol options.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks). Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_content_timeout (default: 300s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  message content ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks). Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_data_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta version 4 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta tha SMTP DATA command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See MILTER_README
for a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_default_action (default: tempfail)
Da default action when a Milta (mail filter) application is
unavailable or mis-configured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify one of tha following:
.IP "accept"
Proceed as if tha mail filta was not present.
.br
.IP "reject"
Reject all further commandz up in dis session
with a permanent status code.
.br
.IP "tempfail"
Reject all further commandz up in dis session
with a temporary status code.
.br
.IP "quarantine"
Like "accept" yo, but freeze tha message in
the "hold" queue fo' realz. Available wit Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_end_of_data_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha message end-of-data. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See MILTER_README fo' a list of
available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_end_of_header_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha end of tha message header n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See MILTER_README fo' a list
of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH milter_header_checks (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of message headers
that is produced by Milta applications.  See tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5)
manual page available actions. Currently, PREPEND aint implemented.
.PP
Da followin example sendz all mail dat is marked as SPAM to
a spam handlin machine. Note dat matches is case-insensitive
by default.
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    milter_header_checks = pcre:/etc/postfix/milter_header_checks
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/milter_header_checks:
    /^X-SPAM-FLAG:\es+YES/ FILTER mysmtp:sanitizer.example.com:25
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
Da milter_header_checks mechanizzle could also be used for
whitelisting. For example it could be used ta skip heavy content
inspection fo' DKIM-signed mail from known thugged-out domains.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7, n' as a optional
patch fo' Postfix 2.6.
.SH milter_helo_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP HELO or EHLO command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See
MILTER_README fo' a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_macro_daemon_name (default: $myhostname)
Da {daemon_name} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
See MILTER_README fo' a list of available macro names n' their
meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_macro_v (default: $mail_name $mail_version)
Da {v} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
See MILTER_README fo' a list of available macro names n' their
meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_mail_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP MAIL FROM command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See MILTER_README
for a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_protocol (default: 6)
Da mail filta protocol version n' optionizzle protocol extensions
for communication wit a Milta application; prior ta Postfix 2.6
the default protocol is 2. Postfix
sendz dis version number durin tha initial protocol handshake.
It should match tha version number dat is expected by tha mail
filta application (or by its Milta library).
.PP
Protocol versions:
.IP "2"
Use Sendmail 8 mail filta protocol version 2 (default
with Sendmail version 8.11 .. 8.13 n' Postfix version 2.3 ..
2.5).
.br
.IP "3"
Use Sendmail 8 mail filta protocol version 3.
.br
.IP "4"
Use Sendmail 8 mail filta protocol version 4.
.br
.IP "6"
Use Sendmail 8 mail filta protocol version 6 (default
with Sendmail version 8.14 n' Postfix version 2.6).
.br
.br
.PP
Protocol extensions:
.IP "no_header_reply"
Specify dis when tha Milta application
will not reply fo' each individual message header.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_rcpt_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP RCPT TO command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See MILTER_README
for a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH milter_unknown_command_macros (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da macros dat is busted ta version 3 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta a unknown SMTP command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See MILTER_README
for a list of available macro names n' they meanings.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH mime_boundary_length_limit (default: 2048)
Da maximal length of MIME multipart boundary strings. Da MIME
processor is unable ta distinguish between boundary strings that
do not differ up in tha straight-up original gangsta $mime_boundary_length_limit characters.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH mime_header_checks (default: $header_checks)
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of MIME related
message headers, as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH mime_nesting_limit (default: 100)
Da maximal recursion level dat tha MIME processor will handle.
Postfix refuses mail dat is nested deeper than tha specified limit.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH minimal_backoff_time (default: 300s)
Da minimal time between attempts ta serve up a thugged-out deferred message;
prior ta Postfix 2.4 tha default value was 1000s.
.PP
This parameta also limits tha time a unreachable destination is
kept up in tha short-term, in-memory, destination status cache.
.PP
This parameta should be set pimped outa than or equal to
$queue_run_delay. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also $maximal_backoff_time.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH multi_instance_directories (default: empty)
An optionizzle list of non-default Postfix configuration directories;
these directories belong ta additionizzle Postfix instances dat share
the Postfix executable filez n' documentation wit tha default
Postfix instance, n' dat is started, stopped, etc., together
with tha default Postfix instance.  Specify a list of pathnames
separated by comma or whitespace.
.PP
When $multi_instance_directories is empty, tha \fBpostfix\fR(1) command
runs up in single-instizzle mode n' operates on a single Postfix
instizzle only. Otherwise, tha \fBpostfix\fR(1) command runs up in multi-instance
mode n' invokes tha multi-instizzle manager specified wit the
multi_instance_wrapper parameter n' shit. Da multi-instizzle manager in
turn executes \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz fo' tha default instizzle n' for
all Postfix instances up in $multi_instance_directories.
.PP
Currently, dis parameta settin is ignored except fo' the
default main.cf file.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH multi_instance_enable (default: no)
Allow dis Postfix instizzle ta be started, stopped, etc., by a
multi-instizzle manager n' shit.  By default, freshly smoked up instances is pimped in
a safe state dat prevents dem from bein started inadvertently.
This parameta is reserved fo' tha multi-instizzle manager.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH multi_instance_group (default: empty)
Da optionizzle instizzle crew name of dis Postfix instizzle fo' realz. A
group identifies closely-related Postfix instances dat the
multi-instizzle manager can start, stop, etc., as a unit.  This
parameta is reserved fo' tha multi-instizzle manager.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH multi_instance_name (default: empty)
Da optionizzle instizzle name of dis Postfix instance. This name
becomes also tha default value fo' tha syslog_name parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH multi_instance_wrapper (default: empty)
Da pathname of a multi-instizzle manager command dat the
\fBpostfix\fR(1) command invokes when tha multi_instance_directories
parameta value is non-empty. Da pathname may be followed by
initial command arguments separated by whitespace; shell
metacharactas like fuckin quotes is not supported up in dis context.
.PP
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) command invokes tha manager command wit the
\fBpostfix\fR(1) non-option command arguments on tha manager command line,
and wit all installation configuration parametas exported into
the manager command process environment. Da manager command in
turn invokes tha \fBpostfix\fR(1) command fo' individual Postfix instances
as "postfix -c \fIconfig_directory\fR \fIcommand\fR".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH multi_recipient_bounce_reject_code (default: 550)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is blocked by tha reject_multi_recipient_bounce
restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH mydestination (default: $myhostname, localhost.$mydomain, localhost)
Da list of domains dat is served up via tha $local_transport
mail delivery transport. By default dis is tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8)
delivery agent which looks up all recipients up in /etc/passwd and
/etc/aliases. Da SMTP server validates recipient addresses with
$local_recipient_maps n' rejects non-existent recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also
the local domain class up in tha ADDRESS_CLASS_README file.
.PP
Da default mydestination value specifies names fo' tha local
machine only.  On a mail domain gateway, you should also include
$mydomain.
.PP
Da $local_transhiznit delivery method be also selected fo' mail
addressed ta user@[the.net.work.address] of tha mail system (the
IP addresses specified wit tha inet_interfaces n' proxy_interfaces
parameters).
.PP
Warnings:
.IP \(bu
Do not specify tha namez of virtual domains - dem domains
are specified elsewhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See VIRTUAL_README fo' mo' shiznit.
.IP \(bu
Do not specify tha namez of domains dat dis machine is
backup MX host for. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See STANDARD_CONFIGURATION_README fo' how tha fuck to
set up backup MX hosts.
.IP \(bu
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail fo' recipients
not listed wit tha local_recipient_maps parameter n' shit.  See the
\fBpostconf\fR(5) manual fo' a thugged-out description of tha local_recipient_maps
and unknown_local_recipient_reject_code parameters.
.br
.PP
Specify a list of host or domain names, "/file/name" or "type:table"
patterns, separated by commas and/or whitespace fo' realz. A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table
is matched when a name matches a lookup key (the lookup result is
ignored).  Continue long lines by startin tha next line with
whitespace.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
mydestination = $myhostname, localhost.$mydomain $mydomain
mydestination = $myhostname, localhost.$mydomain www.$mydomain, ftp.$mydomain
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mydomain (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da internizzle domain name of dis mail system.  Da default is to
use $myhostname minus tha straight-up original gangsta component, or "localdomain" (Postfix
2.3 n' later).  $mydomain is used as
a default value fo' nuff other configuration parameters.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
mydomain = domain.tld
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH myhostname (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da internizzle hostname of dis mail system. Da default is ta use
the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) from gethostname(), or to
use tha non-FQDN result from gethostname() n' append ".$mydomain".
$myhostname is used as a thugged-out default value fo' nuff other configuration
parameters.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
myhostname = host.example.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mynetworks (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da list of "trusted" remote SMTP clients dat have mo' privileges than
"strangers".
.PP
In particular, "trusted" SMTP clients is allowed ta relay mail
all up in Postfix.  See tha smtpd_relay_restrictions parameter
description up in tha \fBpostconf\fR(5) manual.
.PP
Yo ass can specify tha list of "trusted" network addresses by hand
or you can let Postfix do it fo' you (which is tha default).
See tha description of tha mynetworks_style parameta fo' more
information.
.PP
If you specify tha mynetworks list by hand,
Postfix ignores tha mynetworks_style setting.
.PP
Specify a list of network addresses or network/netmask patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Continue long lines by
startin tha next line wit whitespace.
.PP
Da netmask specifies tha number of bits up in tha network part
of a host address.  Yo ass can also specify "/file/name" or "type:table"
patterns.  A "/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a
"type:table" lookup table is matched when a table entry matches a
lookup strang (the lookup result is ignored).
.PP
Da list is matched left ta right, n' tha search stops on the
first match.  Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only
in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha mynetworks value, n' up in filez specified with
"/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain tha ":" character,
and would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table" pattern.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 168.100.189.0/28
mynetworks = !192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.0/28
mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 168.100.189.0/28 [::1]/128 [2001:240:587::]/64
mynetworks = $config_directory/mynetworks
mynetworks = hash:/etc/postfix/network_table
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH mynetworks_style (default: subnet)
Da method ta generate tha default value fo' tha mynetworks parameter.
This is tha list of trusted networks fo' relay access control etc.
.IP \(bu
Specify "mynetworks_style = host" when Postfix should
"trust" only tha local machine.
.IP \(bu
Specify "mynetworks_style = subnet" when Postfix
should "trust" remote SMTP clients up in tha same IP subnetworks as tha local
machine.  On Linux, dis works erectly only wit intercourses
specified wit tha "ifconfig" command.
.IP \(bu
Specify "mynetworks_style = class" when Postfix should
"trust" remote SMTP clients up in tha same IP class A/B/C networks as the
local machine.  Don't do dis wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialup joint - it would cause
Postfix ta "trust" yo' entire providerz network.  Instead, specify
an explicit mynetworks list by hand, as busted lyrics bout wit tha mynetworks
configuration parameter.
.br
.SH myorigin (default: $myhostname)
Da domain name dat locally-posted mail appears ta come
from, n' dat locally posted mail is served up to. Da default,
$myhostname, be adequate fo' lil' small-ass cribs.  If you run a thugged-out domain with
multiple machines, you should (1) chizzle dis ta $mydomain n' (2)
set up a thugged-out domain-wide alias database dat aliases each user to
user@that.users.mailhost.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
myorigin = $mydomain
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH nested_header_checks (default: $header_checks)
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of non-MIME message
headaz up in attached lyrics, as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5)
manual page.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH newaliases_path (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies tha location of the
\fBnewaliases\fR(1) command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This command can be used ta rebuild the
\fBlocal\fR(8) \fBaliases\fR(5) database.
.SH non_fqdn_reject_code (default: 504)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server reply code when a cold-ass lil client request
is rejected by tha reject_non_fqdn_helo_hostname, reject_non_fqdn_sender
or reject_non_fqdn_recipient restriction.
.SH non_smtpd_miltas (default: empty)
A list of Milta (mail filter) applications fo' freshly smoked up mail that
does not arrive via tha Postfix \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server n' shit. This includes local
submission via tha \fBsendmail\fR(1) command line, freshly smoked up mail dat arrives
via tha Postfix \fBqmqpd\fR(8) server, n' oldschool mail dat is re-injected
into tha queue wit "postsupa -r".  Specify space or comma as
separator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha MILTER_README document fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH notify_classes (default: resource, software)
Da list of error classes dat is reported ta tha postmasta n' shit. The
default is ta report only da most thugged-out straight-up problems. Da paranoid
may wish ta turn on tha policy (UCE n' mail relaying) n' protocol
error (broken mail software) reports.
.PP
NOTE: postmasta notifications may contain confidential shiznit
like fuckin SASL passwordz or message content.  It be tha system
administratorz responsibilitizzle ta treat such shiznit wit care.
.PP
Da error classes are:
.IP "\fBbounce\fR (also implies \fB2bounce\fR)"
Send tha postmasta copiez of tha headaz of bounced mail, and
send transcriptz of SMTP sessions when Postfix rejects mail. The
notification is busted ta tha address specified wit the
bounce_notice_recipient configuration parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fB2bounce\fR"
Send undeliverable bounced mail ta tha postmasta n' shit. Da notification
is busted ta tha address specified wit tha 2bounce_notice_recipient
configuration parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fBdata\fR"
Send tha postmasta a transcript of tha SMTP session wit an
error cuz a cold-ass lil critical data file was unavailable. Da notification
is busted ta tha address specified wit tha error_notice_recipient
configuration parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
This feature
is available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBdelay\fR"
Send tha postmasta copiez of tha headaz of delayed mail (see
delay_warning_time). The
notification is busted ta tha address specified wit the
delay_notice_recipient configuration parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fBpolicy\fR"
Send tha postmasta a transcript of tha SMTP session when a
client request was rejected cuz of (UCE) policy. Da notification
is busted ta tha address specified wit tha error_notice_recipient
configuration parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fBprotocol\fR"
Send tha postmasta a transcript of tha SMTP session up in case
of client or server protocol errors. Da notification is busted to
the address specified wit tha error_notice_recipient configuration
parameta (default: postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fBresource\fR"
Inform tha postmasta of mail not served up cuz of resource
problems.  Da notification is busted ta tha address specified with
the error_notice_recipient configuration parameta (default:
postmaster).
.br
.IP "\fBsoftware\fR"
Inform tha postmasta of mail not served up cuz of software
problems.  Da notification is busted ta tha address specified with
the error_notice_recipient configuration parameta (default:
postmaster).
.br
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
notify_classes = bounce, delay, policy, protocol, resource, software
notify_classes = 2bounce, resource, software
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH baller_request_special (default: yes)
Give special treatment ta baller-listname n' listname-request
address localparts: don't split such addresses when the
recipient_delimita is set ta "-".  This feature is useful for
mailin lists.
.SH parent_domain_matches_subdomains (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
What Postfix features match subdomainz of "domain.tld" automatically,
instead of requirin a explicit ".domain.tld" pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is
planned backwardz compatibility:  eventually, all Postfix features
are sposed ta fuckin require explicit ".domain.tld" steez patterns when
you straight-up wanna match subdomains.
.SH permit_mx_backup_networks (default: empty)
Restrict tha use of tha permit_mx_backup SMTP access feature to
only domains whose primary MX hosts match tha listed networks.
Da parameta value syntax is tha same ol' dirty as wit tha mynetworks
parameter; note, however, dat tha default value is empty.
.SH pickup_service_name (default: pickup)
Da name of tha \fBpickup\fR(8) service. This steez picks up local mail
submissions from tha Postfix maildrop queue.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH plaintext_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a request
is rejected by tha \fBreject_plaintext_session\fR restriction.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH postmulti_control_commandz (default: reload flush)
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager
treats as "control" commands, dat operate on hustlin instances. For
these commands, disabled instances is skipped.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH postmulti_start_commandz (default: start)
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager treats
as "start" commands. For these commands, disabled instances is "checked"
rather than "started", n' failure ta "start" a member instizzle of an
instizzle crew will abort tha start-up of lata instances.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH postmulti_stop_commandz (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager treats
as "stop" commands. For these commands, disabled instances is skipped,
and enabled instances is processed up in reverse order.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH postscreen_access_list (default: permit_mynetworks)
Permanent white/blacklist fo' remote SMTP client IP addresses.
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) searches dis list immediately afta a remote SMTP
client connects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Specify a cold-ass lil comma- or whitespace-separated list of
commandz (in upper or lower case) or lookup tables. Da search stops
upon tha straight-up original gangsta command dat fires fo' tha client IP address.
.IP "\fB permit_mynetworks \fR"
Whitelist tha client and
terminizzle tha search if tha client IP address matches $mynetworks.
Do not subject tha client ta any before/afta 220 greetin tests.
Pass tha connection immediately ta a Postfix SMTP server process.
.br
.IP "\fB type:table \fR"
Query tha specified lookup
table. Each table lookup result be a access list, except that
access lists inside a table cannot specify type:table entries.
.br
To discourage tha use of hash, btree, etc. tables, there is no
support fo' substrin matchin like \fBsmtpd\fR(8). Use CIDR tables
instead.
.br
.IP "\fB permit \fR"
Whitelist tha client n' terminate
the search. Do not subject tha client ta any before/afta 220
greetin tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Pass tha connection immediately ta a Postfix SMTP
server process.
.br
.IP "\fB reject \fR"
Blacklist tha client n' terminate
the search. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subject tha client ta tha action configured wit the
postscreen_blacklist_action configuration parameter.
.br
.IP "\fB dunno \fR"
All \fBpostscreen\fR(8) access lists
implicitly have dis command all up in tha end.
.br
When \fB dunno \fR
is executed inside a lookup table, return from tha lookup table and
evaluate tha next command.
.br
When \fB dunno \fR is executed
outside a lookup table, terminizzle tha search, n' subject tha client
to tha configured before/afta 220 greetin tests.
.br
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    postscreen_access_list = permit_mynetworks,
		cidr:/etc/postfix/postscreen_access.cidr
    postscreen_blacklist_action = enforce
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/postscreen_access.cidr:
    # Rulez is evaluated up in tha order as specified.
    # Blacklist 192.168.* except 192.168.0.1.
    192.168.0.1         dunno
    192.168.0.0/16      reject
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_bare_newline_action (default: ignore)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP client sends
a bare newline character, dat is, a newline not preceded by carriage
return, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR"
Ignore tha failure of dis test fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.
Do \fInot\fR repeat dis test before some tha result from some
other test expires.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail permanently.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_bare_newline_enable (default: no)
Enable "bare newline" SMTP protocol tests up in tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
server n' shit. These tests is expensive: a remote SMTP client must
disconnect after
it passes tha test, before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_bare_newline_ttl (default: 30d)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use tha result from
a successful "bare newline" SMTP protocol test. Durin this
time, tha client IP address is excluded from dis test. Da default
is long cuz a remote SMTP client must disconnect afta it passes
the test,
before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_blacklist_action (default: ignore)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP client is
permanently blacklisted wit tha postscreen_access_list parameter.
Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR (default)"
Ignore  dis result fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.  Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_cache_cleanup_interval (default: 12h)
Da amount of time between \fBpostscreen\fR(8) cache cleanup runs.
Cache cleanup increases tha load on tha cache database n' should
therefore not be run frequently. This feature requires dat the
cache database supports tha "delete" n' "sequence" operators.
Specify a zero interval ta disable cache cleanup.
.PP
Afta each cache cleanup run, tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) daemon logs the
number of entries dat was retained n' dropped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A cleanup run is
logged as "partial" when tha daemon terminates early afta "\fBpostfix
reload\fR", "\fBpostfix stop\fR", or no requests fo' $max_idle
seconds.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_cache_map (default: btree:$data_directory/postscreen_cache)
Persistent storage fo' tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server decisions.
.PP
To share a \fBpostscreen\fR(8) cache between multiple \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
instances, use "postscreen_cache_map = proxy:btree:/path/to/file".
This requires Postfix version 2.9 or later; earlier \fBproxymap\fR(8)
implementations don't support cache cleanup. For a alternative
approach peep tha \fBmemcache_table\fR(5) manpage.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_cache_retention_time (default: 7d)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will cache a expired
temporary whitelist entry before it is removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prevents clients
from bein logged as "NEW" just cuz they cache entry expired
an minute ago. Well shiiiit, it also prevents tha cache from fillin up wit clients
that passed some deep protocol test once n' never came back.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_client_connection_count_limit (default: $smtpd_client_connection_count_limit)
How tha fuck nuff simultaneous connections any remote SMTP client is
allowed ta have
with tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. By default, dis limit is tha same
as wit tha Postfix SMTP server n' shit. Note dat tha triage process can
take nuff muthafuckin seconds, wit tha time dropped up in postscreen_greet_wait
delay, n' wit tha time dropped rappin' ta tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) built-in
dummy SMTP protocol engine.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_command_count_limit (default: 20)
Da limit on tha total number of commandz per SMTP session for
\fBpostscreen\fR(8)z built-in SMTP protocol engine.  This SMTP engine
defers or rejects all attempts ta serve up mail, therefore there is
no need ta enforce separate limits on tha number of junk commands
and error commands.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_command_filta (default: $smtpd_command_filter)
A mechanizzle ta transform commandz from remote SMTP clients.
See smtpd_command_filta fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_command_time_limit (default: ${stress?10}${stress:300}s)
Da time limit ta read a entire command line wit \fBpostscreen\fR(8)'s
built-in SMTP protocol engine.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_disable_vrfy_command (default: $disable_vrfy_command)
Disable tha SMTP VRFY command up in tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See
disable_vrfy_command fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps (default: $smtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps)
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP client address, with
case insensitizzle listz of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls, auth,
etc.) dat tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO response
to a remote SMTP client. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_discard_ehlo_keywordz fo' details.
Da table aint searched by hostname fo' robustnizz reasons.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_discard_ehlo_keywordz (default: $smtpd_discard_ehlo_keywords)
A case insensitizzle list of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO
response ta a remote SMTP client. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_discard_ehlo_keywords
for details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_dnsbl_action (default: ignore)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP clientz combined
DNSBL score is equal ta or pimped outa than a threshold (as defined
with tha postscreen_dnsbl_sites n' postscreen_dnsbl_threshold
parameters).  Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR (default)"
Ignore tha failure of dis test fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_dnsbl_reply_map (default: empty)
A mappin from actual DNSBL domain name which includes a secret
password, ta tha DNSBL domain name dat postscreen will reply with
when it rejects mail.  When no mappin is found, tha actual DNSBL
domain is ghon be used.
.PP
For maximal stabilitizzle it is dopest ta bust a gangbangin' file dat is read
into memory like fuckin pcre:, regexp: or texthash: (texthash: is similar
to hash:, except a) there is no need ta run \fBpostmap\fR(1) before the
file can be used, n' b) texthash: do not detect chizzlez after
the file is read).
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    postscreen_dnsbl_reply_map = texthash:/etc/postfix/dnsbl_reply
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/dnsbl_reply:
   secret.zen.spamhaus.org	zen.spamhaus.org
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_dnsbl_sites (default: empty)
Optionizzle list of DNS white/blacklist domains, filtas n' weight
factors. When tha list is non-empty, tha \fBdnsblog\fR(8) daemon will
query these domains wit tha IP addressez of remote SMTP clients,
and \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will update a SMTP clientz DNSBL score with
each non-error reply.
.PP
Caution: when postscreen rejects mail, it replies wit tha DNSBL
domain name. Use tha postscreen_dnsbl_reply_map feature ta hide
"password" shiznit up in DNSBL domain names.
.PP
When a cold-ass lil clientz score is equal ta or pimped outa than tha threshold
specified wit postscreen_dnsbl_threshold, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) can drop
the connection wit tha remote SMTP client.
.PP
Specify a list of domain=filter*weight entries, separated by
comma or whitespace.
.IP \(bu
When no "=filter" is specified, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use any
non-error DNSBL reply.  Otherwise, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) uses only DNSBL
replies dat match tha filter n' shit. Da filta has tha form d.d.d.d,
where each d be a number, or a pattern inside [] dat gotz nuff one
or mo' ";"-separated numbers or number..number ranges.
.IP \(bu
When no "*weight" is specified, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) increments
the remote SMTP clientz DNSBL score by 1.  Otherwise, tha weight must be
an integral number, n' \fBpostscreen\fR(8) addz tha specified weight to
the remote SMTP clientz DNSBL score.  Specify a wack number for
whitelisting.
.IP \(bu
When one postscreen_dnsbl_sites entry produces multiple
DNSBL responses, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) applies tha weight at most once.
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
To use example.com as a high-confidence blocklist, n' to
block mail wit example.net n' example.org only when both agree:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
postscreen_dnsbl_threshold = 2
postscreen_dnsbl_sites = example.com*2, example.net, example.org
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
To filta only DNSBL replies containin 127.0.0.4:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
postscreen_dnsbl_sites = example.com=127.0.0.4
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_dnsbl_threshold (default: 1)
Da inclusive lower bound fo' blockin a remote SMTP client, based on
its combined DNSBL score as defined wit tha postscreen_dnsbl_sites
parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_dnsbl_ttl (default: 1h)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use tha result from
a successful DNS blocklist test. Durin dis time, tha client IP address
is excluded from dis test. Da default is relatively short, cuz a
phat client can immediately rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_enforce_tls (default: $smtpd_enforce_tls)
Mandatory TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients, and
require dat clients use TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See smtpd_postscreen_enforce_tls
for details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
Preferably, use postscreen_tls_security_level instead.
.SH postscreen_expansion_filta (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
List of charactas dat is permitted up in postscreen_reject_footer
attribute expansions.  See smtpd_expansion_filta fo' further
details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_forbidden_commandz (default: $smtpd_forbidden_commands)
List of commandz dat tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server considaz in
violation of tha SMTP protocol. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_forbidden_commandz for
syntax, n' postscreen_non_smtp_command_action fo' possible actions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_greet_action (default: ignore)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP client speaks
before its turn within tha time specified wit tha postscreen_greet_wait
parameter n' shit.  Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR (default)"
Ignore tha failure of dis test fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.br
.PP
In either case, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) aint gonna whitelist tha remote SMTP client
IP address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_greet_banner (default: $smtpd_banner)
Da \fItext\fR up in tha optionizzle "220-\fItext\fR..." server
response that
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) sendz ahead of tha real Postfix SMTP serverz "220
text..." response, up in a attempt ta confuse wack SMTP clients so
that they drop a rhyme before they turn (pre-greet).  Specify a empty
value ta disable dis feature.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_greet_ttl (default: 1d)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use tha result from
a successful PREGREET test. Durin dis time, tha client IP address
is excluded from dis test. Da default is relatively short, cuz
a phat client can immediately rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_greet_wait (default: ${stress?2}${stress:6}s)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will wait fo' a SMTP
client ta bust a cold-ass lil command before its turn, n' fo' DNS blocklist
lookup thangs up in dis biatch ta arrive (default: up ta 2 secondz under stress,
up ta 6 secondz otherwise).
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w
(weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_helo_required (default: $smtpd_helo_required)
Require dat a remote SMTP client sendz HELO or EHLO before
commencin a MAIL transaction.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_non_smtp_command_action (default: drop)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP client sends
non-SMTP commandz as specified wit tha postscreen_forbidden_commands
parameter n' shit.  Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR"
Ignore tha failure of dis test fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.
Do \fInot\fR repeat dis test before some tha result from some
other test expires.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail permanently.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This action is the
same as wit tha Postfix SMTP serverz smtpd_forbidden_commands
feature.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_non_smtp_command_enable (default: no)
Enable "non-SMTP command" tests up in tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server n' shit. These
tests is expensive: a cold-ass lil client must disconnect afta it passes the
test, before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_non_smtp_command_ttl (default: 30d)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use tha result from
a successful "non_smtp_command" SMTP protocol test. Durin this
time, tha client IP address is excluded from dis test. Da default
is long cuz a cold-ass lil client must disconnect afta it passes tha test,
before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_pipelining_action (default: enforce)
Da action dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) takes when a remote SMTP client
sends
multiple commandz instead of bustin  one command n' waitin for
the server ta respond. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBignore\fR"
Ignore tha failure of dis test fo' realz. Allow other tests ta complete.
Do \fInot\fR repeat dis test before some tha result from some
other test expires.
This option is useful fo' testin n' collectin statistics
without blockin mail permanently.
.br
.IP "\fBenforce\fR"
Allow other tests ta complete. Reject attempts ta serve up mail
with a 550 SMTP reply, n' log tha helo/sender/recipient shiznit.
Repeat dis test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.IP "\fBdrop\fR"
Drop tha connection immediately wit a 521 SMTP reply. Repeat
this test tha next time tha client connects.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_pipelining_enable (default: no)
Enable "pipelining" SMTP protocol tests up in tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
server n' shit. These tests is expensive: a phat client must disconnect
afta it passes tha test, before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP
server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_pipelining_ttl (default: 30d)
Da amount of time dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) will use tha result from
a successful "pipelining" SMTP protocol test. Durin dis time, the
client IP address is excluded from dis test. Da default is
long cuz a phat client must disconnect afta it passes tha test,
before it can rap ta a real Postfix SMTP server.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_post_queue_limit (default: $default_process_limit)
Da number of clients dat can be waitin fo' steez from a
real Postfix SMTP server process. When dis queue is full, all
clients will
receive a 421 response.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_pre_queue_limit (default: $default_process_limit)
Da number of non-whitelisted clients dat can be waitin for
a decision whether they will receive steez from a real Postfix
SMTP server
process. When dis queue is full, all non-whitelisted clients will
receive a 421 response.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_reject_foota (default: $smtpd_reject_footer)
Optionizzle shiznit dat be appended afta a 4XX or 5XX
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) server
response. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_reject_foota fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_tls_security_level (default: $smtpd_tls_security_level)
Da SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server; when
a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete parameters
postscreen_use_tls n' postscreen_enforce_tls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_security_level
for details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH postscreen_upstream_proxy_protocol (default: empty)
Da name of tha proxy protocol used by a optionizzle before-postscreen
proxy agent. When a proxy agent is used, dis protocol conveys local
and remote address n' port shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify
"postscreen_upstream_proxy_protocol = haproxy" ta enable tha haproxy
protocol.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.SH postscreen_upstream_proxy_timeout (default: 5s)
Da time limit fo' tha proxy protocol specified wit the
postscreen_upstream_proxy_protocol parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.SH postscreen_use_tls (default: $smtpd_use_tls)
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
but do not require dat clients use TLS encryption.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
Preferably, use postscreen_tls_security_level instead.
.SH postscreen_watchdog_timeout (default: 10s)
How tha fuck much time a \fBpostscreen\fR(8) process may take ta respond to
a remote SMTP client command or ta big-ass up a cold-ass lil cache operation before it
is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer n' shit.  This be a safety
mechanizzle dat prevents \fBpostscreen\fR(8) from becomin non-responsive
due ta a funky-ass bug up in Postfix itself or up in system software.  To avoid
false alarms n' unnecessary cache corruption dis limit cannot be
set under 10s.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH postscreen_whitelist_interfaces (default: static:all)
A list of local \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server IP addresses where a
non-whitelisted remote SMTP client can obtain \fBpostscreen\fR(8)z temporary
whitelist status. This status is required before tha client can
talk ta a Postfix SMTP server process.  By default, a cold-ass lil client can
obtain \fBpostscreen\fR(8)z whitelist status on any local \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
server IP address.
.PP
When \fBpostscreen\fR(8) listens on both primary n' backup MX
addresses, tha postscreen_whitelist_interfaces parameta can be
configured ta give tha temporary whitelist status only when a cold-ass lil client
connects ta a primary MX address. Once a cold-ass lil client is whitelisted it
can rap ta a Postfix SMTP server on any address. Thus, clients
that connect only ta backup MX addresses aint NEVER gonna become whitelisted,
and aint NEVER gonna be allowed ta rap ta a Postfix SMTP server process.
.PP
Specify a list of network addresses or network/netmask patterns,
separated by commas and/or whitespace. Da netmask specifies the
number of bits up in tha network part of a host address. Continue long
lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
.PP
Yo ass can also specify "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns.  A
"/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table"
lookup table is matched when a table entry matches a lookup string
(the lookup result is ignored).
.PP
Da list is matched left ta right, n' tha search stops on the
first match. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha postscreen_whitelist_interfaces value, n' up in files
specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain the
":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    # Don't whitelist connections ta tha backup IP address.
    postscreen_whitelist_interfaces = !168.100.189.8, static:all
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH prepend_delivered_header (default: command, file, forward)
Da message delivery contexts where tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent prependz a Delivered-To:  message header wit tha address
that tha mail was served up to. This shiznit is used fo' mail
delivery loop detection.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix local delivery agent prependz a Delivered-To:
header when forwardin mail n' when deliverin ta file (mailbox)
and command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Turnin off tha Delivered-To: header when forwarding
mail aint recommended.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of \fBforward\fR, \fBfile\fR, or \fBcommand\fR.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
prepend_delivered_header = forward
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH process_id (read-only)
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.SH process_id_directory (default: pid)
Da location of Postfix PID filez relatizzle ta $queue_directory.
This be a read-only parameter.
.SH process_name (read-only)
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.SH propagate_unmatched_extensions (default: canonical, virtual)
What address lookup tablez copy a address extension from tha lookup
key ta tha lookup result.
.PP
For example, wit a \fBvirtual\fR(5) mappin of "\fIjoe@example.com =>
joe.user@example.net\fR", tha address "\fIjoe+foo@example.com\fR"
would rewrite ta "\fIjoe.user+foo@example.net\fR".
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of \fBcanonical\fR, \fBvirtual\fR, \fBalias\fR,
\fBforward\fR, \fBinclude\fR or \fBgeneric\fR. These cause
address extension
propagation wit \fBcanonical\fR(5), \fBvirtual\fR(5), n' \fBaliases\fR(5) maps,
with \fBlocal\fR(8) .forward n' :include: file lookups, n' wit \fBsmtp\fR(8)
generic maps, respectively.
.PP
Note: enablin dis feature fo' types other than \fBcanonical\fR
and \fBvirtual\fR is likely ta cause problems when mail is forwarded
to other cribs, especially wit mail dat is busted ta a mailin list
exploder address.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
propagate_unmatched_extensions = canonical, virtual, alias,
        forward, include
propagate_unmatched_extensions = canonical, virtual
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH proxy_interfaces (default: empty)
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives mail
on by way of a proxy or network address translation unit.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.PP
Yo ass must specify yo' "outside" proxy/NAT addresses when your
system be a funky-ass backup MX host fo' other domains, otherwise mail delivery
loops will happen when tha primary MX host is down.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
proxy_interfaces = 1.2.3.4
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH proxy_read_maps (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da lookup tablez dat tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server be allowed to
access fo' tha read-only service.
Table references dat don't begin wit proxy: is ignored.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH proxy_write_maps (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da lookup tablez dat tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server be allowed to
access fo' tha read-write service. Postfix-owned local database
filez should be stored under tha Postfix-owned data_directory.
Table references dat don't begin wit proxy: is ignored.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH proxymap_service_name (default: proxymap)
Da name of tha proxymap read-only table lookup service.  This
service is normally implemented by tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) daemon.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH proxywrite_service_name (default: proxywrite)
Da name of tha proxywrite read-write table lookup service.
This steez is normally implemented by tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) daemon.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH qmgr_clog_warn_time (default: 300s)
Da minimal delay between warnings dat a specific destination is
cloggin up tha Postfix actizzle queue. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify 0 ta disable.
.PP
This feature is enabled wit tha helpful_warnings parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH qmgr_daemon_timeout (default: 1000s)
How tha fuck much time a Postfix queue manager process may take ta handle
a request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH qmgr_fudge_factor (default: 100)
Obsolete feature: tha cementage of delivery resources dat a funky-ass busy
mail system will use up fo' delivery of a big-ass mailin  list
message.
.PP
This feature exists only up in tha \fBoqmgr\fR(8) oldschool queue manager n' shit. The
current queue manager solves tha problem up in a funky-ass betta way.
.SH qmgr_ipc_timeout (default: 60s)
Da time limit fo' tha queue manager ta bust or receive shiznit
over a internal communication channel.  Da purpose is ta break
out of deadlock thangs. If tha time limit is exceeded the
software either retries or aborts tha operation.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH qmgr_message_active_limit (default: 20000)
Da maximal number of lyrics up in tha actizzle queue.
.SH qmgr_message_recipient_limit (default: 20000)
Da maximal number of recipients held up in memory by tha Postfix
queue manager, n' tha maximal size of tha short-term,
in-memory "dead" destination status cache.
.SH qmgr_message_recipient_minimum (default: 10)
Da minimal number of in-memory recipients fo' any message. This
takes prioritizzle over any other in-memory recipient limits (i.e.,
the global qmgr_message_recipient_limit n' tha per transport
_recipient_limit) if necessary. Da minimum value allowed fo' this
parameta is 1.
.SH qmqpd_authorized_clients (default: empty)
What remote QMQP clients is allowed ta connect ta tha Postfix QMQP
server port.
.PP
By default, no client be allowed ta use tha service. This is
because tha QMQP server will relay mail ta any destination.
.PP
Specify a list of client patterns fo' realz. A list pattern specifies a host
name, a thugged-out domain name, a internizzle address, or a network/mask pattern,
where tha mask specifies tha number of bits up in tha network part.
When a pattern specifies a gangbangin' file name, its contents is substituted
for tha file name; when a pattern be a "type:table" table justification,
table lookup is used instead.
.PP
Patterns is separated by whitespace and/or commas. In order to
reverse tha result, precede a pattern wit an
exclamation point (!). Da form "!/file/name" is supported only
in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
qmqpd_authorized_clients = !192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.0/24
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH qmqpd_client_port_loggin (default: no)
Enable loggin of tha remote QMQP client port up in addizzle to
the hostname n' IP address. Da loggin format is "host[address]:port".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH qmqpd_error_delay (default: 1s)
How tha fuck long tha Postfix QMQP server will pause before bustin  a negative
reply ta tha remote QMQP client. Da purpose is ta slow down confused
or malicious clients.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH qmqpd_timeout (default: 300s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over tha network.
If a read or write operation blocks fo' mo' than $qmqpd_timeout
secondz tha Postfix QMQP server gives up n' disconnects.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH queue_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory. This is the
root directory of Postfix daemon processes dat run chrooted.
.SH queue_file_attribute_count_limit (default: 100)
Da maximal number of (name=value) attributes dat may be stored
in a Postfix queue file. Da limit is enforced by tha \fBcleanup\fR(8)
server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH queue_minfree (default: 0)
Da minimal amount of free space up in bytes up in tha queue file system
that is needed ta receive mail.  This is currently used by the
Postfix SMTP server ta decizzle if it will accept any mail at all.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server rejects MAIL FROM commandz when
the amount of free space is less than 1.5*$message_size_limit
(Postfix version 2.1 n' later).
To specify a higher minimum free space limit, specify a queue_minfree
value dat be at least 1.5*$message_size_limit.
.PP
With Postfix versions 2.0 n' earlier, a queue_minfree value of
zero means there is no minimum required amount of free space.
.SH queue_run_delay (default: 300s)
Da time between deferred queue scans by tha queue manager;
prior ta Postfix 2.4 tha default value was 1000s.
.PP
This parameta should be set less than or equal to
$minimal_backoff_time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also $maximal_backoff_time.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH queue_service_name (default: qmgr)
Da name of tha \fBqmgr\fR(8) service. This steez manages tha Postfix
queue n' schedulez delivery requests.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH rbl_reply_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit RBL response templates. Da tablez are
indexed by tha RBL domain name. By default, Postfix uses tha default
template as specified wit tha default_rbl_reply configuration
parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of tha syntax of RBL reply
templates.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH readme_directory (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da location of Postfix README filez dat describe how tha fuck ta build,
configure or operate a specific Postfix subsystem or feature.
.SH receive_override_options (default: empty)
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping. Typically, these is specified in
master.cf as command-line arguments fo' tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8), \fBqmqpd\fR(8) or
\fBpickup\fR(8) daemons.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of tha followin options.  Da options
override main.cf settings n' is either implemented by \fBsmtpd\fR(8),
\fBqmqpd\fR(8), or \fBpickup\fR(8) theyselves, or they is forwarded ta the
cleanup server.
.IP "\fBno_unknown_recipient_checks\fR"
Do not try ta reject unknown recipients (SMTP server only).
This is typically specified AFTER a external content filter.
.br
.IP "\fBno_address_mappings\fR"
Disable canonical address mapping, virtual alias map expansion,
address masquerading, n' automatic BCC (blind carbon-copy)
recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This is typically specified BEFORE a external content
filter.
.br
.IP "\fBno_header_body_checks\fR"
Disable header/body_checks. This is typically specified AFTER
an external content filter.
.br
.IP "\fBno_milters\fR"
Disable Milta (mail filter) applications. This is typically
specified AFTER a external content filter.
.br
.br
.PP
Note: when tha "BEFORE content filter" receive_override_options
settin is specified up in tha main.cf file, specify tha "AFTER content
filter" receive_override_options settin up in master.cf (and vice
versa).
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
receive_override_options =
    no_unknown_recipient_checks, no_header_body_checks
receive_override_options = no_address_mappings
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH recipient_bcc_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle BCC (blind carbon-copy) address lookup tables, indexed by
recipient address.  Da BCC address (multiple thangs up in dis biatch is not
supported) be added when mail entas from outside of Postfix.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.PP
Da table search order be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user+extension@domain.tld" address includin the
optionizzle address extension.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user@domain.tld" address without tha optional
address extension.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user+extension" address local part when the
recipient domain equals $myorigin, $mydestination, $inet_interfaces
or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user" address local part when tha recipient domain
equals $myorigin, $mydestination, $inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "@domain.tld" part.
.br
.PP
Specify tha types n' namez of databases ta use.  Afta chizzle,
run "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/recipient_bcc\fR".
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.3 n' lata tha BCC address be added as if it
was specified wit NOTIFY=NONE. Da sender aint gonna be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable, as long as all down-stream
software implements RFC 3461.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.2 n' earlier tha sender is ghon be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable.
.PP
Note: automatic BCC recipients is produced only fo' freshly smoked up mail.
To avoid maila loops, automatic BCC recipients is not generated
afta Postfix forwardz mail internally, or afta Postfix generates
mail itself.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
recipient_bcc_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/recipient_bcc
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH recipient_canonical_classes (default: envelope_recipient, header_recipient)
What addresses is subject ta recipient_canonical_maps address
mapping.  By default, recipient_canonical_maps address mappin is
applied ta envelope recipient addresses, n' ta header recipient
addresses.
.PP
Specify one or mo' of: envelope_recipient, header_recipient
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH recipient_canonical_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' envelope n' header
recipient addresses.
Da table format n' lookups is documented up in \fBcanonical\fR(5).
.PP
Note: $recipient_canonical_maps is processed before $canonical_maps.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
recipient_canonical_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/recipient_canonical
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH recipient_delimita (default: empty)
Da separator between user names n' address extensions (user+foo).
See \fBcanonical\fR(5), \fBlocal\fR(8), \fBrelocated\fR(5) n' \fBvirtual\fR(5) fo' the
effects dis has on aliases, canonical, virtual, relocated and
on .forward file lookups.  Basically, tha software tries user+foo
and .forward+foo before tryin user n' .forward.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
recipient_delimita = +
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH reject_code (default: 554)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is rejected by tha "reject" restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH reject_tempfail_action (default: defer_if_permit)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when a reject-type restriction
fails cuz of a temporary error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "defer" ta defer
the remote SMTP client request immediately. With tha default
"defer_if_permit" action, tha Postfix SMTP server continues ta look
for opportunitizzles ta reject mail, n' defers tha client request
only if it would otherwise be accepted.
.PP
For finer control, see: unverified_recipient_tempfail_action,
unverified_sender_tempfail_action, unknown_address_tempfail_action,
and unknown_helo_hostname_tempfail_action.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH relay_clientcerts (default: empty)
List of tablez wit remote SMTP client-certificate fingerprints or
hood key fingerprints (Postfix 2.9 n' later) fo' which tha Postfix
SMTP server will allow access wit tha permit_tls_clientcerts
feature.  Da fingerprint digest algorithm is configurable via the
smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest parameta (hard-coded as md5 prior to
Postfix version 2.5).
.PP
Postfix lookup tablez is up in tha form of (key, value) pairs.
Since we only need tha key, tha value can be chosen freely, e.g.
the name of tha user or host:
D7:04:2F:A7:0B:8C:A5:21:FA:31:77:E1:41:8A:EE:80 lutzpc.at.home
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
relay_clientcerts = hash:/etc/postfix/relay_clientcerts
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
For mo' fine-grained control, use check_ccert_access ta select
an appropriate \fBaccess\fR(5) policy fo' each client.
See RESTRICTION_CLASS_README.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR Postfix 2.9.0&ndash;2.9.5 computed tha hood key
fingerprint incorrectly. To use public-key fingerprints, upgrade
to Postfix 2.9.6 or later.
.PP
This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.2.
.SH relay_destination_concurrency_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_limit)
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha relay message delivery transport. This limit is enforced
by tha queue manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is the
first field up in tha entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH relay_destination_recipient_limit (default: $default_destination_recipient_limit)
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha relay
message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by tha queue
manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha straight-up original gangsta field in
the entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value of 1 chizzlez tha meanin of
relay_destination_concurrency_limit from concurrency per domain
into concurrency per recipient.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH relay_domains (default: $mydestination)
What destination domains (and subdomains thereof) dis system
will relay mail to. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subdomain matchin is controlled wit the
parent_domain_matches_subdomains parameter n' shit. For details bout how
the relay_domains value is used, peep tha description of the
permit_auth_destination n' reject_unauth_destination SMTP recipient
restrictions.
.PP
Domains dat match $relay_domains is served up wit the
$relay_transhiznit mail delivery transport. Da SMTP server validates
recipient addresses wit $relay_recipient_maps n' rejects non-existent
recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha relay domains address class up in the
ADDRESS_CLASS_README file.
.PP
Note: Postfix aint gonna automatically forward mail fo' domains
that list dis system as they primary or backup MX host. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
permit_mx_backup restriction up in tha \fBpostconf\fR(5) manual page.
.PP
Specify a list of host or domain names, "/file/name" patterns
or "type:table" lookup tables, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace fo' realz. A
"/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table"
lookup table is matched when a (parent) domain appears as lookup
key. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a thugged-out domain from tha list. Da form
"!/file/name" is supported only up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.SH relay_domains_reject_code (default: 554)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a cold-ass lil client
request is rejected by tha reject_unauth_destination recipient
restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH relay_recipient_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit all valid addresses up in tha domains
that match $relay_domains. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify @domain as a wild-card for
domains dat have no valid recipient list, n' become a source of
backscatta mail: Postfix accepts spam fo' non-existent recipients
and then floodz innocent playas wit undeliverable mail.  Technically,
tables
listed wit $relay_recipient_maps is used as lists: Postfix needs
to know only if a lookup strang is found or not yo, but it do not
use tha result from table lookup.
.PP
If dis parameta is non-empty, then tha Postfix SMTP server will reject
mail ta unknown relay users. This feature is off by default.
.PP
See also tha relay domains address class up in tha ADDRESS_CLASS_README
file.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
relay_recipient_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/relay_recipients
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH relay_transhiznit (default: relay)
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
remote delivery ta domains listed wit $relay_domains. In order of
decreasin precedence, tha nexthop destination is taken from
$relay_transport, $sender_dependent_relayhost_maps, $relayhost, or
from tha recipient domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This shiznit can be overruled with
the \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
Specify a strang of tha form \fItransport:nexthop\fR, where \fItransport\fR
is tha name of a mail delivery transhiznit defined up in master.cf.
Da \fI:nexthop\fR destination is optional; its syntax is documented
in tha manual page of tha correspondin delivery agent.
.PP
See also tha relay domains address class up in tha ADDRESS_CLASS_README
file.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH relayhost (default: empty)
Da next-hop destination of non-local mail; overrides non-local
domains up in recipient addresses. This shiznit is overruled with
relay_transport, sender_dependent_default_transport_maps,
default_transport, sender_dependent_relayhost_maps
and wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
On a intranet, specify tha organizationizzle domain name. If your
internal DNS uses no MX records, specify tha name of tha intranet
gateway host instead.
.PP
In tha case of SMTP, specify a thugged-out domain name, hostname, hostname:port,
[hostname]:port, [hostaddress] or [hostaddress]:port. Da form
[hostname] turns off MX lookups.
.PP
If you connected via UUCP, peep tha UUCP_README file fo' useful
information.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
relayhost = $mydomain
relayhost = [gateway.example.com]
relayhost = uucphost
relayhost = [an.ip.add.ress]
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH relocated_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit freshly smoked up contact shiznit fo' playas or
domains dat no longer exist.  Da table format n' lookups are
documented up in \fBrelocated\fR(5).
.PP
If you use dis feature, run "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/relocated\fR" to
build tha necessary DBM or DB file afta chizzle, then "\fBpostfix
reload\fR" ta make tha chizzlez visible.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
relocated_maps = dbm:/etc/postfix/relocated
relocated_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/relocated
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH remote_header_rewrite_domain (default: empty)
Don't rewrite message headaz from remote clients at all when
this parameta is empty; otherwise, rewrite message headaz and
append tha specified domain name ta incomplete addresses.  The
local_header_rewrite_clients parameta controls what tha fuck clients Postfix
considaz local.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
Da safe setting: append "domain.invalid" ta incomplete header
addresses from remote SMTP clients, so dat dem addresses cannot
be trippin wit local addresses.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
remote_header_rewrite_domain = domain.invalid
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da default, purist, setting: don't rewrite headaz from remote
clients at all.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
remote_header_rewrite_domain =
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.SH require_home_directory (default: no)
Require dat a \fBlocal\fR(8) recipientz home directory exists
before mail delivery be attempted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. By default dis test is disabled.
It can be useful fo' environments dat import home directories to
the mail server (IMPORTING HOME DIRECTORIES IS NOT RECOMMENDED).
.SH reset_baller_alias (default: no)
Reset tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agentz scam of tha baller-alias
attribute, when deliverin mail ta a cold-ass lil lil pimp alias dat do not have
its own balla alias.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later n' shit. With older
Postfix releases, tha behavior be as if dis parameta is set to
"yes".
.PP
As documented up in \fBaliases\fR(5), when a alias \fIname\fR has a
companion alias named baller-\fIname\fR, delivery errors will be
reported ta tha balla alias instead of tha sender n' shit. This configuration
is recommended fo' mailin lists.
.PP
A less known property of tha balla alias is dat it also forces
the \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent ta write local n' remote addresses
from alias expansion ta a freshly smoked up queue file, instead of attemptin to
deliver mail ta local addresses as soon as they come outta alias
expansion.
.PP
Freestylin local addresses from alias expansion ta a freshly smoked up queue
file allows fo' robust handlin of temporary delivery errors: errors
with one local member have no effect on deliveries ta other members
of tha list.  On tha other hand, delivery ta local addresses as
soon as they come outta alias expansion is fragile: a temporary
error wit one local address from alias expansion will cause the
entire alias ta be expanded repeatedly until tha error goes away,
or until tha message expires up in tha queue.  In dat case, a problem
with one list member thangs up in dis biatch up in multiple message deliveries ta other
list members.
.PP
Da default behavior of Postfix 2.8 n' lata is ta keep the
baller-alias attribute of tha parent alias, when deliverin mail to
a lil pimp alias dat aint gots its own balla alias. Then, local
addresses from dat lil pimp alias is ghon be freestyled ta a freshly smoked up queue file,
and a temporary error wit one local address aint gonna affect delivery
to other mailin list members.
.PP
Unfortunately, olda Postfix releases reset tha baller-alias
attribute when deliverin mail ta a cold-ass lil lil pimp alias dat do not have
its own balla alias.  Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent then attempts to
deliver local addresses as soon as they come outta lil pimp alias
expansion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If delivery ta any address from lil pimp alias expansion
fails wit a temporary error condition, tha entire mailin list may
be expanded repeatedly until tha mail expires up in tha queue, resulting
in multiple deliveriez of tha same message ta mailin list members.
.SH resolve_dequoted_address (default: yes)
Resolve a recipient address safely instead of erectly, by
lookin inside quotes.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix address resolver do not quote the
address localpart as per RFC 822, so dat additionizzle @ or % or !
operators remain visible. This behavior is safe but it be also
technologically incorrect.
.PP
If you specify "resolve_dequoted_address = no", then
the Postfix
resolver aint gonna know bout additionizzle @ etc. operators up in the
address localpart. This opens opportunitizzles fo' obscure mail relay
attacks wit user@domain@domain addresses when Postfix provides
backup MX steez fo' Sendmail systems.
.SH resolve_null_domain (default: no)
Resolve a address dat endz up in tha "@" null domain as if the
local hostname was specified, instead of rejectin tha address as
invalid.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
Earlier versions always resolve tha null domain as tha local
hostname.
.PP
Da Postfix SMTP server uses dis feature ta reject mail from
or ta addresses dat end up in tha "@" null domain, n' from addresses
that rewrite tha fuck into a gangbangin' form dat endz up in tha "@" null domain.
.SH resolve_numeric_domain (default: no)
Resolve "user@ipaddress" as "user@[ipaddress]", instead of
rejectin tha address as invalid.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH rewrite_service_name (default: rewrite)
Da name of tha address rewritin service. This steez rewrites
addresses ta standard form n' resolves dem ta a (delivery method,
next-hop host, recipient) triple.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH sample_directory (default: /etc/postfix)
Da name of tha directory wit example Postfix configuration files.
Startin wit Postfix 2.1, these filez done been replaced wit the
\fBpostconf\fR(5) manual page.
.SH send_cyrus_sasl_authzid (default: no)
When authenticatin ta a remote SMTP or LMTP server wit the
default settin "no", bust no SASL authoriZation ID (authzid); send
only tha SASL authentiCation ID (authcid) plus tha authcidz password.
.PP
Da non-default settin "yes" enablez tha behavior of older
Postfix versions.  These always bust a SASL authzid dat is equal
to tha SASL authcid yo, but dis causes inter-operabilitizzle problems
with some SMTP servers.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4.4 n' later.
.SH sender_based_routin (default: no)
This parameta should not be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Dat shiznit was replaced by sender_dependent_relayhost_maps
in Postfix version 2.3.
.SH sender_bcc_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle BCC (blind carbon-copy) address lookup tables, indexed
by sender address.  Da BCC address (multiple thangs up in dis biatch is not
supported) be added when mail entas from outside of Postfix.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.PP
Da table search order be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user+extension@domain.tld" address includin the
optionizzle address extension.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user@domain.tld" address without tha optional
address extension.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user+extension" address local part when the
sender domain equals $myorigin, $mydestination, $inet_interfaces
or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "user" address local part when tha sender domain
equals $myorigin, $mydestination, $inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP \(bu
Look up tha "@domain.tld" part.
.br
.PP
Specify tha types n' namez of databases ta use.  Afta chizzle,
run "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/sender_bcc\fR".
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.3 n' lata tha BCC address be added as if it
was specified wit NOTIFY=NONE. Da sender aint gonna be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable, as long as all down-stream
software implements RFC 3461.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix 2.2 n' earlier tha sender is ghon be notified
when tha BCC address is undeliverable.
.PP
Note: automatic BCC recipients is produced only fo' freshly smoked up mail.
To avoid maila loops, automatic BCC recipients is not generated
afta Postfix forwardz mail internally, or afta Postfix generates
mail itself.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
sender_bcc_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sender_bcc
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH sender_canonical_classes (default: envelope_sender, header_sender)
What addresses is subject ta sender_canonical_maps address
mapping.  By default, sender_canonical_maps address mappin is
applied ta envelope sender addresses, n' ta header sender addresses.
.PP
Specify one or mo' of: envelope_sender, header_sender
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH sender_canonical_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' envelope n' header
sender addresses.
Da table format n' lookups is documented up in \fBcanonical\fR(5).
.PP
Example: you wanna rewrite tha SENDER address "user@ugly.domain"
to "user@pretty.domain", while still bein able ta bust mail to
the RECIPIENT address "user@ugly.domain".
.PP
Note: $sender_canonical_maps is processed before $canonical_maps.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
sender_canonical_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sender_canonical
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH sender_dependent_default_transport_maps (default: empty)
A sender-dependent override fo' tha global default_transport
parameta setting. Da tablez is searched by tha envelope sender
address n' @domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A lookup result of DUNNO terminates tha search
without overridin tha global default_transhiznit parameta setting.
This shiznit is overruled wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
Note: dis overrides default_transport, not transport_maps, and
therefore tha expected syntax is dat of default_transport, not the
syntax of transport_maps.  Specifically, dis do not support the
transport_maps syntax fo' null transport, null nexthop, or null
email addresses.
.PP
For safety reasons, dis feature do not allow $number
substitutions up in regular expression maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH sender_dependent_relayhost_maps (default: empty)
A sender-dependent override fo' tha global relayhost parameter
setting. Da tablez is searched by tha envelope sender address and
@domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A lookup result of DUNNO terminates tha search without
overridin tha global relayhost parameta settin (Postfix 2.6 and
later). This shiznit is overruled wit relay_transport,
sender_dependent_default_transport_maps, default_transhiznit n' with
the \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
For safety reasons, dis feature do not allow $number
substitutions up in regular expression maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH sendmail_fix_line_endings (default: always)
Controls how tha fuck tha Postfix sendmail command converts email message
line endings from <CR><LF> tha fuck into UNIX format (<LF>).
.IP "\fBalways\fR"
Always convert message lines ending
in <CR><LF>. This settin is tha default wit Postfix
2.9 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBstrict\fR"
Convert message lines endin in
<CR><LF> only if tha straight-up original gangsta input line endz in
<CR><LF>. This settin is backwards-compatible with
Postfix 2.8 n' earlier.
.br
.IP "\fBnever\fR"
Never convert message lines endin in
<CR><LF>. This settin exists fo' completenizz only.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH sendmail_path (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
A Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies tha location of
the Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This command can be used to
submit mail tha fuck into tha Postfix queue.
.SH service_throttle_time (default: 60s)
How tha fuck long tha Postfix \fBmaster\fR(8) waits before forkin a server that
appears ta be malfunctioning.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH setgid_group (default: postdrop)
Da crew ballershizzle of set-gid Postfix commandz n' of group-writable
Postfix directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! When dis parameta value is chizzled you need
to re-run "\fBpostfix set-permissions\fR" (with Postfix version 2.0 and
earlier: "\fB/etc/postfix/post-install set-permissions\fR".
.SH show_user_unknown_table_name (default: yes)
Display tha name of tha recipient table up in tha "User unknown"
responses.  Da extra detail make shiznit blastin easier but also
reveals shiznit dat is no muthafucka elses bidnizz.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH showq_service_name (default: showq)
Da name of tha \fBshowq\fR(8) service. This steez produces mail queue
status reports.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH smtp_address_preference (default: any)
Da address type ("ipv6", "ipv4" or "any") dat tha Postfix
SMTP client will try first, when a thugged-out destination has IPv6 n' IPv4
addresses wit equal MX preference. This feature has no effect
unless tha inet_protocols settin enablez both IPv4 n' IPv6.
With Postfix 2.8 tha default is "ipv6".
.PP
Notes fo' mail delivery between cribs dat have both IPv4 and
IPv6 connectivity:
.IP \(bu
Da settin "smtp_address_preference = ipv6" is unsafe.
It can fail ta serve up mail when there be a outage dat affects
IPv6, while tha destination is still reachable over IPv4.
.IP \(bu
Da settin "smtp_address_preference = any" is safe. With
this, mail will eventually be served up even if there be a outage
that affects IPv6 or IPv4, as long as it do not affect both.
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH smtp_always_send_ehlo (default: yes)
Always bust EHLO all up in tha start of a SMTP session.
.PP
With "smtp_always_send_ehlo = no", tha Postfix SMTP client sends
EHLO only when
the word "ESMTP" appears up in tha server greetin banner (example:
220 spike.porcupine.org ESMTP Postfix).
.SH smtp_bind_address (default: empty)
An optionizzle numerical network address dat tha Postfix SMTP client
should bind ta when bustin a IPv4 connection.
.PP
This can be specified up in tha main.cf file fo' all SMTP clients, or
it can be specified up in tha master.cf file fo' a specific client,
for example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    smtp ... smtp -o smtp_bind_address=11.22.33.44
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Note 1: when inet_interfaces specifies no mo' than one IPv4
address, n' dat address be a non-loopback address, it is
automatically used as tha smtp_bind_address.  This supports virtual
IP hostin yo, but can be a problem on multi-homed firewalls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
inet_interfaces documentation fo' mo' detail.
.PP
Note 2: address shiznit may be enclosed inside [],
but dis form aint required here.
.SH smtp_bind_address6 (default: empty)
An optionizzle numerical network address dat tha Postfix SMTP client
should bind ta when bustin a IPv6 connection.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
This can be specified up in tha main.cf file fo' all SMTP clients, or
it can be specified up in tha master.cf file fo' a specific client,
for example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    smtp ... smtp -o smtp_bind_address6=1:2:3:4:5:6:7:8
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Note 1: when inet_interfaces specifies no mo' than one IPv6
address, n' dat address be a non-loopback address, it is
automatically used as tha smtp_bind_address6.  This supports virtual
IP hostin yo, but can be a problem on multi-homed firewalls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
inet_interfaces documentation fo' mo' detail.
.PP
Note 2: address shiznit may be enclosed inside [],
but dis form aint recommended here.
.SH smtp_body_checks (default: empty)
Restricted \fBbody_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.
These tablez is searched while mail is bein delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Actions
that chizzle tha delivery time or destination is not available.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_cname_overrides_servername (default: version dependent)
Allow DNS CNAME recordz ta override tha servername dat the
Postfix SMTP client uses fo' logging, SASL password lookup, TLS
policy decisions, or TLS certificate verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da value "no"
hardens Postfix smtp_tls_per_site hostname-based policies against
false hostname shiznit up in DNS CNAME records, n' make SASL
password file lookups mo' predictable. This is tha default setting
az of Postfix 2.3.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2.9 n' later.
.SH smtp_connect_timeout (default: 30s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' completin a TCP connection, or
zero (use tha operatin system built-in time limit).
.PP
When no connection can be made within tha deadline, tha Postfix
SMTP client
tries tha next address on tha mail exchanger list. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify 0 to
disable tha time limit (i.e. use whatever timeout is implemented by
the operatin system).
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_connection_cache_destinations (default: empty)
Permanently enable SMTP connection cachin fo' tha specified
destinations.  With SMTP connection caching, a cold-ass lil connection is not
closed immediately afta completion of a mail transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Instead,
the connection is kept open fo' up ta $smtp_connection_cache_time_limit
seconds.  This allows connections ta be reused fo' other deliveries,
and can improve mail delivery performance.
.PP
Specify a cold-ass lil comma or white space separated list of destinations
or pseudo-destinations:
.IP \(bu
if mail is busted without a relay host: a thugged-out domain name (the
right-hand side of a email address, without tha [] round a numeric
IP address),
.IP \(bu
if mail is busted via a relay host: a relay host name (without
[] or non-default TCP port), as specified up in main.cf or up in the
transhiznit map,
.IP \(bu
if mail is busted via a UNIX-domain socket: a pathname (without
the unix: prefix),
.IP \(bu
a /file/name wit domain names and/or relay host names as
defined above,
.IP \(bu
a "type:table" wit domain names and/or relay host names on
the left-hand side.  Da right-hand side result from "type:table"
lookups is ignored.
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_connection_cache_on_demand (default: yes)
Temporarily enable SMTP connection cachin while a thugged-out destination
has a high volume of mail up in tha actizzle queue.  With SMTP connection
caching, a cold-ass lil connection aint closed immediately afta completion
of a mail transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Instead, tha connection is kept open for
up ta $smtp_connection_cache_time_limit seconds.  This allows
connections ta be reused fo' other deliveries, n' can improve mail
delivery performance.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_connection_cache_reuse_limit (default: 10)
When SMTP connection cachin is enabled, tha number of times that
an SMTP session may be reused before it is closed.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2. In Postfix 2.3 it is
replaced by $smtp_connection_reuse_time_limit.
.SH smtp_connection_cache_time_limit (default: 2s)
When SMTP connection cachin is enabled, tha amount of time that
an unused SMTP client socket is kept open before it is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Do
not specify larger joints without permission from tha remote cribs.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_connection_reuse_time_limit (default: 300s)
Da amount of time durin which Postfix will use a SMTP
connection repeatedly.  Da timer starts when tha connection is
initiated (i.e. it includes tha connect, greetin n' helo latency,
in addizzle ta tha latenciez of subsequent mail delivery transactions).
.PP
This feature addresses a performizzle stabilitizzle problem with
remote SMTP servers. This problem aint specific ta Postfix: it
can happen when any MTA sendz big-ass amountz of SMTP email ta a crib
that has multiple MX hosts.
.PP
Da problem starts when one of a set of MX hosts becomes slower
than tha rest.  Even though SMTP clients connect ta fast n' slow
MX hosts wit equal probability, tha slow MX host endz up wit more
simultaneous inbound connections than tha fasta MX hosts, cuz
the slow MX host needz mo' time ta serve each client request.
.PP
Da slow MX host becomes a cold-ass lil connection attractor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If one MX
host becomes N times slower than tha rest, it dominates mail delivery
latency unless there be mo' than N fast MX hosts ta counta the
effect fo' realz. And if tha number of MX hosts is smalla than N, tha mail
delivery latency becomes effectively dat of tha slowest MX host
divided by tha total number of MX hosts.
.PP
Da solution uses connection cachin up in a way dat differs from
Postfix version 2.2.  By limitin tha amount of time durin which a cold-ass lil connection
can be used repeatedly (instead of limitin tha number of deliveries
over dat connection), Postfix not only restores fairnizz up in the
distribution of simultaneous connections across a set of MX hosts,
it also favors deliveries over connections dat big-ass up well, which
is exactly what tha fuck we want.
.PP
Da default reuse time limit, 300s, is comparable ta tha various
smtp transaction timeouts which is fair estimatez of maximum excess
latency fo' a slow delivery.  Note dat hosts may accept thousands
of lyrics over a single connection within tha default connection
reuse time limit. This number is much larger than tha default Postfix
version 2.2 limit of 10 lyrics per cached connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it may prove necessary
to lower tha limit ta avoid interoperabilitizzle thangs wit MTAs that
exhibit bugs when nuff lyrics is served up via a single connection.
A lower reuse time limit risks losin tha benefit of connection
reuse when tha average connection n' mail delivery latency exceeds
the reuse time limit.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_data_done_timeout (default: 600s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP ".", and
for receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
When no response is received within tha deadline, a warnin is
logged dat tha mail may be served up multiple times.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_data_init_timeout (default: 120s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP DATA command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_data_xfer_timeout (default: 180s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP message content.
When tha connection make no progress fo' mo' than $smtp_data_xfer_timeout
secondz tha Postfix SMTP client terminates tha transfer.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_defer_if_no_mx_address_found (default: no)
Defer mail delivery when no MX record resolves ta a IP address.
.PP
Da default (no) is ta return tha mail as undeliverable. With older
Postfix versions tha default was ta keep tryin ta serve up tha mail
until one of mah thugs fixed tha MX record or until tha mail was too old.
.PP
Note: tha Postfix SMTP client always ignores MX recordz wit equal
or worse preference
than tha local MTA itself.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_destination_concurrency_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_limit)
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha smtp message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by
the queue manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha first
field up in tha entry up in tha master.cf file.
.SH smtp_destination_recipient_limit (default: $default_destination_recipient_limit)
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha smtp
message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by tha queue
manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha straight-up original gangsta field in
the entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value of 1 chizzlez tha meanin of
smtp_destination_concurrency_limit from concurrency per domain
into concurrency per recipient.
.SH smtp_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP server address, with
case insensitizzle listz of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls, auth,
etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP client will ignore up in tha EHLO response from a
remote SMTP server n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtp_discard_ehlo_keywordz fo' details. The
table aint indexed by hostname fo' consistency with
smtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_discard_ehlo_keywordz (default: empty)
A case insensitizzle list of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP client will ignore up in tha EHLO
response from a remote SMTP server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
Specify tha \fBsilent-discard\fR pseudo keyword ta prevent
this action from bein logged.
.IP \(bu
Use tha smtp_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps feature to
discard EHLO keywordz selectively.
.br
.SH smtp_dns_resolver_options (default: empty)
DNS Resolver options fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.  Specify zero
or mo' of tha followin options, separated by comma or whitespace.
Option names is case-sensitive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some options refer ta domain names
that is specified up in tha file /etc/resolv.conf or equivalent.
.IP "\fBres_defnames\fR"
Append tha current domain name ta single-component names (those
that do not contain a "." character). This can produce incorrect
results, n' is tha hard-coded behavior prior ta Postfix 2.8.
.br
.IP "\fBres_dnsrch\fR"
Search fo' host names up in tha current domain n' up in parent
domains. This can produce incorrect thangs up in dis biatch n' is therefore not
recommended.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH smtp_enforce_tls (default: no)
Enforcement mode: require dat remote SMTP servers use TLS
encryption, n' never bust mail up in tha clear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This also requires
that tha remote SMTP server hostname matches tha shiznit in
the remote server certificate, n' dat tha remote SMTP server
certificate was issued by a CA dat is trusted by tha Postfix SMTP
client. If tha certificate don't verify or tha hostname don't
match, delivery is deferred n' mail stays up in tha queue.
.PP
Da server hostname is matched against all names provided as
dNSNames up in tha SubjectAlternativeName.  If no dNSNames is specified,
the CommonName is checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da behavior may be chizzled wit the
smtp_tls_enforce_peername option.
.PP
This option is useful only if yo ass is definitely shizzle dat you
will only connect ta servers dat support RFC 2487 _and_ that
provide valid server certificates.  Typical use is fo' clients that
send all they email ta a thugged-out dedicated mailhub.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtp_tls_security_level instead.
.SH smtp_fallback_relay (default: $fallback_relay)
Optionizzle list of relay hosts fo' SMTP destinations dat can't be
found or dat is unreachable. With Postfix 2.2 n' earlier this
parameta is called fallback_relay.
.PP
By default, mail is moonwalked back ta tha sender when a thugged-out destination is
not found, n' delivery is deferred when a thugged-out destination is unreachable.
.PP
With bulk email deliveries, it can be beneficial ta run the
fallback relay MTA on tha same host, so dat it can reuse tha sender
IP address.  This speedz up deliveries dat is delayed by IP-based
reputation systems (greylist, etc.).
.PP
Da fallback relays must be SMTP destinations. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a thugged-out domain,
host, host:port, [host]:port, [address] or [address]:port; tha form
[host] turns off MX lookups.  If you specify multiple SMTP
destinations, Postfix will try dem up in tha specified order.
.PP
To prevent maila loops between MX hosts n' fall-back hosts,
Postfix version 2.2 n' lata aint gonna use tha fallback relays for
destinations dat it is MX host fo' (assumin DNS lookup is turned on).
.SH smtp_generic_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez dat big-ass up address rewritin up in the
Postfix SMTP client, typically ta transform a locally valid address into
a globally valid address when bustin  mail across tha Internet.
This is needed when tha local machine aint gots its own Internet
domain name yo, but uses suttin' like \fIlocaldomain.local\fR
instead.
.PP
Da table format n' lookups is documented up in \fBgeneric\fR(5);
examplez is shown up in tha ADDRESS_REWRITING_README and
STANDARD_CONFIGURATION_README documents.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_header_checks (default: empty)
Restricted \fBheader_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.
These tablez is searched while mail is bein delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Actions
that chizzle tha delivery time or destination is not available.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_helo_name (default: $myhostname)
Da hostname ta bust up in tha SMTP EHLO or HELO command.
.PP
Da default value is tha machine hostname.  Specify a hostname or
[ip.add.re.ss].
.PP
This shiznit can be specified up in tha main.cf file fo' all SMTP
clients, or it can be specified up in tha master.cf file fo' a specific
client, fo' example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    mysmtp ... smtp -o smtp_helo_name=foo.bar.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH smtp_helo_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha HELO or EHLO command,
and fo' receivin tha initial remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_host_lookup (default: dns)
What mechanizzlez tha Postfix SMTP client uses ta look up a hostz IP
address.  This parameta is ignored when DNS lookups is disabled
(see: disable_dns_lookups).
.PP
Specify one of tha following:
.IP "\fBdns\fR"
Hosts can be found up in tha DNS (preferred).
.br
.IP "\fBnative\fR"
Use tha natizzle namin steez only (nsswitch.conf, or equivalent
mechanism).
.br
.IP "\fBdns, native\fR"
Use tha natizzle steez fo' hosts not found up in tha DNS.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_line_length_limit (default: 998)
Da maximal length of message header n' body lines dat Postfix
will bust via SMTP. This limit do not include tha <CR><LF>
at tha end of each line.  Longer lines is fucked up by inserting
"<CR><LF><SPACE>", ta minimize tha damage ta MIME
formatted mail.
.PP
Da Postfix limit of 998 charactas not includin <CR><LF>
is consistent wit tha SMTP limit of 1000 charactas including
<CR><LF>.  Da Postfix limit was 990 wit Postfix 2.8
and earlier.
.SH smtp_mail_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha MAIL FROM command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_mime_header_checks (default: empty)
Restricted \fBmime_header_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP
client. These tablez is searched while mail is bein delivered.
Actions dat chizzle tha delivery time or destination is not
available.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_mx_address_limit (default: 5)
Da maximal number of MX (mail exchanger) IP addresses dat can
result from Postfix SMTP client mail exchanger lookups, or zero (no
limit). Prior to
Postfix version 2.3, dis limit was disabled by default.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_mx_session_limit (default: 2)
Da maximal number of SMTP sessions per delivery request before
the Postfix SMTP client
gives up or delivers ta a gangbangin' fall-back relay host, or zero (no
limit). This restriction ignores sessions dat fail ta complete the
SMTP initial handshake (Postfix version 2.2 n' earlier) or dat fail to
complete tha EHLO n' TLS handshake (Postfix version 2.3 n' later).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_nested_header_checks (default: empty)
Restricted \fBnested_header_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP
client. These tablez is searched while mail is bein delivered.
Actions dat chizzle tha delivery time or destination is not
available.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_never_send_ehlo (default: no)
Never bust EHLO all up in tha start of a SMTP session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also the
smtp_always_send_ehlo parameter.
.SH smtp_per_record_deadline (default: no)
Change tha behavior of tha smtp_*_timeout time limits, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).  This
limits tha impact from straight-up shitty peers dat trickle data one byte at
a time.
.PP
Note: when per-record deadlines is enabled, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short timeout
may cause problems wit TLS over straight-up slow network connections.
Da reasons is dat a TLS protocol message can be up ta 16 kbytes
long (with TLSv1), n' dat a entire TLS protocol message must be
sent or received within tha per-record deadline.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later n' shit. With older
Postfix releases, tha behavior be as if dis parameta is set to
"no".
.SH smtp_pix_workaround_delay_time (default: 10s)
How tha fuck long tha Postfix SMTP client pauses before sending
".<CR><LF>" up in order ta work round tha PIX firewall
"<CR><LF>.<CR><LF>" bug.
.PP
Choosin a too short time make dis workaround ineffectizzle when
sendin big-ass lyrics over slow network connections.
.SH smtp_pix_workaround_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP server address, with
per-destination workaroundz fo' CISCO PIX firewall bugs.  Da table
is not indexed by hostname fo' consistency with
smtp_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH smtp_pix_workaround_threshold_time (default: 500s)
How tha fuck long a message must be queued before tha Postfix SMTP client
turns on tha PIX firewall "<CR><LF>.<CR><LF>"
bug workaround fo' delivery all up in firewalls wit "smtp fixup"
mode turned on.
.PP
By default, tha workaround is turned off fo' mail dat is queued
for less than 500 seconds. In other lyrics, tha workaround is normally
turned off fo' tha straight-up original gangsta delivery attempt.
.PP
Specify 0 ta enable tha PIX firewall
"<CR><LF>.<CR><LF>" bug workaround upon the
first delivery attempt.
.SH smtp_pix_workaroundz (default: disable_esmtp, delay_dotcrlf)
A list dat specifies zero or mo' workaroundz fo' CISCO PIX
firewall bugs. These workaroundz is implemented by tha Postfix
SMTP client. Workaround names is separated by comma or space, and
are case insensitive.  This parameta settin can be overruled with
per-destination smtp_pix_workaround_maps settings.
.IP "\fBdelay_dotcrlf\fR
Insert a thugged-out delay before sending
".<CR><LF>" afta tha end of tha message content.  The
delay is subject ta tha smtp_pix_workaround_delay_time and
smtp_pix_workaround_threshold_time parameta settings.
.br
.IP "\fBdisable_esmtp\fR
Disable all extended SMTP commands:
send HELO instead of EHLO.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later n' shit. Da default
settings is backwardz compatible wit earlier Postfix versions.
.SH smtp_quit_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha QUIT command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_quote_rfc821_envelope (default: yes)
Quote addresses up in Postfix SMTP client MAIL FROM n' RCPT TO commands
as required
by RFC 5321. This includes puttin quotes round a address localpart
that endz up in ".".
.PP
Da default is ta comply wit RFC 5321. If you gotta bust mail to
a fucked up SMTP server, configure a special SMTP client up in master.cf:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/master.cf:
    broken-smtp . . . smtp -o smtp_quote_rfc821_envelope=no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
and route mail fo' tha destination up in question ta tha "broken-smtp"
message delivery wit a \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_randomize_addresses (default: yes)
Randomize tha order of equal-preference MX host addresses.  This
is a performizzle feature of tha Postfix SMTP client.
.SH smtp_rcpt_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP RCPT TO
command, n' fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtp_reply_filta (default: empty)
A mechanizzle ta transform replies from remote SMTP servers one
line at a time.  This be a last-resort tool ta work round server
replies dat break inter-operabilitizzle wit tha Postfix SMTP client.
Other uses involve fault injection ta test Postfixz handlin of
invalid responses.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
In tha case of a multi-line reply, tha Postfix SMTP client
uses tha final reply linez numerical SMTP reply code n' enhanced
status code.
.IP \(bu
Da numerical SMTP reply code (XYZ) takes precedence over
the enhanced status code (X.Y.Z).  When tha enhanced status code
initial digit differs from tha SMTP reply code initial digit, or
when no enhanced status code is present, tha Postfix SMTP client
uses a generic enhanced status code (X.0.0) instead.
.br
.PP
Specify tha name of a "type:table" lookup table. Da search
strin be a single SMTP reply line as received from tha remote SMTP
server, except dat tha trailin <CR><LF> is removed.
When tha lookup succeeds, tha result replaces tha single SMTP reply
line.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtp_reply_filta = pcre:/etc/postfix/reply_filter
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/reply_filter:
    # Transform garbage tha fuck into "250-filler..." so dat it looks like
    # one line from a multi-line reply. Well shiiiit, it do not matta what tha fuck we
    # substitute here as long it has tha right syntax.  Da Postfix
    # SMTP client will use tha final linez numerical SMTP reply
    # code n' enhanced status code.
    !/^([2-5][0-9][0-9]($|[- ]))/ 250-filla fo' garbage
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7.
.SH smtp_rset_timeout (default: 20s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha RSET command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response. Da SMTP client
sendz RSET in
order ta finish a recipient address probe, or ta verify dat a
cached session is still usable.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name (default: empty)
An optionizzle table ta prevent repeated SASL authentication
failures wit tha same remote SMTP server hostname, username and
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Each table (key, value) pair gotz nuff a server name, a
username n' password, n' tha full server response. This shiznit
is stored when a remote SMTP server rejects a authentication attempt
with a 535 reply code.  As long as tha smtp_sasl_password_maps
information do no chizzle, n' as long as tha smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name
information do not expire (see smtp_sasl_auth_cache_time) the
Postfix SMTP client avoidz SASL authentication attempts wit the
same server, username n' password, n' instead bounces or defers
mail as controlled wit tha smtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce configuration
parameter.
.PP
Use a per-destination delivery concurrency of 1 (for example,
"smtp_destination_concurrency_limit = 1",
"relay_destination_concurrency_limit = 1", etc.), otherwise multiple
delivery agents may experience a login failure all up in tha same time.
.PP
Da table must be accessed via tha proxywrite service, i.e. the
map name must start wit "proxy:". Da table should be stored under
the directory specified wit tha data_directory parameter.
.PP
This feature uses cryptographic hashin ta protect plain-text
passwords, n' requires dat Postfix is compiled wit TLS support.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name = proxy:btree:/var/lib/postfix/sasl_auth_cache
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_auth_cache_time (default: 90d)
Da maximal age of a smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name entry before it
is removed.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_auth_enable (default: no)
Enable SASL authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP client.  By default,
the Postfix SMTP client uses no authentication.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce (default: yes)
When a remote SMTP server rejects a SASL authentication request
with a 535 reply code, defer mail delivery instead of returning
mail as undeliverable. Da latta behavior was hard-coded prior to
Postfix version 2.5.
.PP
Note: tha settin "yes" overrides tha global soft_bounce
parameter yo, but tha settin "no" do not.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Default az of Postfix 2.5
smtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce = yes
# Da oldschool hard-coded default
smtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_mechanism_filta (default: empty)
If non-empty, a Postfix SMTP client filta fo' tha remote SMTP
serverz list of offered SASL mechanisms.  Different client and
server implementations may support different mechanizzle lists; by
default, tha Postfix SMTP client will use tha intersection of the
two. smtp_sasl_mechanism_filta specifies a optionizzle third mechanism
list ta intersect with.
.PP
Specify mechanizzle names, "/file/name" patterns or "type:table"
lookup tables. Da right-hand side result from "type:table" lookups
is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a mechanizzle name from the
list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only up in Postfix version
2.4 n' later.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_sasl_mechanism_filta = plain, login
smtp_sasl_mechanism_filta = /etc/postfix/smtp_mechs
smtp_sasl_mechanism_filta = !gssapi, !login, static:rest
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtp_sasl_password_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle Postfix SMTP client lookup tablez wit one username:password
entry
per remote hostname or domain, or sender address when sender-dependent
authentication is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If no username:password entry is found,
then tha Postfix SMTP client will not
attempt ta authenticate ta tha remote host.
.PP
Da Postfix SMTP client opens tha lookup table before goin to
chroot jail, so you can leave tha password file up in /etc/postfix.
.SH smtp_sasl_path (default: empty)
Implementation-specific shiznit dat tha Postfix SMTP client
passes all up in to
the SASL plug-in implementation dat is selected with
\fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR.  Typically dis specifies tha name of a
configuration file or rendezvous point.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_security_options (default: noplaintext, noanonymous)
Postfix SMTP client SASL securitizzle options; az of Postfix 2.3
the list of available
features dependz on tha SASL client implementation dat is selected
with \fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR.
.PP
Da followin securitizzle features is defined fo' tha \fBcyrus\fR
client SASL implementation:
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of tha following:
.IP "\fBnoplaintext\fR"
Disallow methodz dat use plaintext passwords.
.br
.IP "\fBnoactive\fR"
Disallow methodz subject ta actizzle (non-dictionary) attack.
.br
.IP "\fBnodictionary\fR"
Disallow methodz subject ta passive (dictionary) attack.
.br
.IP "\fBnoanonymous\fR"
Disallow methodz dat allow anonymous authentication.
.br
.IP "\fBmutual_auth\fR"
Only allow methodz dat provide mutual authentication (not
available wit SASL version 1).
.br
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_sasl_security_options = noplaintext
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtp_sasl_tls_security_options (default: $smtp_sasl_security_options)
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
client uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_tls_verified_security_options (default: $smtp_sasl_tls_security_options)
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
client uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions wit a verified server
certificate.
.PP
When mail is busted ta tha hood MX host fo' tha recipient's
domain, server certificates is by default optional, n' delivery
proceedz even if certificate verification fails. For delivery via
a submission steez dat requires SASL authentication, it may be
appropriate ta bust plaintext passwordz only when tha connection
to tha server is straight fuckin encrypted \fBand\fR tha server identity
is verified.
.PP
Da smtp_sasl_tls_verified_security_options parameta make it
possible ta only enable plaintext mechanizzlez when a secure connection
to tha server be available. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Submission servers subject ta this
policy must either have verifiable certificates or offer suitable
non-plaintext SASL mechanisms.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH smtp_sasl_type (default: cyrus)
Da SASL plug-in type dat tha Postfix SMTP client should use
for authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da available types is listed wit the
"\fBpostconf -A\fR" command.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_send_dummy_mail_auth (default: no)
Whether or not ta append tha "AUTH=<>" option ta tha MAIL
FROM command up in SASL-authenticated SMTP sessions. Da default is
not ta bust this, ta avoid problems wit fucked up remote SMTP servers.
Before Postfix 2.9 tha behavior be as if "smtp_send_dummy_mail_auth
= yes".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.SH smtp_send_xforward_command (default: no)
Send tha non-standard XFORWARD command when tha Postfix SMTP server
EHLO response announces XFORWARD support.
.PP
This allows a Postfix SMTP delivery agent, used fo' injectin mail
into
a content filter, ta forward tha name, address, protocol n' HELO
name of tha original gangsta client ta tha content filta n' downstream
queuin SMTP server n' shit. This can produce mo' useful loggin than
localhost[127.0.0.1] etc.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtp_sender_dependent_authentication (default: no)
Enable sender-dependent authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP client; dis is
available only wit SASL authentication, n' disablez SMTP connection
cachin ta ensure dat mail from different sendaz will use the
appropriate credentials.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_skip_4xx_greetin (default: yes)
Skip SMTP servers dat greet wit a 4XX status code (go away, try
again later).
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP client moves on tha next mail exchanger.
Specify
"smtp_skip_4xx_greetin = no" if Postfix should defer delivery
immediately.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' earlier.
Lata Postfix versions always skip remote SMTP servers dat greet
with a
4XX status code.
.SH smtp_skip_5xx_greetin (default: yes)
Skip remote SMTP servers dat greet wit a 5XX status code (go away,
do
not try again n' again n' again later).
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP client moves on tha next mail
exchanger n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "smtp_skip_5xx_greetin = no" if Postfix should
bounce tha mail immediately. Da default settin is incorrect yo, but
it is what tha fuck a shitload of playas expect ta happen.
.SH smtp_skip_quit_response (default: yes)
Do not wait fo' tha response ta tha SMTP QUIT command.
.SH smtp_starttls_timeout (default: 300s)
Time limit fo' Postfix SMTP client write n' read operations
durin TLS startup n' shutdown handshake procedures.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_CAfile (default: empty)
A file containin CA certificatez of root CAs trusted ta sign
either remote SMTP server certificates or intermediate CA certificates.
These is loaded tha fuck into memory before tha \fBsmtp\fR(8) client entas the
chroot jail. If tha number of trusted roots is large, consider using
smtp_tls_CApath instead yo, but note dat tha latta directory must be
present up in tha chroot jail if tha \fBsmtp\fR(8) client is chrooted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This
file may also be used ta augment tha client certificate trust chain,
but it is dopest ta include all tha required certificates directly in
$smtp_tls_cert_file.
.PP
Specify "smtp_tls_CAfile = /path/to/system_CA_file" ta use
ONLY tha system-supplied default certificate authoritizzle certificates.
.PP
Specify "tls_append_default_CA = no" ta prevent Postfix from
appendin tha system-supplied default CAs n' trustin third-party
certificates.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_CAfile = /etc/postfix/CAcert.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_CApath (default: empty)
Directory wit PEM format certificate authoritizzle certificates
that tha Postfix SMTP client uses ta verify a remote SMTP server
certificate.  Don't forget ta create tha necessary "hash" links
with, fo' example, "$OPENSSL_HOME/bin/c_rehash /etc/postfix/certs".
.PP
To use dis option up in chroot mode, dis directory (or a cold-ass lil copy)
must be inside tha chroot jail.
.PP
Specify "smtp_tls_CApath = /path/to/system_CA_directory" to
use ONLY tha system-supplied default certificate authoritizzle certificates.
.PP
Specify "tls_append_default_CA = no" ta prevent Postfix from
appendin tha system-supplied default CAs n' trustin third-party
certificates.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_CApath = /etc/postfix/certs
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_block_early_mail_reply (default: no)
Try ta detect a mail hijackin battle based on a TLS protocol
vulnerabilitizzle (CVE-2009-3555), where a attacker prependz malicious
HELO, MAIL, RCPT, DATA commandz ta a Postfix SMTP client TLS session.
Da battle would succeed wit non-Postfix SMTP servers dat reply
to tha malicious HELO, MAIL, RCPT, DATA commandz afta negotiating
the Postfix SMTP client TLS session.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7.
.SH smtp_tls_cert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client RSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP client private RSA key,
and these may be tha same as tha Postfix SMTP server RSA certificate n' key
file.
.PP
Do not configure client certificates unless you \fBmust\fR present
client TLS certificates ta one or mo' servers. Client certificates are
not probably needed, n' can cause problems up in configurations dat work
well without em. Da recommended settin is ta let tha defaults stand:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_cert_file =
smtp_tls_key_file =
smtp_tls_dcert_file =
smtp_tls_dkey_file =
smtp_tls_eccert_file =
smtp_tls_eckey_file =
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da dopest way ta use tha default settings is ta comment up tha above
parametas up in main.cf if present.
.PP
To enable remote SMTP servers ta verify tha Postfix SMTP client
certificate, tha issuin CA certificates must be made available ta the
server n' shit. Yo ass should include tha required certificates up in tha client
certificate file, tha client certificate first, then tha issuing
CA(s) (bottom-up order).
.PP
Example: tha certificate fo' "client.example.com" was issued by
"intermediate CA" which itself has a cold-ass lil certificate issued by "root CA".
Smoke tha client.pem file wit "cat client_cert.pem intermediate_CA.pem
root_CA.pem > client.pem".
.PP
If you also wanna verify remote SMTP server certificates issued by
these CAs, you can add tha CA certificates ta tha smtp_tls_CAfile, in
which case it aint necessary ta have dem up in tha smtp_tls_cert_file,
smtp_tls_dcert_file or smtp_tls_eccert_file.
.PP
A certificate supplied here must be usable as a SSL client certificate
and hence pass tha "openssl verify -purpose sslclient ..." test.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_cert_file = /etc/postfix/client.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_cipherlist (default: empty)
Obsolete Postfix < 2.3 control fo' tha Postfix SMTP client TLS
cipher list fo' realz. As dis feature applies ta all TLS securitizzle levels, it is easy as fuck 
to create inter-operabilitizzle problems by choosin a non-default cipher
list. Do not bust a non-default TLS cipher list on hosts dat serve up email
to tha hood Internet: yo big-ass booty is ghon be unable ta bust email ta servers that
only support tha ciphers you exclude. Usin a restricted cipher list
may be mo' appropriate fo' a internal MTA, where one can exert some
control over tha TLS software n' settingz of tha peer servers.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR do not use "" quotes round tha parameta value.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.2. Well shiiiit, it aint used with
Postfix 2.3 n' later; use smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers instead.
.SH smtp_tls_ciphers (default: export)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP client
will use wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Cipher types listed in
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers is excluded from tha base definizzle of
the selected cipher grade. Da default value "export" ensures maximum
inter-operability. Because encryption is optional, stronger controls
are not appropriate, n' dis settin SHOULD NOT be chizzled unless the
change is essential.
.PP
When TLS is mandatory tha cipher grade is chosen via the
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers configuration parameter, peep there fo' syntax
details. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtp_tls_policy_maps fo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta configure
ciphers on a per-destination basis.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_ciphers = export
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later n' shit. With earlier Postfix
releases only tha smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers parameta is implemented,
and opportunistic TLS always uses "export" or betta (i.e. all) ciphers.
.SH smtp_tls_dcert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client DSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP client private DSA key.
.PP
See tha rap under smtp_tls_cert_file fo' mo' details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_dcert_file = /etc/postfix/client-dsa.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_dkey_file (default: $smtp_tls_dcert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client DSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP client DSA certificate
file specified wit $smtp_tls_dcert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_eccert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA private key.
.PP
See tha rap under smtp_tls_cert_file fo' mo' details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_eccert_file = /etc/postfix/ecdsa-ccert.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH smtp_tls_eckey_file (default: $smtp_tls_eccert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA
certificate file specified wit $smtp_tls_eccert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH smtp_tls_enforce_peername (default: yes)
With mandatory TLS encryption, require dat tha remote SMTP
server hostname matches tha shiznit up in tha remote SMTP server
certificate.  Az of RFC 2487 tha requirements fo' hostname checking
for MTA clients is not specified.
.PP
This option can be set ta "no" ta disable strict peer name
checking. This settin has no effect on sessions dat is controlled
via tha smtp_tls_per_site table.
.PP
Disablin tha hostname verification can make sense up in closed
environment where special CAs is pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If not used carefully,
this option opens tha dark shiznit of a "man-in-the-middle" battle (the
CommonName of dis attacker is ghon be logged).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtp_tls_security_level instead.
.SH smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
List of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from tha Postfix
SMTP client cipher
list at all TLS securitizzle levels. This aint a OpenSSL cipherlist, it is
a simple list separated by whitespace and/or commas. Da elements is a
single cipher, or one or mo' "+" separated cipher properties, up in which
case only ciphers matchin \fBall\fR tha propertizzles is excluded.
.PP
Examplez (some of these will cause problems):
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = aNULL
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = MD5, DES
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = DES+MD5
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = AES256-SHA, DES-CBC3-MD5
smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = kEDH+aRSA
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da first setting, disablez anonymous ciphers. Da next setting
disablez ciphers dat use tha MD5 digest algorithm or tha (single) DES
encryption algorithm. Da next settin disablez ciphers dat use MD5 and
DES together n' shit.  Da next settin disablez tha two ciphers "AES256-SHA"
and "DES-CBC3-MD5". Da last settin disablez ciphers dat use "EDH"
key exchange wit RSA authentication.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match (default: empty)
List of aaight remote SMTP server certificate fingerprints for
the "fingerprint" TLS securitizzle level (\fBsmtp_tls_security_level\fR =
fingerprint) fo' realz. At dis securitizzle level, certificate authoritizzles is not
used, n' certificate expiration times is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Instead, server
certificates is verified directly via they certificate fingerprint
or hood key fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later). Da fingerprint
is a message digest of tha server certificate (or hood key). The
digest algorithm is selected via tha \fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_digest\fR
parameter.
.PP
When a \fBsmtp_tls_policy_maps\fR table entry specifies the
"fingerprint" securitizzle level, any "match" attributes up in dat entry specify
the list of valid fingerprints fo' tha correspondin destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Multiple
fingerprints can be combined wit a "|" delimita up in a single match
attribute, or multiple match attributes can be employed.
.PP
Example: Certificate fingerprint verification wit internal mailhub.
Two matchin fingerprints is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da relayhost may be multiple
physical hosts behind a load-balancer, each wit its own private/public
key n' self-signed certificate fo' realz. Alternatively, a single relayhost may
be up in tha process of switchin from one set of private/hood keys to
another, n' both keys is trusted just prior ta tha transition.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
relayhost = [mailhub.example.com]
smtp_tls_security_level = fingerprint
smtp_tls_fingerprint_digest = md5
smtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match =
    3D:95:34:51:24:66:33:B9:D2:40:99:C0:C1:17:0B:D1
    EC:3B:2D:B0:5B:B1:FB:6D:20:A3:9D:72:F6:8D:12:35
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Example: Certificate fingerprint verification wit selected destinations.
As up in tha example above, we show two matchin fingerprints:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtp_tls_policy_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/tls_policy
    smtp_tls_fingerprint_digest = md5
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/tls_policy:
    example.com	fingerprint
        match=3D:95:34:51:24:66:33:B9:D2:40:99:C0:C1:17:0B:D1
        match=EC:3B:2D:B0:5B:B1:FB:6D:20:A3:9D:72:F6:8D:12:35
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_fingerprint_digest (default: md5)
Da message digest algorithm used ta construct remote SMTP server
certificate fingerprints fo' realz. At tha "fingerprint" TLS securitizzle level
(\fBsmtp_tls_security_level\fR = fingerprint), tha server certificate is
verified by directly matchin its certificate fingerprint or its public
key fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later). Da fingerprint is the
message digest of tha server certificate (or its hood key)
usin tha selected
algorithm. With a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digest algorithm resistant ta "second pre-image"
attacks, it aint feasible ta create a freshly smoked up hood key n' a matching
certificate (or public/private key-pair) dat has tha same ol' dirty fingerprint.
.PP
Da default algorithm is \fBmd5\fR; dis is consistent with
the backwardz compatible settin of tha digest used ta verify client
certificates up in tha SMTP server.
.PP
Da dopest practice algorithm is now \fBsha1\fR. Recent advances up in hash
function cryptanalysis have hustled ta md5 bein deprecated up in favor of sha1.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat as long as there be no known "second pre-image" attacks
against md5, its use up in dis context can still be considered safe.
.PP
While additionizzle digest algorithms is often available wit OpenSSL's
libcrypto, only dem used by libssl up in SSL cipher suites is available to
Postfix. For now dis means just md5 or sha1.
.PP
To find tha fingerprint of a specific certificate file, wit a
specific digest algorithm, run:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
$ openssl x509 -noout -fingerprint -\fIdigest\fR -in \fIcertfile\fR.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da text ta tha right of "=" sign is tha desired fingerprint.
For example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
$ openssl x509 -noout -fingerprint -sha1 -in cert.pem
SHA1 Fingerprint=D4:6A:AB:19:24:79:F8:32:BB:A6:CB:66:82:C0:8E:9B:EE:29:A8:1A
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
To extract tha hood key fingerprint from a X.509 certificate,
you need ta extract tha hood key from tha certificate n' compute
the appropriate digest of its DER (ASN.1) encoding. With OpenSSL
the "-pubkey" option of tha "x509" command extracts tha public
key always up in "PEM" format. We pipe tha result ta another OpenSSL
command dat converts tha key ta DER n' then ta tha "dgst" command
to compute tha fingerprint.
.PP
Da actual command ta transform tha key ta DER format depends
on tha version of OpenSSL used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With OpenSSL 1.0.0 n' later, the
"pkey" command supports all key types. With OpenSSL 0.9.8 and
earlier, tha key type be always RSA (nobody uses DSA, n' EC
keys is not straight-up supported by 0.9.8), so tha "rsa" command is
used.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# OpenSSL 1.0 wit all certificates n' SHA-1 fingerprints.
$ openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -pubkey |
    openssl pkey -pubin -outform DER |
    openssl dgst -sha1 -c
(stdin)= 64:3f:1f:f6:e5:1e:d4:2a:56:8b:fc:09:1a:61:98:b5:bc:7c:60:58
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# OpenSSL 0.9.8 wit RSA certificates n' MD5 fingerprints.
$ openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -pubkey |
    openssl rsa -pubin -outform DER |
    openssl dgst -md5 -c
(stdin)= f4:62:60:f6:12:8f:d5:8d:28:4d:13:a7:db:b2:ff:50
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da Postfix SMTP server n' client log tha peer (leaf) certificate
fingerprint n' hood key fingerprint when tha TLS loglevel is 2 or
higher.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR Postfix 2.9.0&ndash;2.9.5 computed tha hood key
fingerprint incorrectly. To use public-key fingerprints, upgrade
to Postfix 2.9.6 or later.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_key_file (default: $smtp_tls_cert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client RSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP client RSA certificate
file specified wit $smtp_tls_cert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_key_file = $smtp_tls_cert_file
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_loglevel (default: 0)
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP client loggin of TLS activity.
Each loggin level also includes tha shiznit dat is logged at
a lower loggin level.
.IP ""
0 Log only a summary message on TLS handshake completion
&mdash; no loggin of remote SMTP server certificate trust-chain
verification errors if server certificate verification aint required.
With Postfix 2.8 n' earlier, disable loggin of TLS activity.
.br
.IP ""
1 Also log remote SMTP server trust-chain verification
errors n' peer certificate summary shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With Postfix 2.8
and earlier, log TLS handshake n' certificate shiznit.
.br
.IP ""
2 Also log levels durin TLS negotiation.
.br
.IP ""
3 Also log hexadecimal n' ASCII dump of TLS negotiation
process.
.br
.IP ""
4 Also log hexadecimal n' ASCII dump of complete
transmission afta STARTTLS.
.br
.br
.PP
Do not use "smtp_tls_loglevel = 2" or higher except up in case of
problems. Use of loglevel 4 is straight fuckin discouraged.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers (default: medium)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP client will
use with
mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default value "medium" is suitable
for most destinations wit which you may wanna enforce TLS, and
is beyond tha reach of todizzlez cryptanalytic methods. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtp_tls_policy_maps fo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta configure ciphers
on a per-destination basis.
.PP
Da followin cipher grades is supported:
.IP "\fBexport\fR"
Enable "EXPORT" grade or betta OpenSSL
ciphers.  This is tha default fo' opportunistic encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is
not recommended fo' mandatory encryption unless you must enforce TLS
with "crippled" peers. Da underlyin cipherlist is specified via the
tls_export_cipherlist configuration parameter, which yo ass is strongly
encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBlow\fR"
Enable "LOW" grade or betta OpenSSL ciphers.  This
settin is only appropriate fo' internal mail servers.  Da underlying
cipherlist is specified via tha tls_low_cipherlist configuration
parameter, which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBmedium\fR"
Enable "MEDIUM" grade or betta OpenSSL ciphers.
Da underlyin cipherlist is specified via tha tls_medium_cipherlist
configuration parameter, which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBhigh\fR"
Enable only "HIGH" grade OpenSSL ciphers.  This settin may
be appropriate when all mandatory TLS destinations (e.g. when all
mail is routed ta a suitably capable relayhost) support at least one
"HIGH" grade cipher n' shit. Da underlyin cipherlist is specified via the
tls_high_cipherlist configuration parameter, which yo ass is strongly
encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBnull\fR"
Enable only tha "NULL" OpenSSL ciphers, these provide authentication
without encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This settin is only appropriate up in tha rare case
that all servers is prepared ta use NULL ciphers (not normally enabled
in TLS servers) fo' realz. A plausible use-case be a LMTP server listenin on a
UNIX-domain socket dat is configured ta support "NULL" ciphers. The
underlyin cipherlist is specified via tha tls_null_cipherlist
configuration parameter, which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not
change.
.br
.br
.PP
Da underlyin cipherlists fo' grades other than "null" include
anonymous ciphers yo, but these is automatically filtered up if the
Postfix SMTP client is configured ta verify server certificates.
Yo ass is straight-up unlikely ta need ta take any steps ta exclude anonymous
ciphers, they is excluded automatically as necessary.  If you must
exclude anonymous ciphers all up in tha "may" or "encrypt" securitizzle levels,
when tha Postfix SMTP client do not need or use peer certificates, set
"smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers = aNULL". To exclude anonymous ciphers only when
TLS is enforced, set "smtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers = aNULL".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
Additionizzle list of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from the
Postfix SMTP client cipher list at mandatory TLS securitizzle levels. This list
works up in addizzle ta tha exclusions listed wit smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers
(see there fo' syntax details).
.PP
Startin wit Postfix 2.6, tha mandatory cipher exclusions can be
specified on a per-destination basis via tha TLS policy "exclude"
attribute. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtp_tls_policy_maps fo' notes n' examples.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols (default: !SSLv2)
List of SSL/TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP client will use with
mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In main.cf tha joints is separated by
whitespace, commas or colons. In tha policy table "protocols" attribute
(see smtp_tls_policy_maps) tha only valid separator is colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An
empty value means allow all protocols. Da valid protocol names, (see
\\fBfBSSL_get_version\fR(3)\fR), is "SSLv2", "SSLv3" n' "TLSv1".
.PP
Note: Az of OpenSSL 1.0.1 two freshly smoked up protocols is defined, "TLSv1.1"
and "TLSv1.2". If a olda Postfix version is linked against OpenSSL
1.0.1 or later, these, or any other freshly smoked up protocol versions, are
unconditionally enabled.
.PP
With Postfix >= 2.5 tha parameta syntax is expanded ta support
protocol exclusions. One can now explicitly exclude SSLv2 by setting
"smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2". To exclude both SSLv2 and
SSLv3 set "smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3". Listing
the protocols ta include, rather than protocols ta exclude, is
supported yo, but not recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da exclusion form mo' closely
matches tha behavior when tha OpenSSL library is newer than Postfix.
.PP
Since SSL version 2 has known protocol weaknesses n' is now
deprecated, tha default settin excludes "SSLv2".  This means dat by
default, SSL version 2 aint gonna be used all up in tha "encrypt" securitizzle level
and higher.
.PP
See tha documentation of tha smtp_tls_policy_maps parameta and
TLS_README fo' mo' shiznit bout securitizzle levels.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Preferred form wit Postfix >= 2.5:
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3
# Alternatizzle form.
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = TLSv1
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_note_starttls_offer (default: no)
Log tha hostname of a remote SMTP server dat offers STARTTLS,
when TLS aint already enabled fo' dat server.
.PP
Da logfile record looks like:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
postfix/smtp[pid]:  Host offered STARTTLS: [name.of.host]
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_per_site (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit tha Postfix SMTP client TLS usage
policy by next-hop destination n' by remote SMTP server hostname.
When both lookups succeed, tha mo' specific per-site policy (NONE,
MUST, etc) overrides tha less specific one (MAY), n' tha mo' secure
per-site policy (MUST, etc) overrides tha less secure one (NONE).
With Postfix 2.3 n' lata smtp_tls_per_site is straight fuckin discouraged:
use smtp_tls_policy_maps instead.
.PP
Use of tha bare hostname as tha per-site table lookup key is
discouraged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Always use tha full destination nexthop (enclosed in
[] wit a possible ":port" suffix) fo' realz. A recipient domain or MX-enabled
transhiznit next-hop wit no port suffix may be lookin like a funky-ass bare hostname,
but is still a suitable \fIdestination\fR.
.PP
Specify a next-hop destination or server hostname on tha left-hand
side; no wildcardz is allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da next-hop destination is either
the recipient domain, or tha destination specified wit a \fBtransport\fR(5)
table, tha relayhost parameter, or tha relay_transhiznit parameter.
On tha right hand side specify one of tha followin keywords:
.IP "NONE"
Don't use TLS at all. This overrides a less
specific \fBMAY\fR lookup result from tha alternate host or next-hop
lookup key, n' overrides tha global smtp_use_tls, smtp_enforce_tls,
and smtp_tls_enforce_peername settings.
.br
.IP "MAY"
Try ta use TLS if tha server announces support,
otherwise use tha unencrypted connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This has less precedence
than a mo' specific result (includin \fBNONE\fR) from tha alternate
host or next-hop lookup key, n' has less precedence than tha more
specific global "smtp_enforce_tls = yes" or "smtp_tls_enforce_peername
= yes".
.br
.IP "MUST_NOPEERMATCH"
Require TLS encryption yo, but do not
require dat tha remote SMTP server hostname matches tha shiznit
in tha remote SMTP server certificate, or dat tha server certificate
was issued by a trusted CA. This overrides a less secure \fBNONE\fR
or a less specific \fBMAY\fR lookup result from tha alternate host
or next-hop lookup key, n' overrides tha global smtp_use_tls,
smtp_enforce_tls n' smtp_tls_enforce_peername settings.
.br
.IP "MUST"
Require TLS encryption, require dat tha remote
SMTP server hostname matches tha shiznit up in tha remote SMTP
server certificate, n' require dat tha remote SMTP server certificate
was issued by a trusted CA. This overrides a less secure \fBNONE\fR
and \fBMUST_NOPEERMATCH\fR or a less specific \fBMAY\fR lookup
result from tha alternate host or next-hop lookup key, n' overrides
the global smtp_use_tls, smtp_enforce_tls n' smtp_tls_enforce_peername
settings.
.br
.br
.PP
Da above keywordz correspond ta tha "none", "may", "encrypt" and
"verify" securitizzle levels fo' tha freshly smoked up smtp_tls_security_level parameter
introduced up in Postfix 2.3. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Startin wit Postfix 2.3, n' independently
of how tha fuck tha policy is specified, tha smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers and
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols parametas apply when TLS encryption
is mandatory. Connections fo' which encryption is optionizzle typically
enable all "export" grade n' betta ciphers (see smtp_tls_ciphers
and smtp_tls_protocols).
.PP
As long as no secure DNS lookup mechanizzle be available, false
hostnames up in MX or CNAME responses can chizzle tha server hostname
that Postfix uses fo' TLS policy lookup n' server certificate
verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Even wit a slick match between tha server hostname and
the server certificate, there is no guarantee dat Postfix is connected
to tha right server n' shit.  See TLS_README (Closin a DNS loophole wit obsolete
per-site TLS policies) fo' a possible work-around.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtp_tls_policy_maps instead.
.SH smtp_tls_policy_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit tha Postfix SMTP client TLS security
policy by next-hop destination; when a non-empty value is specified,
this overrides tha obsolete smtp_tls_per_site parameter n' shit.  See
TLS_README fo' a mo' detailed rap of TLS securitizzle levels.
.PP
Da TLS policy table is indexed by tha full next-hop destination,
which is either tha recipient domain, or tha verbatim next-hop
specified up in tha transhiznit table, $local_transport, $virtual_transport,
$relay_transhiznit or $default_transport. This includes any enclosing
square brackets n' any non-default destination server port suffix. The
LMTP socket type prefix (inet: or unix:) aint included up in tha lookup
key.
.PP
Only tha next-hop domain, or $myhostname wit LMTP over UNIX-domain
sockets, is used as tha nexthop name fo' certificate verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
port n' any enclosin square brackets is used up in tha table lookup key,
but is not used fo' server name verification.
.PP
When tha lookup key be a thugged-out domain name without enclosin square brackets
or any \fI:port\fR suffix (typically tha recipient domain), n' tha full
domain aint found up in tha table, just as wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table,
the parent domain startin wit a leadin "." is matched recursively. This
allows one ta specify a securitizzle policy fo' a recipient domain n' all
its sub-domains.
.PP
Da lookup result be a securitizzle level, followed by a optionizzle list
of whitespace and/or comma separated name=value attributes dat override
related main.cf settings. Da TLS securitizzle levels up in order of increasing
securitizzle are:
.IP "\fBnone\fR"
No TLS. No additionizzle attributes is supported at dis level.
.br
.IP "\fBmay\fR"
Opportunistic TLS. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since bustin  up in tha clear be acceptable,
demandin stronger than default TLS securitizzle merely reduces
inter-operability. Da optionizzle "ciphers", "exclude" n' "protocols"
attributes (available fo' opportunistic TLS wit Postfix >= 2.6)
override tha "smtp_tls_ciphers", "smtp_tls_exclude_ciphers" and
"smtp_tls_protocols" configuration parameters. When opportunistic TLS
handshakes fail, Postfix retries tha connection wit TLS disabled.
This allows mail delivery ta cribs wit non-interoperable TLS
implementations.
.br
.IP "\fBencrypt\fR"
Mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. At dis level
and higher, tha optionizzle "protocols" attribute overrides tha main.cf
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols parameter, tha optionizzle "ciphers" attribute
overrides tha main.cf smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers parameter, n' the
optionizzle "exclude" attribute (Postfix >= 2.6) overrides tha main.cf
smtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers parameter n' shit. In tha policy table,
multiple protocols or excluded ciphers must be separated by colons,
as attribute joints may not contain whitespace or commas.
.br
.IP "\fBfingerprint\fR"
Certificate fingerprint
verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Available wit Postfix 2.5 n' later n' shiznit fo' realz. At dis security
level, there be no trusted certificate authorities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da certificate
trust chain, expiration date, ... is not checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Instead,
the optionizzle \fBmatch\fR attribute, or else tha main.cf
\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match\fR parameter, lists tha certificate
fingerprints or tha hood key fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later)
of tha valid server certificate. Da digest
algorithm used ta calculate tha fingerprint is selected by the
\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_digest\fR parameter n' shit. Multiple fingerprints can
be combined wit a "|" delimita up in a single match attribute, or multiple
match attributes can be employed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da ":" characta aint used as a
delimita as it occurs between each pair of fingerprint (hexadecimal)
digits.
.br
.IP "\fBverify\fR"
Mandatory TLS verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  At dis security
level, DNS MX lookups is trusted ta be secure enough, n' tha name
verified up in tha server certificate is probably obtained indirectly via
unauthenticated DNS MX lookups.  Da optionizzle "match" attribute overrides
the main.cf smtp_tls_verify_cert_match parameter n' shit. In tha policy table,
multiple match patterns n' strategies must be separated by colons.
In practice explicit control over matchin is mo' common wit the
"secure" policy, busted lyrics bout below.
.br
.IP "\fBsecure\fR"
Secure-channel TLS fo' realz. At dis securitizzle level, DNS
MX lookups, though potentially used ta determine tha muthafucka next-hop
gateway IP addresses, is \fBnot\fR trusted ta be secure enough fo' TLS
peername verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Instead, tha default name verified up in tha server
certificate is obtained directly from tha next-hop, or is explicitly
specified via tha optionizzle \fBmatch\fR attribute which overrides the
main.cf smtp_tls_secure_cert_match parameter n' shit. In tha policy table,
multiple match patterns n' strategies must be separated by colons.
Da match attribute is most useful when multiple domains is supported by
common server, tha policy entries fo' additionizzle domains specify matching
rulez fo' tha primary domain certificate. While transhiznit table overrides
routin tha secondary domains ta tha primary nexthop also allow secure
verification, they risk delivery ta tha wack destination when domains
change handz or is re-assigned ta freshly smoked up gateways. With tha "match"
attribute approach, routin aint perturbed, n' mail is deferred if
verification of a freshly smoked up MX host fails.
.br
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtp_tls_policy_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/tls_policy
    # Postfix 2.5 n' later
    smtp_tls_fingerprint_digest = md5
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/tls_policy:
    example.edu                 none
    example.mil                 may
    example.gov                 encrypt protocols=TLSv1
    example.com                 verify ciphers=high
    example.net                 secure
    .example.net                secure match=.example.net:example.net
    [mail.example.org]:587      secure match=nexthop
    # Postfix 2.5 n' later
    [thumb.example.org]          fingerprint
    	match=EC:3B:2D:B0:5B:B1:FB:6D:20:A3:9D:72:F6:8D:12:35
	match=3D:95:34:51:24:66:33:B9:D2:40:99:C0:C1:17:0B:D1
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
\fBNote:\fR Da \fBhostname\fR game if listed up in a non-default
settin of smtp_tls_secure_cert_match or up in tha \fBmatch\fR attribute
in tha policy table can render tha \fBsecure\fR level vulnerable to
DNS forgery. Do not use tha \fBhostname\fR game fo' secure-channel
configurations up in environments where DNS securitizzle aint assured.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_protocols (default: !SSLv2)
List of TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP client will exclude or
include wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Startin wit Postfix 2.6,
the Postfix SMTP client will by default not use tha obsolete SSLv2
protocol.
.PP
In main.cf tha joints is separated by whitespace, commas or
colons. In tha policy table (see smtp_tls_policy_maps) tha only valid
separator is colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An empty value means allow all protocols. Da valid
protocol names, (see \\fBfBSSL_get_version\fR(3)\fR), is "SSLv2", "SSLv3"
and "TLSv1".
.PP
Note: Az of OpenSSL 1.0.1 two freshly smoked up protocols is defined, "TLSv1.1"
and "TLSv1.2". If a olda Postfix version is linked against OpenSSL
1.0.1 or later, these, or any other freshly smoked up protocol versions, are
unconditionally enabled.
.PP
To include a protocol list its name, ta exclude it, prefix tha name
with a "!" character n' shit. To exclude SSLv2 even fo' opportunistic TLS set
"smtp_tls_protocols = !SSLv2". To exclude both "SSLv2" n' "SSLv3" set
"smtp_tls_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3". Explicitly listin tha protocols to
include, rather than protocols ta exclude, is supported yo, but not
recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da exclusion form mo' closely matches tha behavior
when tha OpenSSL library is newer than Postfix.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
# TLSv1 only!
smtp_tls_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_scert_verifydepth (default: 9)
Da verification depth fo' remote SMTP server certificates fo' realz. A depth
of 1 is sufficient if tha issuin CA is listed up in a local CA file.
.PP
Da default verification depth is 9 (the OpenSSL default) for
compatibilitizzle wit earlier Postfix behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Prior ta Postfix 2.5,
the default value was 5 yo, but tha limit was not straight-up enforced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
you have set dis ta a lower non-default value, certificates wit longer
trust chains may now fail ta verify. Certificate chains wit 1 or 2
CAs is common, deeper chains is mo' rare n' any number between 5
and 9 should suffice up in practice. Yo ass can chizzle a lower number if,
for example, you trust certificates directly signed by a issuin CA
but not any CAs it delegates to.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_secure_cert_match (default: nexthop, dot-nexthop)
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP client verifies tha server certificate
peername fo' the
"secure" TLS securitizzle level. In a "secure" TLS policy table
($smtp_tls_policy_maps) entry tha optionizzle "match" attribute
overrides dis main.cf setting.
.PP
This parameta specifies one or mo' patterns or strategies separated
by commas, whitespace or colons.  In tha policy table tha only valid
separator is tha colon character.
.PP
For a thugged-out description of tha pattern n' game syntax peep the
smtp_tls_verify_cert_match parameter n' shit. Da "hostname" game should
be avoided up in dis context, as up in tha absence of a secure global DNS, using
the thangs up in dis biatch of MX lookups up in certificate verification aint immune ta active
(man-in-the-middle) attacks on DNS.
.PP
Sample main.cf setting:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_secure_cert_match = nexthop
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Sample policy table override:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
example.net     secure match=example.com:.example.com
\&.example.net    secure match=example.com:.example.com
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_security_level (default: empty)
Da default SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha Postfix SMTP client;
when a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete
parametas smtp_use_tls, smtp_enforce_tls, n' smtp_tls_enforce_peername.
.PP
Specify one of tha followin securitizzle levels:
.IP "\fBnone\fR"
TLS aint gonna be used unless enabled fo' specific
destinations via smtp_tls_policy_maps.
.br
.IP "\fBmay\fR"
Opportunistic TLS. Use TLS if dis is supported by tha remote
SMTP server, otherwise use plaintext. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since
sendin up in tha clear be acceptable, demandin stronger than default TLS
securitizzle merely reduces inter-operability.
Da "smtp_tls_ciphers" n' "smtp_tls_protocols" (Postfix >= 2.6)
configuration parametas provide control over tha protocols and
cipher grade used wit opportunistic TLS.  With earlier releases the
opportunistic TLS cipher grade be always "export" n' no protocols
are disabled.
When TLS handshakes fail, tha connection is retried wit TLS disabled.
This allows mail delivery ta cribs wit non-interoperable TLS
implementations.
.br
.IP "\fBencrypt\fR"
Mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since a minimum
level of securitizzle is intended, it is reasonable ta be specific about
sufficiently secure protocol versions n' ciphers fo' realz. At dis securitizzle level
and higher, tha main.cf parametas smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols and
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers specify tha TLS protocols n' minimum
cipher grade which tha administrator considaz secure enough for
mandatory encrypted sessions. This securitizzle level aint a appropriate
default fo' systems deliverin mail ta tha Internet.
.br
.IP "\fBfingerprint\fR"
Certificate fingerprint
verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Available wit Postfix 2.5 n' later n' shiznit fo' realz. At dis security
level, there be no trusted certificate authorities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da certificate
trust chain, expiration date, ... is not checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Instead, the
\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match\fR parameta lists tha certificate
fingerprint or hood key fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later) of
the valid server certificate. Da digest
algorithm used ta calculate tha fingerprint is selected by the
\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_digest\fR parameter.
.br
.IP "\fBverify\fR"
Mandatory TLS verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. At dis security
level, DNS MX lookups is trusted ta be secure enough, n' tha name
verified up in tha server certificate is probably obtained indirectly
via unauthenticated DNS MX lookups. Da smtp_tls_verify_cert_match
parameta controls how tha fuck tha server name is verified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In practice explicit
control over matchin is mo' common all up in tha "secure" level, busted lyrics about
below. This securitizzle level aint a appropriate default fo' systems
deliverin mail ta tha Internet.
.br
.IP "\fBsecure\fR"
Secure-channel TLS.  At dis securitizzle level,
DNS MX lookups, though potentially used ta determine tha muthafucka
next-hop gateway IP addresses, is \fBnot\fR trusted ta be secure enough
for TLS peername verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Instead, tha default name verified in
the server certificate is obtained from tha next-hop domain as specified
in tha smtp_tls_secure_cert_match configuration parameter n' shit. Da default
matchin rule is dat a server certificate matches when its name is equal
to or be a sub-domain of tha nexthop domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This securitizzle level is not
an appropriate default fo' systems deliverin mail ta tha Internet.
.br
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# No TLS. Formerly: smtp_use_tls=no n' smtp_enforce_tls=no.
smtp_tls_security_level = none
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Opportunistic TLS.
smtp_tls_security_level = may
# Postfix >= 2.6:
# Do not tweak opportunistic ciphers or protocol unless it is essential
# ta do so (if a securitizzle vulnerabilitizzle is found up in tha SSL library that
# can be mitigated by disablin a particular protocol or raisin the
# cipher grade from "export" ta "low" or "medium").
smtp_tls_ciphers = export
smtp_tls_protocols = !SSLv2
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Mandatory (high-grade) TLS encryption.
smtp_tls_security_level = encrypt
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers = high
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Mandatory TLS verification of hostname or nexthop domain.
smtp_tls_security_level = verify
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers = high
smtp_tls_verify_cert_match = hostname, nexthop, dot-nexthop
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Secure channel TLS wit exact nexthop name match.
smtp_tls_security_level = secure
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = TLSv1
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers = high
smtp_tls_secure_cert_match = nexthop
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Certificate fingerprint verification (Postfix >= 2.5).
# Da CA-less "fingerprint" securitizzle level only scalez ta a limited
# number of destinations fo' realz. As a global default rather than a per-site
# setting, dis is practical when mail fo' all recipients is sent
# ta a cold-ass lil central mail hub.
relayhost = [mailhub.example.com]
smtp_tls_security_level = fingerprint
smtp_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers = high
smtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match =
    3D:95:34:51:24:66:33:B9:D2:40:99:C0:C1:17:0B:D1
    EC:3B:2D:B0:5B:B1:FB:6D:20:A3:9D:72:F6:8D:12:35
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_session_cache_database (default: empty)
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP client
TLS session cache. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a thugged-out database type dat supports enumeration,
like fuckin \fBbtree\fR or \fBsdbm\fR; there is no need ta support
concurrent access.  Da file is pimped if it do not exist. Da \fBsmtp\fR(8)
daemon do not use dis parameta directly, rather tha cache is
implemented indirectly up in tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This means that
per-smtp-instizzle master.cf overridez of dis parameta is not effective.
Note, dat each of tha cache databases supported by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) daemon:
$smtpd_tls_session_cache_database, $smtp_tls_session_cache_database
(and wit Postfix 2.3 n' lata $lmtp_tls_session_cache_database), needz to
be stored separately. Well shiiiit, it aint at dis time possible ta store multiple
caches up in a single database.
.PP
Note: \fBdbm\fR databases is not suitable. TLS
session objects is too large.
.PP
Az of version 2.5, Postfix no longer uses root privileges when
openin dis file. Da file should now be stored under tha Postfix-owned
data_directory fo' realz. As a migration aid, a attempt ta open tha file
under a non-Postfix directory is repimped up ta tha Postfix-owned
data_directory, n' a warnin is logged.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_session_cache_database = btree:/var/lib/postfix/smtp_scache
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_session_cache_timeout (default: 3600s)
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP client TLS session cache
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A cache cleanup is performed periodically
every $smtp_tls_session_cache_timeout secondz fo' realz. As with
$smtp_tls_session_cache_database, dis parameta is implemented up in the
\fBtlsmgr\fR(8) daemon n' therefore per-smtp-instizzle master.cf overrides
are not possible.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtp_tls_verify_cert_match (default: hostname)
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP client verifies tha server certificate
peername fo' the
"verify" TLS securitizzle level. In a "verify" TLS policy table
($smtp_tls_policy_maps) entry tha optionizzle "match" attribute
overrides dis main.cf setting.
.PP
This parameta specifies one or mo' patterns or strategies separated
by commas, whitespace or colons.  In tha policy table tha only valid
separator is tha colon character.
.PP
Patterns specify domain names, or domain name suffixes:
.IP "\fIexample.com\fR"
Match tha \fIexample.com\fR domain,
i.e. one of tha names tha server certificate must be \fIexample.com\fR,
upper n' lower case distinctions is ignored.
.br
.IP "\fI.example.com\fR"
Match subdomainz of tha \fIexample.com\fR domain, i.e. match
a name up in tha server certificate dat consistz of a non-zero number of
labels followed by a \fI.example.com\fR suffix. Case distinctions are
ignored.
.br
.br
.PP
Strategies specify a transformation from tha next-hop domain
to tha expected name up in tha server certificate:
.IP "nexthop"
Match against tha next-hop domain, which is either tha recipient
domain, or tha transhiznit next-hop configured fo' tha domain stripped of
any optionizzle socket type prefix, enclosin square brackets n' trailing
port. When MX lookups is not suppressed, dis is tha original gangsta nexthop
domain prior ta tha MX lookup, not tha result of tha MX lookup. For
LMTP delivery via UNIX-domain sockets, tha verified next-hop name is
$myhostname.  This game is suitable fo' use wit tha "secure"
policy. Case is ignored.
.br
.IP "dot-nexthop"
As above yo, but match server certificate names dat is subdomains
of tha next-hop domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Case is ignored.
.br
.IP "hostname"
Match against tha hostname of tha server, often
obtained via a unauthenticated DNS MX lookup. For LMTP delivery via
UNIX-domain sockets, tha verified name is $myhostname. This matches
the verification game of tha "MUST" keyword up in tha obsolete
smtp_tls_per_site table, n' is suitable fo' use wit tha "verify"
securitizzle level. When tha next-hop name is enclosed up in square brackets
to suppress MX lookups, tha "hostname" game is tha same ol' dirty as the
"nexthop" game. Case is ignored.
.br
.br
.PP
Sample main.cf setting:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtp_tls_verify_cert_match = hostname, nexthop, dot-nexthop
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
Sample policy table override:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
example.com     verify  match=hostname:nexthop
\&.example.com    verify  match=example.com:.example.com:hostname
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtp_use_tls (default: no)
Opportunistic mode: use TLS when a remote SMTP server announces
STARTTLS support, otherwise bust tha mail up in tha clear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Beware:
some SMTP servers offer STARTTLS even if it aint configured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  With
Postfix < 2.3, if tha TLS handshake fails, n' no other server is
available, delivery is deferred n' mail stays up in tha queue. If this
is a cold-ass lil concern fo' you, use tha smtp_tls_per_site feature instead.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtp_tls_security_level instead.
.SH smtp_xforward_timeout (default: 300s)
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha XFORWARD command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_authorized_verp_clients (default: $authorized_verp_clients)
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta specify tha XVERP command.
This command requests dat mail be served up one recipient at a
time wit a per recipient return address.
.PP
By default, no clients is allowed ta specify XVERP.
.PP
This parameta was renamed wit Postfix version 2.1. Da default value
is backwardz compatible wit Postfix version 2.0.
.PP
Specify a list of network/netmask patterns, separated by commas
and/or whitespace. Da mask specifies tha number of bits up in the
network part of a host address. Yo ass can also specify hostnames or
\&.domain names (the initial dot causes tha domain ta match any name
below it),  "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns.  A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table
is matched when a table entry matches a lookup strang (the lookup
result is ignored).  Continue long lines by startin tha next line
with whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only in
Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha smtpd_authorized_verp_clients value, n' in
filez specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain
the ":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.SH smtpd_authorized_xclient_hosts (default: empty)
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta use tha XCLIENT feature.  This
command overrides remote SMTP client shiznit dat is used fo' access
control. Typical use is fo' SMTP-based content filters, fetchmail-like
programs, or SMTP server access rule testing. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha XCLIENT_README
document fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.PP
By default, no clients is allowed ta specify XCLIENT.
.PP
Specify a list of network/netmask patterns, separated by commas
and/or whitespace. Da mask specifies tha number of bits up in the
network part of a host address. Yo ass can also specify hostnames or
\&.domain names (the initial dot causes tha domain ta match any name
below it),  "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns.  A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table
is matched when a table entry matches a lookup strang (the lookup
result is ignored).  Continue long lines by startin tha next line
with whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only in
Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha smtpd_authorized_xclient_hosts value, n' in
filez specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain
the ":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.SH smtpd_authorized_xforward_hosts (default: empty)
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta use tha XFORWARD feature.  This
command forwardz shiznit dat is used ta improve loggin after
SMTP-based content filters. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha XFORWARD_README document for
details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.PP
By default, no clients is allowed ta specify XFORWARD.
.PP
Specify a list of network/netmask patterns, separated by commas
and/or whitespace. Da mask specifies tha number of bits up in the
network part of a host address. Yo ass can also specify hostnames or
\&.domain names (the initial dot causes tha domain ta match any name
below it),  "/file/name" or "type:table" patterns.  A "/file/name"
pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table" lookup table
is matched when a table entry matches a lookup strang (the lookup
result is ignored).  Continue long lines by startin tha next line
with whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a address or network
block from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported only in
Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha smtpd_authorized_xforward_hosts value, n' in
filez specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain
the ":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.SH smtpd_banner (default: $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name)
Da text dat bigs up tha 220 status code up in tha SMTP greeting
banner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some playas like ta peep tha mail version advertised. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! By
default, Postfix shows no version.
.PP
Yo ass MUST specify $myhostname all up in tha start of tha text. This is
required by tha SMTP protocol.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name ($mail_version)
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_client_connection_count_limit (default: 50)
How tha fuck nuff simultaneous connections any client be allowed to
make ta dis service.  By default, tha limit is set ta half
the default process limit value.
.PP
To disable dis feature, specify a limit of 0.
.PP
WARNING: Da purpose of dis feature is ta limit abuse. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta regulate legitimate mail traffic.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_client_connection_rate_limit (default: 0)
Da maximal number of connection attempts any client be allowed to
make ta dis steez per time unit.  Da time unit is specified
with tha anvil_rate_time_unit configuration parameter.
.PP
By default, a cold-ass lil client can make as nuff connections per time unit as
Postfix can accept.
.PP
To disable dis feature, specify a limit of 0.
.PP
WARNING: Da purpose of dis feature is ta limit abuse. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta regulate legitimate mail traffic.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_connection_rate_limit = 1000
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_client_event_limit_exceptions (default: $mynetworks)
Clients dat is excluded from smtpd_client_*_count/rate_limit
restrictions. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha mynetworks parameter
description fo' tha parameta value syntax.
.PP
By default, clients up in trusted networks is excluded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify a
list of network blocks, hostnames or .domain names (the initial
dot causes tha domain ta match any name below it).
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha smtpd_client_event_limit_exceptions value, and
in filez specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses
contain tha ":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a
"type:table" pattern.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_client_message_rate_limit (default: 0)
Da maximal number of message delivery requests dat any client is
allowed ta make ta dis steez per time unit, regardless of whether
or not Postfix straight-up accepts dem lyrics.  Da time unit is
specified wit tha anvil_rate_time_unit configuration parameter.
.PP
By default, a cold-ass lil client can bust as nuff message delivery requests
per time unit as Postfix can accept.
.PP
To disable dis feature, specify a limit of 0.
.PP
WARNING: Da purpose of dis feature is ta limit abuse. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta regulate legitimate mail traffic.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_message_rate_limit = 1000
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_client_new_tls_session_rate_limit (default: 0)
Da maximal number of freshly smoked up (i.e., uncached) TLS sessions dat a
remote SMTP client be allowed ta negotiate wit dis steez per
time unit.  Da time unit is specified wit tha anvil_rate_time_unit
configuration parameter.
.PP
By default, a remote SMTP client can negotiate as nuff freshly smoked up TLS
sessions per time unit as Postfix can accept.
.PP
To disable dis feature, specify a limit of 0. Otherwise, specify
a limit dat be at least tha per-client concurrent session limit,
or else legitimate client sessions may be rejected.
.PP
WARNING: Da purpose of dis feature is ta limit abuse. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta regulate legitimate mail traffic.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_new_tls_session_rate_limit = 100
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_client_port_loggin (default: no)
Enable loggin of tha remote SMTP client port up in addizzle to
the hostname n' IP address. Da loggin format is "host[address]:port".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtpd_client_recipient_rate_limit (default: 0)
Da maximal number of recipient addresses dat any client be allowed
to bust ta dis steez per time unit, regardless of whether or not
Postfix straight-up accepts dem recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da time unit is specified
with tha anvil_rate_time_unit configuration parameter.
.PP
By default, a cold-ass lil client can bust as nuff recipient addresses per time
unit as Postfix can accept.
.PP
To disable dis feature, specify a limit of 0.
.PP
WARNING: Da purpose of dis feature is ta limit abuse. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta regulate legitimate mail traffic.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_recipient_rate_limit = 1000
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_client_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client connection request.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
Da default is ta allow all connection requests.
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is specific ta client hostname or
client network address shiznit.
.IP "\fBcheck_ccert_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Use tha remote SMTP client certificate fingerprint or tha hood key
fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later) as lookup key fo' tha specified
\fBaccess\fR(5) database; wit Postfix version 2.2, also require dat the
remote SMTP client certificate is verified successfully.
Da fingerprint digest algorithm is configurable via the
smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest parameta (hard-coded as md5 prior to
Postfix version 2.5).  This feature be available wit Postfix version
2.2 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_client_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified access database fo' tha client hostname,
parent domains, client IP address, or networks obtained by stripping
least dope octets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBaccess\fR(5) manual page fo' details.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_client_mx_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MX hosts fo' the
client hostname, n' execute tha correspondin action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note: a result
of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead, use DUNNO up in order
to exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This feature be available
in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_client_ns_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha DNS servers for
the client hostname, n' execute tha correspondin action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note: a
result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead, use DUNNO
in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This feature is
available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_reverse_client_hostname_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified access database fo' tha unverified reverse
client hostname, parent domains, client IP address, or networks
obtained by strippin least dope octets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBaccess\fR(5)
manual page fo' details.  Note: a result of "OK" aint allowed for
safety reasons.  Instead, use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific
hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6
and later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_reverse_client_hostname_mx_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MX hosts fo' the
unverified reverse client hostname, n' execute tha corresponding
action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons.
Instead, use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_reverse_client_hostname_ns_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha DNS servers for
the unverified reverse client hostname, n' execute tha corresponding
action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons.
Instead, use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_inet_interfaces\fR"
Permit tha request when tha client IP address matches
$inet_interfaces.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_mynetworks\fR"
Permit tha request when tha client IP address matches any
network or network address listed up in  $mynetworks.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_sasl_authenticated\fR"
Permit tha request when tha client is successfully
authenticated via tha RFC 4954 (AUTH) protocol.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_tls_all_clientcerts\fR"
Permit tha request when tha remote SMTP client certificate is
verified successfully.  This option must be used only if a special
CA thangs tha certificates n' only dis CA is listed as trusted
CA. Otherwise, clients wit a third-party certificate would also
be allowed ta relay.  Specify "tls_append_default_CA = no" when the
trusted CA is specified wit smtpd_tls_CAfile or smtpd_tls_CApath,
to prevent Postfix from appendin tha system-supplied default CAs.
This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.2.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_tls_clientcerts\fR"
Permit tha request when tha remote SMTP client certificate
fingerprint or hood key fingerprint (Postfix 2.9 n' later) is
listed up in $relay_clientcerts.
Da fingerprint digest algorithm is configurable via the
smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest parameta (hard-coded as md5 prior to
Postfix version 2.5).  This feature be available wit Postfix version
2.2.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rbl_client \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha reversed client network address is
listed wit tha A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR
(Postfix version 2.1 n' lata only).  Each "\fId\fR" be a number,
or a pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or mo' ";"-separated
numbers or number..number ranges (Postfix version 2.8 n' later).
If no "\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, reject tha request when the
reversed client network address is listed wit any A record under
\fIrbl_domain\fR.
.br
Da maps_rbl_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default:  554), tha default_rbl_reply  parameter
specifies tha default server reply, n' tha rbl_reply_maps  parameter
specifies tablez wit server replies indexed by \fIrbl_domain\fR.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_dnswl_client \fIdnswl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Accept tha request when tha reversed client network address is
listed wit tha A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIdnswl_domain\fR.
Each "\fId\fR" be a number, or a pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff
one or mo' ";"-separated numbers or number..number ranges.
If no "\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, accept tha request when the
reversed client network address is listed wit any A record under
\fIdnswl_domain\fR.
.br
For safety, permit_dnswl_client is silently
ignored when it would override reject_unauth_destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
result is DEFER_IF_REJECT when whitelist lookup fails.  This feature
is available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rhsbl_client \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha client hostname is listed wit the
A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR (Postfix version
2.1 n' lata only).  Each "\fId\fR" be a number, or a pattern
inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or mo' ";"-separated numbers or
number..number ranges (Postfix version 2.8 n' later).  If no
"\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, reject tha request when tha client
hostname is listed with
any A record under \fIrbl_domain\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha reject_rbl_client
description above fo' additionizzle RBL related configuration parameters.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later; wit Postfix
version 2.8 n' later, reject_rhsbl_reverse_client will usually
produce betta thangs up in dis biatch.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_rhswl_client \fIrhswl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Accept tha request when tha client hostname is listed wit the
A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrhswl_domain\fR.  Each "\fId\fR"
is a number, or a pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or more
";"-separated numbers or number..number ranges. If no
"\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, accept tha request when tha client
hostname is listed wit any A record under \fIrhswl_domain\fR.
.br
Caution: client name whitelistin is fragile, since tha client
name lookup can fail cuz of temporary outages.  Client name
whitelistin should be used only ta reduce false positives up in e.g.
DNS-based blocklists, n' not fo' makin access rule exceptions.
.br
For safety, permit_rhswl_client is silently ignored when it
would override reject_unauth_destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da result is DEFER_IF_REJECT
when whitelist lookup fails.  This feature be available up in Postfix
2.8 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rhsbl_reverse_client \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha unverified reverse client hostname
is listed wit tha A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR.
Each "\fId\fR" be a number, or a pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff
one or mo' ";"-separated numbers or number..number ranges.
If no "\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, reject tha request when the
unverified reverse client hostname is listed wit any A record under
\fIrbl_domain\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha reject_rbl_client description above for
additionizzle RBL related configuration parameters.  This feature is
available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unknown_client_hostname\fR (with Postfix < 2.3: reject_unknown_client)"
Reject tha request when 1) tha client IP address->name mapping
fails, 2) tha name->address mappin fails, or 3) tha name->address
mappin do not match tha client IP address.
.br
This be a
stronger restriction than tha reject_unknown_reverse_client_hostname
feature, which triggers only under condizzle 1) above.
.br
The
unknown_client_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code
for rejected requests (default: 450). Da reply be always 450 in
case tha address->name or name->address lookup failed due to
a temporary problem.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unknown_reverse_client_hostname\fR"
Reject tha request when tha client IP address has no address->name
mapping.
.br
This be a weaker restriction than the
reject_unknown_client_hostname feature, which requires not only
that tha address->name n' name->address mappings exist yo, but
also dat tha two mappings reproduce tha client IP address.
.br
Da unknown_client_reject_code parameta specifies tha response
code fo' rejected requests (default: 450).  Da reply be always 450
in case tha address->name lookup failed cuz of a temporary
problem.
.br
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 and
later.
.br
.br
.PP
In addition, you can use any of tha following
generic restrictions.  These restrictions is applicable in
any SMTP command context.
.IP "\fBcheck_policy_service \fIservername\fR\fR"
Query tha specified policy server n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha SMTPD_POLICY_README
document fo' details. This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1
and later.
.br
.IP "\fBdefer\fR"
Defer tha request. Da client is holla'd at ta try again n' again n' again later n' shit. This
restriction is useful all up in tha end of a restriction list, ta make
the default policy explicit.
.br
Da defer_code parameta specifies
the SMTP server reply code (default: 450).
.br
.IP "\fBdefer_if_permit\fR"
Defer tha request if some lata restriction would result up in an
explicit or implicit PERMIT action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is useful when a funky-ass blacklisting
feature fails cuz of a temporary problem.  This feature be available
in Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBdefer_if_reject\fR"
Defer tha request if some lata restriction would result up in a
REJECT action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is useful when a whitelistin feature fails
due ta a temporary problem.  This feature be available up in Postfix
version 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit\fR"
Permit tha request. This restriction is useful all up in tha end of
a restriction list, ta make tha default policy explicit.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_multi_recipient_bounce\fR"
Reject tha request when tha envelope sender is tha null address,
and tha message has multiple envelope recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This usage has
rare but legitimate applications: under certain conditions,
multi-recipient mail dat was posted wit tha DSN option NOTIFY=NEVER
may be forwarded wit tha null sender address.
.br
Note: dis restriction can only work reliably
when used up in smtpd_data_restrictions or
smtpd_end_of_data_restrictions, cuz tha total number of
recipients aint known at a earlier stage of tha SMTP conversation.
Use all up in tha RCPT stage will only reject tha second etc.  recipient.
.br
Da multi_recipient_bounce_reject_code parameta specifies the
response code fo' rejected requests (default:  550).  This feature
is available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_plaintext_session\fR"
Reject tha request when tha connection aint encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This
restriction should not be used before tha client has had a cold-ass lil chance
to negotiate encryption wit tha AUTH or STARTTLS commands.
.br
Da plaintext_reject_code parameta specifies tha response
code fo' rejected requests (default:  450).  This feature be available
in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unauth_pipelining\fR"
Reject tha request when tha client sendz SMTP commandz ahead
of time where it aint allowed, or when tha client sendz SMTP
commandz ahead of time without knowin dat Postfix straight-up supports
ESMTP command pipelining. This stops mail from bulk mail software
that improperly uses ESMTP command pipelinin up in order ta speed up
deliveries.
.br
With Postfix 2.6 n' later, tha SMTP server sets a per-session
flag whenever it detects illegal pipelining, includin pipelined
EHLO or HELO commands. Da reject_unauth_pipelinin feature simply
tests whether tha flag was set at any point up in time durin the
session.
.br
With olda Postfix versions, reject_unauth_pipelinin checks
the current statuz of tha input read queue, n' its usage is not
recommended up in contexts other than smtpd_data_restrictions.
.br
.IP "\fBreject\fR"
Reject tha request. This restriction is useful all up in tha end of
a restriction list, ta make tha default policy explicit.  The
reject_code configuration parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default: 554).
.br
.IP "\fBsleep \fIseconds\fR\fR"
Pause fo' tha specified number of secondz n' proceed with
the next restriction up in tha list, if any. This may stop zombie
mail when used as:
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtpd_client_restrictions =
        chill 1, reject_unauth_pipelining
    smtpd_delay_reject = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3.
.br
.IP "\fBwarn_if_reject\fR"
A safety net fo' testing. When "warn_if_reject" is placed
before a reject-type restriction, access table query, or
check_policy_service query, dis logs a "reject_warning" message
instead of rejectin a request (when a reject-type restriction fails
due ta a temporary error, dis logs a "reject_warning" message for
any implicit "defer_if_permit" actions dat would normally prevent
mail from bein accepted by some lata access restriction). This
feature has no effect on defer_if_reject restrictions.
.br
.br
.PP
Other restrictions dat is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions dat is busted lyrics bout under
the smtpd_helo_restrictions, smtpd_sender_restrictions or
smtpd_recipient_restrictions parameters. When helo, sender or
recipient restrictions is listed under smtpd_client_restrictions,
they have effect only wit "smtpd_delay_reject = yes", so that
$smtpd_client_restrictions is evaluated all up in tha time of tha RCPT TO
command.
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, reject_unknown_client_hostname
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_command_filta (default: empty)
A mechanizzle ta transform commandz from remote SMTP clients.
This be a last-resort tool ta work round client commandz dat break
inter-operabilitizzle wit tha Postfix SMTP server n' shit.  Other uses involve
fault injection ta test Postfixz handlin of invalid commands.
.PP
Specify tha name of a "type:table" lookup table. Da search
strin is tha SMTP command as received from tha remote SMTP client,
except dat initial whitespace n' tha trailin <CR><LF>
are removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da result value is executed by tha Postfix SMTP
server.
.PP
There is no need ta use smtpd_command_filta fo' tha following
cases:
.IP \(bu
Use "resolve_numeric_domain = yes" ta accept
"\fIuser@ipaddress\fR".
.IP \(bu
Postfix already accepts tha erect form
"\fIuser@[ipaddress]\fR". Use virtual_alias_maps or canonical_maps
to translate these tha fuck into domain names if necessary.
.IP \(bu
Use "strict_rfc821_envelopes = no" ta accept "RCPT TO:<\fIUser
Name <user@example.com>>\fR". Postfix will ignore tha "\fIUser
Name\fR" part n' serve up ta tha \fI<user@example.com>\fR address.
.br
.PP
Examplez of problems dat can be solved wit tha smtpd_command_filter
feature:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtpd_command_filta = pcre:/etc/postfix/command_filter
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/command_filter:
    # Work round clients dat bust malformed HELO commands.
    /^HELO\es*$/ HELO domain.invalid
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
    # Work round clients dat bust empty lines.
    /^\es*$/     NOOP
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
    # Work round clients dat bust RCPT TO:<'user@domain'>.
    # WARNING: do not lose tha parametas dat follow tha address.
    /^RCPT\es+TO:\es*<'([^[:space:]]+)'>(.*)/     RCPT TO:<$1>$2
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
    # Append XVERP ta MAIL FROM commandz ta request VERP-style delivery.
    # See VERP_README fo' mo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta use Postfix VERP.
    /^(MAIL FROM:<listname@example\e.com>.*)/   $1 XVERP
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
    # Bounce-never mail sink. Use notify_classes=bounce,resource,software
    # ta bust bounced mail ta tha postmasta (with message body removed).
    /^(RCPT\es+TO:<.*>.*)\es+NOTIFY=\eS+(.*)/ $1 NOTIFY=NEVER$2
    /^(RCPT\es+TO:.*)/                    $1 NOTIFY=NEVER
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7.
.SH smtpd_data_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle access restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies
in tha context of tha SMTP DATA command.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
Generic restrictions dat can be used
in any SMTP command context, busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_client_restrictions, smtpd_helo_restrictions,
smtpd_sender_restrictions or smtpd_recipient_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat no recipient shiznit be available up in tha case of
multi-recipient mail fo' realz. Actin on only one recipient would be misleading,
because any decision will affect all recipients equally fo' realz. Actin on
all recipients would require a possibly straight-up big-ass amount of memory,
and would also be misleadin fo' tha reasons mentioned before.
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_data_restrictions = reject_unauth_pipelining
smtpd_data_restrictions = reject_multi_recipient_bounce
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_delay_open_until_valid_rcpt (default: yes)
Postpone tha start of a SMTP mail transaction until a valid
RCPT TO command is received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify "no" ta create a mail transaction
as soon as tha Postfix SMTP server receives a valid MAIL FROM
command.
.PP
With cribs dat reject fuckin shitloadz of mail, tha default settin reduces
the use of
disk, CPU n' memory resources. Da downside is dat rejected
recipients is logged wit NOQUEUE instead of a mail transaction
ID. This complicates tha logfile analysiz of multi-recipient mail.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_delay_reject (default: yes)
Wait until tha RCPT TO command before evaluating
$smtpd_client_restrictions, $smtpd_helo_restrictions and
$smtpd_sender_restrictions, or wait until tha ETRN command before
evaluatin $smtpd_client_restrictions n' $smtpd_helo_restrictions.
.PP
This feature is turned on by default cuz some clients apparently
mis-behave when tha Postfix SMTP server rejects commandz before
RCPT TO.
.PP
Da default settin has one major benefit: it allows Postfix ta log
recipient address shiznit when rejectin a cold-ass lil client name/address
or sender address, so dat it is possible ta smoke up whose mail
is bein rejected.
.SH smtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP client address, with
case insensitizzle listz of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls, auth,
etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO response
to a
remote SMTP client. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_discard_ehlo_keywordz fo' details.
Da table aint searched by hostname fo' robustnizz reasons.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_discard_ehlo_keywordz (default: empty)
A case insensitizzle list of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO
response
to a remote SMTP client.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
Specify tha \fBsilent-discard\fR pseudo keyword ta prevent
this action from bein logged.
.IP \(bu
Use tha smtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps feature
to discard EHLO keywordz selectively.
.br
.SH smtpd_end_of_data_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle access restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server
applies up in tha context of tha SMTP END-OF-DATA command.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.PP
See smtpd_data_restrictions fo' details n' limitations.
.SH smtpd_enforce_tls (default: no)
Mandatory TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
and require dat clients use TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Accordin ta RFC 2487
this MUST NOT be applied up in case of a publicly-referenced SMTP
server n' shit.  This option is therefore off by default.
.PP
Note 1: "smtpd_enforce_tls = yes" implies "smtpd_tls_auth_only = yes".
.PP
Note 2: when invoked via "\fBsendmail -bs\fR", Postfix aint NEVER gonna offer
STARTTLS cuz of insufficient privileges ta access tha server private
key. This is intended behavior.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtpd_tls_security_level instead.
.SH smtpd_error_sleep_time (default: 1s)
With Postfix version 2.1 n' later: tha SMTP server response delay after
a client has made mo' than $smtpd_soft_error_limit errors, and
fewer than $smtpd_hard_error_limit errors, without deliverin mail.
.PP
With Postfix version 2.0 n' earlier: tha SMTP server delay before
sendin a reject (4xx or 5xx) response, when tha client has made
fewer than $smtpd_soft_error_limit errors without delivering
mail.
.SH smtpd_etrn_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client ETRN command.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
Da Postfix ETRN implementation accepts only destinations dat are
eligible fo' tha Postfix "fast flush" service. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha ETRN_README
file fo' details.
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is specific ta tha domain name shiznit
received wit tha ETRN command.
.IP "\fBcheck_etrn_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified access database fo' tha ETRN domain name
or its parent domains. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBaccess\fR(5) manual page fo' details.
.br
.br
.PP
Other restrictions dat is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
Generic restrictions dat can be used
in any SMTP command context, busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_client_restrictions n' smtpd_helo_restrictions.
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_etrn_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, reject
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_expansion_filta (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
What charactas is allowed up in $name expansionz of RBL reply
templates. Charactas not up in tha allowed set is replaced by "_".
Use C like escapes ta specify special charactas like fuckin whitespace.
.PP
This parameta aint subjected ta $parameta expansion.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH smtpd_forbidden_commandz (default: CONNECT, GET, POST)
List of commandz dat cause tha Postfix SMTP server ta immediately
terminizzle tha session wit a 221 code. This can be used ta disconnect
clients dat obviously attempt ta abuse tha system. In addizzle ta the
commandz listed up in dis parameter, commandz dat follow tha "Label:"
format of message headaz will also cause a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disconnect.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_hard_error_limit (default: normal: 20, overload: 1)
Da maximal number of errors a remote SMTP client be allowed to
make without deliverin mail. Da Postfix SMTP server disconnects
when tha limit is exceeded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Normally tha default limit is 20 yo, but
it chizzlez under overload ta just 1. With Postfix 2.5 n' earlier,
the SMTP server always allows up ta 20 errors by default.
.SH smtpd_helo_required (default: no)
Require dat a remote SMTP client introduces itself wit tha HELO
or EHLO command before bustin  tha MAIL command or other commands
that require EHLO negotiation.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_helo_required = yes
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_helo_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client HELO command.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
Da default is ta permit every last muthafuckin thang.
.PP
Note: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce this
restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can
simply skip smtpd_helo_restrictions by not bustin  HELO or EHLO).
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is specific ta tha hostname shiznit
received wit tha HELO or EHLO command.
.IP "\fBcheck_helo_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha HELO or EHLO
hostname or parent domains, n' execute tha correspondin action.
Note: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce this
restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can
simply skip check_helo_access by not bustin  HELO or EHLO).
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_helo_mx_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MX hosts for
the HELO or EHLO hostname, n' execute tha correspondin action.
Note 1: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead,
use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Note
2: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce this
restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can
simply skip check_helo_mx_access by not bustin  HELO or EHLO).  This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_helo_ns_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha DNS servers
for tha HELO or EHLO hostname, n' execute tha correspondin action.
Note 1: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead,
use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Note
2: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce this
restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can
simply skip check_helo_ns_access by not bustin  HELO or EHLO). This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_invalid_helo_hostname\fR (with Postfix < 2.3: reject_invalid_hostname)"
Reject tha request when tha HELO or EHLO hostname is malformed.
Note: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce
this restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can simply
skip reject_invalid_helo_hostname by not bustin  HELO or EHLO).
.br
Da invalid_hostname_reject_code specifies tha response code
for rejected requests (default: 501).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_non_fqdn_helo_hostname\fR (with Postfix < 2.3: reject_non_fqdn_hostname)"
Reject tha request when tha HELO or EHLO hostname aint in
fully-qualified domain form, as required by tha RFC. Note: specify
"smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta straight-up enforce dis restriction
(without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a cold-ass lil client can simply skip
reject_non_fqdn_helo_hostname by not bustin  HELO or EHLO).
.br
Da non_fqdn_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default: 504).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rhsbl_helo \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha HELO or EHLO hostname hostname is
listed wit tha A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR
(Postfix version 2.1 n' lata only).  Each "\fId\fR" be a number,
or a pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or mo' ";"-separated
numbers or number..number ranges (Postfix version 2.8 n' later).
If no "\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is
specified, reject tha request when tha HELO or EHLO hostname is
listed wit any A record under \fIrbl_domain\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
reject_rbl_client description fo' additionizzle RBL related configuration
parameters.  Note: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta fully
enforce dis restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a
client can simply skip reject_rhsbl_helo by not bustin  HELO or
EHLO). This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0
and later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unknown_helo_hostname\fR (with Postfix < 2.3: reject_unknown_hostname)"
Reject tha request when tha HELO or EHLO hostname has no DNS A
or MX record.
.br
Da unknown_hostname_reject_code parameter
specifies tha numerical response code fo' rejected requests (default:
450).
.br
Da unknown_helo_hostname_tempfail_action parameter
specifies tha action afta a temporary DNS error (default:
defer_if_permit). Note: specify "smtpd_helo_required = yes" ta fully
enforce dis restriction (without "smtpd_helo_required = yes", a
client can simply skip reject_unknown_helo_hostname by not sending
HELO or EHLO).
.br
.br
.PP
Other restrictions dat is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
Generic restrictions dat can be used
in any SMTP command context, busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
Client hostname or network address specific restrictions
busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_sender_restrictions or smtpd_recipient_restrictions.  When
sender or recipient restrictions is listed under smtpd_helo_restrictions,
they have effect only wit "smtpd_delay_reject = yes", so that
$smtpd_helo_restrictions is evaluated all up in tha time of tha RCPT TO
command.
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_helo_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, reject_invalid_helo_hostname
smtpd_helo_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, reject_unknown_helo_hostname
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_history_flush_threshold (default: 100)
Da maximal number of lines up in tha Postfix SMTP server command history
before it is flushed upon receipt of EHLO, RSET, or end of DATA.
.SH smtpd_junk_command_limit (default: normal: 100, overload: 1)
Da number of junk commandz (NOOP, VRFY, ETRN or RSET) dat a remote
SMTP client can bust before tha Postfix SMTP server starts to
increment tha error counta wit each junk command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da junk
command count is reset afta mail is delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See also the
smtpd_error_sleep_time n' smtpd_soft_error_limit configuration
parameters.  Normally tha default limit is 100 yo, but it chizzlez under
overload ta just 1. With Postfix 2.5 n' earlier, tha SMTP server
always allows up ta 100 junk commandz by default.
.SH smtpd_log_access_permit_actions (default: empty)
Enable loggin of tha named "permit" actions up in SMTP server
access lists (by default, tha SMTP server logs "reject" actions but
not "permit" actions).  This feature do not affect conditional
actions like fuckin "defer_if_permit".
.PP
Specify a list of "permit" action names, "/file/name" or
"type:table" patterns, separated by commas and/or whitespace. The
list is matched left ta right, n' tha search stops on tha first
match fo' realz. A "/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a
"type:table" lookup table is matched when a name matches a lookup
key (the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long lines by starting
the next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a name
from tha list.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    # Log all "permit" actions.
    smtpd_log_access_permit_actions = static:all
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    # Log "permit_dnswl_client" only.
    smtpd_log_access_permit_actions = permit_dnswl_client
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.SH smtpd_miltas (default: empty)
A list of Milta (mail filter) applications fo' freshly smoked up mail that
arrives via tha Postfix \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify space or comma as
separator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha MILTER_README document fo' details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_noop_commandz (default: empty)
List of commandz dat tha Postfix SMTP server replies ta wit "250
Ok", without bustin any syntax checks n' without changin state.
This list overrides any commandz built tha fuck into tha Postfix SMTP server.
.SH smtpd_null_access_lookup_key (default: <>)
Da lookup key ta be used up in SMTP \fBaccess\fR(5) tablez instead of the
null sender address.
.SH smtpd_peername_lookup (default: yes)
Attempt ta look up tha remote SMTP client hostname, n' verify that
the name matches tha client IP address fo' realz. A client name is set to
"unknown" when it cannot be looked up or verified, or when name
lookup is disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Turnin off name lookup reduces delays due to
DNS lookup n' increases tha maximal inbound delivery rate.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_per_record_deadline (default: normal: no, overload: yes)
Change tha behavior of tha smtpd_timeout time limit, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).  This
limits tha impact from straight-up shitty peers dat trickle data one byte at
a time.
.PP
Note: when per-record deadlines is enabled, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short timeout
may cause problems wit TLS over straight-up slow network connections.
Da reasons is dat a TLS protocol message can be up ta 16 kbytes
long (with TLSv1), n' dat a entire TLS protocol message must be
sent or received within tha per-record deadline.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9 n' later n' shit. With older
Postfix releases, tha behavior be as if dis parameta is set to
"no".
.SH smtpd_policy_service_max_idle (default: 300s)
Da time afta which a idle SMTPD policy steez connection is
closed.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_policy_service_max_ttl (default: 1000s)
Da time afta which a actizzle SMTPD policy steez connection is
closed.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_policy_service_timeout (default: 100s)
Da time limit fo' connectin to, freestylin ta or receivin from a
delegated SMTPD policy server.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_proxy_ehlo (default: $myhostname)
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP server announces itself ta tha proxy filter.
By default, tha Postfix hostname is used.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_proxy_filta (default: empty)
Da hostname n' TCP port of tha mail filterin proxy server.
Da proxy receives all mail from tha Postfix SMTP server, n' is
supposed ta give tha result ta another Postfix SMTP server process.
.PP
Specify "host:port" or "inet:host:port" fo' a TCP endpoint, or
"unix:pathname" fo' a UNIX-domain endpoint. Da host can be specified
as a IP address or as a symbolic name; no MX lookups is done.
When no "host" or "host:"  is specified, tha local machine is
assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Pathname interpretation is relatizzle ta tha Postfix queue
directory.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.PP
Da "inet:" n' "unix:" prefixes is available up in Postfix 2.3
and later.
.SH smtpd_proxy_options (default: empty)
List of options dat control how tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP server
communicates wit a funky-ass before-queue content filter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify zero or
more of tha following, separated by comma or whitespace.
.IP "\fBspeed_adjust\fR"
Do not connect ta a funky-ass before-queue content filta until a entire
message has been received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This reduces tha number of simultaneous
before-queue content filta processes.
.PP
NOTE 1: A filta must not \fIselectively\fR reject recipients
of a multi-recipient message.  Rejectin all recipients is OK, as
is acceptin all recipients.
.PP
NOTE 2: This feature increases tha minimum amount of free queue
space by $message_size_limit. Da extra space is needed ta save the
message ta a temporary file.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.SH smtpd_proxy_timeout (default: 100s)
Da time limit fo' connectin ta a proxy filta n' fo' bustin  or
receivin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When a cold-ass lil connection fails tha client gets a
generic error message while mo' detailed shiznit is logged to
the maillog file.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_recipient_limit (default: 1000)
Da maximal number of recipients dat tha Postfix SMTP server
accepts per message delivery request.
.SH smtpd_recipient_overshoot_limit (default: 1000)
Da number of recipients dat a remote SMTP client can bust in
excess of tha limit specified wit $smtpd_recipient_limit, before
the Postfix SMTP server increments tha per-session error count
for each excess recipient.
.SH smtpd_recipient_restrictions (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client RCPT TO command, afta smtpd_relay_restrictions.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
With Postfix versions before 2.10, tha rulez fo' relay permission
and spam blockin was combined under smtpd_recipient_restrictions,
resultin up in error-prone configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Az of Postfix 2.10, relay
permission rulez is preferably implemented wit smtpd_relay_restrictions,
so dat a permissive spam blockin policy under
smtpd_recipient_restrictions will no longer result up in a permissive
mail relay policy.
.PP
For backwardz compatibility, cribs dat migrate from Postfix
versions before 2.10 can set smtpd_relay_restrictions ta tha empty
value, n' use smtpd_recipient_restrictions exactly as before.
.PP
IMPORTANT: Either tha smtpd_relay_restrictions or the
smtpd_recipient_restrictions parameta must specify
at least one of tha followin restrictions. Otherwise Postfix will
refuse ta receive mail:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
reject, reject_unauth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
defer, defer_if_permit, defer_unauth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is specific ta tha recipient address
that is received wit tha RCPT TO command.
.IP "\fBcheck_recipient_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha resolved RCPT
TO address, domain, parent domains, or localpart@, n' execute the
correspondin action.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_recipient_mx_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MX hosts for
the RCPT TO domain, n' execute tha correspondin action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note:
a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead, use
DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_recipient_ns_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha DNS servers
for tha RCPT TO domain, n' execute tha correspondin action.
Note: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead,
use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_auth_destination\fR"
Permit tha request when one of tha followin is true:
.IP \(bu
Postfix is mail forwarder: tha resolved RCPT TO domain matches
$relay_domains or a subdomain thereof, n' tha address gotz nuff no
sender-specified routin (user@elsewhere@domain),
.IP \(bu
Postfix is tha final destination: tha resolved RCPT TO domain
matches $mydestination, $inet_interfaces, $proxy_interfaces,
$virtual_alias_domains, or $virtual_mailbox_domains, n' tha address
gotz nuff no sender-specified routin (user@elsewhere@domain).
.br
.br
.IP "\fBpermit_mx_backup\fR"
Permit tha request when tha local mail system is backup MX for
the RCPT TO domain, or when tha domain be a authorized destination
(see permit_auth_destination fo' definition).
.IP \(bu
Safety: permit_mx_backup do not accept addresses dat have
sender-specified routin shiznit (example: user@elsewhere@domain).
.IP \(bu
Safety: permit_mx_backup can be vulnerable ta mis-use when
access aint restricted wit permit_mx_backup_networks.
.IP \(bu
Safety: az of Postfix version 2.3, permit_mx_backup no longer
accepts tha address when tha local mail system is primary MX for
the recipient domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Exception: permit_mx_backup accepts tha address
when it specifies a authorized destination (see permit_auth_destination
for definition).
.IP \(bu
Limitation: mail may be rejected up in case of a temporary DNS
lookup problem wit Postfix prior ta version 2.0.
.br
.br
.IP "\fBreject_non_fqdn_recipient\fR"
Reject tha request when tha RCPT TO address aint in
fully-qualified domain form, as required by tha RFC.
.br
The
non_fqdn_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default: 504).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rhsbl_recipient \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha RCPT TO domain is listed wit the
A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR (Postfix version
2.1 n' lata only).  Each "\fId\fR" be a number, or a pattern
inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or mo' ";"-separated numbers or
number..number ranges (Postfix version 2.8 n' later). If no
"\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified, reject
the request when tha RCPT TO domain is listed with
any A record under \fIrbl_domain\fR.
.br
Da maps_rbl_reject_code
parameta specifies tha response code fo' rejected requests (default:
554); tha default_rbl_reply parameta specifies tha default server
reply; n' tha rbl_reply_maps parameta specifies tablez wit server
replies indexed by \fIrbl_domain\fR.  This feature be available
in Postfix version 2.0 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unauth_destination\fR"
Reject tha request unless one of tha followin is true:
.IP \(bu
Postfix is mail forwarder: tha resolved RCPT TO domain matches
$relay_domains or a subdomain thereof, n' gotz nuff no sender-specified
routin (user@elsewhere@domain),
.IP \(bu
Postfix is tha final destination: tha resolved RCPT TO domain
matches $mydestination, $inet_interfaces, $proxy_interfaces,
$virtual_alias_domains, or $virtual_mailbox_domains, n' gotz nuff
no sender-specified routin (user@elsewhere@domain).
.br
Da relay_domains_reject_code parameta specifies tha response
code fo' rejected requests (default: 554).
.br
.IP "\fBdefer_unauth_destination\fR"
Reject tha same requests as reject_unauth_destination, wit a
non-permanent error code.  This feature be available up in Postfix
2.10 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unknown_recipient_domain\fR"
Reject tha request when Postfix aint final destination for
the recipient domain, n' tha RCPT TO domain has 1) no DNS A or MX
record or 2) a malformed MX record like fuckin a record with
a zero-length MX hostname (Postfix version 2.3 n' later).
.br
The
unknown_address_reject_code parameta specifies tha numerical
response code fo' rejected requests (default: 450).  Da response
is always 450 up in case of a temporary DNS error.
.br
The
unknown_address_tempfail_action parameta specifies tha action
afta a temporary DNS error (default: defer_if_permit).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unlisted_recipient\fR (with Postfix version 2.0: check_recipient_maps)"
Reject tha request when tha RCPT TO address aint listed in
the list of valid recipients fo' its domain class. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
smtpd_reject_unlisted_recipient parameta description fo' details.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unverified_recipient\fR"
Reject tha request when mail ta tha RCPT TO address is known
to bounce, or when tha recipient address destination aint reachable.
Address verification shiznit is managed by tha \fBverify\fR(8) server;
see tha ADDRESS_VERIFICATION_README file fo' details.
.br
The
unverified_recipient_reject_code parameta specifies tha numerical
response code when a address is known ta bounce (default: 450,
change tha fuck into 550 when yo ass is Kool & Tha Gang dat it is safe ta do so).
.br
Da unverified_recipient_defer_code parameta specifies the
numerical response code when a address probe failed cuz of a
temporary problem (default: 450).
.br
The
unverified_recipient_tempfail_action parameta specifies tha action
afta addres probe failure cuz of a temporary problem (default:
defer_if_permit).
.br
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1
and later.
.br
.br
.PP
Other restrictions dat is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
Generic restrictions dat can be used
in any SMTP command context, busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_client_restrictions, smtpd_helo_restrictions and
smtpd_sender_restrictions.
.br
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Da Postfix before 2.10 default mail relay policy. Lata Postfix
# versions implement dis preferably wit smtpd_relay_restrictions.
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = permit_mynetworks, reject_unauth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_reject_foota (default: empty)
Optionizzle shiznit dat be appended afta each Postfix SMTP
server
4XX or 5XX response.
.PP
Da followin example uses "\ec" all up in tha start of tha template
(supported up in Postfix 2.10 n' later) ta suppress tha line break
between tha reply text n' tha foota text. With earlier Postfix
versions, tha foota text always begins on a freshly smoked up line, n' tha "\ec"
is output literally.
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtpd_reject_foota = \ec. For assistance, call 800-555-0101.
     Please provide tha followin shiznit up in yo' problem report:
     time ($localtime), client ($client_address) n' server
     ($server_name).
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
Server response:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
    550-5.5.1 <user@example> Recipient address rejected: User
    unknown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For assistance, call 800-555-0101. Please provide the
    followin shiznit up in yo' problem report: time (Jan 4 15:42:00),
    client (192.168.1.248) n' server (mail1.example.com).
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
Note: tha above text is meant ta make it easier ta find the
Postfix logfile recordz fo' a gangbangin' failed SMTP session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da text itself
is not logged ta tha Postfix SMTP serverz maillog file.
.PP
Be shizzle ta keep tha text as short as possible. Long text may
be truncated before it is logged ta tha remote SMTP clientz maillog
file, or before it is moonwalked back ta tha sender up in a thugged-out delivery status
notification.
.PP
This feature supports a limited number of $name attributes in
the foota text. These is replaced by they current value fo' the
SMTP session:
.IP "\fBclient_address\fR"
Da Client IP address that
is logged up in tha maillog file.
.br
.IP "\fBclient_port\fR"
Da client TCP port dat is
logged up in tha maillog file.
.br
.IP "\fBlocaltime\fR"
Da server local time (Mmm dd
hh:mm:ss) dat is logged up in tha maillog file.
.br
.IP "\fBserver_name\fR"
Da serverz myhostname value.
This attribute is made available fo' cribs wit multiple MTAs
(like behind a load-balancer), where tha server name can help
the server support crew ta quickly find tha right log files.
.br
.br
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu
NOT SUPPORTED is other attributes like fuckin sender, recipient,
or main.cf parameters.
.IP \(bu
For safety reasons, text dat do not match
$smtpd_expansion_filta is censored.
.br
.PP
This feature supports tha two-characta sequence \en as a request
for a line break up in tha foota text. Postfix automatically inserts
afta each line break tha three-digit SMTP reply code (and optional
enhanced status code) from tha original gangsta Postfix reject message.
.PP
To work round mail software dat mis-handlez multi-line replies,
specify tha two-characta sequence \ec all up in tha start of tha template.
This suppresses tha line break between tha reply text n' tha footer
text (Postfix 2.10 n' later).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH smtpd_reject_unlisted_recipient (default: yes)
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail fo' unknown
recipient addresses, even when no explicit reject_unlisted_recipient
access restriction is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prevents tha Postfix queue
from fillin up wit undeliverable MAILER-DAEMON lyrics.
.PP
An address be always considered "known" when it matches a
\fBvirtual\fR(5) alias or a \fBcanonical\fR(5) mapping.
.IP \(bu
Da recipient domain matches $mydestination, $inet_interfaces
or $proxy_interfaces yo, but tha recipient aint listed in
$local_recipient_maps, n' $local_recipient_maps aint null.
.IP \(bu
Da recipient domain matches $virtual_alias_domains but the
recipient aint listed up in $virtual_alias_maps.
.IP \(bu
Da recipient domain matches $virtual_mailbox_domains but the
recipient aint listed up in $virtual_mailbox_maps, n' $virtual_mailbox_maps
is not null.
.IP \(bu
Da recipient domain matches $relay_domains but tha recipient
is not listed up in $relay_recipient_maps, n' $relay_recipient_maps
is not null.
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_reject_unlisted_sender (default: no)
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail from unknown
sender addresses, even when no explicit reject_unlisted_sender
access restriction is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can slow down a explosion
of forged mail from worms or viruses.
.PP
An address be always considered "known" when it matches a
\fBvirtual\fR(5) alias or a \fBcanonical\fR(5) mapping.
.IP \(bu
Da sender domain matches $mydestination, $inet_interfaces or
$proxy_interfaces yo, but tha sender aint listed in
$local_recipient_maps, n' $local_recipient_maps aint null.
.IP \(bu
Da sender domain matches $virtual_alias_domains but tha sender
is not listed up in $virtual_alias_maps.
.IP \(bu
Da sender domain matches $virtual_mailbox_domains but the
sender aint listed up in $virtual_mailbox_maps, n' $virtual_mailbox_maps
is not null.
.IP \(bu
Da sender domain matches $relay_domains but tha sender is
not listed up in $relay_recipient_maps, n' $relay_recipient_maps is
not null.
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_relay_restrictions (default: permit_mynetworks, permit_sasl_authenticated, defer_unauth_destination)
Access restrictions fo' mail relay control dat tha Postfix
SMTP server applies up in tha context of tha RCPT TO command, before
smtpd_recipient_restrictions.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
With Postfix versions before 2.10, tha rulez fo' relay permission
and spam blockin was combined under smtpd_recipient_restrictions,
resultin up in error-prone configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Az of Postfix 2.10, relay
permission rulez is preferably implemented wit smtpd_relay_restrictions,
so dat a permissive spam blockin policy under
smtpd_recipient_restrictions will no longer result up in a permissive
mail relay policy.
.PP
For backwardz compatibility, cribs dat migrate from Postfix
versions before 2.10 can set smtpd_relay_restrictions ta tha empty
value, n' use smtpd_recipient_restrictions exactly as before.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server accepts:
.IP \(bu
Mail from clients whose IP address matches $mynetworks, or:
.IP \(bu
Mail ta remote destinations dat match $relay_domains, except
for addresses dat contain sender-specified routing
(user@elsewhere@domain), or:
.IP \(bu
Mail ta local destinations dat match $inet_interfaces
or $proxy_interfaces, $mydestination, $virtual_alias_domains, or
$virtual_mailbox_domains.
.br
.PP
IMPORTANT: Either tha smtpd_relay_restrictions or the
smtpd_recipient_restrictions parameta must specify
at least one of tha followin restrictions. Otherwise Postfix will
refuse ta receive mail:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
reject, reject_unauth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
defer, defer_if_permit, defer_unauth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Da same restrictions is available as documented under
smtpd_recipient_restrictions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postix 2.10 n' later.
.SH smtpd_restriction_classes (default: empty)
User-defined aliases fo' crewz of access restrictions. Da aliases
can be specified up in smtpd_recipient_restrictions etc., n' on the
right-hand side of a Postfix \fBaccess\fR(5) table.
.PP
One major application is fo' implementin per-recipient UCE control.
See tha RESTRICTION_CLASS_README document fo' other examples.
.SH smtpd_sasl_application_name (default: smtpd)
Da application name dat tha Postfix SMTP server uses fo' SASL
server initialization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This
controls tha name of tha SASL configuration file. Da default value
is \fBsmtpd\fR, correspondin ta a SASL configuration file named
\fBsmtpd.conf\fR.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' 2.2. With Postfix 2.3
it was renamed ta smtpd_sasl_path.
.SH smtpd_sasl_auth_enable (default: no)
Enable SASL authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP server n' shit. By default,
the Postfix SMTP server do not use authentication.
.PP
If a remote SMTP client be authenticated, tha permit_sasl_authenticated
access restriction can be used ta permit relay access, like this:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# With Postfix 2.10 n' later, tha mail relay policy is
# preferably specified under smtpd_relay_restrictions.
smtpd_relay_restrictions =
    permit_mynetworks, permit_sasl_authenticated, ...
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# With Postfix before 2.10, tha relay policy can be
# specified only under smtpd_recipient_restrictions.
smtpd_recipient_restrictions =
    permit_mynetworks, permit_sasl_authenticated, ...
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
To reject all SMTP connections from unauthenticated clients,
specify "smtpd_delay_reject = yes" (which is tha default) n' use:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_client_restrictions = permit_sasl_authenticated, reject
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
See tha SASL_README file fo' SASL configuration n' operation details.
.SH smtpd_sasl_authenticated_header (default: no)
Report tha SASL authenticated user name up in tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8) Received
message header.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_sasl_exceptions_networks (default: empty)
What remote SMTP clients tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna offer
AUTH support to.
.PP
Some clients (Netscape 4 at least) gotz a funky-ass bug dat causes dem to
require a login n' password whenever AUTH is offered, whether it's
necessary or not. To work round this, specify, fo' example,
$mynetworks ta prevent Postfix from offerin AUTH ta local clients.
.PP
Specify a list of network/netmask patterns, separated by commas
and/or whitespace. Da mask specifies tha number of bits up in the
network part of a host address. Yo ass can also "/file/name" or
"type:table" patterns.  A "/file/name" pattern is replaced by its
contents; a "type:table" lookup table is matched when a table entry
matches a lookup strang (the lookup result is ignored).  Continue
long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify
"!pattern" ta exclude a address or network block from tha list.
Da form "!/file/name" is supported only up in Postfix version 2.4 and
later.
.PP
Note: IP version 6 address shiznit must be specified inside
[] up in tha smtpd_sasl_exceptions_networks value, n' in
filez specified wit "/file/name".  IP version 6 addresses contain
the ":" character, n' would otherwise be trippin wit a "type:table"
pattern.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_sasl_exceptions_networks = $mynetworks
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH smtpd_sasl_local_domain (default: empty)
Da name of tha Postfix SMTP serverz local SASL authentication
realm.
.PP
By default, tha local authentication realm name is tha null string.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_sasl_local_domain = $mydomain
smtpd_sasl_local_domain = $myhostname
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_sasl_path (default: smtpd)
Implementation-specific shiznit dat tha Postfix SMTP server
passes all up in to
the SASL plug-in implementation dat is selected with
\fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR.  Typically dis specifies tha name of a
configuration file or rendezvous point.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later n' shit. In earlier
releases dat shiznit was called \fBsmtpd_sasl_application_name\fR.
.SH smtpd_sasl_security_options (default: noanonymous)
Postfix SMTP server SASL securitizzle options; az of Postfix 2.3
the list of available
features dependz on tha SASL server implementation dat is selected
with \fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR.
.PP
Da followin securitizzle features is defined fo' tha \fBcyrus\fR
server SASL implementation:
.PP
Restrict what tha fuck authentication mechanizzlez tha Postfix SMTP server
will offer ta tha client.  Da list of available authentication
mechanizzlez is system dependent.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' of tha following:
.IP "\fBnoplaintext\fR"
Disallow methodz dat use plaintext passwords.
.br
.IP "\fBnoactive\fR"
Disallow methodz subject ta actizzle (non-dictionary) attack.
.br
.IP "\fBnodictionary\fR"
Disallow methodz subject ta passive (dictionary) attack.
.br
.IP "\fBnoanonymous\fR"
Disallow methodz dat allow anonymous authentication.
.br
.IP "\fBforward_secrecy\fR"
Only allow methodz dat support forward secrecy (Dovecot only).
.br
.IP "\fBmutual_auth\fR"
Only allow methodz dat provide mutual authentication (not available
with Cyrus SASL version 1).
.br
.br
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server accepts plaintext passwordz but
not anonymous logins.
.PP
Warning: it appears dat clients try authentication methodz up in the
order as advertised by tha server (e.g., PLAIN ANONYMOUS CRAM-MD5)
which means dat if you disable plaintext passwords, clients will
log up in anonymously, even when they should be able ta use CRAM-MD5.
So, if you disable plaintext logins, disable anonymous logins like a muthafucka.
Postfix treats anonymous login as no authentication.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_sasl_security_options = noanonymous, noplaintext
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_sasl_tls_security_options (default: $smtpd_sasl_security_options)
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
server uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_sasl_type (default: cyrus)
Da SASL plug-in type dat tha Postfix SMTP server should use
for authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da available types is listed wit the
"\fBpostconf -a\fR" command.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_sender_login_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup table wit tha SASL login names dat own sender
(MAIL FROM) addresses.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' "type:table" lookup tables. With lookups from
indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked tablez such as
NIS, LDAP or SQL, tha followin search operations is done wit a
sender address of \fIuser@domain\fR:
.IP "1) \fIuser@domain\fR"
This table lookup be always done n' has tha highest precedence.
.br
.IP "2) \fIuser\fR"
This table lookup is done only when tha \fIdomain\fR part of the
sender address matches $myorigin, $mydestination, $inet_interfaces
or $proxy_interfaces.
.br
.IP "3) \fI@domain\fR"
This table lookup is done last n' has tha lowest precedence.
.br
.br
.PP
In all cases tha result of table lookup must be either "not found"
or a list of SASL login names separated by comma and/or whitespace.
.SH smtpd_sender_restrictions (default: empty)
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client MAIL FROM command.
See SMTPD_ACCESS_README, section "Delayed evaluation of SMTP access
restriction lists" fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of evaluation context n' time.
.PP
Da default is ta permit every last muthafuckin thang.
.PP
Specify a list of restrictions, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Continue long lines by startin tha next line wit whitespace.
Restrictions is applied up in tha order as specified; tha first
restriction dat matches wins.
.PP
Da followin restrictions is specific ta tha sender address
received wit tha MAIL FROM command.
.IP "\fBcheck_sender_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MAIL FROM
address, domain, parent domains, or localpart@, n' execute the
correspondin action.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_sender_mx_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha MX hosts for
the MAIL FROM address, n' execute tha correspondin action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note:
a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead, use
DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBcheck_sender_ns_access \fItype:table\fR\fR"
Search tha specified \fBaccess\fR(5) database fo' tha DNS servers
for tha MAIL FROM address, n' execute tha correspondin action.
Note: a result of "OK" aint allowed fo' safety reasons. Instead,
use DUNNO up in order ta exclude specific hosts from blacklists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This
feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_authenticated_sender_login_mismatch\fR"
Enforces tha reject_sender_login_mismatch restriction for
authenticated clients only. This feature be available in
Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_non_fqdn_sender\fR"
Reject tha request when tha MAIL FROM address aint in
fully-qualified domain form, as required by tha RFC.
.br
The
non_fqdn_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default: 504).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_rhsbl_sender \fIrbl_domain=d.d.d.d\fR\fR"
Reject tha request when tha MAIL FROM domain is listed with
the A record "\fId.d.d.d\fR" under \fIrbl_domain\fR (Postfix
version 2.1 n' lata only).  Each "\fId\fR" be a number, or a
pattern inside "[]" dat gotz nuff one or mo' ";"-separated numbers
or number..number ranges (Postfix version 2.8 n' later). If no
"\fI=d.d.d.d\fR" is specified,
reject tha request when tha MAIL FROM domain is
listed wit any A record under \fIrbl_domain\fR.
.br
The
maps_rbl_reject_code parameta specifies tha response code for
rejected requests (default:  554); tha default_rbl_reply parameter
specifies tha default server reply; n' tha rbl_reply_maps parameter
specifies tablez wit server replies indexed by \fIrbl_domain\fR.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_sender_login_mismatch\fR"
Reject tha request when $smtpd_sender_login_maps specifies an
balla fo' tha MAIL FROM address yo, but tha client aint (SASL) logged
in as dat MAIL FROM address baller; or when tha client is (SASL)
logged up in yo, but tha client login name don't own tha MAIL FROM
address accordin ta $smtpd_sender_login_maps.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unauthenticated_sender_login_mismatch\fR"
Enforces tha reject_sender_login_mismatch restriction for
unauthenticated clients only. This feature be available in
Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unknown_sender_domain\fR"
Reject tha request when Postfix aint final destination for
the sender address, n' tha MAIL FROM domain has 1) no DNS A or MX
record, or 2) a malformed MX record like fuckin a record with
a zero-length MX hostname (Postfix version 2.3 n' later).
.br
The
unknown_address_reject_code parameta specifies tha numerical
response code fo' rejected requests (default: 450).  Da response
is always 450 up in case of a temporary DNS error.
.br
The
unknown_address_tempfail_action parameta specifies tha action
afta a temporary DNS error (default: defer_if_permit).
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unlisted_sender\fR"
Reject tha request when tha MAIL FROM address aint listed in
the list of valid recipients fo' its domain class. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
smtpd_reject_unlisted_sender parameta description fo' details.
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBreject_unverified_sender\fR"
Reject tha request when mail ta tha MAIL FROM address is known to
bounce, or when tha sender address destination aint reachable.
Address verification shiznit is managed by tha \fBverify\fR(8) server;
see tha ADDRESS_VERIFICATION_README file fo' details.
.br
The
unverified_sender_reject_code parameta specifies tha numerical
response code when a address is known ta bounce (default: 450,
change tha fuck into 550 when yo ass is Kool & Tha Gang dat it is safe ta do so).
.br
Da unverified_sender_defer_code specifies tha numerical response
code when a address address probe failed cuz of a temporary problem
(default: 450).
.br
Da unverified_sender_tempfail_action parameter
specifies tha action afta address probe failure cuz of a temporary
problem (default: defer_if_permit).
.br
This feature be available
in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.br
.br
.PP
Other restrictions dat is valid up in dis context:
.IP \(bu
Generic restrictions dat can be used
in any SMTP command context, busted lyrics bout under smtpd_client_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_client_restrictions n' smtpd_helo_restrictions.
.IP \(bu
SMTP command specific restrictions busted lyrics bout under
smtpd_recipient_restrictions. When recipient restrictions is listed
under smtpd_sender_restrictions, they have effect only with
"smtpd_delay_reject = yes", so dat $smtpd_sender_restrictions is
evaluated all up in tha time of tha RCPT TO command.
.br
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_sender_restrictions = reject_unknown_sender_domain
smtpd_sender_restrictions = reject_unknown_sender_domain,
    check_sender_access hash:/etc/postfix/access
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH smtpd_service_name (default: smtpd)
Da internal steez dat \fBpostscreen\fR(8) handz off allowed
connections to. In a gangbangin' future version there may be different
classez of SMTP service.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH smtpd_soft_error_limit (default: 10)
Da number of errors a remote SMTP client be allowed ta make without
deliverin mail before tha Postfix SMTP server slows down all its
responses.
.IP \(bu
With Postfix version 2.1 n' later, tha Postfix SMTP server
delays all responses by $smtpd_error_sleep_time seconds.
.IP \(bu
With Postfix versions 2.0 n' earlier, tha Postfix SMTP
server delays all responses by (number of errors) seconds.
.br
.SH smtpd_starttls_timeout (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da time limit fo' Postfix SMTP server write n' read operations
durin TLS startup n' shutdown handshake procedures. Da current
default value is stress-dependent. Before Postfix version 2.8, it
was fixed at 300s.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_timeout (default: normal: 300s, overload: 10s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  a Postfix SMTP server response n' for
receivin a remote SMTP client request. Normally tha default limit
is 300s yo, but it chizzlez under overload ta just 10s. With Postfix
2.5 n' earlier, tha SMTP server always uses a time limit of 300s
by default.
.PP
Note: if you set SMTP time limits ta straight-up big-ass joints you may have
to update tha global ipc_timeout parameter.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH smtpd_tls_CAfile (default: empty)
A file containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs trusted
to sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate CA
certificates.  These is loaded tha fuck into memory before tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server
entas tha chroot jail. If tha number of trusted roots is large, consider
usin smtpd_tls_CApath instead yo, but note dat tha latta directory must
be present up in tha chroot jail if tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server is chrooted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This
file may also be used ta augment tha server certificate trust chain,
but it is dopest ta include all tha required certificates directly up in the
server certificate file.
.PP
Specify "smtpd_tls_CAfile = /path/to/system_CA_file" ta use ONLY
the system-supplied default certificate authoritizzle certificates.
.PP
Specify "tls_append_default_CA = no" ta prevent Postfix from
appendin tha system-supplied default CAs n' trustin third-party
certificates.
.PP
By default (see smtpd_tls_ask_ccert), client certificates is not
requested, n' smtpd_tls_CAfile should remain empty. If you do make use
of client certificates, tha distinguished names (DNs) of tha certificate
authoritizzles listed up in smtpd_tls_CAfile is busted ta tha remote SMTP client
in tha client certificate request message. MUAs wit multiple client
certificates may use tha list of preferred certificate authorities
to select tha erect client certificate.  Yo ass may wanna put your
"preferred" CA or CAs up in dis file, n' install other trusted CAs in
$smtpd_tls_CApath.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_CAfile = /etc/postfix/CAcert.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_CApath (default: empty)
A directory containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs
trusted ta sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate CA
certificates. Do not forget ta create tha necessary "hash" links with,
for example, "$OPENSSL_HOME/bin/c_rehash /etc/postfix/certs". To use
smtpd_tls_CApath up in chroot mode, dis directory (or a cold-ass lil copy) must be
inside tha chroot jail.
.PP
Specify "smtpd_tls_CApath = /path/to/system_CA_directory" to
use ONLY tha system-supplied default certificate authoritizzle certificates.
.PP
Specify "tls_append_default_CA = no" ta prevent Postfix from
appendin tha system-supplied default CAs n' trustin third-party
certificates.
.PP
By default (see smtpd_tls_ask_ccert), client certificates are
not requested, n' smtpd_tls_CApath should remain empty. In contrast
to smtpd_tls_CAfile, DNz of certificate authoritizzles installed
in $smtpd_tls_CApath is not included up in tha client certificate
request message. MUAs wit multiple client certificates may use the
list of preferred certificate authoritizzles ta select tha erect
client certificate.  Yo ass may wanna put yo' "preferred" CA or
CAs up in $smtpd_tls_CAfile, n' install tha remainin trusted CAs in
$smtpd_tls_CApath.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_CApath = /etc/postfix/certs
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_always_issue_session_idz (default: yes)
Force tha Postfix SMTP server ta issue a TLS session id, even
when TLS session cachin is turned off (smtpd_tls_session_cache_database
is empty). This behavior is compatible wit Postfix < 2.3.
.PP
With Postfix 2.3 n' lata tha Postfix SMTP server can disable
session id generation when TLS session cachin is turned off. This
keeps remote SMTP clients from cachin sessions dat almost certainly cannot
be re-used.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server always generates TLS session
ids. This works round a known defect up in mail client applications
like fuckin MS Outlook, n' may also prevent interoperabilitizzle issues
with other MTAs.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_always_issue_session_idz = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_ask_ccert (default: no)
Ask a remote SMTP client fo' a cold-ass lil client certificate. This
information is needed fo' certificate based mail relayin with,
for example, tha permit_tls_clientcerts feature.
.PP
Some clients like fuckin Netscape will either diss if no
certificate be available (for tha list of CAs up in $smtpd_tls_CAfile)
or will offer multiple client certificates ta chizzle from. This
may be buggin, so dis option is "off" by default.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_auth_only (default: no)
When TLS encryption is optionizzle up in tha Postfix SMTP server, do
not announce or accept SASL authentication over unencrypted
connections.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_ccert_verifydepth (default: 9)
Da verification depth fo' remote SMTP client certificates fo' realz. A
depth of 1 is sufficient if tha issuin CA is listed up in a local CA
file.
.PP
Da default verification depth is 9 (the OpenSSL default) for
compatibilitizzle wit earlier Postfix behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Prior ta Postfix 2.5,
the default value was 5 yo, but tha limit was not straight-up enforced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
you have set dis ta a lower non-default value, certificates wit longer
trust chains may now fail ta verify. Certificate chains wit 1 or 2
CAs is common, deeper chains is mo' rare n' any number between 5
and 9 should suffice up in practice. Yo ass can chizzle a lower number if,
for example, you trust certificates directly signed by a issuin CA
but not any CAs it delegates to.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_cert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server RSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP server private RSA key.
.PP
Public Internizzle MX hosts without certificates signed by a "reputable"
CA must generate, n' be prepared ta present ta most clients, a
self-signed or private-CA signed certificate. Da client aint gonna be
able ta authenticate tha server yo, but unless it is hustlin Postfix 2.3 or
similar software, it will still insist on a server certificate.
.PP
For servers dat is \fBnot\fR hood Internizzle MX hosts, Postfix
2.3 supports configurations wit no certificates. This entails the
use of just tha anonymous TLS ciphers, which is not supported by
typical SMTP clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since such clients will not, as a rule, fall
back ta plain text afta a TLS handshake failure, tha server will
be unable ta receive email from TLS enabled clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. To avoid
accidental configurations wit no certificates, Postfix 2.3 enables
certificate-less operation only when tha administrator explicitly
sets "smtpd_tls_cert_file = none". This ensures dat freshly smoked up Postfix
configurations aint gonna accidentally run wit no certificates.
.PP
Both RSA n' DSA certificates is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  When both types
are present, tha cipher used determines which certificate will be
presented ta tha client.  For Netscape n' OpenSSL clients without
special cipher chizzlez tha RSA certificate is preferred.
.PP
To enable a remote SMTP client ta verify tha Postfix SMTP server
certificate, tha issuin CA certificates must be made available ta the
client. Yo ass should include tha required certificates up in tha server
certificate file, tha server certificate first, then tha issuing
CA(s) (bottom-up order).
.PP
Example: tha certificate fo' "server.example.com" was issued by
"intermediate CA" which itself has a cold-ass lil certificate of "root CA".
Smoke tha server.pem file wit "cat server_cert.pem intermediate_CA.pem
root_CA.pem > server.pem".
.PP
If you also wanna verify client certificates issued by these
CAs, you can add tha CA certificates ta tha smtpd_tls_CAfile, up in which
case it aint necessary ta have dem up in tha smtpd_tls_cert_file or
smtpd_tls_dcert_file.
.PP
A certificate supplied here must be usable as a SSL server certificate
and hence pass tha "openssl verify -purpose sslserver ..." test.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_cert_file = /etc/postfix/server.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_cipherlist (default: empty)
Obsolete Postfix < 2.3 control fo' tha Postfix SMTP server TLS
cipher list. Well shiiiit, it is easy as fuck  ta create inter-operabilitizzle problems by choosing
a non-default cipher list. Do not bust a non-default TLS cipherlist for
MX hosts on tha hood Internet. Clients dat begin tha TLS handshake,
but is unable ta smoke on a cold-ass lil common cipher, may not be able ta bust any
email ta tha SMTP server n' shit. Usin a restricted cipher list may be more
appropriate fo' a thugged-out dedicated MSA or a internal mailhub, where one can
exert some control over tha TLS software n' settingz of tha connecting
clients.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR do not use "" quotes round tha parameta value.
.PP
This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.2. Well shiiiit, it aint used with
Postfix 2.3 n' later; use smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers instead.
.SH smtpd_tls_ciphers (default: export)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP server
will use wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Cipher types listed in
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers is excluded from tha base definizzle of
the selected cipher grade. Da default value "export" ensures maximum
inter-operability. Because encryption is optional, stronger controls
are not appropriate, n' dis settin SHOULD NOT be chizzled unless the
change is essential.
.PP
When TLS is mandatory tha cipher grade is chosen via the
smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers configuration parameter, peep there fo' syntax
details.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_ciphers = export
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later n' shit. With earlier Postfix
releases only tha smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers parameta is implemented,
and opportunistic TLS always uses "export" or betta (i.e. all) ciphers.
.SH smtpd_tls_dcert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server DSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP server private DSA key.
.PP
See tha rap under smtpd_tls_cert_file fo' mo' details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_dcert_file = /etc/postfix/server-dsa.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file (default: empty)
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix SMTP server should
use wit EDH ciphers.
.PP
Instead of rockin tha exact same parameta sets as distributed
with other TLS packages, it is mo' secure ta generate yo' own
set of parametas wit suttin' like tha followin command:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
openssl gendh -out /etc/postfix/dh_1024.pem -2 1024
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Yo crazy-ass actual source fo' entropy may differ n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some systems have
/dev/random; on other system you may consider rockin tha "Entropy
Gatherin Daemon EGD", available at http://egd.sourceforge.net/
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file = /etc/postfix/dh_1024.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.2.
.SH smtpd_tls_dh512_param_file (default: empty)
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix SMTP server should
use wit EDH ciphers.
.PP
See also tha rap under tha smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file
configuration parameter.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_dh512_param_file = /etc/postfix/dh_512.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.2.
.SH smtpd_tls_dkey_file (default: $smtpd_tls_dcert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server DSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP server DSA certificate
file specified wit $smtpd_tls_dcert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_eccert_file (default: empty)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server ECDSA certificate up in PEM format.
This file may also contain tha Postfix SMTP server private ECDSA key.
.PP
See tha rap under smtpd_tls_cert_file fo' mo' details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_eccert_file = /etc/postfix/ecdsa-scert.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH smtpd_tls_eckey_file (default: $smtpd_tls_eccert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server ECDSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP server ECDSA certificate
file specified wit $smtpd_tls_eccert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when Postfix is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da Postfix SMTP server securitizzle grade fo' ephemeral elliptic-curve
Diffie-Hellman (EECDH) key exchange.
.PP
Da available chizzlez are:
.IP "\fBnone\fR"
Don't use EECDH. Ciphers based on EECDH key
exchange is ghon be disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is tha default up in Postfix versions
2.6 n' 2.7.
.br
.IP "\fBstrong\fR"
Use EECDH wit approximately 128
bitz of securitizzle at a reasonable computationizzle cost. This is the
current best-practice trade-off between securitizzle n' computational
efficiency. This is tha default up in Postfix version 2.8 n' later.
.br
.IP "\fBultra\fR"
Use EECDH wit approximately 192 bits of
securitizzle at computationizzle cost dat be approximately twice as high
as 128 bit strength ECC. Barrin dope progress up in attacks on
elliptic curve crypto-systems, tha "strong" curve is sufficient fo' most
users.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when it is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
List of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from tha SMTP server
cipher list at all TLS securitizzle levels. Excludin valid ciphers
can create interoperabilitizzle problems. DO NOT exclude ciphers unless it
is essential ta do so. This aint a OpenSSL cipherlist; it aint nuthin but a simple
list separated by whitespace and/or commas. Da elements is a single
cipher, or one or mo' "+" separated cipher properties, up in which case
only ciphers matchin \fBall\fR tha propertizzles is excluded.
.PP
Examplez (some of these will cause problems):
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = aNULL
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = MD5, DES
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = DES+MD5
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = AES256-SHA, DES-CBC3-MD5
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = kEDH+aRSA
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da first settin disablez anonymous ciphers. Da next setting
disablez ciphers dat use tha MD5 digest algorithm or tha (single) DES
encryption algorithm. Da next settin disablez ciphers dat use MD5 and
DES together n' shit.  Da next settin disablez tha two ciphers "AES256-SHA"
and "DES-CBC3-MD5". Da last settin disablez ciphers dat use "EDH"
key exchange wit RSA authentication.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest (default: md5)
Da message digest algorithm ta construct remote SMTP
client-certificate
fingerprints or hood key fingerprints (Postfix 2.9 n' later)
for \fBcheck_ccert_access\fR n' \fBpermit_tls_clientcerts\fR. The
default algorithm is \fBmd5\fR, fo' backwardz compatibilitizzle wit Postfix
releases prior ta 2.5.
.PP
Advances up in hash
function cryptanalysis have hustled ta md5 bein deprecated up in favor of sha1.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat as long as there be no known "second pre-image" attacks
against md5, its use up in dis context can still be considered safe.
.PP
While additionizzle digest algorithms is often available wit OpenSSL's
libcrypto, only dem used by libssl up in SSL cipher suites is available to
Postfix.
.PP
To find tha fingerprint of a specific certificate file, wit a
specific digest algorithm, run:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
$ openssl x509 -noout -fingerprint -\fIdigest\fR -in \fIcertfile\fR.pem
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da text ta tha right of "=" sign is tha desired fingerprint.
For example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
$ openssl x509 -noout -fingerprint -sha1 -in cert.pem
SHA1 Fingerprint=D4:6A:AB:19:24:79:F8:32:BB:A6:CB:66:82:C0:8E:9B:EE:29:A8:1A
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
To extract tha hood key fingerprint from a X.509 certificate,
you need ta extract tha hood key from tha certificate n' compute
the appropriate digest of its DER (ASN.1) encoding. With OpenSSL
the "-pubkey" option of tha "x509" command extracts tha public
key always up in "PEM" format. We pipe tha result ta another OpenSSL
command dat converts tha key ta DER n' then ta tha "dgst" command
to compute tha fingerprint.
.PP
Da actual command ta transform tha key ta DER format depends
on tha version of OpenSSL used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With OpenSSL 1.0.0 n' later, the
"pkey" command supports all key types. With OpenSSL 0.9.8 and
earlier, tha key type be always RSA (nobody uses DSA, n' EC
keys is not straight-up supported by 0.9.8), so tha "rsa" command is
used.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# OpenSSL 1.0 wit all certificates n' SHA-1 fingerprints.
$ openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -pubkey |
    openssl pkey -pubin -outform DER |
    openssl dgst -sha1 -c
(stdin)= 64:3f:1f:f6:e5:1e:d4:2a:56:8b:fc:09:1a:61:98:b5:bc:7c:60:58
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# OpenSSL 0.9.8 wit RSA certificates n' MD5 fingerprints.
$ openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -pubkey |
    openssl rsa -pubin -outform DER |
    openssl dgst -md5 -c
(stdin)= f4:62:60:f6:12:8f:d5:8d:28:4d:13:a7:db:b2:ff:50
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
Da Postfix SMTP server n' client log tha peer (leaf) certificate
fingerprint n' hood key fingerprint when tha TLS loglevel is 2 or
higher.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR Postfix 2.9.0&ndash;2.9.5 computed tha hood key
fingerprint incorrectly. To use public-key fingerprints, upgrade
to Postfix 2.9.6 or later.
.PP
Example: client-certificate access table, wit sha1 fingerprints:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest = sha1
    smtpd_client_restrictions =
        check_ccert_access hash:/etc/postfix/access,
        reject
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.nf
.na
.ft C
/etc/postfix/access:
    # Action folded ta next line...
    AF:88:7C:AD:51:95:6F:36:96:F6:01:FB:2E:48:CD:AB:49:25:A2:3B
        OK
    85:16:78:FD:73:6E:CE:70:E0:31:5F:0D:3C:C8:6D:C4:2C:24:59:E1
        permit_auth_destination
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_key_file (default: $smtpd_tls_cert_file)
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server RSA private key up in PEM format.
This file may be combined wit tha Postfix SMTP server RSA certificate
file specified wit $smtpd_tls_cert_file.
.PP
Da private key must be accessible without a pass-phrase, i.e. it
must not be encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. File permissions should grant read-only
access ta tha system superuser account ("root"), n' no access
to any suckas.
.SH smtpd_tls_loglevel (default: 0)
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP server loggin of TLS activity.
Each loggin level also includes tha shiznit dat is logged at
a lower loggin level.
.IP ""
0 Log only a summary message on TLS handshake completion
&mdash; no loggin of remote SMTP client certificate trust-chain verification
errors
if client certificate verification aint required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With Postfix 2.8
and earlier, disable loggin of TLS activity.
.br
.IP ""
1 Also log trust-chain verification errors n' peer
certificate name n' issuer n' shit. With Postfix 2.8 n' earlier, log TLS
handshake n' certificate shiznit.
.br
.IP ""
2 Also log levels durin TLS negotiation.
.br
.IP ""
3 Also log hexadecimal n' ASCII dump of TLS negotiation
process.
.br
.IP ""
4 Also log hexadecimal n' ASCII dump of complete
transmission afta STARTTLS.
.br
.br
.PP
Do not use "smtpd_tls_loglevel = 2" or higher except up in case
of problems. Use of loglevel 4 is straight fuckin discouraged.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers (default: medium)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP server will
use wit mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default grade ("medium") is
sufficiently phat dat any benefit from globally restrictin TLS
sessions ta a mo' stringent grade is likely negligible, especially
given tha fact dat nuff implementations still do not offer any stronger
("high" grade) ciphers, while dem dat do, will always use "high"
grade ciphers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So insistin on "high" grade ciphers is generally
counter-productizzle fo' realz. Allowin "export" or "low" ciphers is typically
not a phat idea, as systems limited ta just these is limited to
obsolete browsers. No known SMTP clients fail ta support at least
one "medium" or "high" grade cipher.
.PP
Da followin cipher grades is supported:
.IP "\fBexport\fR"
Enable "EXPORT" grade or stronger OpenSSL ciphers.
This is da most thugged-out appropriate settin fo' hood MX hosts, n' be always
used wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da underlyin cipherlist
is specified via tha tls_export_cipherlist configuration parameter,
which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBlow\fR"
Enable "LOW" grade or stronger OpenSSL ciphers. The
underlyin cipherlist is specified via tha tls_low_cipherlist
configuration parameter, which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged to
not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBmedium\fR"
Enable "MEDIUM" grade or stronger OpenSSL ciphers. These use 128-bit
or longer symmetric bulk-encryption keys. This is tha default minimum
strength fo' mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da underlyin cipherlist is
specified via tha tls_medium_cipherlist configuration parameter, which
yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBhigh\fR"
Enable only "HIGH" grade OpenSSL ciphers. The
underlyin cipherlist is specified via tha tls_high_cipherlist
configuration parameter, which yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged to
not chizzle.
.br
.IP "\fBnull\fR"
Enable only tha "NULL" OpenSSL ciphers, these provide authentication
without encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This settin is only appropriate up in tha rare
case dat all clients is prepared ta use NULL ciphers (not normally
enabled up in TLS clients). Da underlyin cipherlist is specified via the
tls_null_cipherlist configuration parameter, which yo ass is strongly
encouraged ta not chizzle.
.br
.br
.PP
Cipher types listed in
smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers or smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers are
excluded from tha base definizzle of tha selected cipher grade. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_ciphers fo' cipher controls dat apply ta opportunistic
TLS.
.PP
Da underlyin cipherlists fo' grades other than "null" include
anonymous ciphers yo, but these is automatically filtered up if the
server is configured ta ask fo' remote SMTP client certificates.  Yo ass is hella
unlikely ta need ta take any steps ta exclude anonymous ciphers, they
are excluded automatically as required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you must exclude anonymous
ciphers even when Postfix do not need or use peer certificates, set
"smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers = aNULL". To exclude anonymous ciphers only
when TLS is enforced, set "smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers = aNULL".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (default: empty)
Additionizzle list of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from the
Postfix SMTP server cipher list at mandatory TLS securitizzle levels.
This list
works up in addizzle ta tha exclusions listed wit smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers
(see there fo' syntax details).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols (default: !SSLv2)
Da SSL/TLS protocols accepted by tha Postfix SMTP server with
mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha list is empty, tha server supports all
available SSL/TLS protocol versions.  A non-empty value be a list
of protocol
names separated by whitespace, commas or colons. Da supported protocol
names is "SSLv2", "SSLv3" n' "TLSv1", n' is not case sensitive.
.PP
Note: Az of OpenSSL 1.0.1 two freshly smoked up protocols is defined, "TLSv1.1"
and "TLSv1.2". If a olda Postfix version is linked against OpenSSL
1.0.1 or later, these, or any other freshly smoked up protocol versions, are
unconditionally enabled.
.PP
With Postfix >= 2.5 tha parameta syntax is expanded ta support
protocol exclusions. One can now explicitly exclude SSLv2 by setting
"smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2". To exclude both SSLv2 and
SSLv3 set "smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3". Listing
the protocols ta include, rather than protocols ta exclude, is
supported yo, but not recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da exclusion form mo' closely
matches tha behavior when tha OpenSSL library is newer than Postfix.
.PP
Since SSL version 2 has known protocol weaknesses n' is now
deprecated, tha default settin excludes "SSLv2".  This means that
by default, SSL version 2 aint gonna be used all up in tha "encrypt" security
level.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols = TLSv1
# Alternatizzle form wit Postfix >= 2.5:
smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_protocols (default: empty)
List of TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP server will exclude
or include wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This parameta SHOULD be
left at its default empty value, allowin all protocols ta be used with
opportunistic TLS.
.PP
In main.cf tha joints is separated by whitespace, commas or
colons fo' realz. An empty value means allow all protocols. Da valid protocol
names, (see \\fBfBSSL_get_version\fR(3)\fR), is "SSLv2", "SSLv3" and
"TLSv1". In smtp_tls_policy_maps table entries, "protocols" attribute
values is separated by a cold-ass lil colon.
.PP
Note: Az of OpenSSL 1.0.1 two freshly smoked up protocols is defined, "TLSv1.1"
and "TLSv1.2". If a olda Postfix version is linked against OpenSSL
1.0.1 or later, these, or any other freshly smoked up protocol versions, are
unconditionally enabled.
.PP
To include a protocol list its name, ta exclude it, prefix tha name
with a "!" character n' shit. To exclude SSLv2 even fo' opportunistic TLS set
"smtpd_tls_protocols = !SSLv2". To exclude both "SSLv2" n' "SSLv3" set
"smtpd_tls_protocols = !SSLv2, !SSLv3". Explicitly listin tha protocols to
include, rather than protocols ta exclude, is supported yo, but not
recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da exclusion form mo' closely matches tha behavior
when tha OpenSSL library is newer than Postfix.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_protocols = !SSLv2
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_received_header (default: no)
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server produces Received:  message
headaz dat include shiznit bout tha protocol n' cipher used,
as well as tha remote SMTP client CommonName n' client certificate issuer
CommonName.  This is disabled by default, as tha shiznit may
be modified up in transit all up in other mail servers.  Only shiznit
that was recorded by tha final destination can be trusted.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_req_ccert (default: no)
With mandatory TLS encryption, require a trusted remote SMTP client
certificate up in order ta allow TLS connections ta proceed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
option implies "smtpd_tls_ask_ccert = yes".
.PP
When TLS encryption is optional, dis settin is ignored with
a warnin freestyled ta tha mail log.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_security_level (default: empty)
Da SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha Postfix SMTP server; when
a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete parameters
smtpd_use_tls n' smtpd_enforce_tls. This parameta is ignored with
"smtpd_tls_wrappermode = yes".
.PP
Specify one of tha followin securitizzle levels:
.IP "\fBnone\fR"
TLS aint gonna be used.
.br
.IP "\fBmay\fR"
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support
to remote SMTP clients yo, but do not require dat clients use TLS encryption.
.br
.IP "\fBencrypt\fR"
Mandatory TLS encryption: announce
STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients, n' require dat clients use TLS
encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Accordin ta RFC 2487 dis MUST NOT be applied up in case
of a publicly-referenced SMTP server n' shit. Instead, dis option should
be used only on dedicated servers.
.br
.br
.PP
Note 1: tha "fingerprint", "verify" n' "secure" levels is not
supported here.
Da Postfix SMTP server logs a warnin n' uses "encrypt" instead.
To verify remote SMTP client certificates, peep TLS_README fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap
of tha smtpd_tls_ask_ccert, smtpd_tls_req_ccert, n' permit_tls_clientcerts
features.
.PP
Note 2: Da parameta settin "smtpd_tls_security_level =
encrypt" implies "smtpd_tls_auth_only = yes".
.PP
Note 3: when invoked via "sendmail -bs", Postfix will never
offer STARTTLS cuz of insufficient privileges ta access tha server
private key. This is intended behavior.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_session_cache_database (default: empty)
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP server
TLS session cache. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a thugged-out database type dat supports enumeration,
like fuckin \fBbtree\fR or \fBsdbm\fR; there is no need ta support
concurrent access.  Da file is pimped if it do not exist. Da \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
daemon do not use dis parameta directly, rather tha cache is
implemented indirectly up in tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This means that
per-smtpd-instizzle master.cf overridez of dis parameta is not
effective. Note, dat each of tha cache databases supported by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8)
daemon: $smtpd_tls_session_cache_database, $smtp_tls_session_cache_database
(and wit Postfix 2.3 n' lata $lmtp_tls_session_cache_database), need ta be
stored separately. Well shiiiit, it aint at dis time possible ta store multiple
caches up in a single database.
.PP
Note: \fBdbm\fR databases is not suitable. TLS
session objects is too large.
.PP
Az of version 2.5, Postfix no longer uses root privileges when
openin dis file. Da file should now be stored under tha Postfix-owned
data_directory fo' realz. As a migration aid, a attempt ta open tha file
under a non-Postfix directory is repimped up ta tha Postfix-owned
data_directory, n' a warnin is logged.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
smtpd_tls_session_cache_database = btree:/var/lib/postfix/smtpd_scache
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout (default: 3600s)
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP server TLS session cache
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A cache cleanup is performed periodically
every $smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout secondz fo' realz. As with
$smtpd_tls_session_cache_database, dis parameta is implemented up in the
\fBtlsmgr\fR(8) daemon n' therefore per-smtpd-instizzle master.cf overrides
are not possible.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_tls_wrappermode (default: no)
Run tha Postfix SMTP server up in tha non-standard "wrapper" mode,
instead of rockin tha STARTTLS command.
.PP
If you wanna support dis service, enable a special port in
master.cf, n' specify "-o smtpd_tls_wrappermode=yes" on tha SMTP
serverz command line. Port 465 (smtps) was once chosen fo' this
purpose.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH smtpd_upstream_proxy_protocol (default: empty)
Da name of tha proxy protocol used by a optionizzle before-smtpd
proxy agent. When a proxy agent is used, dis protocol conveys local
and remote address n' port shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Specify
"smtpd_upstream_proxy_protocol = haproxy" ta enable tha haproxy
protocol.
.PP
NOTE: To use tha nginx proxy wit \fBsmtpd\fR(8), enable tha XCLIENT
protocol wit smtpd_authorized_xclient_hosts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This supports SASL
authentication up in tha proxy agent (Postfix 2.9 n' later).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.SH smtpd_upstream_proxy_timeout (default: 5s)
Da time limit fo' tha proxy protocol specified wit the
smtpd_upstream_proxy_protocol parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.SH smtpd_use_tls (default: no)
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
but do not require dat clients use TLS encryption.
.PP
Note: when invoked via "\fBsendmail -bs\fR", Postfix aint NEVER gonna offer
STARTTLS cuz of insufficient privileges ta access tha server private
key. This is intended behavior.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later n' shit. With
Postfix 2.3 n' lata use smtpd_tls_security_level instead.
.SH soft_bounce (default: no)
Safety net ta keep mail queued dat would otherwise be returned to
the sender n' shit.  This parameta disablez locally-generated bounces,
changes tha handlin of wack responses from remote servers,
content filtas or plugins,
and prevents tha Postfix SMTP server from rejectin mail permanently
by changin 5xx reply codes tha fuck into 4xx.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat soft_bounce is no
cure fo' address rewritin mistakes or mail routin mistakes.
.PP
Note: "soft_bounce = yes" is up in some cases implemented by modifying
server responses. Therefore, tha response dat Postfix logs may
differ from tha response dat Postfix straight-up sendz or receives.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
soft_bounce = yes
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH stale_lock_time (default: 500s)
Da time afta which a stale exclusive mailbox lockfile is removed.
This is used fo' delivery ta file or mailbox.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH stress (default: empty)
This feature is documented up in tha STRESS_README document.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH strict_7bit_headaz (default: no)
Reject mail wit 8-bit text up in message headers. This blocks mail
from skankyly freestyled applications.
.PP
This feature should not be enabled on a general purpose mail server,
because it is likely ta reject legitimate email.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH strict_8bitmime (default: no)
Enable both strict_7bit_headaz n' strict_8bitmime_body.
.PP
This feature should not be enabled on a general purpose mail server,
because it is likely ta reject legitimate email.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH strict_8bitmime_body (default: no)
Reject 8-bit message body text without 8-bit MIME content encoding
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This blocks mail from skankyly freestyled applications.
.PP
Unfortunately, dis also rejects majordomo approval requests when
the included request gotz nuff valid 8-bit MIME mail, n' it rejects
bounces from mailaz dat do not MIME encapsulate 8-bit content
(for example, bounces from qmail or from oldschool versionz of Postfix).
.PP
This feature should not be enabled on a general purpose mail server,
because it is likely ta reject legitimate email.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH strict_mailbox_ballershizzle (default: yes)
Defer delivery when a mailbox file aint owned by its recipient.
Da default settin aint backwardz compatible.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5.3 n' later.
.SH strict_mime_encoding_domain (default: no)
Reject mail wit invalid Content-Transfer-Encoding: shiznit
for tha message/* or multipart/* MIME content types.  This blocks
mail from skankyly freestyled software.
.PP
This feature should not be enabled on a general purpose mail server,
because it will reject mail afta a single violation.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH strict_rfc821_envelopes (default: no)
Require dat addresses received up in SMTP MAIL FROM n' RCPT TO
commandz is enclosed wit <>, n' dat dem addresses do
not contain RFC 822 steez comments or phrases.  This stops mail
from skankyly freestyled software.
.PP
By default, tha Postfix SMTP server accepts RFC 822 syntax up in MAIL
FROM n' RCPT TO addresses.
.SH sun_mailtool_compatibilitizzle (default: no)
Obsolete SUN mailtool compatibilitizzle feature. Instead, use
"mailbox_delivery_lock = dotlock".
.SH swap_bangpath (default: yes)
Enable tha rewritin of "site!user" tha fuck into "user@site".  This is
necessary if yo' machine is connected ta UUCP networks.  It is
enabled by default.
.PP
Note: wit Postfix version 2.2, message header address rewriting
happens only when one of tha followin conditions is true:
.IP \(bu
Da message is received wit tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from a network client dat matches
$local_header_rewrite_clients,
.IP \(bu
Da message is received from tha network, n' the
remote_header_rewrite_domain parameta specifies a non-empty value.
.br
.PP
To git tha behavior before Postfix version 2.2, specify
"local_header_rewrite_clients = static:all".
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
swap_bangpath = no
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH syslog_facilitizzle (default: mail)
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a gangbangin' facilitizzle as
defined up in syslog.\fBconf\fR(5). Da default facilitizzle is "mail".
.PP
Warning: a non-default syslog_facilitizzle settin takes effect only
afta a Postfix process has completed initialization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Errors during
process initialization is ghon be logged wit tha default facility.
Examplez is errors while parsin tha command line arguments, and
errors while accessin tha Postfix main.cf configuration file.
.SH syslog_name (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Warning: a non-default syslog_name settin takes effect only after
a Postfix process has completed initialization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Errors during
process initialization is ghon be logged wit tha default name. Examples
are errors while parsin tha command line arguments, n' errors
while accessin tha Postfix main.cf configuration file.
.SH tcp_windowsize (default: 0)
An optionizzle workaround fo' routas dat break TCP window scaling.
Specify a value > 0 n' < 65536 ta enable dis feature.  With
Postfix TCP servers (\fBsmtpd\fR(8), \fBqmqpd\fR(8)), dis feature is implemented
by tha Postfix \fBmaster\fR(8) daemon.
.PP
To chizzle dis parameta without stoppin Postfix, you need to
first terminizzle all Postfix TCP servers:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# postconf -e master_service_disable=inet
# postfix reload
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
This immediately terminates all processes dat accept network
connections.  Next, you enable Postfix TCP servers wit tha updated
tcp_windowsize setting:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
.na
.ft C
# postconf -e tcp_windowsize=65535 master_service_disable=
# postfix reload
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.in -4
.PP
If you skip these steps wit a hustlin Postfix system, then the
tcp_windowsize chizzle will work only fo' Postfix TCP clients (\fBsmtp\fR(8),
\fBlmtp\fR(8)).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH tls_append_default_CA (default: no)
Append tha system-supplied default certificate authority
certificates ta tha ones specified wit *_tls_CApath or *_tls_CAfile.
Da default is "no"; dis prevents Postfix from trustin third-party
certificates n' givin dem relay permission with
permit_tls_all_clientcerts.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4.15, 2.5.11, 2.6.8,
2.7.2 n' lata versions. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "tls_append_default_CA = yes" for
backwardz compatibility, ta avoid breakin certificate verification
with cribs dat don't use permit_tls_all_clientcerts.
.SH tls_daemon_random_bytes (default: 32)
Da number of pseudo-random bytes dat a \fBsmtp\fR(8) or \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
process requests from tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) server up in order ta seed its
internal pseudo random number generator (PRNG).  Da default of 32
bytes (equivalent ta 256 bits) is sufficient ta generate a 128bit
(or 168bit) session key.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tls_disable_workaroundz (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
List or bit-mask of OpenSSL bug work-aroundz ta disable.
.PP
Da OpenSSL toolkit includes a set of work-aroundz fo' buggy SSL/TLS
implementations fo' realz. Applications, like fuckin Postfix, dat wanna maximize
interoperabilitizzle ask tha OpenSSL library ta enable tha full set of
recommended work-arounds.
.PP
From time ta time, it is discovered dat a work-around creates a
securitizzle issue, n' should no longer be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If upgradin OpenSSL
to a gangbangin' fixed version aint a option or a upgrade aint available
in a timely manner, or up in closed environments where no buggy clients
or servers exist, it may be appropriate ta disable some or all of the
OpenSSL interoperabilitizzle work-arounds. This parameta specifies which
bug work-aroundz ta disable.
.PP
If tha value of tha parameta be a hexadecimal long integer starting
with "0x", tha bug work-aroundz correspondin ta tha bits specified in
its value is removed from tha \fBSSL_OP_ALL\fR work-around bit-mask
(see openssl/ssl.h n' SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)). Yo ass can specify more
bits than is present up in SSL_OP_ALL, excess bits is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specifying
0xFFFFFFFF disablez all bug-workaroundz on a 32-bit system. This should
also be sufficient on 64-bit systems, until OpenSSL abandons support
for 32-bit systems n' starts rockin tha high 32 bitz of a 64-bit
bug-workaround mask.
.PP
Otherwise, tha parameta be a white-space or comma separated list
of specific named bug work-aroundz chosen from tha list below. It
is possible dat yo' OpenSSL version includes freshly smoked up bug work-arounds
added afta yo' Postfix source code was last updated, up in dat case
you can only disable one of these via tha hexadecimal syntax above.
.IP "\fBMICROSOFT_SESS_ID_BUG\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBNETSCAPE_CHALLENGE_BUG\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBLEGACY_SERVER_CONNECT\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBNETSCAPE_REUSE_CIPHER_CHANGE_BUG\fR"
also aliased
as \fBCVE-2010-4180\fR. Postfix 2.8 disablez dis work-around by
default wit OpenSSL versions dat may predate tha fix. Fixed in
OpenSSL 0.9.8q n' OpenSSL 1.0.0c.
.br
.IP "\fBSSLREF2_REUSE_CERT_TYPE_BUG\fR"
See
SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBMICROSOFT_BIG_SSLV3_BUFFER\fR"
See
SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBMSIE_SSLV2_RSA_PADDING\fR"
also aliased as
\fBCVE-2005-2969\fR. Postfix 2.8 disablez dis work-around by
default wit OpenSSL versions dat may predate tha fix. Fixed in
OpenSSL 0.9.7h n' OpenSSL 0.9.8a.
.br
.IP "\fBSSLEAY_080_CLIENT_DH_BUG\fR"
See
SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBTLS_D5_BUG\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBTLS_BLOCK_PADDING_BUG\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBTLS_ROLLBACK_BUG\fR"
See SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3).
This is disabled up in OpenSSL 0.9.7 n' later n' shit. No Muthafucka should still
be rockin 0.9.6!
.br
.IP "\fBDONT_INSERT_EMPTY_FRAGMENTS\fR"
See
SSL_CTX_\fBset_options\fR(3)
.br
.IP "\fBCRYPTOPRO_TLSEXT_BUG\fR"
New wit GOST support in
OpenSSL 1.0.0.
.br
.br
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tls_eecdh_strong_curve (default: prime256v1)
Da elliptic curve used by tha Postfix SMTP server fo' sensibly
strong
ephemeral ECDH key exchange. This curve is used by tha Postfix SMTP
server when "smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade = strong". Da phrase "sensibly
strong" means approximately 128-bit securitizzle based on dopest known
attacks. Da selected curve must be implemented by OpenSSL (as
reported by \fBecparam\fR(1) wit tha "-list_curves" option) n' be one
of tha curves listed up in Section 5.1.1 of RFC 4492. Yo ass should not
generally chizzle dis setting.
.PP
This default curve is specified up in NSA "Suite B" Cryptography
(see http://www.nsa.gov/ia/industry/crypto_suite_b.cfm) for
information classified as SECRET.
.PP
Note: elliptic curve names is skankyly standardized; different
standardz crews is assignin different names ta tha same underlying
curves.  Da curve wit tha X9.62 name "prime256v1" be also known
under tha SECG name "secp256r1" yo, but OpenSSL do not recognize the
latta name.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when it is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH tls_eecdh_ultra_curve (default: secp384r1)
Da elliptic curve used by tha Postfix SMTP server fo' maximally
strong
ephemeral ECDH key exchange. This curve is used by tha Postfix SMTP
server when "smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade = ultra". Da phrase "maximally
strong" means approximately 192-bit securitizzle based on dopest known attacks.
This additionizzle strength comes at a thugged-out dope computationizzle cost, most
users should instead set "smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade = strong".  Da selected
curve must be implemented by OpenSSL (as reported by \fBecparam\fR(1) wit the
"-list_curves" option) n' be one of tha curves listed up in Section 5.1.1
of RFC 4492. Yo ass should not generally chizzle dis setting.
.PP
This default "ultra" curve is specified up in NSA "Suite B" Cryptography
(see http://www.nsa.gov/ia/industry/crypto_suite_b.cfm) fo' shiznit
classified as TOP SECRET.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later, when it is
compiled n' linked wit OpenSSL 1.0.0 or later.
.SH tls_export_cipherlist (default: ALL:+RC4:@STRENGTH)
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "EXPORT" or higher grade ciphers. This
defines tha meanin of tha "export" settin up in smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers,
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers n' lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers. This is
the cipherlist fo' tha opportunistic ("may") TLS client security
level n' is tha default cipherlist fo' tha SMTP server n' shit. Yo ass are
strongly encouraged ta not chizzle dis setting. With OpenSSL 1.0.0 and
lata tha cipherlist may start wit a "aNULL:" prefix, which restores
the 0.9.8-compatible orderin of tha aNULL ciphers ta tha top of the
list when they is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prefix aint needed wit previous
OpenSSL releases.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH tls_high_cipherlist (default: ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:!MEDIUM:+RC4:@STRENGTH)
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "HIGH" grade ciphers. This defines
the meanin of tha "high" settin up in smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers,
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers n' lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers. Yo ass are
strongly encouraged ta not chizzle dis setting. With OpenSSL 1.0.0 and
lata tha cipherlist may start wit a "aNULL:" prefix, which restores
the 0.9.8-compatible orderin of tha aNULL ciphers ta tha top of the
list when they is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prefix aint needed wit previous
OpenSSL releases.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH tls_legacy_public_key_fingerprints (default: no)
A temporary migration aid fo' cribs dat use certificate
\fIpublic-key\fR fingerprints wit Postfix 2.9.0..2.9.5, which use
an incorrect algorithm. This parameta has no effect on tha certificate
fingerprint support dat be available since Postfix 2.2.
.PP
Specify "tls_legacy_public_key_fingerprints = yes" temporarily,
pendin a migration from configuration filez wit incorrect Postfix
2.9.0..2.9.5 certificate public-key finger prints, ta tha erect
fingerprints used by Postfix 2.9.6 n' later n' shit.  To compute tha erect
certificate public-key fingerprints, peep TLS_README.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.9.6 n' later.
.SH tls_low_cipherlist (default: ALL:!EXPORT:+RC4:@STRENGTH)
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "LOW" or higher grade ciphers. This defines
the meanin of tha "low" settin up in smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers,
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers n' lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers. Yo ass are
strongly encouraged ta not chizzle dis setting.  With OpenSSL 1.0.0 and
lata tha cipherlist may start wit a "aNULL:" prefix, which restores
the 0.9.8-compatible orderin of tha aNULL ciphers ta tha top of the
list when they is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prefix aint needed wit previous
OpenSSL releases.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH tls_medium_cipherlist (default: ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:+RC4:@STRENGTH)
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "MEDIUM" or higher grade ciphers. This
defines tha meanin of tha "medium" settin up in smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers,
smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers n' lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers. This is
the default cipherlist fo' mandatory TLS encryption up in tha TLS
client (with anonymous ciphers disabled when verifyin server
certificates). Yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not chizzle this
setting.  With OpenSSL 1.0.0 n' lata tha cipherlist may start wit an
"aNULL:" prefix, which restores tha 0.9.8-compatible orderin of the
aNULL ciphers ta tha top of tha list when they is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This prefix
is not needed wit previous OpenSSL releases.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH tls_null_cipherlist (default: eNULL:!aNULL)
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "NULL" grade ciphers dat provide
authentication without encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This defines tha meanin of tha "null"
settin up in smtpd_mandatory_tls_ciphers, smtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers and
lmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers.  Yo ass is straight fuckin encouraged ta not
change dis setting.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.SH tls_preempt_cipherlist (default: no)
With SSLv3 n' later, use tha Postfix SMTP serverz cipher
preference order instead of tha remote clientz cipher preference
order.
.PP
By default, tha OpenSSL server selects tha clientz most preferred
cipher dat tha server supports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. With SSLv3 n' later, tha server may
choose its own most preferred cipher dat is supported (offered) by
the client. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin "tls_preempt_cipherlist = yes" enablez server cipher
preferences.
.PP
While server cipher selection may up in some cases lead ta a mo' secure
or performant cipher chizzle, there is some risk of interoperability
issues. In tha past, some SSL clients have listed lower prioritizzle ciphers
that they did not implement erectly. If tha server chizzlez a cold-ass lil cipher
that tha client prefers less, it may select a cold-ass lil cipher whose client
implementation is flawed.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later, up in combination
with OpenSSL 0.9.7 n' later.
.SH tls_random_bytes (default: 32)
Da number of bytes dat \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) readz from $tls_random_source
when (re)seedin tha in-memory pseudo random number generator (PRNG)
pool. Da default of 32 bytes (256 bits) is phat enough fo' 128bit
symmetric keys.  If rockin EGD or a thang file, a maximum of 255
bytes is read.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tls_random_exchange_name (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Name of tha pseudo random number generator (PRNG) state file
that is maintained by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8). Da file is pimped when it do
not exist, n' its length is fixed at 1024 bytes.
.PP
Az of version 2.5, Postfix no longer uses root privileges when
openin dis file, n' tha default file location was chizzled from
${config_directory}/prng_exch ta ${data_directory}/prng_exch.  As
a migration aid, a attempt ta open tha file under a non-Postfix
directory is repimped up ta tha Postfix-owned data_directory, n' a
warnin is logged.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tls_random_prng_update_period (default: 3600s)
Da time between attempts by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) ta save tha state of
the pseudo random number generator (PRNG) ta tha file specified
with $tls_random_exchange_name.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tls_random_reseed_period (default: 3600s)
Da maximal time between attempts by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) ta re-seed the
in-memory pseudo random number generator (PRNG) pool from external
sources.  Da actual time between re-seedin attempts is calculated
usin tha PRNG, n' is between 0 n' tha time specified.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tls_random_source (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Da external entropy source fo' tha in-memory \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) pseudo
random number generator (PRNG) pool. Be shizzle ta specify a non-blocking
source.  If dis source aint a regular file, tha entropy source
type must be prepended:  egd:/path/to/egd_socket fo' a source with
EGD compatible socket intercourse, or dev:/path/to/device fo' a
device file.
.PP
Note: on OpenBSD systems specify /dev/arandom when /dev/urandom
gives timeout errors.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_enforce_tls (default: $smtpd_enforce_tls)
Mandatory TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients, and
require dat clients use TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_enforce_tls for
further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_service_name (default: tlsproxy)
Da name of tha \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) steez entry up in master.cf. This
service performs plaintext <=> TLS ciphertext conversion.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_CAfile (default: $smtpd_tls_CAfile)
A file containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs
trusted ta sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate
CA certificates.  See smtpd_tls_CAfile fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_CApath (default: $smtpd_tls_CApath)
A directory containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs
trusted ta sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate
CA certificates. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_CApath fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_always_issue_session_idz (default: $smtpd_tls_always_issue_session_ids)
Force tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server ta issue a TLS session id,
even when TLS session cachin is turned off. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_always_issue_session_idz fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_ask_ccert (default: $smtpd_tls_ask_ccert)
Ask a remote SMTP client fo' a cold-ass lil client certificate. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_ask_ccert fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_ccert_verifydepth (default: $smtpd_tls_ccert_verifydepth)
Da verification depth fo' remote SMTP client certificates fo' realz. A
depth of 1 is sufficient if tha issuin CA is listed up in a local CA
file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_ccert_verifydepth fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_cert_file (default: $smtpd_tls_cert_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server RSA certificate up in PEM
format.  This file may also contain tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
private RSA key.  See smtpd_tls_cert_file fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_ciphers (default: $smtpd_tls_ciphers)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
will use wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_ciphers
for further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_dcert_file (default: $smtpd_tls_dcert_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server DSA certificate up in PEM
format.  This file may also contain tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
private DSA key.  See smtpd_tls_dcert_file fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_dh1024_param_file (default: $smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file)
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
should use wit EDH ciphers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file for
further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_dh512_param_file (default: $smtpd_tls_dh512_param_file)
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
should use wit EDH ciphers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_dh512_param_file for
further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_dkey_file (default: $smtpd_tls_dkey_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server DSA private key up in PEM
format.  This file may be combined wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server DSA certificate file specified wit $smtpd_tls_dcert_file.
See smtpd_tls_dkey_file fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_eccert_file (default: $smtpd_tls_eccert_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server ECDSA certificate in
PEM format.  This file may also contain tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server private ECDSA key.  See smtpd_tls_eccert_file fo' further
details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_eckey_file (default: $smtpd_tls_eckey_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server ECDSA private key in
PEM format.  This file may be combined wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server ECDSA certificate file specified wit $smtpd_tls_eccert_file.
See smtpd_tls_eckey_file fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_eecdh_grade (default: $smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade)
Da Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server securitizzle grade fo' ephemeral
elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman (EECDH) key exchange. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_exclude_ciphers (default: $smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers)
List of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from tha \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server cipher list at all TLS securitizzle levels. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_fingerprint_digest (default: $smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest)
Da message digest algorithm ta construct remote SMTP
client-certificate
fingerprints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_key_file (default: $smtpd_tls_key_file)
File wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server RSA private key up in PEM
format.  This file may be combined wit tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server RSA certificate file specified wit $smtpd_tls_cert_file.
See smtpd_tls_key_file fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_loglevel (default: $smtpd_tls_loglevel)
Enable additionizzle Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server loggin of TLS
activity.  Each loggin level also includes tha shiznit that
is logged at a lower loggin level. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_loglevel for
further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_mandatory_ciphers (default: $smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers)
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
will use wit mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers
for further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (default: $smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers)
Additionizzle list of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from the
\fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server cipher list at mandatory TLS securitizzle levels.
See smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_mandatory_protocols (default: $smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols)
Da SSL/TLS protocols accepted by tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
with mandatory TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha list is empty, tha server
supports all available SSL/TLS protocol versions.  See
smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_protocols (default: $smtpd_tls_protocols)
List of TLS protocols dat tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server will
exclude or include wit opportunistic TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_protocols fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_req_ccert (default: $smtpd_tls_req_ccert)
With mandatory TLS encryption, require a trusted remote SMTP
client certificate up in order ta allow TLS connections ta proceed.
See smtpd_tls_req_ccert fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_security_level (default: $smtpd_tls_security_level)
Da SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server;
when a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete
parametas smtpd_use_tls n' smtpd_enforce_tls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_security_level fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_tls_session_cache_timeout (default: $smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout)
Da expiration time of Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server TLS session
cache shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A cache cleanup is performed periodically every
$smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout seconds. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout fo' further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_use_tls (default: $smtpd_use_tls)
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
but do not require dat clients use TLS encryption. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See smtpd_use_tls
for further details.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8 n' later.
.SH tlsproxy_watchdog_timeout (default: 10s)
How tha fuck much time a \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) process may take ta process local
or remote I/O before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
This be a safety mechanizzle dat prevents \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) from becoming
non-responsive cuz of a funky-ass bug up in Postfix itself or up in system software.
To avoid false alarms n' unnecessary cache corruption dis limit
cannot be set under 10s.
.PP
Specify a non-zero time value (an integral value plus a optional
one-letta suffix dat specifies tha time unit).  Time units: s
(seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.8.
.SH trace_service_name (default: trace)
Da name of tha trace service. This steez is implemented by the
\fBbounce\fR(8) daemon n' maintains a record
of mail deliveries n' produces a mail delivery report when verbose
delivery be axed wit "\fBsendmail -v\fR".
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH transport_delivery_slot_cost (default: $default_delivery_slot_cost)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_delivery_slot_cost
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_cost parametas will not
show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version 2.9.
This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a cold-ass lil combination
of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_delivery_slot_cost").
.SH transport_delivery_slot_discount (default: $default_delivery_slot_discount)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_delivery_slot_discount
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_discount parametas will
not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_delivery_slot_discount").
.SH transport_delivery_slot_loan (default: $default_delivery_slot_loan)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_delivery_slot_loan
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_delivery_slot_loan parametas will not
show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version 2.9.
This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a cold-ass lil combination
of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_delivery_slot_loan").
.SH transport_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' the
default_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit parameta value,
where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery
transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit
parametas aint gonna show up in "postconf" command output before
Postfix version 2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parameters
whose name be a cold-ass lil combination of a master.cf steez name n' a
built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_destination_concurrency_failed_cohort_limit").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH transport_destination_concurrency_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' the
default_destination_concurrency_limit parameta value, where
\fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery
transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_limit
parametas aint gonna show up in "postconf" command output before
Postfix version 2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parameters
whose name be a cold-ass lil combination of a master.cf steez name n' a
built-in suffix (in dis case: "_destination_concurrency_limit").
.SH transport_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback (default: $default_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback)
A transport-specific override fo' the
default_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback parameta value,
where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery
transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback
parametas aint gonna show up in "postconf" command output before
Postfix version 2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parameters
whose name be a cold-ass lil combination of a master.cf steez name n' a
built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_destination_concurrency_negative_feedback").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH transport_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback (default: $default_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback)
A transport-specific override fo' the
default_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback parameta value,
where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery
transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback
parametas aint gonna show up in "postconf" command output before
Postfix version 2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parameters
whose name be a cold-ass lil combination of a master.cf steez name n' a
built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_destination_concurrency_positive_feedback").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH transport_destination_rate_delay (default: $default_destination_rate_delay)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_destination_rate_delay
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_rate_delay parameters
will not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_destination_rate_delay").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH transport_destination_recipient_limit (default: $default_destination_recipient_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' the
default_destination_recipient_limit parameta value, where
\fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message delivery
transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_destination_recipient_limit parameters
will not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_destination_recipient_limit").
.SH transport_extra_recipient_limit (default: $default_extra_recipient_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_extra_recipient_limit
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_extra_recipient_limit parametas will
not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_extra_recipient_limit").
.SH transport_initial_destination_concurrency (default: $initial_destination_concurrency)
A transport-specific override fo' tha initial_destination_concurrency
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_initial_destination_concurrency
parametas aint gonna show up in "postconf" command output before
Postfix version 2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parameters
whose name be a cold-ass lil combination of a master.cf steez name n' a
built-in suffix (in dis case: "_initial_destination_concurrency").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.5 n' later.
.SH transport_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit mappings from recipient address to
(message delivery transport, next-hop destination).  See \fBtransport\fR(5)
for details.
.PP
Specify zero or mo' "type:table" lookup tables.  If you use this
feature wit local files, run "\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/transport\fR"
afta bustin a cold-ass lil chizzle.
.PP
For safety reasons, az of Postfix 2.3 dis feature do not
allow $number substitutions up in regular expression maps.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
transport_maps = dbm:/etc/postfix/transport
transport_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/transport
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH transport_minimum_delivery_slots (default: $default_minimum_delivery_slots)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_minimum_delivery_slots
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_minimum_delivery_slots parametas will
not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_minimum_delivery_slots").
.SH transport_recipient_limit (default: $default_recipient_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_recipient_limit
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: some \fItransport\fR_recipient_limit parametas will not
show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version 2.9.
This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a cold-ass lil combination
of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_recipient_limit").
.SH transport_recipient_refill_delay (default: $default_recipient_refill_delay)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_recipient_refill_delay
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_recipient_refill_delay parametas will
not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_recipient_refill_delay").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH transport_recipient_refill_limit (default: $default_recipient_refill_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' tha default_recipient_refill_limit
parameta value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of
the message delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_recipient_refill_limit parametas will
not show up in "postconf" command output before Postfix version
2.9.  This limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a
combination of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in
this case: "_recipient_refill_limit").
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.4 n' later.
.SH transport_retry_time (default: 60s)
Da time between attempts by tha Postfix queue manager ta contact
a malfunctionin message delivery transport.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH transport_time_limit (default: $command_time_limit)
A transport-specific override fo' tha command_time_limit parameter
value, where \fItransport\fR is tha master.cf name of tha message
delivery transport.
.PP
Note: \fItransport\fR_time_limit parametas aint gonna show up
in "postconf" command output before Postfix version 2.9.  This
limitation applies ta nuff parametas whose name be a cold-ass lil combination
of a master.cf steez name n' a funky-ass built-in suffix (in dis case:
"_time_limit").
.SH trigger_timeout (default: 10s)
Da time limit fo' bustin  a trigger ta a Postfix daemon (for
example, tha \fBpickup\fR(8) or \fBqmgr\fR(8) daemon). This time limit prevents
programs from gettin stuck when tha mail system is under heavy
load.
.PP
Time units: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
Da default time unit is s (seconds).
.SH undisclosed_recipients_header (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
Message header dat tha Postfix \fBcleanup\fR(8) server bangs when a
message gotz nuff no To: or Cc: message header n' shit. With Postfix 2.8
and later, tha default value is empty. With Postfix 2.4-2.7,
specify a empty value ta disable dis feature.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
# Default value before Postfix 2.8.
# Note: tha ":" n' ";" is both required.
undisclosed_recipients_header = To: undisclosed-recipients:;
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH unknown_address_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a sender or
recipient address is rejected by tha reject_unknown_sender_domain
or reject_unknown_recipient_domain restriction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da response is
always 450 up in case of a temporary DNS error.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH unknown_address_tempfail_action (default: $reject_tempfail_action)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unknown_sender_domain
or reject_unknown_recipient_domain fail cuz of a temporary error
condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "defer" ta defer tha remote SMTP client request
immediately. With tha default "defer_if_permit" action, tha Postfix
SMTP server continues ta look fo' opportunitizzles ta reject mail, and
defers tha client request only if it would otherwise be accepted.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unknown_client_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a cold-ass lil client
without valid address <=> name mappin is rejected by the
reject_unknown_client_hostname restriction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da SMTP server always replies
with 450 when tha mappin failed cuz of a temporary error condition.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH unknown_helo_hostname_tempfail_action (default: $reject_tempfail_action)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unknown_helo_hostname
fails cuz of a temporary error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "defer" ta defer
the remote SMTP client request immediately. With tha default
"defer_if_permit" action, tha Postfix SMTP server continues ta look
for opportunitizzles ta reject mail, n' defers tha client request
only if it would otherwise be accepted.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unknown_hostname_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when tha hostname
specified wit tha HELO or EHLO command is rejected by the
reject_unknown_helo_hostname restriction.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.SH unknown_local_recipient_reject_code (default: 550)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a recipient
address is local, n' $local_recipient_maps specifies a list of
lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient.  A recipient
address is local when its domain matches $mydestination,
$proxy_interfaces or $inet_interfaces.
.PP
Da default settin is 550 (reject mail) but it is less thuggy ta initially
use 450 (try again n' again n' again later) so you have time ta smoke up if your
local_recipient_maps settings is OK.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
unknown_local_recipient_reject_code = 450
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH unknown_relay_recipient_reject_code (default: 550)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient
address matches $relay_domains, n' relay_recipient_maps specifies
a list of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH unknown_virtual_alias_reject_code (default: 550)
Da Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient address matches
$virtual_alias_domains, n' $virtual_alias_maps specifies a list
of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH unknown_virtual_mailbox_reject_code (default: 550)
Da Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient address matches
$virtual_mailbox_domains, n' $virtual_mailbox_maps specifies a list
of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH unverified_recipient_defer_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response when a recipient address
probe fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.PP
Unlike elsewhere up in Postfix, you can specify 250 up in order to
accept tha address anyway.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unverified_recipient_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response when a recipient address
is rejected by tha reject_unverified_recipient restriction.
.PP
Unlike elsewhere up in Postfix, you can specify 250 up in order to
accept tha address anyway.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH unverified_recipient_reject_reason (default: empty)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz reply when rejectin mail with
reject_unverified_recipient. Do not include tha numeric SMTP reply
code or tha enhanced status code. By default, tha response includes
actual address verification details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
unverified_recipient_reject_reason = Recipient address lookup failed
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unverified_recipient_tempfail_action (default: $reject_tempfail_action)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unverified_recipient
fails cuz of a temporary error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "defer" ta defer
the remote SMTP client request immediately. With tha default
"defer_if_permit" action, tha Postfix SMTP server continues ta look
for opportunitizzles ta reject mail, n' defers tha client request
only if it would otherwise be accepted.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unverified_sender_defer_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a sender address
probe fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.PP
Unlike elsewhere up in Postfix, you can specify 250 up in order to
accept tha address anyway.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unverified_sender_reject_code (default: 450)
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a recipient
address is rejected by tha reject_unverified_sender restriction.
.PP
Unlike elsewhere up in Postfix, you can specify 250 up in order to
accept tha address anyway.
.PP
Do not chizzle dis unless you gotz a cold-ass lil complete understandin of RFC 5321.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH unverified_sender_reject_reason (default: empty)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz reply when rejectin mail with
reject_unverified_sender n' shit. Do not include tha numeric SMTP reply
code or tha enhanced status code. By default, tha response includes
actual address verification details.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
unverified_sender_reject_reason = Sender address lookup failed
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH unverified_sender_tempfail_action (default: $reject_tempfail_action)
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unverified_sender
fails cuz of a temporary error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "defer" ta defer
the remote SMTP client request immediately. With tha default
"defer_if_permit" action, tha Postfix SMTP server continues ta look
for opportunitizzles ta reject mail, n' defers tha client request
only if it would otherwise be accepted.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH verp_delimiter_filta (default: -=+)
Da charactas Postfix accepts as VERP delimita charactas on the
Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command line n' up in SMTP commands.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 1.1 n' later.
.SH virtual_alias_domains (default: $virtual_alias_maps)
Postfix is final destination fo' tha specified list of virtual
alias domains, dat is, domains fo' which all addresses is aliased
to addresses up in other local or remote domains. Da SMTP server
validates recipient addresses wit $virtual_alias_maps n' rejects
non-existent recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha virtual alias domain class
in tha ADDRESS_CLASS_README file
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later n' shit. Da default
value is backwardz compatible wit Postfix version 1.1.
.PP
Da default value is $virtual_alias_maps so dat you can keep all
information bout virtual alias domains up in one place.  If you have
many users, it is betta ta separate shiznit dat chizzlez more
frequently (virtual address -> local or remote address mapping)
from shiznit dat chizzlez less frequently (the list of virtual
domain names).
.PP
Specify a list of host or domain names, "/file/name" or
"type:table" patterns, separated by commas and/or whitespace fo' realz. A
"/file/name" pattern is replaced by its contents; a "type:table"
lookup table is matched when a table entry matches a lookup string
(the lookup result is ignored).  Continue long lines by starting
the next line wit whitespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "!pattern" ta exclude a host
or domain name from tha list. Da form "!/file/name" is supported
only up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.PP
See also tha VIRTUAL_README n' ADDRESS_CLASS_README documents
for further shiznit.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
virtual_alias_domains = virtual1.tld virtual2.tld
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH virtual_alias_expansion_limit (default: 1000)
Da maximal number of addresses dat virtual alias expansion produces
from each original gangsta recipient.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH virtual_alias_maps (default: $virtual_maps)
Optionizzle lookup tablez dat alias specific mail addresses or domains
to other local or remote address.  Da table format n' lookups
are documented up in \fBvirtual\fR(5). For a overview of Postfix address
manipulations peep tha ADDRESS_REWRITING_README document.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later n' shit. Da default
value is backwardz compatible wit Postfix version 1.1.
.PP
If you use dis feature wit indexed files, run "\fBpostmap
/etc/postfix/virtual\fR" afta changin tha file.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
virtual_alias_maps = dbm:/etc/postfix/virtual
virtual_alias_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH virtual_alias_recursion_limit (default: 1000)
Da maximal nestin depth of virtual alias expansion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Currently
the recursion limit be applied only ta tha left branch of the
expansion graph, so tha depth of tha tree can up in da most thugged-out shitty case
reach tha sum of tha expansion n' recursion limits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This may
change up in tha future.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later.
.SH virtual_destination_concurrency_limit (default: $default_destination_concurrency_limit)
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha virtual message delivery transport. This limit is enforced
by tha queue manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is the
first field up in tha entry up in tha master.cf file.
.SH virtual_destination_recipient_limit (default: $default_destination_recipient_limit)
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha virtual
message delivery transport. This limit is enforced by tha queue
manager n' shit. Da message delivery transhiznit name is tha straight-up original gangsta field in
the entry up in tha master.cf file.
.PP
Settin dis parameta ta a value of 1 chizzlez tha meanin of
virtual_destination_concurrency_limit from concurrency per domain
into concurrency per recipient.
.SH virtual_gid_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tablez wit tha per-recipient crew ID fo' \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox
delivery.
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.PP
In a lookup table, specify a left-hand side of "@domain.tld" to
match any user up in tha specified domain dat aint gots a specific
"user@domain.tld" entry.
.PP
When a recipient address has a optionizzle address extension
(user+foo@domain.tld), tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent looks up
the full address first, n' when tha lookup fails, it looks up the
unextended address (user@domain.tld).
.PP
Note 1: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent disallows
regular expression substitution of $1 etc. up in regular expression
lookup tables, cuz dat would open a securitizzle hole.
.PP
Note 2: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will
silently ignore requests ta use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server n' shit. Instead
it will open tha table directly. Before Postfix version 2.2, the
\fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH virtual_mailbox_base (default: empty)
A prefix dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent prependz ta all pathname
results from $virtual_mailbox_maps table lookups.  This be a safety
measure ta ensure dat a outta control map don't litta the
file system wit mailboxes.  While virtual_mailbox_base could be
set ta "/", dis settin aint recommended.
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.na
.ft C
virtual_mailbox_base = /var/mail
.fi
.ad
.ft R
.SH virtual_mailbox_domains (default: $virtual_mailbox_maps)
Postfix is final destination fo' tha specified list of domains;
mail is served up via tha $virtual_transhiznit mail delivery transport.
By default dis is tha Postfix \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.  Da SMTP
server validates recipient addresses wit $virtual_mailbox_maps
and rejects mail fo' non-existent recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See also tha virtual
mailbox domain class up in tha ADDRESS_CLASS_README file.
.PP
This parameta expects tha same ol' dirty syntax as tha mydestination
configuration parameter.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later n' shit. Da default
value is backwardz compatible wit Postfix version 1.1.
.SH virtual_mailbox_limit (default: 51200000)
Da maximal size up in bytez of a individual \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox or
maildir file, or zero (no limit).
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.SH virtual_mailbox_lock (default: peep "postconf -d" output)
How tha fuck ta lock a UNIX-style \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox before attempting
delivery.  For a list of available file lockin methods, use the
"\fBpostconf -l\fR" command.
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.PP
This settin is ignored wit \fBmaildir\fR steez delivery, cuz
such deliveries is safe without application-level locks.
.PP
Note 1: tha \fBdotlock\fR method requires dat tha recipient UID
or GID has write access ta tha parent directory of tha recipient's
mailbox file.
.PP
Note 2: tha default settin of dis parameta is system dependent.
.SH virtual_mailbox_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit all valid addresses up in tha domains that
match $virtual_mailbox_domains.
.PP
In a lookup table, specify a left-hand side of "@domain.tld" to
match any user up in tha specified domain dat aint gots a specific
"user@domain.tld" entry.
.PP
Da remainder of dis text is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery
agent.  It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
mail delivery program.
.PP
Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent uses dis table ta look up the
per-recipient mailbox or maildir pathname.  If tha lookup result
endz up in a slash ("/"), maildir-style delivery is carried out,
otherwise tha path be assumed ta specify a UNIX-style mailbox file.
Note dat $virtual_mailbox_base is unconditionally prepended to
this path.
.PP
When a recipient address has a optionizzle address extension
(user+foo@domain.tld), tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent looks up
the full address first, n' when tha lookup fails, it looks up the
unextended address (user@domain.tld).
.PP
Note 1: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent disallows
regular expression substitution of $1 etc. up in regular expression
lookup tables, cuz dat would open a securitizzle hole.
.PP
Note 2: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will
silently ignore requests ta use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server n' shit. Instead
it will open tha table directly. Before Postfix version 2.2, the
\fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH virtual_maps (default: empty)
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit a) namez of domains fo' which all
addresses is aliased ta addresses up in other local or remote domains,
and b) addresses dat is aliased ta addresses up in other local or
remote domains.  Available before Postfix version 2.0. With Postfix
version 2.0 n' later, dis is replaced by separate controls: virtual_alias_domains
and virtual_alias_maps.
.SH virtual_minimum_uid (default: 100)
Da minimum user ID value dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent accepts
as a result from $virtual_uid_maps table lookup.  Returned
values less than dis is ghon be rejected, n' tha message will be
deferred.
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.SH virtual_transhiznit (default: virtual)
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
final delivery ta domains listed wit $virtual_mailbox_domains.
This shiznit can be overruled wit tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table.
.PP
Specify a strang of tha form \fItransport:nexthop\fR, where \fItransport\fR
is tha name of a mail delivery transhiznit defined up in master.cf.
Da \fI:nexthop\fR destination is optional; its syntax is documented
in tha manual page of tha correspondin delivery agent.
.PP
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH virtual_uid_maps (default: empty)
Lookup tablez wit tha per-recipient user ID dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8)
delivery agent uses while freestylin ta tha recipientz mailbox.
.PP
This parameta is specific ta tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent.
It do not apply when mail is served up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different mail
delivery program.
.PP
In a lookup table, specify a left-hand side of "@domain.tld"
to match any user up in tha specified domain dat aint gots a
specific "user@domain.tld" entry.
.PP
When a recipient address has a optionizzle address extension
(user+foo@domain.tld), tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent looks up
the full address first, n' when tha lookup fails, it looks up the
unextended address (user@domain.tld).
.PP
Note 1: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent disallows
regular expression substitution of $1 etc. up in regular expression
lookup tables, cuz dat would open a securitizzle hole.
.PP
Note 2: fo' securitizzle reasons, tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will
silently ignore requests ta use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server n' shit. Instead
it will open tha table directly. Before Postfix version 2.2, the
\fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.nf
postconf(1), Postfix configuration parameta maintenance
master(5), Postfix daemon configuration maintenance
.SH LICENSE
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
