.\"
.\" "$Id: printers.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   printers.conf playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH printers.conf 5 "CUPS" "29 April 2009" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
printers.conf \- printa configuration file fo' cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIprinters.conf\fR file defines tha local printas dat are
available. Well shiiiit, it is normally located up in tha \fI/etc/cups\fR directory and
is generated automatically by tha \fIcupsd(8)\fR program when printers
are added or deleted.
.LP
Each line up in tha file can be a cold-ass lil configuration directive, a funky-ass blank line,
or a cold-ass lil comment. Comment lines start wit tha # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
.TP 5
<Printa name> ... </Printer>
.br
Defines a specific printer.
.TP 5
<DefaultPrinta name> ... </Printer>
.br
Defines a thugged-out default printer.
.TP 5
Acceptin Yes
.TP 5
Acceptin No
.br
Specifies whether tha printa be acceptin freshly smoked up thangs.
.TP 5
AllowUser [ user @group ... ]
.br
Allows specific playas n' crews ta print ta tha printer.
.TP 5
DenyUser [ user @group ... ]
.br
Prevents specific playas n' crews from printin ta tha printer.
.TP 5
DeviceURI uri
.br
Specifies tha thang URI fo' a printer.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy abort-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-current-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy stop-printer
.br
Specifies tha error policy fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
Info text
.br
Specifies human-readable text describin tha printer.
.TP 5
JobSheets banner banner
.br
Specifies tha banner pages ta use fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
KLimit number
.br
Specifies tha thang-k-limit value fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
Location text
.br
Specifies human-readable text describin tha location of tha printer.
.TP 5
OpPolicy name
.br
Specifies tha operation policy fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
PageLimit number
.br
Specifies tha thang-page-limit value fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
PortMonitor monitor
.br
Specifies tha port monitor fo' a printer.
.TP 5
QuotaPeriod seconds
.br
Specifies tha thang-quota-period value fo' tha printer.
.TP 5
Shared Yes
.TP 5
Shared No
.br
Specifies whether tha printa is shared.
.TP 5
State idle
.TP 5
State stopped
.br
Specifies tha initial state of tha printa (Idle or Stopped)
.TP 5
StateMessage text
.br
Specifies tha message associated wit tha state.
.TP 5
StateTime seconds
.br
Specifies tha date/time associated wit tha state.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fImime.types(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: printers.conf.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
