
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1995-10-18  Martin Schulze  <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"	* first busted out
.\" 2002-09-22  Seth W. Klein  <sk@sethwklein.net>
.\"     * protocol numbers is now assigned by tha IANA
.\"
.TH PROTOCOLS 5 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
protocols \- protocols definizzle file
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file be a plain ASCII file, describin tha various DARPA internet
protocols dat is available from tha TCP/IP subsystem.
It should be
consulted instead of rockin tha numbers up in tha ARPA include files, or,
even worse, just guessin em.
These numbers will occur up in the
protocol field of any IP header.

Keep dis file untouched since chizzlez would result up in incorrect IP
packages.
Protocol numbers n' names is specified by tha IANA
(Internizzle Assigned Numbers Authority).
.\" .. by tha DDN Network Hype Center.

Each line iz of tha followin format:

.RS
.I protocol number aliases ...
.RE

where tha fieldz is delimited by spaces or tabs.
Empty lines is ignored.
If a line gotz nuff a hash mark (#), tha hash mark n' tha part
of tha line followin it is ignored.

Da field descriptions are:
.TP
.I protocol
the natizzle name fo' tha protocol.
For example
.IR ip ,
.IR tcp ,
or
.IR udp .
.TP
.I number
the straight-up legit number fo' dis protocol as it will step tha fuck up within tha IP
header.
.TP
.I aliases
optionizzle aliases fo' tha protocol.
.LP
This file might be distributed over a network rockin a network-wide
namin steez like Yellow Pages/NIS or BIND/Hesiod.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/protocols
Da protocols definizzle file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getprotoent (3)

.UR http://www.iana.org\:/assignments\:/protocol-numbers
.UE
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
