.TH pulse-client.conf 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pulse-client.conf \- PulseAudio client configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\fI~/.config/pulse/client.conf\fB

\fI/etc/pulse/client.conf\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da PulseAudio client library readz configuration directives from a gangbangin' file \fI~/.config/pulse/client.conf\f1 on startup n' when dat file don't exist from \fI/etc/pulse/client.conf\f1.

Da configuration file be a simple collection of variable declarations. If tha configuration file parser encountas either ; or # it ignores tha rest of tha line until its end.

For tha settings dat take a funky-ass boolean argument tha joints \fBtrue\f1, \fByes\f1, \fBon\f1 n' \fB1\f1 is equivalent, resp. \fBfalse\f1, \fBno\f1, \fBoff\f1, \fB0\f1.
.SH DIRECTIVES
.TP
\fBdefault-sink=\f1 Da default sink ta connect to. If specified overwrites tha settin up in tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da environment variable \fB$PULSE_SINK\f1 however takes precedence.
.TP
\fBdefault-source=\f1 Da default source ta connect to. If specified overwrites tha settin up in tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da environment variable \fB$PULSE_SOURCE\f1 however takes precedence.
.TP
\fBdefault-server=\f1 Da default sever ta connect to. Da environment variable \fB$PULSE_SERVER\f1 takes precedence.
.TP
\fBautospawn=\f1 Autospawn a PulseAudio daemon when needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Takes a funky-ass boolean value, defaults ta \fByes\f1.
.TP
\fBdaemon-binary=\f1 Path ta tha PulseAudio daemon ta run when autospawning. Defaults ta a path configured at compile time.
.TP
\fBextra-arguments=\f1 Extra arguments ta pass ta tha PulseAudio daemon when autospawning. Defaults ta \fB--log-target=syslog\f1
.TP
\fBcookie-file=\f1 Specify tha path ta tha PulseAudio authentication cookie. Defaults ta \fI~/.config/pulse/cookie\f1.
.TP
\fBenable-shm=\f1 Enable data transfer via POSIX shared memory. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1.
.TP
\fBshm-size-bytes=\f1 Sets tha shared memory segment size fo' clients, up in bytes. If left unspecified or is set ta 0 it will default ta some system-specific default, probably 64 MiB. Please note dat probably there is no need ta chizzle dis value, unless yo ass is hustlin a OS kernel dat do not do memory overcommit.
.TP
\fBauto-connect-localhost=\f1 Automatically try ta connect ta localhost via IP. Enablin dis be a potential securitizzle hole since connections is only authenticated one-way n' a rogue server might hence fool a cold-ass lil client tha fuck into bustin  it its private (e.g. VoIP call) data. This was enabled by default on PulseAudio version 0.9.21 n' olda n' shit. Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.TP
\fBauto-connect-display=\f1 Automatically try ta connect ta tha host X11z $DISPLAY variable is set to. Da same securitizzle thangs apply as ta \fBauto-connect-localhost=\f1. Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulse-daemon.conf(5)\f1, \fBpulseaudio(1)\f1
