.TH pulse-daemon.conf 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pulse-daemon.conf \- PulseAudio daemon configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\fI~/.config/pulse/daemon.conf\fB

\fI/etc/pulse/daemon.conf\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da PulseAudio sound server readz configuration directives from a gangbangin' file \fI~/.config/pulse/daemon.conf\f1 on startup n' when dat file don't exist from \fI/etc/pulse/daemon.conf\f1. Please note dat tha server also readz a cold-ass lil configuration script on startup \fIdefault.pa\f1 which also gotz nuff runtime configuration directives.

Da configuration file be a simple collection of variable declarations. If tha configuration file parser encountas either ; or # it ignores tha rest of tha line until its end.

For tha settings dat take a funky-ass boolean argument tha joints \fBtrue\f1, \fByes\f1, \fBon\f1 n' \fB1\f1 is equivalent, resp. \fBfalse\f1, \fBno\f1, \fBoff\f1, \fB0\f1.
.SH GENERAL DIRECTIVES
.TP
\fBdaemonize= \f1 Daemonize afta startup. Takes a funky-ass boolean value, defaults ta \fBno\f1. Da \fB--daemonize\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBfail=\f1 Fail ta start up if any of tha directives up in tha configuration script \fIdefault.pa\f1 fail. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--fail\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBallow-module-loading=\f1 Allow/disallow module loadin afta startup. This be a securitizzle feature dat if disabled make shizzle dat no further modulez may be loaded tha fuck into tha PulseAudio server afta startup completed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta disable dis when \fBsystem-instance\f1 is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Please note dat certain features like automatic hot-plug support aint gonna work if dis option is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--disallow-module-loading\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBallow-exit=\f1 Allow/disallow exit on user request. Defaults ta \fByes\f1.
.TP
\fBresample-method=\f1 Da resamplin algorithm ta use. Use one of \fBsrc-sinc-best-quality\f1, \fBsrc-sinc-medium-quality\f1, \fBsrc-sinc-fastest\f1, \fBsrc-zero-order-hold\f1, \fBsrc-linear\f1, \fBtrivial\f1, \fBspeex-float-N\f1, \fBspeex-fixed-N\f1, \fBffmpeg\f1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha documentation of libsamplerate n' speex fo' explanationz of tha different src- n' speex- methods, respectively. Da method \fBtrivial\f1 is da most thugged-out basic algorithm implemented. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If you tight on CPU consider rockin all dis bullshit. On tha other hand it has da most thugged-out shitty qualitizzle of dem all. Da Speex resamplaz take a integer qualitizzle settin up in tha range 0..10 (bad...good). They exist up in two flavours: \fBfixed\f1 n' \fBfloat\f1. Da forma uses fixed point numbers, tha latta relies on floatin point numbers. On most desktop CPUs tha float point resampla be a shitload faster, n' it also offers slightly betta quality. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha output of \fBdump-resample-methods\f1 fo' a cold-ass lil complete list of all available resamplers. Defaults ta \fBspeex-float-1\f1. Da \fB--resample-method\f1 command line option takes precedence. Note dat some modulez overwrite or allow overwritin of tha resampla ta use.
.TP
\fBenable-remixing=\f1 If disabled never upmix or downmix channels ta different channel maps. Instead, do a simple name-based matchin only. Defaults ta \fByes.\f1
.TP
\fBenable-lfe-remixing=\f1 If disabled when upmixin or downmixin ignore LFE channels. When dis option is disabled tha output LFE channel will only git a signal when a input LFE channel be available as well. If no input LFE channel be available tha output LFE channel will always be 0. If no output LFE channel be available tha signal on tha input LFE channel is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.TP
\fBuse-pid-file=\f1 Smoke a PID file up in tha runtime directory (\fI$XDG_RUNTIMEDIR/pulse/pid\f1). If dis is enabled you may use commandz like \fB--kill\f1 or \fB--check\f1. If yo ass is plannin ta start mo' than one PulseAudio process per user, you betta disable dis option since it effectively disablez multiple instances. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--use-pid-file\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBcpu-limit=\f1 If disabled do not install tha CPU load limiter, even on platforms where it is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This option is useful when debugging/profilin PulseAudio ta disable disturbin SIGXCPU signals. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fBno\f1. Da \fB--no-cpu-limit\f1 command line argument takes precedence.
.TP
\fBsystem-instance=\f1 Run tha daemon as system-wide instance, requires root privileges. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fBno\f1. Da \fB--system\f1 command line argument takes precedence.
.TP
\fBlocal-server-type=\f1 Please don't use dis option if you aint gots to! This option is currently only useful when you want D-Bus clients ta bust a remote server n' shit. This option may be removed up in future versions. If you only wanna run PulseAudio up in tha system mode, use tha \fBsystem-instance\f1 option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option takes one of \fBuser\f1, \fBsystem\f1 or \fBnone\f1 as tha argument. This is essentially a thugged-out duplicate fo' tha \fBsystem-instance\f1 option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da difference is tha \fBnone\f1 option, which is useful when you wanna bust a remote server wit D-Bus clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If both dis n' \fBsystem-instance\f1 is defined, dis option takes precedence. Defaults ta whatever tha \fBsystem-instance\f1 is set.
.TP
\fBenable-shm=\f1 Enable data transfer via POSIX shared memory. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--disable-shm\f1 command line argument takes precedence.
.TP
\fBshm-size-bytes=\f1 Sets tha shared memory segment size fo' tha daemon, up in bytes. If left unspecified or is set ta 0 it will default ta some system-specific default, probably 64 MiB. Please note dat probably there is no need ta chizzle dis value, unless yo ass is hustlin a OS kernel dat do not do memory overcommit.
.TP
\fBlock-memory=\f1 Locks tha entire PulseAudio process tha fuck into memory. While dis might increase drop-out safety when used up in conjunction wit real-time schedulin dis takes away a shitload of memory from other processes n' might hence considerably slow down yo' system. Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.TP
\fBflat-volumes=\f1 Enable 'flat' volumes, i.e. where possible let tha sink volume equal tha maximum of tha volumez of tha inputs connected ta dat shit. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1.
.SH SCHEDULING
.TP
\fBhigh-priority=\f1 Renice tha daemon afta startup ta become a high-prioritizzle process. This a phat scam if you experience drop-outs durin playback. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis be a cold-ass lil certain securitizzle issue, since it works when called SUID root only, or RLIMIT_NICE is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! root is dropped immediately afta bustin tha sick level on startup, thus it is presumably safe. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBpulseaudio(1)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--high-priority\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBrealtime-scheduling=\f1 Try ta acquire SCHED_FIFO schedulin fo' tha IO threads. Da same securitizzle concerns as mentioned above apply. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if PA entas a endless loop, realtime schedulin causes a system lockup. Thus, realtime schedulin should only be enabled on trusted machines fo' now, nahmeean, biatch? Please not dat only tha IO threadz of PulseAudio is made real-time. Da controllin thread is left a normally scheduled thread. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Thus enablin tha high-prioritizzle option is orthogonal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBpulseaudio(1)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Takes a funky-ass boolean argument, defaults ta \fByes\f1. Da \fB--realtime\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBrealtime-priority=\f1 Da realtime prioritizzle ta acquire, if \fBrealtime-scheduling\f1 is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note: JACK uses 10 by default, 9 fo' clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Thus it is recommended ta chizzle tha PulseAudio real-time prioritizzles lower n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some PulseAudio threadz might chizzle a prioritizzle a lil lower or higher than tha specified value. Defaults ta \fB5\f1.
.TP
\fBnice-level=\f1 Da sick level ta acquire fo' tha daemon, if \fBhigh-priority\f1 is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note: on some distributions X11 uses -10 by default. Defaults ta -11.
.SH IDLE TIMES
.TP
\fBexit-idle-time=\f1 Terminizzle tha daemon afta tha last client quit n' dis time up in secondz passed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use a wack value ta disable dis feature. Defaults ta 20. Da \fB--exit-idle-time\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBscache-idle-time=\f1 Unload autoloaded sample cache entries afta bein idle fo' dis time up in seconds. Defaults ta 20. Da \fB--scache-idle-time\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.SH PATHS
.TP
\fBdl-search-path=\f1 Da path was ta look fo' dynamic shared objects (DSOs/plugins). Yo ass may specify mo' than one path separated by colons. Da default path dependz on compile time settings. Da \fB--dl-search-path\f1 command line option takes precedence. 
.TP
\fBdefault-script-file=\f1 Da default configuration script file ta load. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify a empty strang fo' not loadin a thugged-out default script file. Da default behaviour is ta load \fI~/.config/pulse/default.pa\f1, n' if dat file do not exist fall back ta tha system wide installed version \fI/etc/pulse/default.pa\f1. If run up in system-wide mode tha file \fI/etc/pulse/system.pa\f1 is used instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fB-n\f1 is passed on tha command line or \fBdefault-script-file=\f1 is disabled tha default configuration script is ignored.
.TP
\fBload-default-script-file=\f1 Load tha default configuration script file as specified up in \fBdefault-script-file=\f1. Defaults ta \fByes\f1.
.SH LOGGING
.TP
\fBlog-target=\f1 Da default log target. Use either \fBstderr\f1, \fBsyslog\f1, \fBjournal\f1 (optional), \fBauto\f1, \fBfile:PATH\f1 or \fBnewfile:PATH\f1. On traditionizzle systems \fBauto\f1 is equivalent ta \fBsyslog\f1. On systemd-enabled systems, auto is equivalent ta \fBjournal\f1, up in case \fBdaemonize\f1 is enabled, n' ta \fBstderr\f1 otherwise. If set ta \fBfile:PATH\f1, loggin is pimped up ta tha file indicated by PATH. \fBnewfile:PATH\f1 is otherwise tha same as \fBfile:PATH\f1 yo, but existin filez is never overwritten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha specified file already exists, a suffix be added ta tha file name ta avoid overwriting. Defaults ta \fBauto\f1. Da \fB--log-target\f1 command line option takes precedence.
.TP
\fBlog-level=\f1 Log level, one of \fBdebug\f1, \fBinfo\f1, \fBnotice\f1, \fBwarning\f1, \fBerror\f1. Log lyrics wit a lower log level than specified here is not logged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta \fBnotice\f1. Da \fB--log-level\f1 command line option takes precedence. Da \fB-v\f1 command line option might alta dis setting.
.TP
\fBlog-meta=\f1 With each logged message log tha code location tha message was generated from. Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.TP
\fBlog-time=\f1 With each logged lyrics log tha relatizzle time since startup. Defaults ta \fBno\f1.
.TP
\fBlog-backtrace=\f1 When pimped outa than 0, wit each logged message log a cold-ass lil code stack trace up tha specified number of stack frames. Defaults ta \fB0\f1.
.SH RESOURCE LIMITS
See \fBgetrlimit(2)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set ta -1 if PulseAudio shall not bust a nut on tha resource limit. Not all resource limits is available on all operatin systems.
.TP
\fBrlimit-as\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-rss\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-core\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-data\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-fsize\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-nofile\f1 Defaults ta 256.
.TP
\fBrlimit-stack\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-nproc\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-locks\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-sigpending\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-msgqueue\f1 Defaults ta -1.
.TP
\fBrlimit-memlock\f1 Defaults ta 16 KiB. Please note dat tha JACK client libraries may require mo' locked memory.
.TP
\fBrlimit-nice\f1 Defaults ta 31. Please make shizzle dat tha default sick level as configured wit \fBnice-level\f1 fits up in dis resource limit, if \fBhigh-priority\f1 is enabled.
.TP
\fBrlimit-rtprio\f1 Defaults ta 9. Please make shizzle dat tha default real-time prioritizzle level as configured wit \fBrealtime-priority=\f1 fits up in dis resource limit, if \fBrealtime-scheduling\f1 is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da JACK client libraries require a real-time proritizzle of 9 by default. 
.TP
\fBrlimit-rttime\f1 Defaults ta 1000000.
.SH DEFAULT DEVICE SETTINGS
Most drivers try ta open tha audio thang wit these settings n' then fall back ta lower settings. Da default settings is CD quality: 16bit natizzle endian, 2 channels, 44100 Hz sampling.
.TP
\fBdefault-sample-format=\f1 Da default samplin format. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify one of \fBu8\f1, \fBs16le\f1, \fBs16be\f1, \fBs24le\f1, \fBs24be\f1, \fBs24-32le\f1, \fBs24-32be\f1, \fBs32le\f1, \fBs32be\f1 \fBfloat32le\f1, \fBfloat32be\f1, \fBulaw\f1, \fBalaw\f1. Dependin on tha endiannizz of tha CPU tha formats \fBs16ne\f1, \fBs16re\f1, \fBs24ne\f1, \fBs24re\f1, \fBs24-32ne\f1, \fBs24-32re\f1, \fBs32ne\f1, \fBs32re\f1, \fBfloat32ne\f1, \fBfloat32re\f1 (for native, resp. reverse endian) is available as aliases.
.TP
\fBdefault-sample-rate=\f1 Da default sample frequency.
.TP
\fBdefault-sample-channels\f1 Da default number of channels.
.TP
\fBdefault-channel-map\f1 Da default channel map.
.TP
\fBalternate-sample-rate\f1 Da alternate sample frequency. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sinks n' sources will use either tha default-rate-rate value or dis alternate value, typically 44.1 or 48kHz. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Switchin between default n' alternate joints is enabled only when tha sinks/sources is suspended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option is ignored up in passall up in mode where tha stream rate is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If set ta tha same as tha default sample rate, dis feature is disabled.
.SH DEFAULT FRAGMENT SETTINGS
Some hardware drivers require tha hardware playback buffer ta be subdivided tha fuck into nuff muthafuckin fragments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Well shiiiit, it is possible ta chizzle these buffer metrics fo' machines wit high schedulin latencies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Not all possible joints dat may be configured here is available up in all hardware. Da driver will ta find tha nearest settin supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Modern drivers dat support timer-based schedulin ignore these options.
.TP
\fBdefault-fragments=\f1 Da default number of fragments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Defaults ta 4.
.TP
\fBdefault-fragment-size-msec=\f1Da duration of a single fragment. Defaults ta 25ms (i.e. tha total buffer is thus 100ms long).
.SH DEFAULT DEFERRED VOLUME SETTINGS
With tha flat volume feature enabled, tha sink HW volume is set ta tha same level as tha highest volume input stream fo' realz. Any other streams (with lower volumes) have tha appropriate adjustment applied up in SW ta brang dem ta tha erect overall level. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sadly hardware mixer chizzlez cannot be timed accurately n' thus dis chizzle of volumes can sometimes cause tha resultin output sound ta be momentarily too bangin or too soft. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So ta ensure SW n' HW volumes is applied concurrently without any glitches, they application need ta be synchronized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da sink implementation need ta support deferred volumes. Da followin parametas can be used ta refine tha process.
.TP
\fBenable-deferred-volume=\f1 Enable deferred volume fo' tha sinks dat support dat shit. This feature is enabled by default.
.TP
\fBdeferred-volume-safety-margin-usec=\f1 Da amount of time (in usec) by which tha HW volume increases is delayed n' HW volume decreases is advanced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta 8000 usec.
.TP
\fBdeferred-volume-extra-delay-usec=\f1 Da amount of time (in usec) by which HW volume chizzlez is delayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Negatizzle joints is also allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta 0.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulse-client.conf(5)\f1, \fBdefault.pa(5)\f1, \fBpulseaudio(1)\f1, \fBpacmd(1)\f1
