.TH pulse-cli-syntax 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pulse-cli-syntax \- PulseAudio Command Line Interface Syntax
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\fI~/.config/pulse/default.pa\fB

\fI/etc/pulse/default.pa\fB

\fI/etc/pulse/system.pa\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
PulseAudio serves up a simple command line language used by configuration scripts, tha pacmd interactizzle shell, n' tha modulez module-cli n' module-cli-protocol-{unix,tcp}. Empty lines n' lines beginnin wit a hashmark (#) is silently ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Several commandz is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 

Note dat any boolean arguments can be given positively as '1', 't', 'y', 'true', 'yes' or 'on'. Likewise, wack joints can be given as '0', 'f', 'n', 'false', 'no' or 'off'. Case is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.SH GENERAL COMMANDS
.TP
\fBhelp\f1
Show a quick help on tha commandz available.
.SH STATUS_COMMANDS
.TP
\fBlist-modules\f1
Show all currently loaded modulez wit they arguments.
.TP
\fBlist-cards\f1
Show all currently registered cards
.TP
\fBlist-sinks\f1 or \fBlist-sources\f1
Show all currently registered sinks (resp. sources).
.TP
\fBlist-clients\f1
Show all currently actizzle clients.
.TP
\fBlist-sink-inputs\f1 or \fBlist-source-outputs\f1
Show all currently actizzle inputs ta sinks a.k.a. playback streams (resp. outputz of sources a.k.a. recordin streams).
.TP
\fBstat\f1
Show some simple statistics bout tha allocated memory blocks n' tha space used by em.
.TP
\fBinfo\f1 or \fBls\f1 or \fBlist\f1
A combination of all status commandz busted lyrics bout above (all three commandz is synonyms).
.SH MODULE MANAGEMENT
.TP
\fBload-module\f1 \fIname\f1 [\fIarguments...\f1]
Load a module specified by its name n' arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For most modulez it is OK ta be loaded mo' than once.
.TP
\fBunload-module\f1 \fIindex|name\f1
Unload a module, specified either by its index up in tha module list or its name.
.TP
\fBdescribe-module\f1 \fIname\f1
Give shiznit on some module specified by its name.
.SH VOLUME COMMANDS
.TP
\fBset-sink-volume|set-source-volume\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIvolume\f1
Set tha volume of tha specified sink (resp. source). Yo ass may specify tha sink (resp. source) either by its index up in tha sink/source list or by its name. Da volume should be a integer value pimped outa or equal than 0 (muted). Volume 65536 (0x10000) is 'normal' volume a.k.a. 100%. Values pimped outa than dis amplify tha audio signal (with clipping).
.TP
\fBset-sink-mute|set-source-mute\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Mute or unmute tha specified sink (resp. source). Yo ass may specify tha sink (resp. source) either by its index or by its name. Da mute value is either 0 (not muted) or 1 (muted).
.TP
\fBset-sink-input-volume|set-source-output-volume\f1 \fIindex\f1 \fIvolume\f1
Set tha volume of a sink input (resp. source output) specified by its index. Da same volume rulez apply as wit set-sink-volume.
.TP
\fBset-sink-input-mute|set-source-output-mute\f1 \fIindex\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Mute or unmute a sink input (resp. source output) specified by its index. Da same mute rulez apply as wit set-sink-mute.
.SH CONFIGURATION COMMANDS
.TP
\fBset-default-sink|set-default-source\f1 \fIindex|name\f1
Make a sink (resp. source) tha default. Yo ass may specify tha sink (resp. source) by its index up in tha sink (resp. source) list or by its name.

Note dat defaults may be overridden by various policy modulez or by specific stream configurations.
.TP
\fBset-card-profile\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIprofile-name\f1
Change tha flava of a cold-ass lil card.
.TP
\fBset-sink-port|set-source-port\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIport-name\f1
Change tha flava of a sink (resp. source).
.TP
\fBset-port-latency-offset\f1 \fIcard-index|card-name\f1 \fIport-name\f1 \fIoffset\f1
Change tha latency offset of a port belongin ta tha specified card
.TP
\fBsuspend-sink|suspend-source\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Suspend (i.e. disconnect from tha underlyin hardware) a sink (resp. source).
.TP
\fBsuspend\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Suspend all sinks n' sources.
.SH MOVING STREAMS
.TP
\fBmove-sink-input|move-source-output\f1 \fIindex\f1 \fIsink-index|sink-name\f1
Move sink input (resp. source output) ta another sink (resp. source).
.SH PROPERTY LISTS
.TP
\fBupdate-sink-proplist|update-source-proplist\f1 \fIindex|name\f1 \fIproperties\f1
Update tha propertizzlez of a sink (resp. source) specified by name or index. Da property is specified as e.g. device.description="My fuckin Preferred Name"
.TP
\fBupdate-sink-input-proplist|update-source-output-proplist\f1 \fIindex\f1 \fIproperties\f1
Update tha propertizzlez of a sink input (resp. source output) specified by index. Da propertizzles is specified as above.
.SH SAMPLE CACHE
.TP
\fBlist-samples\f1
Lists tha contentz of tha sample cache.
.TP
\fBplay-sample\f1 \fIname\f1 \fIsink-index|sink-name\f1
Play a sample cache entry ta a sink.
.TP
\fBremove-sample\f1 \fIname\f1
Remove a entry from tha sample cache.
.TP
\fBload-sample\f1 \fIname\f1 \fIfilename\f1
Load a audio file ta tha sample cache.
.TP
\fBload-sample-lazy\f1 \fIname\f1 \fIfilename\f1
Smoke a freshly smoked up entry up in tha sample cache yo, but don't load tha sample immediately. Da sample is loaded only when it is first used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Afta a cold-ass lil certain idle time it is freed again.
.TP
\fBload-sample-dir-lazy\f1 \fIpath\f1
Load all entries up in tha specified directory tha fuck into tha sample cache as lazy entries fo' realz. A shell globbin expression (e.g. *.wav) may be appended ta tha path of tha directory ta add.
.SH KILLING CLIENTS/STREAMS
.TP
\fBkill-client\f1 \fIindex\f1
Remove a cold-ass lil client forcibly from tha server n' shit. There is no protection against tha client reconnectin immediately.
.TP
\fBkill-sink-input|kill-source-output\f1 \fIindex\f1
Remove a sink input (resp. source output) forcibly from tha server n' shit. This aint gonna remove tha ownin client or any other streams opened by tha same client from tha server.
.SH LOG COMMANDS
.TP
\fBset-log-level\f1 \fInumeric-level\f1
Change tha log level.
.TP
\fBset-log-meta\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Show source code location up in log lyrics.
.TP
\fBset-log-target\f1 \fItarget\f1
Change tha log target (null, auto, journal, syslog, stderr, file:PATH, newfile:PATH).
.TP
\fBset-log-time\f1 \fIboolean\f1
Show timestamps up in log lyrics.
.TP
\fBset-log-backtrace\f1 \fInum-frames\f1
Show backtrace up in log lyrics.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS COMMANDS
.TP
\fBplay-file\f1 \fIfilename\f1 \fIsink-index|sink-name\f1
Play a audio file ta a sink.
.TP
\fBdump\f1
Dump tha daemonz current configuration up in CLI commands.
.TP
\fBdump-volumes\f1
Debug: Shows tha current state of all volumes.
.TP
\fBshared\f1
Debug: Show shared properties.
.TP
\fBexit\f1
Terminizzle tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you wanna terminizzle a CLI connection ("log out") you might wanna use ctrl+d
.SH META COMMANDS
In addizzle ta tha commandz busted lyrics bout above there be all dem meta directives supported by tha command line interpreter n' shit. 
.TP
\fB.include\f1 \fIfilename|folder\f1
Executes tha commandz from tha specified script file or up in all of tha *.pa file within tha folder.
.TP
\fB.fail\f1 n' \fB.nofail\f1
Enable (resp. disable) dat followin failin commandz will quit tha execution of tha current script file. This be a ignored when used on tha interactizzle command line.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdefault.pa(5)\f1, \fBpacmd(1)\f1, \fBpulseaudio(1)\f1
