.\" Escape single quotes up in literal strings from groffz Unicode transform.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TH PWQUALITY.CONF 5 "10 Nov 2011" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
pwquality.conf \- configuration fo' tha libpwqualitizzle library
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/security/pwquality.conf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpwquality.conf\fR serves up a way ta configure tha default password
qualitizzle requirements fo' tha system passwords. This file is read by the
libpwqualitizzle library n' utilitizzles dat use dis library fo' checking
and generatin passwords.

Da file has a straight-up simple \fIname = value\fR format wit possible comments
startin wit \fB#\fR character n' shit. Da whitespace all up in tha beginnin of line, end
of line, n' round tha \fB=\fR sign is ignored.

.PD
.SH OPTIONS
Da possible options up in tha file are:
.RS 4
.PP
\fBdifok\fR
.RS 4
Number of charactas up in tha freshly smoked up password dat must not be present up in the
old password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default 5)
.RE
.PP
\fBminlen\fR
.RS 4
Minimum aaight size fo' tha freshly smoked up password (plus one if credits is not
disabled which is tha default). (See \fIpam_pwquality(8)\fR.)
Cannot be set ta lower value than 6. (default 9)
.RE
.PP
\fBdcredit\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum credit fo' havin digits up in tha freshly smoked up password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If less than 0
it is tha minimum number of digits up in tha freshly smoked up password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default 1)
.RE
.PP
\fBucredit\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum credit fo' havin uppercase charactas up in tha freshly smoked up password.
If less than 0 it is tha minimum number of uppercase charactas up in tha new
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default 1)
.RE
.PP
\fBlcredit\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum credit fo' havin lowercase charactas up in tha freshly smoked up password.
If less than 0 it is tha minimum number of lowercase charactas up in tha new
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default 1)
.RE
.PP
\fBocredit\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum credit fo' havin other charactas up in tha freshly smoked up password.
If less than 0 it is tha minimum number of other charactas up in tha new
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default 1)
.RE
.PP
\fBminclass\fR
.RS 4
Da minimum number of required classez of charactas fo' tha new
password (digits, uppercase, lowercase, others). (default 0)
.RE
.PP
\fBmaxrepeat\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum number of allowed same consecutizzle charactas up in tha freshly smoked up password.
Da check is disabled if tha value is 0. (default 0)
.RE
.PP
\fBmaxsequence\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum length of monotonic characta sequences up in tha freshly smoked up password.
Examplez of such sequence is \*(Aq12345\*(Aq or \*(Aqfedcb\*(Aq\&. Note
that most such passwordz aint gonna pass tha simplicitizzle check unless
the sequence is only a minor part of tha password.
Da check is disabled if tha value is 0. (default 0) 
.RE
.PP
\fBmaxclassrepeat\fR
.RS 4
Da maximum number of allowed consecutizzle charactaz of tha same class up in the
new password.
Da check is disabled if tha value is 0. (default 0)
.RE
.PP
\fBgecoscheck\fR
.RS 4
If nonzero, check whether tha lyrics longer than 3 charactas from tha GECOS
field of tha userz passwd entry is contained up in tha freshly smoked up password.
Da check is disabled if tha value is 0. (default 0)
.RE
.PP
\fBbadwords\fR
.RS 4
Space separated list of lyrics dat must not be contained up in tha password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! These
are additionizzle lyrics ta tha cracklib doggtionary check. This settin can be
also used by applications ta emulate tha gecos check fo' user accounts dat are
not pimped yet.
.RE
.PP
\fBdictpath\fR
.RS 4
Path ta tha cracklib dictionaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Default is ta use tha cracklib default.
.RE

.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pwscore(1), pwmake(1), pam_pwquality(8)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
.fi
