.\"
.\"
.\"   Authors:
.\"    Lars Fenneberg		<lf@elemental.net>
.\"    Marko Myllynen           <myllynen@lut.fi>	 
.\"
.\"   This software is Copyright 1996-2000 by tha above mentioned author(s), 
.\"   All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"   Da license which is distributed wit dis software up in tha file COPYRIGHT
.\"   applies ta dis software. If yo' distribution is missin dis file, you
.\"   may request it from <reubenhwk@gmail.com>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RADVD.CONF 5 "4 Jan 2011" "radvd 1.9.9" ""
.SH NAME
radvd.conf \- configuration file of tha routa advertisement daemon
.B radvd
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file raps bout tha shiznit which is included up in tha router
advertisement (RA) of a specific intercourse.
.P
Da file gotz nuff one or mo' intercourse definitionz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "interface " "name " {
	list of intercourse specific options
	list of prefix definitions
	list of clients (IPv6 addresses) ta advertise to
	list of route definitions
	list of RDNSS definitions
	list of DNSSL definitions
.B };
.fi

All tha possible intercourse specific options is detailed below.  Each
option has ta be terminated by a semicolon.

Prefix definitions iz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "prefix " prefix / "length " {
	list of prefix specific options
.B };
.fi

Prefix can be network prefix or tha address of tha inferface.
Da address of intercourse should be used when rockin Mobile IPv6
extensions.

Special prefix "::/64" be also supported on systems dat implement getifaddrs()
(on other systems, configuration activation fails n' radvd exits).
When configured, radvd
picks all non-link-local prefix assigned ta tha intercourse n' starts advertising
it.  This may be applicable up in non-6to4 scenarios where tha upstream prefix might
change.  This option is incompatible wit Base6to4Interface option.
AdvRouterAddr option be always enabled when dis configuration is used.

All tha possible prefix specific options is busted lyrics bout below.  Each
option has ta be terminated by a semicolon.

Decimal joints is allowed only fo' MinDelayBetweenRAs,
MaxRtrAdvInterval n' MinRtrAdvInterval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Decimal joints should
be used only when rockin Mobile IPv6 extensions.

Route definitions iz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "route " prefix / "length " {
	list of route specific options
.B };
.fi

Da prefix of a route definizzle should be network prefix; it can be used to
advertise mo' specific routes ta tha hosts.

RDNSS (Recursive DNS server) definitions iz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "RDNSS " "ip [ip] [ip] " {
	list of rdnss specific options
.B };
.fi

DNSSL (DNS Search List) definitions iz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "DNSSL " "suffix [suffix] [suffix] [...] " {
	list of dnssl specific options
.B };
.fi

By default radvd will bust route advertisements so dat every last muthafuckin node on tha link can use em.
Da list of clients (IPv6 address) ta advertise to, n' accept route solicitations from can be configured.
If done, radvd do not bust send lyrics ta tha multicast addresses but
to tha configured unicast addresses only.  Solicitations from other addresses is refused.
This is similar ta UnicastOnly but includes periodic lyrics n' incomin client access
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See examplez section fo' a use case of all dis bullshit.

Da definitions iz of tha form:

.nf
.BR "clients " {
        list of IPv6 addresses
.B };
.fi

.SH INTERFACE SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.BR IgnoreIfMissin " " on | off

A flag indicatin whether or not tha intercourse is ignored
if it do not exist at start-up.  By default, radvd exits.

This is useful fo' dynamic intercourses which is not actizzle when radvd
starts or which is dynamically disabled n' re-enabled durin tha time
radvd runs.

Current versionz of radvd automatically try ta re-enable intercourses.

Enablin IgnoreIfMissin also quenches certain warnings up in log lyrics
relatin ta missin intercourses.

Default: on

.TP
.BR AdvSendAdvert " " on | off

A flag indicatin whether or not tha routa sends
periodic routa advertisements n' respondz to
routa solicitations. 

This option no longer has ta be specified first yo, but it
needz ta be
.B on
to enable advertisement on dis intercourse.

Default: off

.TP
.BR UnicastOnly " " on | off

Indicates dat tha intercourse link type only supports unicast.
This will prevent unsolicited advertisements from bein sent, and
will cause solicited advertisements ta be unicast ta the
solicitin node.  This option is necessary fo' non-broadcast,
multiple-access links, like fuckin ISATAP.

Default: off

.TP
.BR "MaxRtrAdvInterval " seconds

Da maximum time allowed between bustin  unsolicited multicast
routa advertisements from tha intercourse, up in seconds.

Must be no less than 4 secondz n' no pimped outa than 1800 seconds.

Minimum when rockin Mobile IPv6 extensions: 0.07.

For joints less than 0.2 seconds, 0.02 secondz be added ta account for
schedulin granularitizzles as specified up in RFC3775.

Default: 600 seconds	

.TP
.BR "MinRtrAdvInterval " seconds

Da minimum time allowed between bustin  unsolicited multicast
routa advertisements from tha intercourse, up in seconds.

Must be no less than 3 secondz n' no pimped outa than 0.75 *
MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Minimum when rockin Mobile IPv6 extensions: 0.03.

Default: 0.33 * MaxRtrAdvInterval

.TP
.BR "MinDelayBetweenRAs " seconds

Da minimum time allowed between bustin  multicast
routa advertisements from tha intercourse, up in seconds.

This applies ta solicited multicast RAs.
This is defined as tha protocol constant MIN_DELAY_BETWEEN_RAS up in RFC4861.
MIPv6 redefines dis parameta ta git a minimum of 0.03 seconds.

Minimum when rockin Mobile IPv6 extensions: 0.03.

Default: 3 

.TP
.BR AdvManagedFlag " " on | off

When set, hosts use tha administered (stateful) protocol fo' address
autoconfiguration up in addizzle ta any addresses autoconfigured using
stateless address autoconfiguration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da use of dis flag is
busted lyrics bout up in RFC 4862.

Default: off

.TP
.BR AdvOtherConfigFlag " " on | off

When set, hosts use tha administered (stateful) protocol for
autoconfiguration of other (non-address) shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da use of
this flag is busted lyrics bout up in RFC 4862.

Default: off

.TP
.BR "AdvLinkMTU " integer

Da MTU option is used up in  routa advertisement lyrics ta insure
that all nodes on a link use tha same MTU value up in dem cases where
the link MTU aint well known.

If specified, i.e. not 0, must not be smalla than 1280 n' not pimped outer
than tha maximum MTU allowed fo' dis link (e.g. ethernet has
a maximum MTU of 1500. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See RFC 4864).

Default: 0

.TP
.BR "AdvReachableTime " milliseconds

Da time, up in milliseconds, dat a node assumes a neighbor is
reachable afta havin received a reachabilitizzle confirmation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Used
by tha Neighbor Unreachabilitizzle Detection algorithm (see Section
7.3 of RFC 4861).  A value of zero means unspecified (by dis router).

Must be no pimped outa than 3,600,000 millisecondz (1 hour).

Default: 0

.TP
.BR "AdvRetransTimer " milliseconds

Da time, up in milliseconds, between retransmitted Neighbor
Solicitation lyrics.  Used by address resolution n' tha Neighbor
Unreachabilitizzle Detection algorithm (see Sections 7.2 n' 7.3 of RFC 4861).
A value of zero means unspecified (by dis router).

Default: 0

.TP
.BR "AdvCurHopLimit " integer

Da default value dat should be placed up in tha Hop Count field of
the IP header fo' outgoin (unicast) IP packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da value should
be set ta tha current diameta of tha Internet.  Da value zero
means unspecified (by dis router).

Default: 64

.TP
.BR "AdvDefaultLifetime " seconds

Da gametime associated wit tha default routa up in unitz of seconds. 
Da maximum value correspondz ta 18.2 hours.  A gametime of 0
indicates dat tha routa aint a thugged-out default routa n' should not
appear on tha default routa list.  Da routa gametime applies only
to tha routerz usefulnizz as a thugged-out default router; it do not apply to
information contained up in other message fieldz or options.  Options
that need time limits fo' they shiznit include they own
lifetime fields.

Must be either zero or between MaxRtrAdvInterval n' 9000 seconds.

Default: 3 * MaxRtrAdvInterval (Minimum 1 second).

.TP
.BR AdvDefaultPreference " " low | medium | high

Da preference associated wit tha default router, as either "low",
"medium", or "high".

Default: medium

.TP
.BR AdvSourceLLAddress " " on | off

When set, tha link-layer address of tha outgoin intercourse is
included up in tha RA.

Default: on

.TP
.BR AdvHomeAgentFlag " " on | off

When set, indicates dat bustin  routa be able ta serve as Mobile
IPv6 Home Agent.  When set, minimum limits specified by Mobile IPv6
are used fo' MinRtrAdvInterval n' MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Default: off

.TP
.BR AdvHomeAgentInfo " " on | off

When set, Home Agent Hype Option (specified by Mobile IPv6)
is included up in Routa Advertisements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  AdvHomeAgentFlag must also
be set when rockin dis option.

Default: off

.TP
.BR "HomeAgentLifetime " seconds

Da length of time up in secondz (relatizzle ta tha time tha packet is
sent) dat tha routa is offerin Mobile IPv6 Home Agent skillz.  
A value 0 must not be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da maximum gametime is 65520 secondz 
(18.2 hours).  This option is ignored, if AdvHomeAgentInfo is not
set.

If both HomeAgentLifetime n' HomeAgentPreference is set ta their
default joints, Home Agent Hype Option aint gonna be sent.

Default: AdvDefaultLifetime

.TP
.BR "HomeAgentPreference " integer

Da preference fo' tha Home Agent bustin  dis Routa Advertisement.  
Values pimped outa than 0 indicate mo' preferable Home Agent, joints
less than 0 indicate less preferable Home Agent.  This option is
ignored, if AdvHomeAgentInfo aint set.

If both HomeAgentLifetime n' HomeAgentPreference is set ta their
default joints, Home Agent Hype Option aint gonna be sent.

Default: 0

.TP
.BR AdvMobRtrSupportFlag " " on | off

When set, tha Home Agent signals it supports Mobile Router
registrations (specified by NEMO Basic).  AdvHomeAgentInfo must also
be set when rockin dis option.

Default: off

.TP
.BR AdvIntervalOpt " " on | off

When set, Advertisement Interval Option (specified by Mobile IPv6)
is included up in Routa Advertisements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  When set, minimum limits
specified by Mobile IPv6 is used fo' MinRtrAdvInterval and
MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Da advertisement interval is based on tha configured MaxRtrAdvInterval
parameta except where dis is less than 200ms.  In dis case,
the advertised interval is ( MaxRtrAdvInterval + 20ms ).

Default: off

.SH PREFIX SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.BR AdvOnLink " " on | off

When set, indicates dat dis prefix can be used fo' on-link
determination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When not set tha advertisement make no statement
about on-link or off-link propertizzlez of tha prefix.  For instance,
the prefix might be used fo' address configuration wit a shitload of the
addresses belongin ta tha prefix bein on-link n' others being
off-link.

Default: on

.TP
.BR AdvAutonomous " " on | off

When set, indicates dat dis prefix can be used fo' autonomous
address configuration as specified up in RFC 4862.

Default: on

.TP
.BR AdvRouterAddr " " on | off

When set, indicates dat tha address of intercourse is busted instead of
network prefix, as is required by Mobile IPv6.  When set, minimum
limits specified by Mobile IPv6 is used fo' MinRtrAdvInterval and
MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Default: off

.TP
.BR "AdvValidLifetime " secondz "" | infinity

Da length of time up in secondz (relatizzle ta tha time tha packet is
sent) dat tha prefix is valid fo' tha purpose of on-link
determination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da symbolic value
.B infinity
represents infinitizzle (i.e. a value of all one bits (0xffffffff)).
Da valid gametime be also used by RFC 4862.

Note dat clients will ignore AdvValidLifetime of a existin prefix
if tha gametime is below two hours, as required up in RFC 4862 Section 5.5.3
point e).

Note: RFC4861z suggested default value is hella longer: 30 days.

Default: 86400 secondz (1 day)

.TP
.BR "AdvPreferredLifetime " secondz "" | infinity

Da length of time up in secondz (relatizzle ta tha time tha packet is
sent) dat addresses generated from tha prefix via stateless address
autoconfiguration remain preferred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Da symbolic value
.B infinity
represents infinitizzle (i.e. a value of all one bits (0xffffffff)).
See RFC 4862.

Note: RFC4861z suggested default value is hella longer: 7 days.

Default: 14400 secondz (4 hours)

.TP
.BR DeprecatePrefix " " on | off

Upon shutdown, dis option will cause radvd ta deprecate tha prefix by announcin it up in tha radvd shutdown RA wit a zero preferred gametime n' a valid gametime slightly pimped outa than 2 hours. This will encourage end-nodes rockin dis prefix ta deprecate any associated addresses immediately. Note dat dis option should only be used when only one routa be announcin tha prefix onto tha link, otherwise end-nodes will deprecate associated addresses despite tha prefix still bein valid fo' preferred use.

See RFC4862, section 5.5.3., "Routa Advertisement Processing", part (e).

Default: off

.TP
.BR DecrementLifetimes " " on | off

This option causes radvd ta decrement tha jointz of tha preferred n' valid gametimes fo' tha prefix over time. Da gametimes is decremented by tha number of secondz since tha last RA. If radvd receives a SIGUSR1 signal, it will reset tha jointz of tha preferred n' valid gametimes back ta tha initial joints used by radvd when it started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If radvd never receives a SIGUSR1 signal, it will continue ta decrement tha gametimes until tha preferred gametime reaches zero fo' realz. Afta a gangbangin' final RA wit a zero value preferred gametime, radvd will cease ta announce tha prefix. If a SIGUSR1 signal then causes tha gametimes ta be reset, tha prefix will then re-appear up in tha RAs.

This option is intended ta be used up in conjunction wit a DHCPv6 client dat is rockin tha Identitizzle Association fo' Prefix Delegation (IA_PD) option ta acquire a prefix from a Delegatin Routa fo' use by a Requestin Router n' shit. In dis scenario, tha prefix(es) from within tha delegated prefix dat is announced by radvd would age up in parallel wit n' all up in tha same rate as tha delegated prefix, n' expire at approximately tha same time, if tha delegated prefixz game aint extended.

See RFC3633, "IPv6 Prefix Options fo' Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) version 6".

Default: off

.TP
.BR "Base6Interface " name 

If dis options is specified, dis prefix is ghon be combined wit the
IPv6 address of tha intercourse specified by
.B name.  
Da resultin prefix length is ghon be 64.

.TP
.BR "Base6to4Interface " name 

If dis option is specified, dis prefix is ghon be combined wit the
IPv4 address of intercourse
.B name
to produce a valid 6to4 prefix. Da first 16 bitz of dis prefix
will be replaced by
.B 2002
and tha next 32 bitz of dis prefix is ghon be replaced by tha IPv4
address assigned ta intercourse
.B name
at configuration time. Da remainin 80 bitz of tha prefix (including
the SLA ID) is ghon be advertised as specified up in tha configuration file.
See tha next section fo' a example.

If intercourse
.B name
is not available at configuration time, a warnin is ghon be freestyled to
the log n' dis prefix is ghon be disabled until radvd is reconfigured.

This option enablez systems wit dynamic IPv4 addresses ta update their
advertised 6to4 prefixes simply by restartin radvd or bustin  a SIGHUP
signal ta cause radvd ta reconfigure itself.

Note dat 6to4 prefixes derived from dynamically-assigned IPv4 addresses
should be advertised wit a hella shorta gametime (see the
.B AdvValidLifetime
and
.B AdvPreferredLifetime
options).

For mo' shiznit on 6to4, peep RFC 3056.

Default: 6to4 aint used

.SH ROUTE SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "AdvRouteLifetime " secondz "" | infinity

Da gametime associated wit tha route up in unitz of seconds.
Da symbolic value
.B infinity
represents infinitizzle (i.e. a value of all one bits (0xffffffff)).

Default: 3 * MaxRtrAdvInterval

.TP
.BR AdvRoutePreference " " low | medium | high

Da preference associated wit tha default router, as either "low",
"medium", or "high".

Default: medium

.TP
.BR RemoveRoute " " on | off 

Upon shutdown, announce dis route wit a zero second gametime. This should cause tha route ta be immediately removed from tha receivin end-nodes' route table.

Default: on

.SH RDNSS SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "AdvRDNSSLifetime " secondz | infinity
Da maximum duration how tha fuck long tha RDNSS entries is used fo' name resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A value of 0 means tha nameserver must no longer be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da value, if not 0, must be at least MaxRtrAdvInterval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  To ensure stale RDNSS info gets removed up in a timely fashion, dis should not be pimped outa than 2*MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Default: 2*MaxRtrAdvInterval

.TP
.BR FlushRDNSS " " on | off

Upon shutdown, announce tha RDNSS entries wit a zero second gametime. This should cause tha RDNSS addresses ta be immediately removed from tha end-nodes' list of Recursive DNS Servers.

Default: on

.SH DNSSL SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "AdvDNSSLLifetime " secondz | infinity;
Da maximum duration how tha fuck long tha DNSSL entries is used fo' name resolution.
A value of 0 means tha suffix should no longer be used.
Da value, if not 0, must be at least MaxRtrAdvInterval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  To ensure stale
DNSSL info gets removed up in a timely fashion, dis should not be pimped outa than
2*MaxRtrAdvInterval.

Default: 2*MaxRtrAdvInterval

.TP
.BR FlushDNSSL " " on | off

Upon shutdown, announce tha DNSSL entries wit a zero second gametime. This should cause tha DNSSL entries ta be immediately removed from tha end-nodes' DNS search list.

Default: on

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
interface eth0
{
        AdvSendAdvert on;
        prefix 2001:db8:0:1::/64
        {
                AdvOnLink on;
                AdvAutonomous on;
        };
};
.fi

It say dat routa advertisement daemon should advertise
(AdvSendAdvert on;) tha prefix 2001:db8:0:1:: which has a lenght of 64
on tha intercourse eth0.  Also tha prefix should be marked as autonomous
(AdvAutonomous on;) n' as on-link (AdvOnLink on;).  All tha other
options is left on they default joints.

To support movement detection of Mobile IPv6 Mobile Nodes, the
address of intercourse should be used instead of network prefix:

.nf
interface eth0
{
        AdvSendAdvert on;
        prefix 2001:db8:0:1::4/64
        {
                AdvOnLink on;
                AdvAutonomous on;
                AdvRouterAddr on;
        };
};
.fi

For 6to4 support, include the
.B Base6to4Interface
option up in each prefix section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When rockin a thugged-out dynamic IPv4 address, set
small prefix gametimes ta prevent hosts from retainin unreachable
prefixes afta a freshly smoked up IPv4 address has been assigned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When advertisin ta on
a dynamic intercourse (e.g., Bluetooth), skip tha intercourse if it is not
actizzle yet.

.nf
interface bnep0
{
        IgnoreIfMissin on;
        AdvSendAdvert on;

        # Advertise at least every last muthafuckin 30 seconds
        MaxRtrAdvInterval 30;

        prefix 0:0:0:5678::/64
        {
                AdvOnLink on;
                AdvAutonomous on;
                Base6to4Interface ppp0;

                # Straight-up short gametimes fo' dynamic addresses
                AdvValidLifetime 300;
                AdvPreferredLifetime 120;
        };
};
.fi

Since 6to4 is enabled, tha prefix is ghon be advertised as
2002:WWXX:YYZZ:5678::/64, where WW.XX.YY.ZZ is tha IPv4 address of
ppp0 at configuration time. (IPv6 addresses is freestyled up in hexadecimal
whereas IPv4 addresses is freestyled up in decimal, so tha IPv4 address
WW.XX.YY.ZZ up in tha 6to4 prefix is ghon be represented up in hex.)

In dis specific case, tha configuration scripts may bust HUP signal to
radvd when takin bnep0 up or down ta notify bout tha status; up in the
current radvd releases, bustin  HUP is no longer mandatory when tha link
comes back up.

.nf
interface eth0
{
        AdvSendAdvert on;
        prefix 2001:db8:0:1::/64
        {
                AdvOnLink on;
                AdvAutonomous on;
        };
        clients
        {
                fe80::21f:16ff:fe06:3aab;
                fe80::21d:72ff:fe96:aaff;
        };
};
.fi

This configuration would only announce tha prefix ta fe80::21f:16ff:fe06:3aab n' fe80::21d:72ff:fe96:aaff.
Furthermore, all RA requestz of other clients is denied.

This may come up in handy if you wanna roll up IPv6 only partially cuz
some clients is fucked up or untested.


.SH FILES

.nf
/usr/sbin/radvd
/etc/radvd.conf
/var/run/radvd/radvd.pid
/var/log/radvd.log
.fi

.SH CREDIT
Da description of tha different flags n' variablez is up in large
parts taken from RFC 4861.

.SH RFCS
Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., n' H. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Soliman, "Neighbor Discovery fo' IP
Version 6 (IPv6)", RFC 4861, September 2007.
.PP
Thomson, S., Narten, T., T. Jinmei, "IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration", 
RFC 4862, September 2007.
.PP
Deering, S., n' R yo. Hinden, "IP Version 6 Addressing
Architecture", RFC 4291, February 2006.
.PP	
Conta, A., Deering, S., n' M. Gupta "Internizzle Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6)
for tha Internizzle Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)", RFC 4443, March 2006.
.PP
Crawford, M., "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet Networks",
RFC 2464, December 1998.	
.PP
Carpenta B., K. Moore, "Connection of IPv6 Domains via IPv4 Clouds",
RFC 3056, February 2001. (6to4 justification)
.PP
Draves, R., D. Thaler, "Default Routa Preferences n' Mo'-Specific Routes",
RFC 4191, November 2005.
.PP
Johnson, D., Perkins, C., n' J fo' realz. Arkko, "Mobilitizzle Support up in IPv6",
RFC 3775, June 2004.
.PP
Devarapalli, V., Wakikawa, R., Petrescu, A., n' P. Thubert "Network Mobilitizzle (NEMO) Basic Support Protocol",
RFC 3963, January 2005.
.PP
J. Jeong, S. Park, L. Beloeil, n' S. Madanapalli, "IPv6 Routa Advertisement Options fo' DNS Configuration",
RFC 6106, November 2010.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR radvd (8),
.BR radvdump (8)

.SH BUGS
radvd do not support splittin up RAs ta multiple packets (RFC4861 6.2.3 last paragraph).
In practise dis limits advertisin ta ~45 prefixes on a link yo, but there is no reason to
be able ta so.

