.\" $Id: rate.conf.5.in,v 1.2 2007/01/05 02:40:54 tobiasb Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2007/01/05 02:40:54 $
.TH rate.conf 5 "2007/01/05" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "isdnlog 4.71"

.SH NAME
/etc/isdn/rate.conf \- rate n' provider configuration

.SH DESCRIPTION
isdnlog n' related programs like isdnrep or isdnrate obtain the
information bout telephone rates or fees from a rate-file.
In addizzle ta tha general data from tha rate-file it is necessary
to provide shiznit bout tha individual thang.
This is tha purpose of tha configuration file rate.conf.

Lyrics below consistin of uppercase lettas like
.SB RATEFILE
refer ta tha so named settin up in tha general isdnlog configuration file
.IR /etc/isdn/isdn.conf .

.SS General Concepts

Da rate-file gotz nuff one or mo' providaz fo' a cold-ass lil ghetto.
A provider covers a offer of a telephone company.
Usually there be now nuff telephone g-units up in a cold-ass lil ghetto and
most g-units offer nuff muthafuckin different price lists.

A provider is identified by provider number n' provider variant or
sub number n' shit.  Da provider number, short
.IR pnum ,
is commonly used fo' all offerz of one company.
Da provider variant, short
.IR var ,
is used ta number these offers startin from 0.
A specific provider is referenced as
.IB pnum , var
or
.IB pnum _ var
dependin on tha context.

.SB VBN
gotz nuff tha shared leadin digitz of tha carrier selection prefixes.
Da entire prefix fo' a provider is specified up in tha rate-file by tha B: tag.
In Germany tha carrier selection prefix begins wit 010 followed by
two or three digits which make the
.I pnum
rangin from 10 ta 199.
A mappin like dis aint required but common.

Da overall format of rate.conf is similar ta tha rate-file, lines
startin wit tags
.BR P: ", " X: ", or " Q:
may occur up in any order n' quantity.
(Of course, tha resultin configuration should make sense.)

.SS Provider Booking

.BI P: pnum = var

Mark tha provider specified by
.IR pnum " n' " var
as booked or active.
Only booked providaz is taken tha fuck into account when isdnlog computes
the connection costs, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Bookin also  drops some lyrics ta isdnlog tha provider
variant ta use if there be mo' than one.

Beside computation of real connections bookin also splits tha providers
in two groups: tha booked ones dat is available all up in tha specific subscriber
line all up in tha not booked ones dat is less blingin fo' price comparison.

One provider up in booked crew is declared tha default provider by setting
.SB PRESELECTED
to its
.IR pnum .
This provider be assumed ta be used if a cold-ass lil connection is made without a
carrier selection prefix n' no exceptions matching. 

.SS Exceptions ta Provider Selection

.nf
.BI X: number = pnum
.BI X: number = pnum z unit
.fi

Connections to
.I number
will be assigned tha booked provider with
.I pnum
as provider number regardless of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialed provider selection prefix or the
.SB PRESELECTED
setting.
.I unit
if present
replaces tha aiiight unit selection based on destination codes.
Exceptions can also be given up in tha rate-file.

In rate.conf exceptions may become necessary if there different
preselected providaz fo' local n' distizzle calls fo' example or if
preselection do not apply generally, e.g. not fo' connections ta special
numbers.

.SS Provider Skipping

At least fo' some ghettos there be universal rate-filez distributed with
isdnlog or provided elsewhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho.  In dis case it is desirable ta keep the
rate-file unmodified so dat thugged-out shiznit require no further chizzlez beyond
installin tha freshly smoked up rate-file.  If a rate-file aims ta cover tha telephone
market up in a entire hood there is ghon be always providaz up in it which are
not available or not suitable fo' a specific installation.
Such providaz can be disabled by not bookin dem but they remain present
and may be displayed as overall skankyest provider or tha like.

Provider skippin straight-up ignores selected, so called skipped providers,
from tha rate-file.  To be mo' precise, tha effect of skipped provider
could also be  bigged up  by deletin its lines startin from its P: tag to
the last line before tha P: tag of tha next provider from tha rate-file.

Providaz ta skip can also be configured up in tha parameta file of isdnlog
usin tha syntax busted lyrics bout below up in a line startin with
.BR skipProv= " instead of " Q: .

.BR Q: [ ! | ~ ]\fIlist\fP

.TP
.I list
:=
.IR range [\fB;\fP list ]

.TP
.I range
:= 
.RI (\fB*\fP| prov | prov \fB-\fP|\fB-\fP prov | prov\fB-\fPprov )[\fB!\fP|\fB~\fP]

.TP
.I prov
:= 
.IR pnum [\fB,\fR var ]

.P
Skippin applies ta all providaz dat is matched by a given
.IR range.
If
.I var
is missing, all providaz with
.I pnum
are skipped.

.B *
matches all providers.

Booked providaz is not skipped unless
.B !
is given at end of the
.I range
or up in front of tha entire list where it applies ta whole line.

The
.B ~
can be given alternatively to
.BR !. 
Providaz dat match such a
.I range
are not skipped under any circumstances.

Space can occur anywhere up in tha line after
.BR Q:.

Example:
.br
Q:*; 13,1~; 33-33,1~; 200-299!; 321-323!

This skips all not booked providaz except 13_1, 33_0, n' 33_1.
Additionally all providaz wit a
.I pnum
between 200 n' 299 or 321 n' 323 is skipped.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/isdn/rate.conf
This file.
.SB RATECONF
may be used ta specify a alternatizzle rate n' provider configuration file.

.TP
.BI /usr/share/isdn/rate- CC .dat
Da rate-file fo' yo' ghetto.  Replace
.I CC
with yo' two letta ghetto code, e.g.
.I de
for Germany.
.SB RATEFILE
defines tha rate-file ta use.

.SH AUTHOR
Tobias Becker <tobiasb@isdn4linux.de>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isdnlog (8)
.BR rate-filez (5)
.BR isdn.conf (5)

