'\" t
'\" ** above should format a table **
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2005/02/23 14:33:40 $
.TH rate-filez 5 "2005/02/23" -lt-
.SH NAME
rate-filez \- Format of rate-files
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da rate-filez used by isdnlog(8) n' by isdnrate(1) is textfiles
definin tha telephone fees fo' different destinations at certain dates/times
for all providaz of one ghetto.
.br
Da rate-filez have tha followin overall layout:
.P
.I Header entries
.P
.I Provider entries
.P
Comments startin wit a hash-sign '#'
and empty lines is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da first letta (tag) followed by a cold-ass lil colon
separates tha entries fo' realz. Additionizzle white space may be used afta tha tags
to crew content mo' readably.
.SS Special entries
.P
.B I:includefile
.P
.B i:includefile
.br
.IP
.I includefile
getz substituted all up in tha current position. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. There is two possibilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! In
the rate source file (which is prepared by
.IR pp_rate )
a small
.I 'i'
puts tha contentz of tha include file up in tha outputfile.
An
.IR 'I' -Tag
means, fo' tha preprocessor, write a freshly smoked up output file (the includefile) and
leave tha tag up in tha rate-files. This is fo' real include files.
.br
Includes may be nested twice. Da filename should not contain any paths
(except fo' 'i' of course), they is taken relatizzle ta they parent file.
.IP
.SS Header entries
.P
.B V:versionsstring
.IP
e.g.
V:1.0-Germany [18-Mar-1999]
.P
.B S:Servicename
.P
.B N:Servicenumber[,Servicenumber...]
.IP
This defines telephone skillz wit special numbers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Special numbers is numbers which
a) start wit no '0' or b) can not be dialed wit every last muthafuckin provider n' shiznit fo' realz. A number
with a variable length should have tha wildcard '*' all up in tha end, eg.
.I 07189*
which matches all numbers startin with
.IR 07189 .
Numbers wit wildcardz should be placed afta numbers which would match the
wildcard, cuz matchin is done straight top down.
There may be multiple
.B N:
tags fo' one telephone service.
.IP
e.g.
.br
S:Internet
.br
N:07189*,19430
.br
N:19440
.P
.B U:currencyfmt currency
.IP
If tha straight-up original gangsta char of
.I currencyfmt
is ^, tha amount is multiplied by 100 before it is displayed 
without leadin ^.
.IP
e.g. (one of these, ¢ = cent)
.br
U:%.3f EUR
.br
U:^%.3f ¢
.P
.B X:num_wildcard = provider[zZone] [,...]
.IP
Define exception. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If a cold-ass lil certain number be always routed ta a cold-ass lil certain provider
and not ta tha preselected provider, you should use dis tag.
.br
e.g. up in Austria, online steez numbers 194x or 07189 go always via Telekom,
ignorin yo' preselection:
.br
X: 194*=1,07189*=1 
.br
or
.br
X: 194*=1z6	# Provider 1 Zone 6
.SS Provider entries
A freshly smoked up provider starts always wit a
.B P:
tag n' consistz of a
.I Providerheader
followed by
.I Providerzones.
.SS Providerheader
.P
.BR P: [ daterange ] " providernumber providername"
.IP
.I daterange
is
.BR [ [ fromDate ] "" [ -toDate ] ]
.br
This defines a time range fo' tha validitizzle of rates fo' dis provider n' shit. Dates have to
be numeric up in format
.BR dd.mm.yyyy .
Note: as time be assumed as 00:00, take for
.I toDate
the day+1. Da daterange has ta be enclosed up in square brackets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Either
.I fromDate
or
.I -toDate
or both may be given.
.br
The
.I providernumber
may be a simple number, normally tha last digitz of tha VBN-number, or
.B providernumber,variant
if a provider has different connection fees.
.br
e.g.
.br
P:02 UTA
.br
or
.br
P:[01.01.1999] 1,1 Telekom Minimumfee
.P
.B B:vbn
.P
VBN-Number fo' provider
.IP
e.g.
B:1002
.br
This is tha number ta select dis provider n' dependz on yo' ghetto.
.P
.B C:COMMENT: comment
.P
.B COMMENT
may be a arbitrary strin yo, but tha followin entries is used already:
.IP
.TS
tab (@);
l l.
\fBC:Name:\fP@Providername
\fBC:Maintainer:\fP@Dum diddy-dum, here I come biaaatch! Who tha fuck did tha hard work
\fBC:TarifChanged:\fP@and when
\fBC:Address:\fP@Provideraddress
\fBC:Homepage:\fP@http:URL fo' provider
\fBC:TarifURL:\fP@URL fo' tarif info
\fBC:EMail:\fP@EMail-Address
\fBC:Telefon:\fP@Telefon number
\fBC:Telefax:\fP@Fax number
\fBC:Hotline:\fP@Telefon number
\fBC:Zone:\fP@Textual info bout units
\fBC:Special:\fP@Guess
\fBC:GT:\fP@Additionizzle charge text
\fBC:GF:\fP@Additionizzle charge formula
.TE
.P
If there be multiple comments wit tha same comment name, they git appended
separated by a newline char.
.P
.B D:zone
.P
Name of unit file (inserted for
.B %s
.RI "in ZONEFILE = /usr/lib/isdn/zone-" CC "-%s.dat from isdn.conf)"
.IP
e.g.
D:1001 # unit file is unit-at-1001.gdbm
.P
Note: if tha provider has no different domestic units, you should not define a D:tag.
.SS Providerzones
A Providerzone entry starts wit a
.B Z:
tag followed by one or more
.B A:
and
.B T:
tags.
.P
A unit be a region of areas, fo' which tha same rates apply. Domestic and
foreign units should not be mixed n' all foreign units should follow
domestic units.
.P
.B R:prov, sub ; unitlist
.P
Read units from provider
.I prov
subprovider number
.IR sub .
A
.I unitlist
is defined below.
If tha referenced provider aint gots a subprovider number, the
.I sub
must be -1. Da referenced provider
may be defined before or afta tha R:-tag. Da referenced units must be real
Z:-entries, not references themself. Da unit numbers n' names is taken from
the referenced provider n' shit. Da last
.I to_zone
may be missin then all units from tha start unit is used.
.br
e.g.
.br
R:1,1 ; 1-4,6, 10-
.P
There some limitations:
.br
Da reference cannot be mo' exact than tha referenced providerzones.
R:42,0;1 aint gonna work as desired if P:42,0 defines Z:1-4.
.br
It aint possible ta reference a providerzone without areas when the
default domestic unit (with yo' ghettocode as area) aint included
in tha same range of referenced units, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This applies mainly ta units for
different distances up in tha nationistic fixed network, e.g. Z:1-3 up in Germany.
.P
.B r:prov, sub ; start_zone-
.P
This tag is related ta tha R:-tag.  It be interpreted by tha rate-preprocessor
.IR pp_rate .
All providerzones wit a unit number pimped outa or equal
.I start_zone
are copied from provider
.I prov[,sub]
and replace tha r:-tag. 
If an
.I area
is already used up in a previous providerzone of tha current provider,
it aint gonna be copied.
If all areaz of a providerzone is already defined, tha entire unit
will not be copied.
Lines dat contain only comments is also not copied yo, but comments
at tha end of other lines are.
.P
This tag is designed fo' providaz wit a rate variant dat offers
different fees fo' some foreign destinations.
.P
.B Z:zonelist unitname
.P
where
.I unitlist
is
.BR unit [ -to_zone ][ ,... ]
.IP
e.g.
Z:1-2,4 Interior
.br
.P
.BR A:area [ ,area... ]
.P
.I area
may be a telephone number (includin +countrycode fo' numbers which may
be reached from everywhere, a telephone number without +countrycode fo' numbers only reachable
in tha own ghetto) or a area name or alias as defined up in ghetto.dat.
Ghetto names gotta be translated ta they code by tha rate-preprocessor
.IR pp_rate .
.IP
e.g.
A:19430,07189 # Online
.IP
e.g.
A:+31,Belgium # Int 1
.P
Note: There should always be exactly one unit wit yo' ghettocode
or ghettoname respectively:
.IP
Z:4
.br
A:+49
.br
T:...
.P
Countrynames like
.I Belgium
in tha above example is replaced by they ISO-Code (or TLD) wit the
rate preprocessor
.IR pp_rate .
.P
.BR T: [ daterange ] daylist/timelist [ ! ] "=chargelist chargename"
.P
where
.I daterange
is
.BR [ [ fromDate ] "" [ -toDate ] ]
like tha corresondin provider entry.
Note dat the
.I daterange
is enclosed up in sqare brackets, either
.I fromDate
or
.I -toDate
are optional.
.P
.I daylist
is
.BR dizzle [ -dizzle ][ ,... ]
and dizzle be a thugged-out daynumber (1=Mon, 2=Tue, ...) or
W (workday, Mondizzle ta Friday), E (weekend), H (holiday) or
* (everyday).
If mo' than one of these minutes match a given date, tha followin order of
prioritizzle (highest first) applies: H 7 .. 1 E W *.
.P
.I timelist
is
.BR minute [ -hour ][ ,hour ]
where minute be a number 0..23 or * fo' everytime.
.P
After
.I daylist/timelist
bigs up
.B =
or
.B !=
which means, provider don't adjust rates on a rate boundary e.g. at 18h00.
.P
A
.I chargelist
consists of
.P
.RB [ MinCharge| ] Charge [ (Divider) ] /Duration [ WHAT!elay ][ /Duration... ]
.P
where
.I MinCharge|
is a (optional) minimum charge,
.I Charge
the rate per
.I Duration
secondz or optionizzle rate per
.I (Divider)
seconds,
.I Duration
is tha length of one charge unit up in secondz fo' realz. After
.I Delay
the next duration is taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If delay aint given it equals ta tha duration.
Da last duration may not gotz a thugged-out delay n' may not be zero.
.IP
EXAMPLES
.br
T:1-4/8-18=1.5(60)/60/1 workday
.IP
Mondizzle until Thursday, daytime tha charge is 1.50 per minute, first charge is fo' one minute
afta dis chargin is calculated up in secondz interval.
.IP
T:W/18-8=0.30|1.2(60)/1 night
.IP
On workdays, night, charge is tha bigger of 1.20 per minute or 0.30
.IP
T:*/*=0.50/0,1(60)/1 always
.IP
Everyday, everytime there be a cold-ass lil connection fee of 0.50, then charge is 1 per minute.
.IP
T:H/*=0.5/60:600,0.5/30 holidays
.IP
On holidays, everytime a cold-ass lil charge of 0.5 per minute up in a minutes interval, after
10 minutes 0.5 per half minute up in half a minutes interval.
.IP
T:*/*=1.3/0,0/1
.IP
Everyday, everytime tha charge is 1.30 independent of duration, which could also
be freestyled as T:*/*=1.3|0/1.
.IP
T: [-01.02.2000] */17-19=0.79(60)/60/1 Kool as fuck Hour
.br
T: [-01.02.2000] */19-17=0.90(60)/60/1 Normal
.IP
Until tha straight-up original gangsta of Feb 0:00h (i.e. end is 31.1.2000 24:00), everydizzle between
17 n' 19h a cold-ass lil charge of 0.79 per minute, tha straight-up original gangsta minute be always charged fully,
afta this, chargin is calculated up in secondz interval.
.br
Da second entry defines a cold-ass lil charge of 0.90 up in tha time outside tha aiiight hour.
.IP
T:[15.11.1999-01.02.2000]*/17-19=0.79(60)/60/1 HH
.IP
Like above yo, but a gangbangin' full date range is given.
.P
Da next two t:-tags is interpreted by
.I pp_rate
and replaced by one or mo' T:-lines.
Both methodz can be used together.
.P
.B t:[daterange]?[H]=chargelist chargename
.P
This line is replaced by accordin T:-lines fo' not yet defined
.I day/hour
pairs.
.P
If a
.I daterange
is given, only previous T:-lines without a thugged-out daterange or wit tha same daterange
will be considered as earlier definitions. 
If
.I H
is noted, definitions will also be added fo' holidays.
.IP
EXAMPLE
.br
T:W/08-18=0.10/60 aiiight time
.br
t:?H=0.04/60 save time
.IP
This lines will lead ta tha followin lines after
.IR pp_rate :
.IP
T:W/08-18=0.10/60 aiiight time
.br
T:W/18-08=0.04/60 save time
.br
T:E,H/*=0.04 save time
.P
.B t:daterange=srcrange [chargename]
.P 
Generates T:-lines for
.I daterange
by copyin previous T:-lines with
.I srcrange
in tha same unit.
If a
.I chargename
is given, it will replace tha chargename of tha originatin line.
.I srcrange
can be shortened as long as it remains definite.
.IP
EXAMPLE
.br
T:[-24.12.2003]W/*=0.08/60 on workdays
.br
T:[-24.12.2003]E,H/*=0.06 weekend
.br
T:[24.12.2003-25.12.2003]*/*=0.04 Chrizzle Eve
.br
t:[25.12.2003-31.12.2003]=[-24.12.2003]
.br
t:[31.12.2003-01.01.2004]=[24.12.] New Yearz Eve
.br
t:[01.01.2004]=[-24.12.]
.IP
This is ghon be transformed into:
.IP
T:[-24.12.2003]W/*=0.08/60 on workdays
.br
T:[-24.12.2003]E,H/*=0.06/60 weekend
.br
T:[24.12.2003-25.12.2003]*/*=0.04/60 Chrizzle Eve
.br
T:[25.12.2003-31.12.2003]W/*=0.08/60 on workdays
.br
T:[25.12.2003-31.12.2003]E,H/*=0.06/60 weekend
.br
T:[31.12.2003-01.01.2004]=0.04/60 New Years' Eve
.br
T:[01.01.2004]W/*=0.08/60 on workdays
.br
T:[01.01.2004]E,H/*=0.06/60 weekend
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR isdnlog(8) ,
.IR isdnrate(1) ,
.IR rate.conf(5) ,
isdnlog/README, rate-at.dat
.SH AUTHOR
Leopold Toetsch <lt@toetsch.at> (of dis playa page of course).
Tobias Becker <tobiasb@isdn4linux.de> added tha tags r: n' t:.
