.TH READER.CONF 5 "August 2005" Muscle "PC/SC Lite"
.SH NAME
reader.conf \- configuration file fo' pcscd readers' drivers
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file gotz nuff configuration shiznit fo' serial n' (some) PCMCIA
smart card readers.
.PP
STD readaz SHALL NOT be configured rockin dis file.
.B pcscd
uses another mechanizzle ta automatically load STD drivers.
.
.SH SYNTAX
The
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
is a regular text file. Each reader must be defined by four fields:
.PP
 FRIENDLYNAME     TEXT_STRING
 DEVICENAME       FILENAME
 LIBPATH          FILENAME
 CHANNELID        NUMBER
.PP
Da "FRIENDLYNAME" field be a arbitrary text used ta identify the
reader n' shit. This text is displayed by commandz like
.BR pcsc_scan (1)
that prints tha namez of all tha connected n' detected readers.
.PP
Da "DEVICENAME" field was not used fo' oldschool drivers (usin tha IFD
handlez version 2.0 or earlier). Well shiiiit, it is now (IFD handlez version 3.0) used
to identify tha physical port on which tha reader is connected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This
is tha thang name of dis port. Well shiiiit, it is dependent of tha OS kernel. The
first serial port thang is called
.I /dev/ttyS0
under Linux and
.I /dev/cuaa0
under FreeBSD.
.PP
Da "LIBPATH" field is tha filename of tha driver code. Da driver is
a dynamically loaded piece of code (generally a
.IR drivername.so* file).
.PP
Da "CHANNELID" is no mo' used fo' recent drivers (IFD handlez 3.0) and
has been superseded by "DEVICENAME". If you have a oldschool driver this
field is used ta indicate tha port ta use. Yo ass should read yo' driver
documentation ta know what tha fuck shiznit is needed here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Well shiiiit, it should be the
serial port number fo' a serial reader.
.
.SH EXAMPLE
 # Gemplus GemPCTwin reader wit serial communication
 # connected ta tha straight-up original gangsta serial port
 FRIENDLYNAME      "GemPCTwin serial"
 DEVICENAME        /dev/ttyS0
 LIBPATH           /usr/lib64/pcsc/drivers/serial/libccidtwin.so.0.4.1
 CHANNELID         1
.
.SH DEBUGGING
In order ta set up your
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file erectly you may wanna have debug lyrics from
.BR pcscd .
I recommend you ta start
.B pscsd
in tha foreground n' debug mode using:
 # pcscd \-\-foreground \-\-debug
.PP
If every last muthafuckin thang seems OK you can use the
.B pcsc_scan
command ta print tha list of erectly detected readaz n' try ta get
the ATR of yo' smart-ass cards.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Ludovic Rousseau <ludovic.rousseau@free.fr>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pcscd (8),
.BR pcsc_scan (1)
