.TH RELOCATED 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
relocated
\-
Postfix relocated table format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/relocated\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBrelocated\fR(5) table serves up tha shiznit dat is
used up in "user has moved ta \fInew_location\fR" bounce lyrics.

Normally, tha \fBrelocated\fR(5) table is specified as a text file
that serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command.
Da result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format,
is used fo' fast searchin by tha mail system. Execute tha command
"\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/relocated\fR" ta rebuild a indexed
file afta changin tha correspondin relocated table.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions, or lookups
can be pimped up ta TCP-based server n' shit. In dem case, tha lookups
are done up in a slightly different way as busted lyrics bout below under
"REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES" or "TCP-BASED TABLES".

Table lookups is case insensitive.
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da search strang is folded ta lowercase before database
lookup fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3, tha search strang aint case
folded wit database types like fuckin regexp: or pcre: whose
lookup fieldz can match both upper n' lower case.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da input format fo' tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
An entry has one of tha followin form:

.nf
     \fIpattern      new_location\fR
.fi

Where \fInew_location\fR specifies contact shiznit such as
an email address, or like a street address or telephone number.
.IP \(bu
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With lookups from indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked
tablez like fuckin NIS, LDAP or SQL, patterns is tried up in tha order as
listed below:
.IP \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR
Matches \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR. This form has precedence over all
other forms.
.IP \fIuser\fR
Matches \fIuser\fR@\fIsite\fR when \fIsite\fR is $\fBmyorigin\fR,
when \fIsite\fR is listed up in $\fBmydestination\fR, or when \fIsite\fR
is listed up in $\fBinet_interfaces\fR or $\fBproxy_interfaces\fR.
.IP @\fIdomain\fR
Matches other addresses up in \fIdomain\fR. This form has tha lowest
precedence.
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
When a mail address localpart gotz nuff tha optionizzle recipient delimiter
(e.g., \fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR), tha lookup order becomes:
\fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser+foo\fR,
\fIuser\fR, n' @\fIdomain\fR.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions or when lookups are
pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of regular
expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5) or
\fBpcre_table\fR(5). For a thugged-out description of tha TCP client/server
table lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each pattern be a regular expression dat be applied ta tha entire
address bein looked up. Thus, \fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not
broken up tha fuck into they \fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts,
nor is \fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups, with
the additionizzle feature dat parenthesized substrings from the
pattern can be interpolated as \fB$1\fR, \fB$2\fR n' so on.
.SH "TCP-BASED TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when lookups
are pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of tha TCP
client/server lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each lookup operation uses tha entire address once.  Thus,
\fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not fucked up tha fuck into their
\fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts, nor is
\fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da table format do not KNOW quotin conventions.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP \fBrelocated_maps\fR
List of lookup tablez fo' relocated playas or cribs.
.PP
Other parametaz of interest:
.IP \fBinet_interfaces\fR
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis system receives mail on.
Yo ass need ta stop n' start Postfix when dis parameta chizzles.
.IP \fBmydestination\fR
List of domains dat dis mail system considaz local.
.IP \fBmyorigin\fR
Da domain dat be appended ta locally-posted mail.
.IP \fBproxy_interfaces\fR
Other intercourses dat dis machine receives mail on by way of a
proxy agent or network address translator.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
trivial-rewrite(8), address resolver
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, address rewritin guide
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
