.TH sane\-mustek 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-mustek
.SH NAME
sane\-mustek \- SANE backend fo' Mustek SCSI flatbed scanners (and some other devices)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-mustek
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat serves up access
to Mustek (and some relabeled Trust n' Primax) SCSI n' parport flatbed
scanners.  At present, tha followin scanners is known ta work mo' or less
with dis backend:
.PP
.RS
Paragon MFS-6000CX
.br
Paragon MFS-12000CX
.br
Paragon MFC-600S, 600 Pt II CD, ScanMagic 600 Pt II SP 
.br
Paragon MFC-800S, 800 Pt II SP
.br
Paragon MFS-6000SP
.br
Paragon MFS-8000SP
.br
Paragon MFS-1200SP, MFS-12000SP
.br
ScanExpress 6000SP
.br
ScanExpress 12000SP, 12000SP Plus, Paragon 1200 Pt III SP, ScanMagic 9636S, 9636S Plus
.br
Paragon 1200 LS
.br
ScanExpress A3 SP
.br
Paragon 1200 SP Pro
.br
Paragon 1200 A3 Pro
.br
Paragon 600 Pt II EP 
.br
Paragon 600 Pt II N
.br
Trust Imagery 1200
.br
Trust Imagery 1200 SP
.br
Trust Imagery 4800 SP
.br
Trust SCSI Connect 19200
.br
Primax Compact 4800 SCSI
.br
.RE
.PP
Mo' details can be found on tha Mustek SCSI backend homepizzy 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek\-backend/ .
.PP
Don't mix up MFS (Paragon), Pro n' ScanExpress models muthafucka! They're
completely different. Peep tha exact model name!
.PP
Note dat most of tha above scanners come wit a SCSI intercourse.  Da only
non-SCSI scanners dat have some support at dis point is tha 600 Pt II N n' 600
II EP scanners. Da forma one comes wit its own parallel port adapta (i.e.,
it do
.I not
attach ta tha printa port). Both scanners use tha SCSI protocol internally,
too. Mo' info on how tha fuck ta use these parallel port scanners can be found below in
section
.BR "PARALLEL PORT SCANNERS" .
Other parallel port scanners is not supported by dis backend but you may be
successful rockin tha Mustek parallel port backend mustek_pp, see
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5).
STD scanners is also not supported by dis backend but tha ma1509, mustek_usb,
gt68xx, n' plustek backendz include support fo' a shitload of them, see
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx "(5), and"
.BR sane\-plustek (5).
.PP
Mustek scanners have no protection against exceedin tha physical scan
area height.  That is, if a scan be attempted wit a height that
exceedz tha height of tha scan surface, tha scanner begins makin loud
noises n' tha scan mechanizzle may be damaged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Thus, if you hear such
a noise, IMMEDIATELY turn off tha scanner n' shit. This shouldn't happen if
your scanner is up in tha list of known scanners. There is more
information up in the
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/PROBLEMS
file.
.PP
If you own a Mustek (or Trust) scanner other than tha ones listed
above dat works wit dis backend, please let our asses know by bustin  the
scannerz exact model name (peep tha front n' back of tha scanner)
and a thugged-out debug output to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Yo ass can git tha debug output by settin tha environment variable
.B SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK
to 5 n' showin tha list of available scanners wit scanimage \-L. Please
send all of it ta tha mailin list. Yo ass must be subscribed ta sane\-devel
before you can bust mail ta tha list. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
for details.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner or tha port number at which tha parallel port scanners can
be found (see section 
.B "PARALLEL PORT SCANNERS"
below).  For SCSI scanners, tha special thang name must be a generic SCSI
device or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Da program
.I sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect device. Under Linux, such a thang name
could be
.I /dev/sg0
or
.IR /dev/sg3 ,
for example.  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
for details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I mustek.conf
file be a list of options n' thang names dat correspond ta Mustek
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.
.PP
Da supported options are
.BR linedistance\-fix ,
.BR lineart\-fix ,
.BR legal\-size ,
.BR buffersize ,
.BR blocksize ,
.BR strip\-height ,
.BR disable\-double\-bufferin ,
.BR disable\-backtrackin ,
and
.BR force\-wait .
.PP
Options come up in two flavors: global n' positionizzle ones.  Global
options apply ta all devices managed by tha backend whereas positional
options apply just ta da most thugged-out recently mentioned device.  Note that
this means dat tha order up in which tha options step tha fuck up matters!
.PP
Option
.B linedistance\-fix
is positionizzle n' works round a problem dat occurs wit some SCSI
controllaz (notably tha ncr810 controlla under Linux).  If color
scans have horizontal stripes and/or tha flavas is off, then it's
likely dat yo' controlla suffers from dis problem.  Turnin on
this option probably fixes tha problem.
.PP
Option
.B lineart\-fix
is positionizzle n' works round a timin problem dat seems ta exist
with certain MFS-12000SP scanners.  Da problem manifests itself in
dropped lines when scannin up in lineart mode.  Turnin on dis option
should fix tha problem but may slow down scannin a funky-ass bit.
.PP
Option
.B legal\-size
is positionizzle n' sets tha size of tha scan area ta Legal format. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set this
option if you own a Paragon 12000 LS. Well shiiiit, it can't be distinguished by
software from a ScanExpress 12000 SP (ISO A4 format).
.PP
Option
.B buffersize
is a positionizzle option dat overrides tha default value set fo' tha size of
the SCSI buffer n' shit. Da buffer size is specified up in kilobytes. Da default value
is 128. Because of double bufferin tha buffer straight-up busted ta tha scanner
is half tha size of dis value. Try ta increase dis value ta big up higher
scan speeds. Note dat some ScanExpress scanners don't like buffer sizes above
64 kb (buffersize = 128). If yo' sg driver can't set SCSI buffer sizes at
runtime you may gotta chizzle dat value, like a muthafucka. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.PP
Option
.B blocksize
is a positionizzle option dat overrides tha default value set fo' tha maximum
amount of data scanned up in one block. Da buffer size is specified in
kilobytes. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some scanners freeze if dis value is bigger than 2048. Da default
value is 1 GB (so effectively no limit) fo' most scanners. Don't chizzle this
value if you don't give a fuck exactly what tha fuck you do.
.PP
Option
.B strip\-height
is a global option dat limits tha maximum height of tha strip scanned wit a
single SCSI read command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da height is specified up in inches n' may contain a
fractionizzle part (e.g., 1.5).  Settin tha strip\-height ta a lil' small-ass value (one
inch, fo' example) reduces tha likelihood of encounterin problems wit SCSI
driver timeouts and/or timeouts wit other devices on tha same SCSI bus.
Unfortunately, it also increases scan times. With current SCSI adaptas and
drivers dis option shouldn't be needed any more.
.PP
Option
.B disable\-double\-buffering
is a global option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If set, tha backend will only bust one buffer at a time to
the scanner n' shit. Try dis option if you have shiznit while scanning, e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SCSI
errors, freezes, or tha straight-up original gangsta few cm is repeated over n' over again n' again n' again up in your
image.
.PP
Option
.B disable\-backtracking
is a positionizzle option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If set, tha scanner aint gonna move back its slider
afta each SCSI buffer is filled (`backtracking'). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin dis option will
lead ta fasta scans but may also produce horizontal stripes. This option
doesn't work wit every last muthafuckin scanner (only a shitload of tha paragon models can modify
backtracking).
.PP
Finally,
.B force\-wait
is a global option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If set, tha backend will wait until tha thang is ready
before bustin  tha inquiry command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Further mo' tha backend will force the
scan slider ta return ta its startin posizzle (not implemented fo' all
scanners). This option may be necessary wit tha 600 Pt II N or when scanimage is
used multiple times (e.g. up in scripts). Da default is off (not set).
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
# limit strip height of all scanners ta 1.5 inches:
.br
option strip\-height 1.5
.br
.br
/dev/scanner    # first Mustek scanner
.br
# 1 MB buffer fo' /dev/scanner:
.br
option buffersize 1024
.br
/dev/sge        # second Mustek scanner
.br
# turn on fixes fo' /dev/sge:
.br
option lineart\-fix
.br
option linedistance\-fix
.RE

.SH "SCSI ADAPTER TIPS"
.PP
Yo ass need a SCSI adapta fo' tha SCSI scanners. Even if tha connector is the
same as dat of parallel port scanners, connectin it ta tha computers
parallel port will NOT work.
.PP
Mustek SCSI scanners is typically served up wit a ISA SCSI adapter.
Unfortunately, dat adapta aint worth much since it is not
interrupt driven. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It be (sometimes) possible ta git tha supplied card
to work yo, but without interrupt line, scannin is ghon be straight-up slow n' put
so much load on tha system, dat it becomes almost unusable fo' other tasks.
.PP
If you already gotz a hustlin SCSI controlla up in yo' system, you
should consider dat Mustek scanners do not support tha SCSI-2
disconnect/reconnect protocol n' hence tie up tha SCSI bus while a
scan is up in progress.  This means dat no other SCSI thang on tha same
bus can be accessed while a scan is up in progress.
.PP
Because tha Mustek-supplied adapta aint worth much n' cuz
Mustek scanners do not support tha SCSI-2 disconnect/reconnect
protocol, it is recommended ta install a separate (cheap) SCSI
controlla fo' Mustek scanners.  For example, ncr810 based cardz are
known ta work fine n' cost as lil as fifty US dollars.
.PP
For Mustek scanners, it is typically necessary ta configure tha low-level SCSI
driver ta disable synchronous transfers (sync negotiation), tagged command
queuing, n' target disconnects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
for driver- n' platform-specific shiznit.
.PP
Da ScanExpress models have sometimes shiznit wit high resolution
color mode. If you encounta sporadic corrupted images (parts duplicated
or shifted horizontally) bust a cap up in all other applications before scanning
and (if sufficient memory be available) disable swapping. 
.PP
Details on how tha fuck ta git tha Mustek SCSI adaptas n' other cardz hustlin can be
found at
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek\-backend/#SCSI .

.SH "PARALLEL PORT SCANNERS"
This backend has support fo' tha Paragon 600 Pt II EP n' Paragon 600 Pt II N parallel
port scanners.  Note dat tha latta scanner comes wit its own ISA card that
implements a gangbangin' funky parallel port (in other lyrics, tha scanner do not connected
to tha printa parallel port).
.PP
These scanners can be configured by listin tha port number
of tha adapta or tha parallel port up in tha mustek.conf file.  Valid port numbers
for tha 600 Pt II N are
.IR 0x26b ", " 0x2ab ", " 0x2eb ", " 0x22b ", " 0x32b ", " 0x36b ", "
.IR 0x3ab ", " 0x3eb .
For tha 600 Pt II EP use one of these:
.IR parport0 ", " parport1 ", " parport2 ", " 0x378 ", " 0x278 ", " 0x3bc .
Pick one dat don't conflict wit tha other hardware up in yo' computer n' shit. Put
only one number on a single line. Example:
.PP
.RS
.I 0x3eb
.RE
.PP
Note dat fo' these scanners probably root privileges is required ta access the
I/O ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Thus, either make frontendz like fuckin 
.BR scanimage (1)
and 
.BR xscanimage (1)
setuid root (generally not recommended fo' safety reasons) or, alternatively,
access dis backend all up in tha network daemon 
.BR saned (8).
.PP
If tha Mustek backend blocks while bustin  tha inquiry command ta tha scanner,
add tha option
.B force\-wait
to
.IR mustek.conf .
.PP
Also note dat afta a while of no activity, some scanners theyselves (not
the SANE backend) turns off they CCFL lamps. This shutdown aint always
slick wit tha result dat tha lamp sometimes continues ta glow
dimly at one end yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. This don't step tha fuck up ta be fucked up since as soon as
you use tha scanner again, tha lamp turns back on ta tha aiiight high
brightness. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha straight-up original gangsta image scanned afta such a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shutdown may
have stripes n' step tha fuck up ta be over-exposed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When dis happens, just
take another scan, n' tha image is ghon be fine.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/mustek.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-mustek.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-mustek.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

.ft CR
.nf
Value  Description
0      no output
1      print fatal errors
2      print blingin lyrics
3      print non-fatal errors n' less blingin lyrics
4      print all but debuggin lyrics
5      print every last muthafuckin thang
.fi
.ft R

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1),
.BR sane\-scsi (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5), 
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5), 
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5)
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/mustek/mustek.CHANGES
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek\-backend/

.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger, Andreas Czechanowski, Andreas Bolsch (SE extensions),
Hennin Meier-Geinitz, Jizzy Perry (600 Pt II EP).

.SH BUGS
Scannin wit tha SCSI adaptas supplied by Mustek is straight-up slow at
high resolutions n' wide scan areas. 
.PP
Some scanners (e.g. Paragon 1200 A3 + Pro, SE A3) need mo' testing.
.PP
Da gamma table supports only 256 colors, even if some scanners can do more.
.PP
Mo' detailed bug shiznit be available all up in tha Mustek backend
homepage:
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek\-backend/ .
