.TH sane\-sp15c 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"

.SH NAME
sane\-sp15c \- SANE backend fo' Fujitsu ScanPartner 15C flatbed scanner

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-sp15c
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta tha Fujitsu flatbed scanners.
At present, tha following
scanner is known ta work wit these backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor:  Model:           Rev:
-------- ---------------- -----
FCPA     ScanPartner 15C  1.01
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.P

Da ScanPartner 15C driver supports
lineart (1-bit), halftone (1-bit),
grayscale (4-bit n' 8-bit),
and color (3 x 8-bit) scanning.

Other scanners up in these crews may work.
Da ScanPartner 15C seems ta be a repackaging
of tha ScanPartner 600C.
Muthafuckas is encouraged ta try these driver wit tha other scanners
and ta contact tha lyricist wit test thangs up in dis biatch.

.SH CONFIGURATION
A modest effort has been made ta expose tha standard options ta tha API.
This allows frontendz like fuckin xscanimage ta set scannin region,
resolution, bit-depth (and color), n' enable tha automatic document feeder.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5), sane\-fujitsu(5)
.br
Fujitsu ScanPartner 15C OEM Manual, Doc. No. 250-0081-0
.br
Fujitsu M3096G OEM Manual, part number 50FH5028E-05
.br
Fujitsu M3096GX/M3093GX/M3093DG OEM Manual, part number C150-E015...03

.SH AUTHOR
Randolph Bentson
<bentson@holmsjoen.com>,
with credit ta tha unnamed lyricist of tha coolscan driver

.SH LIMITATIONS
Testin limited ta a Linux 2.2.5 kernel
.br
Can't like git tha scan page/minute performizzle up in ADF modes.
This may be cuz of limited system buffer size.

.SH BUGS
I be shizzle there be plenty, n' not too well hidden,
but I aint peeped dem yet.
.br
Both scanners claim ta have separate control
of resolution up in X n' Y directions.
I confess I aint tested dis yet.
I have found dat xsane don't even display dis capability.
.br
Threshold settings on tha SP15C don't seem to
affect tha thangs up in dis biatch of lineart mode scans.
.br
It might be possible ta merge these two drivers without much effort
since tha SP15C driver was derived from tha M3096G driver.
They was split so as ta keep tha second driver pimpment from breaking
the hustlin first driver.
Watch dis space fo' chizzles.
