.TH sane\-avision 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-avision

.SH NAME
sane\-avision \- SANE backend fo' original gangsta Avision n' Avision OEM scanners
(HP, Minolta, Mitsubishi, UMAX n' possibly more) flatbed n' film scanners.

.SH ABOUT THIS FILE

This file be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description fo' tha avision-backend shipped wit SANE.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-avision
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta various Avision scanners n' tha Avision OEM
scanners labelled by HP, Minolta, Mitsubishi or Fujitsu.

It be straight-up big-endian aware n' up in every-dizzle use on PowerPC n' SPARC
systems.

.B I suggest you hold one hand on tha power-button of tha scanner while
you try tha straight-up original gangsta scans \- especially wit film-scanners!

.SH CONFIGURATION

Da configuration file fo' dis backend resides up in 
.IR /etc/sane.d/avision.conf .

Its contents be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Avision n' Avision
compatible scanners n' backend-options. Empty lines n' lines startin with
a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A sample configuration file is shown below: 

.nf
 # dis be a cold-ass lil comment
\ 
 option force\-a4
 option force\-a3
 option disable\-gamma\-table
 option disable\-calibration
\ 
 #scsi Vendor Model Type Bus Channel ID LUN 
 scsi AVISION
 scsi HP
 scsi /dev/scanner
 usb 0x03f0 0x0701
.fi

.TP
force\-a4:
Forces tha backend ta overwrite tha scanable area
returned by tha scanner ta ISO A4. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scanner dat are
known ta return bogus data is marked up in tha backend
so if you need dis option please report dis ta the
backend maintainer n' shit. USE WITH CARE!
.TP
force\-a3:
Forces tha backend ta overwrite tha scanable area
returned by tha scanner ta ISO A3. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scanner dat are
known ta return bogus data is marked up in tha backend
so if you need dis option please report dis ta the
backend maintainer n' shit. USE WITH CARE!
.TP
disable\-gamma\-table:
Disablez tha usage of tha scannerz gamma-table. You
might try dis if yo' scans hang or only produces
random garbage.
.TP
disable\-calibration:
Disablez tha scannerz color calibration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. You
might try dis if yo' scans hang or only produces
random garbage.
.TP
Note:
Any option above modifies tha default code-flow
for yo' scanner n' shit. Da options should only be used
when you encounta problems wit tha default be-
haviour of tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Please report tha need of
options ta tha backend-lyricist so tha backend can
be fixed quicker than a muthafucka.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I scsi scsi-spec

.I usb usb-spec
.RE
.PP
Where
.I scsi-spec
is tha path-name ta a special thang or a thang ID fo' tha thang that
correspondz ta a SCSI scanner n' shit. Da special thang name must be a generic
SCSI thang or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device, fo' example on Linux "/dev/sga"
or "/dev/sg0". Da thang ID is tha ID returned by tha scanner, fo' example
"HP" or "AVISION". Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.TP
Note:
Since tha backend now includes natizzle STD access,
it is no longer needed \- even considered obsolete \-
to access STD scanner via tha SCSI emulation (named
hpusbscsi on Linux) fo' Avision STD devices such as
the HP 53xx, HP 74xx or Minolta film-scanners.
.PP
.I usb-spec
is tha STD thang name, tha vendor/thang ID pair or tha name used by
libusb correspondin ta tha STD scanner n' shit. For example "0x03f0 0x0701" or
"libusb:002:003". Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See sane\-usb(5) fo' details.

Da program
.IR sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect scsi or usb thang name.

A list wit supported devices is built tha fuck into tha avision backend so
normally specifyin a ID should not be necessary.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/avision.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-avision.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-avision.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_AVISION
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend.
Higher debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. Da debug
level 7 is tha authorz preferred value ta debug backend problems.

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_AVISION=7

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5)
.br
http://skull.piratehaven.org/~mike/sane/avision.html

.SH MAINTAINER
Mike Kelly
.SH AUTHOR
Ren\['e] Rebe n' Meino Christian Cramer
