.TH sane\-hs2p 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hs2p
.SH NAME
sane\-hs2p \- SANE backend fo' Ricoh SCSI flatbed/ADF scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hs2p
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha Ricoh IS450 crew of scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should also work wit tha IS420,
IS410, n' IS430 scanners yo, but these is untested.
Please contact tha maintainer or tha sane\-devel mailin list if you own such a scanner.
.PP
This backend be alpha-quality. Well shiiiit, it may have bugs n' some scanners aint been
tested at all. Be careful n' pull tha plug if tha scanner causes unusual
noise.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a SCSI
scanner n' shit. Da program
.I sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect device. Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sg0
or
.IR /dev/sga ,
for example.  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
for details.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I hs2p.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta SCSI
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/hs2p.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hs2p.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hs2p.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HS2P
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend.
A value of 255 prints all debug output.  Smalla joints reduce verbosity.

.SH CURRENT STATUS
Da hs2p backend is now up in version 1.00 fo' realz. All major scanning-related features
are supported, except fo' dem features requirin tha optionizzle IPU. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scanning
from tha flatbed or ADF (either simplex or duplex) is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Lineart,
halftone, 4-bit gray, n' 8-bit gray is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Pre-set gamma tablez and
halftone patterns is supported, as well as brightness, threshold, contrast.
Also supported is scan wait mode, binary n' gray filtering, wack scanning,
and absolute or relatizzle white setting. Printin wit tha optionizzle endorser 
also is supported.

.SH PLANNED FUNCTIONALITY
This scanner can scan from tha ADF up in continuous simplex mode. 
Surprisingly, nuff scanners scan a entire document from tha ADF
into memory before ejectin tha sheet. Thus if tha document is too
long, tha scanner cannot hold tha entire image data up in memory. 
But if tha scanner would bust its image data when its memory gots full, 
and then read tha next bufferz worth of data, continuous scannin 
could be  bigged up . Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY
Da SCSI commandz fo' uploadin (2AH) or downloadin (28H)
custom halftone patterns (02H) n' gamma vectors (03H) should work, 
but require implementin tha SANE Option-Value code ta allow tha 
user ta create tha tablez ta be uploaded ta tha scanner n' shit. No support 
for Maintenizzle Data (80H) is planned as dis functionalitizzle is mo' 
suited ta a stand-alone utilitizzle ta be used by a technician when 
replacin tha lamp or ADF unit. Nor is support fo' readin or changin 
IPU (93H) parametas n' adjustments planned, since mah IS450 lacks
such a unit. Da 31-byte Auto Photo/Letta struct n' 21-byte Dynamic 
threshold struct is documented up in tha hs2p-scsi.h file should one of mah thugs 
wish ta use they IPU fo' image data processing.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1),
.BR sane\-scsi (5),

.SH AUTHOR
jeremy <jeremy@acjlaw.net>
.br
Maintained by Jeremy Johnston <jeremy@acjlaw.net>
