.TH sane\-microtek 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-microtek
.SH NAME
sane\-microtek \- SANE backend fo' Microtek scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-microtek
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha "second generation" Microtek scanners.  At present,
the followin hardware is known ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
Microtek ScanMaker E2, E3, E6
.br
Microtek ScanMaker Pt II, Pt IIG, Pt IIHR, Pt IISP, Pt III
.br
Microtek ScanMaker 35t, 35t+, 45t
.br
Microtek ScanMaker 600GS, 600ZS (see bug notes)
.br
Agfa StudioScan
.br
Agfa StudioScan Pt II, StudioScan Pt IIsi
.br
Agfa Arcus Pt II (but not tha "Arcus")
.br
Agfa DuoScan (preliminary)
.br
Vobis "Highscreen Realscan"
.br
Microtek Color PageWiz (preliminary)
.br
.PP
Transparent Media Adapter
.br
Document AutoFeeder
.br
.RE
.PP
Da driver supports line art, halftone, 8bpp gray, n' 24bpp color scans
at aiiight n' "expanded" resolutions (i.e. 1200x1200 on a E6), fast scans
for color peepshows, n' downloadable gamma tables.
.PP
Da supported scanners is all SCSI scanners.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat some parallel
port models may work (under Linux), if they bust a parport->scsi chip,
and if you can find a scsi->parport driver n' shit.  This is known ta be the
case fo' tha Color PageWiz.
.PP
Da driver do 
.B not
support tha newest Microtek scanners, like fuckin tha V330 n' V660, which use
a freshly smoked up n' straight-up different SCSI-II command set.  For them, try tha alternate
.B microtek2
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Most non-SCSI scanners would use tha freshly smoked up command set.  Most
scanners newer than tha Scanmaker E6 would use tha freshly smoked up command set.
.PP
If you own a Microtek scanner other than tha ones listed above, tell us
what happens --- peep the
.BR BUGS
section all up in tha end of dis document.
.PP
Although dis manual page is generally updated wit each release,
up-to-date shiznit on freshly smoked up releases n' extraneous helpful hints
are available from tha backend homepage:
.br
.RS
.B http://www.mir.com/mtek/
.RE

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha UNIX path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta the
scanner n' shit.  Da special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I microtek.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Microtek
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE
.PP
Da configuration file may also contain tha special tokens
.I norealcal
or
.I noprecal.
.I norealcal
will disable tha use of magic, undocumented scanner calibration commands
which is known ta work on tha E6 yo, but may not work wit other models.
.I noprecal
will disable logic which tries ta avoid scanner precalibration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This logic
would only done been activated if tha magic calibration code was turned off.

.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/microtek.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-microtek.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-microtek.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK
If tha library was compiled wit debuggin support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. 
A value of 128 requests maximally copious debug output; smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Mack Marjanovic

.SH BUGS
Known bugs/limitations are:
.PP
.RS
Brightnizz n' contrast broken.
.br
Da 600GS is grayscale only, n' will lock up if you select color.
(Unfortunately, tha 600GS n' 600ZS is indistinguishable by software.)
.br
.RE
.PP
i.e. don't diss bout these --- but if brightnizz and/or contrast
.B do
work fo' you, please tell mah dirty ass.
.PP
If yo' scanner locks up, try settin tha 
.I norealcal
or
.I noprecal
option up in tha configuration file (first one, then both), n' peep if it helps.
(If it do, report dat shit.)
.PP
Send lengthy bug reports n' freshly smoked up scanner shiznit to
.BR mtek\-bugs@mir.com .
All bug reports n' freshly smoked up scanner inquiries should include a error log file.
Yo ass can generate copious
stderr output by settin tha SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK environment variable
busted lyrics bout above.  For example:
.PP
.RS
setenv SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK 128
.RE
.PP
Mo' general comments, suggestions, n' inquiries bout frontends
or SANE should git all up in 
.BR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org ,
the SANE Developers mailin list yo. Have a peep
http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html concernin subscription ta sane\-devel.
