.TH "sane\-genesys" "5" "4 Jul 2012" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-genesys
.SH "NAME"
sane\-genesys \- SANE backend fo' GL646, GL841, GL843, GL847 n' GL124 based STD flatbed scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-genesys
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta STD flatbed scanners based on tha Genesys GL646, GL841, GL843, GL847 n' GL124 chips.
At present, tha followin scanners is known ta work wit dis backend:
.PP 
.RS
Canon LiDE 35/40/50/60/100/110/200/210/700
.br
Hewlett-Packard HP2300C/HP2400/HP3670/HP3690/G4010/G4050
.br
Medion MD5345/MD6228/MD6274
.br 
Panasonic KV-SS080
.br
Plustek OpticBook 3600
.br
Pentax DSmobile 600
.br
Syscan/Ambir DocketPORT 467/485/487/665/685
.br
Visioneer OneTouch 7100/Strobe XP100 (rev3)/XP200/XP300/Roadwarrior
.br
Xerox Travel Scanner 100, OneTouch 2400
.RE

.PP 
This is stable software fo' supported models. But if you test freshly smoked up or untested scanners, keep
your hand all up in tha scannerz plug n' unplug it, if tha head bumps all up in tha end of
the scan area.
.PP 
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed above dat works wit this
backend, please let me know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta tha sane\-devel mailin list. Even if tha scannerz name is only
slightly different from tha models mentioned above, please let me know.
.PP 
If you own a scanner dat aint detected by tha genesys backend but has a GL646,
GL841, GL843, GL847 or GL124 chipset, you can try ta add it ta tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. 
.PP 
.SH "CALIBRATION"
To give erect image quality, shizzle fed scanners need ta be calibrated rockin the
calibration shizzle sold wit tha scanner n' shit. To do calibration, you must bang dis target
in tha feeder then start calibration either by passin tha --calibrate option ta scanimage
or by clickin on tha available 'calibrate' button up in tha 'advanced options' up in a graphical
frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Da result of tha calibration is stored up in a gangbangin' file up in tha home directory of tha user bustin dat shit.
If you plug tha scanner up in another machine or use it wit another account, calibration
will gotta be redone.

.SH EXTRAS SCAN OPTIONS

.B \-\-lamp\-off\-time number
.RS
        Da lamp is ghon be turned off afta tha given time (in minutes) fo' realz. A value of 0 means dat tha lamp won't be turned off.
.RE

.B \-\-threshold cement
.RS
	0..100% (in stepz of 1). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Select minimum brightnizz ta git a white point. Pixels
whith brightnizz below dat value is ghon be scanned as black.
.RE

.B \-\-brightnizz value
.RS
	-100..100 (in stepz of 1). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set tha brightnizz enhancement. 0 fo' no enhancement, negative
values ta decrease brigthness, n' positizzle joints ta increase dat shit.
.RE

.B \-\-contrast value
.RS
	-100..100 (in stepz of 1). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set tha contrast enhancement. 0 fo' no enhancement, negative
values ta decrease contrast, n' positizzle joints ta increase dat shit.
.RE

.B \-\-disable-interpolation yes|no
.RS
        When rockin high resolutions where tha horizontal resolution is smalla than vertical resolution,
data is expanded by software ta preserve picture geometry. This can be disabled by dis option ta get
real scanned data.
.RE

.B \-\-disable-dynamic-lineart yes|no
.RS
        Disable use of a software adaptizzle algorithm ta generate lineart n' rely on hardware lineart.
.RE

.B \-\-color-filta None|Red|Green|Blue
.RS
        When rockin gray or lineart dis option selects tha used color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Usin a cold-ass lil color filter
will give a monochrome scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. CIS based scanners can ta legit gray when no filta (None value) is
selected.
.RE

.B \-\-lamp\-off\-scan
.RS
        Da lamp is ghon be turned off durin tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Calibration is still done wit lamp on.
.RE

.B \-\-clear\-calibration
.RS
        Clear calibration cache data, triggerin a freshly smoked up calibration fo' tha thang when the
next scan will happen.
.RE

.B \-\-calibration\-file
.RS
        Specify tha calibration file name ta use fo' realz. At least tha directory containin tha file
must exist, since it won't be pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This allow ta handle tha case of nuff muthafuckin identical devices
that would otherwise use tha same calibration data. This option is disabled if tha backend is ran
as root.
.RE

.PP
Additionally, nuff muthafuckin 'software' options is exposed by tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. These
are reimplementationz of features provided natively by larger scanners yo, but
runnin on tha host computer n' shit. This enablez smalla machines ta have similar
capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Please note dat these features is somewhat simplistic, n' 
may not big-ass up as well as tha natizzle implementations. Note also dat these 
features all require dat tha driver cache tha entire image up in memory. This 
will almost certainly result up in a reduction of scannin speed.
.PP
.B \-\-swcrop 
.RS
	Requests tha driver ta detect tha extremitizzlez of tha paper within tha larger 
image, n' crop tha empty edges. 
.RE
.PP
.B \-\-swdeskew 
.RS
	Requests tha driver ta detect tha rotation of tha paper within tha larger 
image, n' counta tha rotation.
.RE
.PP
.B \-\-swdespeck  \-\-despeck X
.RS
	Requests tha driver ta find n' remove dotz of X diameta or smalla from tha 
image, n' fill tha space wit tha average surroundin color.
.RE
.PP
.B \-\-swskip 0..100% (in stepz of 1) [0]
.RS
        Request driver ta discard pages wit low numberz of dark pixels.
.RE
.PP
.B \-\-swderotate[=(yes|no)] [no]
.RS
        Request driver ta detect n' erect 90 degree image rotation.

.PP
.SH "SYSTEM ISSUES"
This backend needz libusb-0.1.6 or lata installed, n' aint tested up in other
configuration than a linux kernel 2.6.9 or higher n' shit. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it should work any
system wit libusb where tha SANE package can be compiled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For
settin permissions n' general STD shiznit peep
.BR sane\-usb (5).


.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Da contentz of the
.I genesys.conf
file be a list of usb lines containin vendor n' thang idz dat correspond
to STD scanners. Da file can also contain option lines.  Empty lines and
lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da scanners are
autodetected by
.B usb vendor_id product_id
statements which is already included into
.IR genesys.conf .
"vendor_id" n' "product_id" is hexadecimal numbers dat identify the
scanner n' shit. 
.PP 

.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /etc/sane.d/genesys.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-genesys.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-genesys.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher debug levels
increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. If tha debug level is set ta 1 or higher,
some debug options become available dat is normally hidden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch yo. Handle dem with
care. This will print lyrics related ta core genesys functions.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_LOW
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' low level functions
common ta all genesys ASICs.
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL646
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' tha specific GL646 code
part.
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL841
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' tha specific GL841 code
part.
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL843
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' tha specific GL843 code
part.
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL847
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' tha specific GL847 code
part.
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL124
This environment variable controls tha debug level fo' tha specific GL124 code
part.


Example (full n' highly verbose output fo' gl646): 
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS=255
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_LOW=255
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_GENESYS_GL646=255

.SH CREDITS
  
Jack McGill fo' donatin nuff muthafuckin sheetfed n' flatbed scanners, which made possible ta add support
for dem up in tha genesys backend:
.RS
Hewlett-Packard HP3670
.br 
Visioneer Strobe XP100 (rev3)/XP200/XP300/Roadwarrior
.br
Canon LiDE 200
.br
Pentax DSmobile 600
.br
Syscan/Ambir DocketPORT 467/485/487/665/685
.br
Xerox Travel Scanner 100, Onetouch 2400
.RE
.TP
cncsolutions (http://www.cncsolutions.com.br) sponsored n' supported tha work on tha Panasonic KV-SS080.
.br
.TP
Brian Paavo from Benthic Science Limited fo' donatin a Canoscan LiDE 700F.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5)
.br 


.SH "AUTHOR"
Oliver Rauch
.br 
Hennin Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>
.br 
Gerhard Jaeger <gerhard@gjaeger.de>
.br 
St\['e]phane Voltz <stef.dev@free.fr>
.br 
Philipp Schmid <philipp8288@web.de>
.br 
Pierre Willenbrock <pierre@pirsoft.dnsalias.org>
.br
Alexey Osipov <simba@lerlan.ru> fo' HP2400 final support

.SH "LIMITATIONS"

Powersavin aint implemented fo' gl646 based scanner n' shit. Dynamic (emulated from gray data n' wit dithering) aint enabled fo' gl646 scanners yo. Hardware lineart is limited up ta 600 dpi fo' gl847 based scanners, cuz of tha way image sensors is built.
.br
.TP
This backend is ghon be much slower if not rockin libusb-1.0. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So be shizzle dat sane-backendz is built wit tha --enable-libusb_1_0 option.
.br

.SH "BUGS"
For tha LiDE 200, tha scanned data at 4800 dpi is obtained "as is" from sensor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Well shiiiit, it seems tha windows driver do some digital processing
to improve it, which aint implemented up in tha backend.
.PP 
