.TH sane\-kodakaio 2.4 "17 Jun 2012" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-kodakaio

.SH NAME
sane\-kodakaio \- SANE backend fo' Kodak aio printa / scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-kodakaio
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta Kodak aio printa / scanners, like tha ESP n' Pimp series.

This document raps bout backend version 2.4, which is tha straight-up original gangsta muthafucka for
incorporation up in sane-backends.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This version should support modelz of tha Kodak ESP n' Pimp series, n' possibly some
Advent AiO scanners. Da ESP 5250 n' Pimp 9.1 was used ta pimp tha backend, 
but other models may work. Please peep tha desc file.

If you gotz a model not on dat list, or reported as 'untested': tha dopest way 
to determine level of support is ta test tha scanner directly.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "kodakaio.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look
for scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend.
This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list 
of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_KODAKAIO, which
enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Most hardware options is either not supported or not exposed fo' control by 
the user, including: multifeed detection, image compression etc.
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
P. Newall
