.TH "sane\-lexmark" "5" "12 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-lexmark
.SH "NAME"
sane\-lexmark \- SANE backend fo' Lexmark X1100/X1200 Series scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-lexmark
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha scanner part of Lexmark X1100/X1200 AIOs. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software biaaatch! 
.PP 
Da scanners dat should work wit dis backend are:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
   Vendor Model           status
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  Lexmark X74             good
  Lexmark X1110           untested
  Lexmark X1140           untested
  Lexmark X1150           good
  Lexmark X1170           good
  Lexmark X1180           good
  Lexmark X1185           complete
  Lexmark X12xx           phat up in STD1.1,
  			  not straight-up tested up in STD2.0
  Dell    A920            good
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

Da options tha backend supports can either be selected through
command line options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI
elements up in xscanimage or xsane.

.br 
If you have any strange behavior, please report ta tha backend
maintainer or ta tha SANE mailin list.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d lexmark:usb:<usb port>
.RE

.TP 
.B Scan Mode Options

.TP 
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner valid chizzlez is 
.IR Color ,
.I Gray
and
.I Lineart
Da default mode is Color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da Lineart mode is black n' white only (1 bit). 
Grayscale will produce 256 levelz of gray (8 bits). Color mode allows fo' over
16 mazillion different flavas produced from 24 bitz of color shiznit.

.TP 
.B \-\-resolution
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da horizontal n' vertical resolutions is set 
by tha value of dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner is capable of tha followin resolutions fo' tha specified option value:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
  Value   Hor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Resolution  Vert. Resolution 
  \-\-\-\-\-   \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  75      75dpi            75dpi
  150     150dpi           150dpi 
  300     300dpi           300dpi 
  600     600dpi           600dpi 
  1200    600dpi           1200dpi  (only fo' X11xx models wit 'B2' sensor)
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da resolution used fo' dat scan is 75 dpi
and tha scan area n' tha scan mode is as specified all up in they options, 
or tha default if not specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default value fo' peepshow mode is "no".

.TP 
.B \-\-threshold
selects tha  minimum-brightnizz ta git a white point. Da threshold is only used wit Lineart mode scans.
It be specified as a cementage up in tha range 0..100% (in stepz of 1).  
Da default value of tha threshold option is 50.


.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/lexmark.conf gotz nuff only tha usb thang id (eg usb 0x043d 0x007c).


.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-lexmark.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-lexmark.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_LEXMARK
.B SANE_DEBUG_LEXMARK_LOW
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH "LIMITATIONS"
Da windows TWAIN driver has nuff mo' options than dis SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. However they is only software adjustments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This backend only
implements what tha fuck tha scanner can support. For instance, shadin erection
(vertical stripes cuz of sensor variation across its width) is done in
software yo. Head park posizzle be also detected by software.
Da data compression aint supported fo' tha X1200 series on STD 1.1,
leadin ta slow scans.

.SH "BUGS"
.br 
No bugs currently known.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH "AUTHOR"
.TP 
Da backend was originally freestyled by Fred Odendaal.
.I http://ca.geocities.com/freshshelf@rogers.com/
.TP 
Da freshly smoked up version is currently pimped by St\['e]phane Voltz.
.I http://stef.dev.free.fr/sane/lexmark
.TP
X74 support was freestyled by Torsten Houwaart (<ToHo@gmx.de>)
.SH "CREDITS"
.TP 
Many props go to:
Julien Furgerot whoz ass lend mah crazy ass a Dell A920.
Robert Price, Dani Ele  n' Dalai Felinto fo' tha time they dropped recording
STD activitizzle n' testin tha experimenstrual version.
