.TH sane\-epson2 5 "22 Jan 2009" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-epson2
.SH NAME
sane\-epson2 \- SANE backend fo' EPSON scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-epson2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Epson flatbed scanners.  This library supports
a similar set of scanners as tha sane\-epson driver but was
developed ta support a wider range of connections ta tha scanner;
include network access.
.PP
Because
.B sane\-epson
and 
.B sane\-epson2 
drivers support nuff of tha same devices, if one
driver gives you problems you may try disablin it ta try tha other.
This can be done by removin tha driver name from tha 
.I dll.conf
or like by commentin up tha options in
.I epson.conf
or
.I epson2.conf.
.PP
At present, tha followin scanners is known ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                       Connection Type
---------------------------  -------------------
ActionScanner Pt II             SCSI, parallel
AcuLaser CX11 Series         STD, Network
AcuLaser CX21 Series         STD, Network
CX-3200                      STD
CX-3600                      STD
CX-3650                      STD
CX-4050                      STD
CX-4600                      STD
CX-4800                      STD
CX-5000                      STD
CX-5200                      STD
CX-5400                      STD
CX-6300                      STD
CX-6400                      STD
CX-6500                      STD
CX-6600                      STD
DX-3800                      STD
DX-5000                      STD
DX-5050                      STD
DX-6000                      STD
DX-7400                      STD
ES-300C                      SCSI, parallel
ES-300GS                     SCSI
ES-600C                      parallel
ES-1200C                     parallel
Expression 636               SCSI
Expression 800               SCSI
Expression 1600              STD, SCSI, IEEE-1394
Expression 1680              STD, SCSI, IEEE-1394
FilmScan 200                 SCSI
GT-5000                      SCSI, parallel
GT-5500                      SCSI
GT-6000                      parallel
GT-6500                      parallel
GT-7000                      SCSI
GT-8000                      SCSI
GT-8500                      SCSI
Perfection 610               STD
Perfection 636S              SCSI
Perfection 636U              STD
Perfection 640               STD
Perfection 1200S             SCSI
Perfection 1200U             STD
Perfection 1240              STD, SCSI
Perfection 1640              STD, SCSI
Perfection 1650              STD
Perfection 1660              STD
Perfection 2400              STD
Perfection 2450              STD, IEEE-1394
Perfection 3200              STD
Perfection 4870              STD
Perfection 4990              STD
RX-425                       STD
RX-500                       STD
RX-600                       STD
RX-700                       STD
V700                         STD, IEEE-1394
V750                         STD, IEEE-1394
.fi
.ft R
and nuff mo' n' mo' n' mo'. Da straight-up legit list is on tha Sane wizzy crib.
.RE

For other scanners tha software  may or may not work.  Please bust mail ta 
the sane-backend mailin list ta report success wit scanners not on
the list or problems wit scanners dat is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.SH OPTIONS
Da options tha backend supports can either be selected all up in command line
options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI elements up in programs like
xscanimage or xsane.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d epson2
.RE
Not all devices support all options.
.TP
.I Scan Mode
Da 
.I \-\-mode 
switch selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner n' shit. Valid chizzles
are Binary, Gray n' Color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da Binary mode is black n' white only,
Gray will produce 256 levelz of gray or mo' dependin on tha scanner
and Color means 24 bit color mode or mo' dependin on tha scanner.
Some scanners will internally use 36 bit color, they external intercourse
however may only support 24 bits.

The
.I \-\-depth
option selects tha bit depth tha scanner is using. This option is only
available fo' scanners dat support mo' than one bit depth. Older
scanners will always transfer tha image up in 8bit mode. Newer scanners
allow ta select either 8 bits, 12 or 14 bits per color channel. For a
color scan dis means a effectizzle color depth of 36 or 42 bits over
all three channels. Da valid chizzlez depend on tha scanner model.

The
.I \-\-halftoning
switch selects tha mode dat is used up in Binary mode. Valid options
are "None", "Halftone A (Hard Tone)", "Halftone B (Soft Tone)", "Halftone C
(Net Screen)", "Dither A (4x4 Bizzleer)", "Dither B (4x4 Spiral)", "Dither C
(4x4 Net Screen)", "Dither D (8x4 Net Screen)", "Text Enhanced Technology",
"Downlizzle pattern A", n' "Downlizzle pattern B".

Da 
.I \-\-dropout
switch selects tha so called dropout color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Vald options is None,
Red, Chronic n' Blue. Da default is None. Da dropout color is used for
monochrome scannin n' selects tha color dat aint scanned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can
be used ta e.g. scan a original gangsta wit a cold-ass lil colored background.

The
.I \-\-brightness
switch controls tha brightnizz of tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid options is integer
values from \-3 ta 3. Da default is 0. Da larger tha brightnizz value,
the brighta tha image gets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If a user defined table fo' tha gamma
correction is selected, tha brightnizz parameta aint available.

The
.I \-\-sharpness
switch sets tha sharpnizz of tha image data. Valid options is integer
values from \-2 ta 2, wit \-2 meanin "Defocus", \-1 "Defocus slightly",
0 "Normal", 1 "Sharpen slightly" n' 2 "Sharpen".

Da 
.I \-\-gamma\-correction
switch controls tha scannerz internal gamma erection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid options are
"Default", "User defined", "High densitizzle printing" "Low densitizzle printing"
and "High contrast printing".

Da 
.I \-\-color\-correction
switch controls tha scannerz internal color erection function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid
options is "No Correction", "Impact\-dot printers", "Thermal printers",
"Ink\-jet printers" n' "CRT monitors". Da default is "CRT monitors".

Da 
.I \-\-resolution
switch selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some EPSON scanners will scan in
any resolution between tha lowest n' highest possible value. Da list
reported by tha scanner can be displayed rockin tha "\-\-help \-d epson"
parametas ta scanimage.

Da 
.I \-\-threshold
switch selects tha minimum brightnizz ta git a white point.

Da 
.I \-\-mirror
option controls tha way tha image is scanned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! By readin tha image data
from right ta left tha image is mirrored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Valid options is "yes" and
"no". Da default is "no".

Da 
.I \-\-auto\-area\-segmentation 
switch activates tha automatic area segmentation fo' monochrome scans. The
scanner will try ta determine which areas is text n' which contain
images. Da image areas is ghon be halftoned, n' tha text will be
improved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Valid options is "yes" n' "no". Da default is "yes".

Da 
.I \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
parameta can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table fo' the
red channel. Da valid options is tha same as fo' \-\-gamma\-table.

Da 
.I \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
parameta can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table fo' the
chronic channel. Da valid options is tha same as fo' \-\-gamma\-table.

Da 
.I \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
parameta can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table fo' the
blue channel. Da valid options is tha same as fo' \-\-gamma\-table.

The
.I --wait-for-button
parameta can be used ta wait until tha button on tha scanner is
pressed ta straight-up start tha scan process.

Da color erection coefficients
.I \-\-cct\-1 \-\-cct\-2 \-\-cct\-3 ... \-\-cct\-9
will install color erection coefficients fo' tha user defined color
correction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Values is specified as integers up in tha range \-127..127.

Da 
.I \-\-preview
option requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da frontend software automatically selects a low 
resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid options is "yes" n' "no". Da default is "no".

Da geometry options
.I \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control tha scan area: \-l sets tha top left x coordinate, \-t tha top
left y coordinate, \-x selects tha width n' \-y tha height of tha scan
area fo' realz. All parametas is specified up in millimeters.

The
.I \-\-source
option selects tha scan source. Valid options depend on tha installed
options. Da default is "Flatbed".

Da 
.I \-\-auto\-eject
option will eject a page afta scannin from tha document feeder n' shit. 

The
.I \-\-film\-type
option will select tha film type fo' scans wit tha transparency
unit. This option is only activated if tha TPU is selected as scan
source. Valid options is "Negatizzle Film" n' "Positizzle Film".

The
.I \-\-focus\-position
option selects tha focus posizzle fo' all scans. Valid options is "Focus
2.5mm above glass" n' "Focus on glass". Da focus on tha 2.5mm point
above tha glass is necessary fo' scans wit tha transparency unit, so
that tha scanner can focus on tha film if one of tha film holdaz is used.
This option is only functionizzle fo' selected scanners, all other scanners
will ignore dis option.

The
.I \-\-bay
option selects which bay ta scan

The
.I \-\-eject
option ejects tha shizzle up in tha ADF.

The
.I \-\-adf-mode
option select tha ADF mode (simplex/duplex).

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/epson2.conf specifies tha device(s) dat tha 
backend will use. Possible connection types are:
.TP
.I SCSI
This is tha default, n' if not a god damn thang else is specified tha backend software will
open a given path as SCSI device. Mo' shiznit bout valid syntax fo' SCSI
devices can be found up in sane\-scsi(5).
.br
Usually SCSI scanners is configured wit a line "scsi EPSON" up in dis file. In 
some cases it may be necessary ta only use tha strang "scsi" (e.g. fo' tha GT-6500).
.TP
.I PIO \- Parallel Interface
Da parallel intercourse can be configured up in two ways: An integer value starting
at tha beginnin of a line is ghon be interpreted as tha IO address of tha parallel
port. To make it clearer dat a cold-ass lil configured IO address be a parallel port tha 
port address can be preceded by tha strang "PIO". Da PIO connection do not
use a special thang file up in tha /dev directory. Da IO address can be specified
in hex mode (prefixed wit "0x").
.TP
.I STD
For STD scanners not automatically detect, they VENDOR n' PRODUCT ID can
be specified manually up in tha config file.  
Mo' shiznit bout valid syntax fo' STD devices can be found up in sane\-usb(5).
.TP
.I Network
Network scanners can be auto-discovered if
.I autodiscovery
is specified afta 
.I
net 
keyword. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  An IP address ta connect ta can also be used.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-epson2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-epson2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2_SCSI
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha SCSI related debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  
Only a value of 2 is supported.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_EPSON2_NET
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha network related debug level fo' dis 
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g., a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  
Smalla levels reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_EPSON2_CMD_LVL
This allows ta override tha function or command level dat tha backend 
uses ta rap wit tha scanner n' shit. Da function level a scanner
supports is determined durin tha initialization of tha device. If
the backend do not recognize tha function level reported by tha 
scanner it will default ta function level B3. Valid function levels
are A1, A2, B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6, B7, B8, D1 n' F5. Use dis feature
only if you know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin!

.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1)

.SH BUGS

None :-) At least none is currently known.

.SH UNSUPPORTED DEVICES
Da backend may be used wit Epson scanners dat is not yet listed 
under tha list of supported devices fo' realz. A scanner dat aint recognized
may default ta tha function level B3, which means dat not all 
functions dat tha scanner may be capable of is accessible. 

If tha scanner aint even recognized as a Epson scanner dis is
probably cuz tha thang name reported by tha scanner aint up in the
correct format. Please bust dis shiznit ta tha backend maintainer
(email address is up in tha AUTHOR section of dis playa page or up in the
AUTHORS file of tha SANE distribution). 

.SH AUTHOR

Da package is freestyled by Alessandro Zummo n' is based on previous
work done by Karl Hienz Kremer up in tha epson package as well as based
on work by Christian Bucher n' Kazuhiro Sasayama
