.TH sane\-mustek_usb2 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-mustek_usb2
.SH NAME
sane\-mustek_usb2 \- SANE backend fo' SQ113 based STD flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-mustek_usb2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta STD flatbed scanners based on tha Service & Qualitizzle SQ113 chipset fo' realz. At
the moment, only tha Mustek BearPaw 2448 TA Pro is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. It aint nuthin but planned ta add
support fo' other scanners dat is based on tha SQ113 n' maybe SQ11 chip. For
more details, peep tha mustek_usb2 backend homepage: 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek_usb2\-backend/ .
.PP
This is BETA software. Especially if you test freshly smoked up or untested scanners, keep
your hand all up in tha scannerz plug n' unplug it, if tha head bumps all up in tha end of
the scan area.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed on tha mustek_usb2 homepizzy dat works wit this
backend, please let me know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta mah dirty ass. Even if tha scannerz name is only slightly different from
the models already listed as supported, please let me know.
.PP
.SH LIBSTD ISSUES
Please use libusb-0.1.8 or later n' shit. Without libusb or wit olda libusb versions
all kindz of shiznit can be expected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da scanner should be found by
sane\-find\-scanner without further actions. For settin permissions n' general
STD shiznit looks at
.BR sane\-usb (5).
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-mustek_usb2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-mustek_usb2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_STD2
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher debug levels
increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_STD2=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5)
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/mustek_usb2/mustek_usb2.CHANGES
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/mustek_usb2\-backend/

.SH AUTHOR
Da driver has been freestyled Roy Zhou, Jack Xu, n' Vinci Cen from
Mustek fo' realz. Adjustments ta SANE by Hennin Meier-Geinitz.

.SH BUGS
Please contact me if you find a funky-ass bug or missin feature:
<henning@meier\-geinitz.de>. Please bust a thugged-out debug log if yo' scanner aint
detected erectly (see SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK_STD2 above).
