.TH sane\-canon_pp 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-canon_pp
.SH NAME
sane\-canon_pp \- SANE backend fo' Canon CanoScan Parallel Port flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-canon_pp
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat serves up 
access ta tha followin Canon flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
CanoScan FB320P
.br
CanoScan FB620P
.br
CanoScan FB330P
.br
CanoScan FB630P
.br
CanoScan N340P
.br
CanoScan N640P
.br
CanoScan N640P ex
.br
.RE
.PP
No STD scanners is supported n' there be no plans ta support dem up in tha 
future.  Other projects is hustlin on support fo' STD scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha 
.B PROJECTS 
file fo' mo' detail.  Da FB310P n' FB610P is re-badged Avision scanners
which bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different command set, so is unlikely ta be supported by dis 
backend up in tha future.
.PP
IMPORTANT: dis be alpha code. While our crazy asses have made every last muthafuckin effort ta make it as
reliable as possible, it aint gonna always work as expected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Feedback is still
appreciated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Please bust any bug reports ta tha maintainers as listed on the
web page (listed in
.B SEE ALSO
below).
.PP
.
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form presented by libieee1284.  These 
names is highly dependent on operatin system n' version.

On Linux 2.4 kernels dis is ghon be of tha form 
.I "parport0"
or olda (2.2 n' before) kernels may produce names like 
.IR "0x378"
(the base address of yo' port) or simply 
.IR "0"
dependin on yo' module configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Peep tha contentz of 
.I /proc/parport
if it exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If you don't wanna specify a thugged-out default port (or don't give a fuck its 
name), tha backend should be able ta detect which port yo' scanner is on.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I canon_pp.conf
file be a list of options fo' tha driver ta use.  Empty lines n' lines 
startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored.
.PP
Da supported options is currently
.BR ieee1284 ,
.BR calibrate ,
.BR init_mode ,
and 
.BR force_nibble

Option
.B ieee1284 
.IR port-name
defines which port ta use.  Da format of port-name is OS dependent, based on 
the names presented by libieee1284.  Please only have one of these lines, or
all but one is ghon be ignored.

Option 
.B calibrate 
.IR cal-file 
.IR [port-name]
defines which calibration file ta use on a per-port basis.  If you only have 
one parport, tha port-name argument may be omitted \- but be careful as dis 
will cause problems on multi-scanner systems.  Yo ass may have as nuff of these
lines as you like, as long as each has a unique port name.  Da tilde (`~') 
characta be aaight n' is ghon be expanded ta tha value of tha HOME 
environment.

Option 
.B init_mode
.IR <AUTO|FB620P|FB630P>
.IR [portname]
defines which initialisation (wake-up) mode ta use on a per-port basis.  
If you only have one parport, tha portname argument may be omitted \- but 
be careful as dis may cause problems on multi-scanner systems.  
Yo ass may have as nuff of these lines as you like, as long as each has a unique 
port name.  Da valid initialisation modes is FB620P (which strobes 10101010 
and 01010101 on tha data pins), FB630P (which strobes 11001100 n' 00110011 
on tha data pins) n' AUTO, which will try FB630P mode first then FB620P mode
second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da FB620P mode be also used by tha FB320P.  Da FB630P mode is used
by tha FB330P, N340P, n' N640P.

Option
.B force_nibble
forces tha driver ta use nibble mode even if ECP mode is reported ta work by 
libieee1284.  This works-around tha rare issue of ECP mode bein reported ta 
work by tha library, then not working.

.SH TIPS
.PP
Hit tha "Calibrate" button before scanning.  It vastly improves tha qualitizzle of 
scans.
.PP
To enable automatic detection of yo' scanner, uncomment tha "canon_pp" line 
from
.I /etc/sane.d/dll.conf
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/canon_pp.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon_pp.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon_pp.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems dat support 
dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may contain 
the configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories is separated by a cold-ass lil colon 
(`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable
is not set, tha configuration file is searched up in two default directories: 
first, tha current hustlin directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha 
value of tha environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character,
then tha default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified 
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_CANON_PP
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment 
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher debug levels 
increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_CANON_PP=4
.SH NOTES
.B Features available up in tha Windows intercourse
.TP
.B Brightnizz n' Contrast 
These is not implemented, n' probably never will be.  These step tha fuck up ta be 
implemented entirely up in software.  Use GIMP or a similar program if you need 
these features.
.TP
.B Descreen Mode
This appears on our first analysis ta be just oversamplin wit a 
anti-aliasin filter n' shit.  Again, it seems ta be implemented entirely up in software,
so GIMP is yo' dopest bet fo' now, nahmeean?
.TP
.B Gamma Tables
This is under investigation yo, but fo' now only a simple gamma flava (ie: the
one returned durin calibration) is ghon be loaded.
.PP
.B Communication Problems
.PP
ECP mode up in libieee1284 don't always work properly, even wit freshly smoked up hardware.  
We believe dat dis be a ppdev problem.  If you chizzle tha configuration file
to include 
.B force_nibble
, tha problem will go away yo, but yo big-ass booty is ghon only be able ta scan up in nibble mode.
.PP
Sometimes tha scanner can be left up in a state where our code cannot revive dat shit.
If tha backend reports no scanner present, try unpluggin tha juice n' 
pluggin it back in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Also try unpluggin printas from tha pass-all up in port.
.PP
Da scanner aint gonna respond erectly ta our commandz when you first plug up in 
the juice n' shit.  Yo ass may find if you try a scan straight-up soon afta pluggin up in tha 
power dat tha backend will incorrectly report dat you have no scanner present.
To avoid this, give it bout 10 secondz ta reset itself before attemptin any 
scans.
.PP
.B Repeated Lines
.PP
Sometimes at high resolutions (ie. 600dpi) yo big-ass booty is ghon notice lines which appear
twice.  These lines correspond ta points where tha scanner head has stopped
durin tha scan (it stops every last muthafuckin time tha internal 64kb buffer is full).  
Basically itz a mechanical problem inside tha scanner, dat tha tolerizzle of
movement fo' a start/stop event is pimped outa than 1/600 inches.  I've never tried
the windows driver so I aint shizzle how tha fuck (or if) it works round dis problem, 
but as our phat asses don't give a fuck how tha fuck ta rewind tha scanner head ta do these bits again, 
therez currently no sick way ta deal wit tha problem.
.PP
.B Gay-scale Scans
.PP
Be aware dat tha scanner uses tha chronic LEDs ta read grey-scale scans, meanin 
chronic coloured thangs will step tha fuck up lighta than normal, n' red n' blue 
coloured shit will step tha fuck up darker than normal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  For high-accuracy grey-scale 
scanz of colour items, itz dopest just ta scan up in colour n' convert ta 
grey-scale up in graphics software like fuckin tha GIMP.
.PP
.B FB620P/FB320P Caveats
.PP
These models can not be reset up in tha same way as tha others.  Da windows driver
doesn't know how tha fuck ta reset dem either \- when left wit a inconsistent scanner, 
it will start scannin half way down tha page!
.PP
Abortin is known ta work erectly on tha FB*30P models, n' is known ta be
broken on tha FB*20P models.  Da FB620P which I tested on simply returns 
garbage afta a scan has been aborted rockin tha method we know.  
Abortin be able ta leave tha scanner up in a state where it can be shut down, 
but not where another scan can be made.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-dll(5)
.BR
http://canon\-fb330p.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR
This backend is primarily tha work of Semen Krix (Reverse Engineering), n' 
Matthew Duggan (SANE intercourse).  
.PP
Many props ta Kevin Easton fo' his comments n' help, n' Kent A. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Signorini 
for his help wit tha N340P.

