.TH sane\-ma1509 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-ma1509
.SH NAME
sane\-ma1509 \- SANE backend fo' Mustek BearPaw 1200F STD scanner
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-ma1509
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha Mustek BearPaw 1200F STD flatbed scanner n' shit. This scanner is based
on tha MA-1509 chipset. Other scanners dat use dis chip (if they exist) may
also work.
.PP
This backend is ALPHA software.  Be careful n' remove tha juice plug
immediately if yo' hear unusual noises.
.PP
Mo' details can be found on tha ma1509 backend homepizzy 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509\-backend/ .
.PP
Other Mustek STD scanners is supported by tha gt68xx, mustek_usb n' the
plustek backends. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5)
and
.BR sane\-plustek (5)
for details.
.PP
This backend can only work wit scanners dat is already detected by the
operatin system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR sane\-usb (5)
for details.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha Mustek BearPaw 1200F dat works wit this
backend, please let me know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.I /proc/bus/usb/devices
or syslog) ta mah dirty ass.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is a path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a STD scanner.
With Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/usb/scanner0
or
.IR libusb:001:002 ,
for example.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I ma1509.conf
file be a list of options n' thang names dat correspond ta Mustek BearPaw
1200F scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored.
.PP
Instead of rockin tha thang name, tha scanner can be autodetected by 
.B "usb vendor_id product_id"
statements which is already included into
.IR ma1509.conf .
This is only supported wit Linux 2.4.8 n' higher n' all systems that
support libsub. "vendor_id" n' "product_id" is hexadecimal numbers that
identify tha scanner n' shit. If dis don't work, a thang name must be placed in
.I ma1509.conf 
as busted lyrics bout above.
.PP
To set tha time tha lamp needz fo' warm-up, use
.B option
.B warmup-time
in 
.IR ma1509.conf .
Da time is given up in secondz afta tha option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default is 30 seconds.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/ma1509.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-ma1509.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-ma1509.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MA1509
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5),
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509\-backend/

.SH AUTHOR
Hennin Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>

.SH BUGS
Resolutions higher than 600 dpi don't work
.br
Transparency adapta n' automatic document feeder aint supported yet
.br
No support fo' "high-speed" mode (jpeg)
.PP
Mo' detailed bug shiznit be available all up in tha MA-1509 backend homepage
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/ma1509-backend/ .
