.TH sane\-canon_dr 5 "16 Sep 2013" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-canon_dr

.SH NAME
sane\-canon_dr \- SANE backend fo' Canon DR-series scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-canon_dr
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta some Canon DR-series scanners.

This document raps bout backend version 41, which shipped wit SANE 1.0.24.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This version has only been tested wit all dem scanner models. Please peep 
http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html fo' da most thugged-out recent 
list.

This backend may support other Canon scanners. Da best
way ta determine level of support is ta test tha scanner directly,
or ta collect a trace of tha windows driver up in action.
Please contact tha lyricist fo' help or wit test thangs up in dis biatch.

In general, tha larger machines (DR-4000 n' up) which done been tested use
a fairly complete protocol, wit hardware support fo' nuff modes, resolutions 
and features. Da smalla machines have nuff limitations, like missin 
horizontal resolutions, missin binary mode, always scannin full-width, etc.
There is code up in tha backend ta address these problems yo, but there seems ta be
no way ta detect if they is required, so they must be hard-coded.

.SH OPTIONS
Effort has been made ta expose most hardware options, including:
.PP
source s 
.RS
Selects tha source fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Flatbed", "ADF Front", "ADF Back", "ADF Duplex".
.RE
.PP
mode m 
.RS
Selects tha mode fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Lineart", "Halftone", "Gray", n' "Color".
.RE
.PP
resolution 
.RS
Controls scan resolution.
.RE
.PP
tl\-x, tl\-y, br\-x, br\-y
.RS
Sets scan area upper left n' lower right coordinates. These is renamed 
t, l, x, y by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
page\-width, page\-height
.RS
Sets paper size. Used by scanner ta determine centerin of scan
coordinates when rockin ADF n' ta detect double feed errors.
.RE
.PP
Other options is ghon be available based on tha capabilitizzlez of tha scanner:
enhancement, compression yo, buttons n' sensors, etc.
.PP
Additionally, nuff muthafuckin 'software' options is exposed by tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. These
are reimplementationz of features provided natively by larger scanners yo, but
runnin on tha host computer n' shit. This enablez smalla machines ta have similar
capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Please note dat these features is somewhat simplistic, n' 
may not big-ass up as well as tha natizzle implementations. Note also dat these 
features all require dat tha driver cache tha entire image up in memory. This 
will almost certainly result up in a reduction of scannin speed.
.PP
swcrop 
.RS
Requests tha driver ta detect tha extremitizzlez of tha paper within tha larger 
image, n' crop tha empty edges. 
.RE
.PP
swdeskew 
.RS
Requests tha driver ta detect tha rotation of tha paper within tha larger 
image, n' counta tha rotation.
.RE
.PP
swdespeck X 
.RS
Requests tha driver ta find n' remove dotz of X diameta or smalla from tha 
image, n' fill tha space wit tha average surroundin color.
.RE

Use 'scanimage \-\-help' ta git a list yo, but be aware dat some options may 
be settable only when another option has been set, n' dat advanced options 
may be hidden by some frontend programs.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "canon_dr.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look
for scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend.
This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list 
of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha configuration
file is missing, tha backend will fail ta run.
.PP
Scanners can be specified up in tha configuration file up in 4 ways:
.PP
"scsi CANON DR"
.RS
Requests backend ta search all scsi busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which reports itself ta be a scanner made by 'CANON', wit a model name
startin wit 'DR'. 
.RE
.PP
"scsi /dev/sg0" (or other scsi thang file)
.RS
Requests backend ta open tha named scsi device. Only useful if you have
multiple compatible scanners connected ta yo' system, n' need to
specify one. Probably should not be used wit tha other "scsi" line above.
.RE
.PP
"usb 0x04a9 0x1603" (or other vendor/thang ids)
.RS
Requests backend ta search all usb busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which uses dat vendor n' thang id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da thang will then be queried
to determine if it aint nuthin but a Canon scanner.
.RE
.PP
"usb /dev/usb/scanner0" (or other thang file)
.RS
Some systems bust a kernel driver ta access usb scanners. This method is untested.
.RE
.PP
Besides tha 'scsi' n' 'usb' lines, tha configuration file supports tha 
followin 'option' lines:
.PP
"option buffer-size [number of bytes]"
.RS
Set tha number of bytes up in tha data buffer ta suttin' other than tha 
compiled\-in default of 4MB. Big-Ass joints may cause timeouts or hangs, small
values may cause slow scans.
.PP
Note: Da backend do not place a upper bound on dis value, as some users
required it ta be like large. Values above tha default is not recommended,
and may crash yo' OS or lockup yo' scsi card driver n' shit. Yo ass have been
warned.
.RE
.PP
"option vendor-name [strin of text]"
.br
"option model-name [strin of text]"
.br
"option version-name [strin of text]"
.RS
These options can be used collectively ta override tha joints provided by tha 
scanner, or ta provide tha joints when tha scanner cannot.
.RE
.PP
"option padded-read [0|1]"
.RS
Some scanners prepend all data transmitted ta host wit 12 bytes. Enable dis option if tha scanner fails ta respond ta commands.
.RE
.PP
"option duplex-offset [integer]"
.RS
Some scanners pad tha upper edge of one side of a thugged-out duplex scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. There is some variation up in tha amount of padding. Modify dis option if yo' unit shows a unwanted crew of image data on only one side.
.RE
.PP
Note: 'option' lines may step tha fuck up multiple times up in tha configuration file.
They only apply ta scanners discovered by tha next 'scsi/usb' line.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_CANON_DR, which
enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Valid joints are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI/STD trace
.br
30 SCSI/STD detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
This backend was entirely reverse engineered from usb tracez of tha proprietary 
driver n' shit. Various advanced featurez of tha machines may not be enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Many
machines aint been tested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Their protocol is unknown.

.SH CREDITS
  
Da various authorz of tha sane\-fujitsu backend provided useful code
.br
Yabarana Corp. www.yabarana.com provided dope funding
.br
EvriChart, Inc. www.evrichart.com provided fundin n' loaned shit
.br
Canon, USA. www.usa.canon.com loaned shit
.br
HPrint hprint.com.br provided fundin n' testin fo' DR-2510 support
.br
Stone-IT www.stone-it.com provided fundin fo' DR-2010 n' DR-2050 support
.br
Gerhard Pfeffer provided access n' testin fo' P-208 n' P-215
.br
Special props to: Alejandro Imass, Andre Shimakawa, Martijn van Brummelen, Thanos Diacakis n' Junren Shi fo' testin n' feedback.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-scsi(5),
sane\-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>

