.TH sane\-sm3840 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-sm3840
.SH NAME
sane\-sm3840 \- SANE backend fo' Microtek scanners wit SCAN08 STD chip
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-sm3840
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some Microtek scanners wit tha SCAN08
STD chip.
.PP 
There exist backendz fo' Microtek scanners wit SCSI command set.
Refer ta sane\-microtek(5) n' sane\-microtek2(5) fo' details.
.PP
There also exists a Microtek 3600 series driver, peep sane\-sm3600(5) for
details.
.PP
At present, tha following
scanners is known positively ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor     Product ID:     Remark:
--------   --------------  -----------
Microtek   ScanMaker 3840  All modes OK
Microtek   ScanMaker 4800  All modes OK
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
If you own a Microtek scanner wit tha SCAN08 chip other than tha ones
listed above, it may or may not work wit SANE.  Feel free ta contact the
backend lyricist (earle@ziplabel.com) ta report thangs up in dis biatch wit scanners not
on tha list.


.SH "FRONTEND OPTIONS"
.PP
Da followin options is supported by tha sm3840-driver:
.PP
.B \-\-mode color|gray|lineart|halftone
.br
Color or grayscale mode.

.B \-\-resolution 150|300|600|1200
.br
Pixels per inch fo' scans.

.B \-\-depth 8|16
.br
Note dat tha least dope bitz of 16bpp mode may be noise.

.B \-\-brightnizz 1..4096
.br
Higher numbers increase brightnizz of returned image.

.B \-\-contrast 0.1..9.9
.br
Larger numbers decrease contrast of returned image.

.B \-\-lamp\-timeout 1..15
.br
Time up in minutes until tha lamp is turned off afta a scan.

.SH CONFIGURATION
This backend do not support a cold-ass lil configuration file n' aint a thugged-out damn thang dat yo' ass can do.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sm3840.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sm3840.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SM3840
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. To peep error lyrics on stderr set
SANE_DEBUG_SM3840 ta 1.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-microtek2(5), sane\-sm3600(5), http://www.ziplabel.com/sm3840

.SH AUTHOR
.br
Earle F. Philhower Pt III (earle@ziplabel.com)
.br

