.TH sane\-artec 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-artec

.SH NAME
sane\-artec \- SANE backend fo' Artec flatbed scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-artec
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend
that serves up access ta Artec/Ultima SCSI flatbed scanners.  At present,
the followin scanners is known ta work at least partially wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
* Artec A6000C
.br
* Artec A6000C PLUS
.br
* Artec ViewStation AT3
.br
* BlackWidow BW4800SP (rebadged Artec AT3)
.br
* Artec ViewStation AT6
.br
* Artec ViewStation AT12
.br
* Artec AM12S
.br
* Plustek 19200S (rebadged Artec AM12S)
.RE
.PP
Although dis manual page is generally updated wit each release,
up-to-date shiznit on freshly smoked up releases n' extraneous helpful hints
are available from tha backend homepage:
.br
.br
.RS
.B http://www4.infi.net/~cpinkham/sane/
.RE

.SH DOCUMENTATION


.SH CONFIGURATION

Da contentz of the
.I artec.conf
file is a list of thang names that
correspond ta Artec scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a
hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
.I sane\-scsi(5)
on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.

Sample file:
.br
.br
.nf
# artec.conf
#
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment.
#
# dis line say search fo' any SCSI devices which is scanners n' have
#     a vendor strang of 'ULTIMA'
scsi ULTIMA
#
# tha next line forces tha backend ta assume tha next scanner found has
#     tha specified vendor strang (useful fo' testin rebadged models).
vendor ULTIMA
#
# tha next line forces tha backend ta assume tha next scanner found has
#     tha specified model strang (useful fo' testin rebadged models).
model AT3
#
# now a line dat straight-up specifies a thugged-out device.  Da backend is goin to
#     assume dis be a Artec/Ultima AT3 cuz we forced tha vendor and
#     model above.
/dev/scanner
#
# once our crazy asses hit a scanner thang line, tha forced vendor n' model
# strang are
#     'forgotten', so tha vendor n' model fo' dis next thang will be
#     determined from tha result of a SCSI inquiry.
/dev/sge
#
.fi

.SH SCSI ADAPTER TIPS

Some Artec scanners come wit a included SCSI adapter n' shit.  If yo' scanner came
with a DTC ISA scsi cards, you can probably use it wit recent (>= 2.2.0)
kernels rockin tha generic NCR5380 support.  Yo ass must pass tha following
boot argument ta tha kernel: "dtc3181e=0x2c0,0"
.br
I aint gots any shiznit on tha PCI SCSI adapta included wit some
newer Artec scanners.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/artec.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-artec.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-artec.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a semi-
colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file is
searched up in two default directories: first, tha current hustlin direc-
tory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels reduce verbosity:
SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC joints

.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 0       print blingin errors
 1       print errors
 2       print sense
 3       print warnings
 4       print scanner-inquiry
 5       print shiznit
 6       print less blingin shiznit
 7       print major called procedures
 8       print all called procedures
 9       print procedure info/data lyrics
 10      print called sane\-init-routines
 11      print called sane\-procedures
 12      print sane infos
 13      print sane option-control lyrics
\ 
 50      print verbose data/debug lyrics
\ 
 == 100  print software RGB calibration data
 == 101  print raw data from scanner ta artec.data.raw file
\ 
 == 128  print up all lyrics
.fi
.ft R
.PP
Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC=13

.SH BUGS

Known bugs up in dis release: A6000C+ playas wit firmware v1.92 or
earlier have problems wit tha backend, tha cause has not been determined.
Sometimes tha backend aint particularly robust, you can possibly lock up
the SCSI bus (and/or machine) by not havin patience enough when scanning.
3-channel gamma erection aint implemented n' single-channel gamma
correction aint straight-up hustlin on models other than tha AT3.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Chris Pinkham (cpinkham@corp.infi.net)
