.TH sane\-sm3600 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-sm3600
.SH NAME
sane\-sm3600 \- SANE backend fo' Microtek scanners wit M011 STD chip
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-sm3600
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some Microtek scanners wit tha Toshiba M011 custom
STD chip.  This backend should be considered alpha.
.PP 
There is also backendz fo' Microtek scanners wit SCSI command set.
Refer ta sane\-microtek(5) n' sane\-microtek2(5) fo' details.
.PP
At present, tha following
scanners is known positively ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor     Product id:     Remark:
--------   --------------  -----------
Microtek   ScanMaker 3600  all modes ok
Microtek   ScanMaker 3700  reported ta work
Microtek   ScanMaker 3750  reported ta work
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
If you own a Microtek scanner wit tha M011 chip other than tha ones
listed above, it may or may not work wit SANE!

.SH "FRONTEND OPTIONS"
This backend dynamically enablez tha options fo' tha frontend,
that is supported by tha scanner up in dependence of tha scanning-mode
and other options. Not supported options is disabled.
.PP
Da followin options is supported by tha Microtek2-driver:
.PP
Color, grayscale, halftone n' lineart scans.
.PP
contrast, brightness, control, gamma erection.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend do not support thang names up in a standardized form.

.SH CONFIGURATION
This backend do not support a cold-ass lil configuration file n' aint a thugged-out damn thang dat yo' ass can do.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sm3600.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sm3600.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SM3600
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. To peep error lyrics on stderr set
SANE_DEBUG_SM3600 ta 1.

.br
E.g. just say:
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_SM3600=5

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-microtek2(5), http://sm3600.sourceforge.net

.SH AUTHOR
.br
Marian Eichholz (eichholz@computer.org)
.br
Glenn Ramsey (glenn@componic.com)
.br

