.TH sane\-snapscan 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-snapscan
.SH NAME
sane\-snapscan \- SANE backend fo' AGFA SnapScan flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-snapscan
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta AGFA SnapScan flatbed scanners fo' realz. At present, tha followin scanners
are supported from dis backend: AGFA SnapScan 300, 310, 600, n' 1236s,
1236u, 1212u, e20, e25,
e40, e50, e60, Vuego 310s, Acer 300f, 310s, 610s, 610plus, Prisa 620s, Prisa
620u, Prisa 620ut, Prisa 640u, Prisa 640bu, Prisa 1240, Prisa 3300, Prisa
4300, Prisa 5300 n' Guillemot Maxi Scan A4 Deluxe (SCSI) (with
varyin success).
.PP

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner n' shit. For SCSI
scanners, tha special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.P
For STD scanners tha devicename must contain tha keyword "usb", as up in 
.I /dev/usbscanner 
or
.IR /dev/usb/scanner0 .
For scanners dat need a gangbangin' firmware upload before scannin add a line starting
with "firmware" followed by tha straight-up qualified path ta yo' firmware file,
e.g.
.PP
.RS
firmware /usr/share/sane/snapscan/firmware.bin
.RE
.PP
For further details read http://snapscan.sourceforge.net.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I snapscan.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta SnapScan
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See sane\-scsi(5) on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid
device name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/snapscan.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-snapscan.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-snapscan.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SNAPSCAN
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.


.SH BUGS
Man page don't provide much shiznit yet.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.br
http://www.cs.ualberta.ca/~charter/SnapScan/snapscan.html
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/snapscan/ (new pimpment joint)

.SH AUTHOR
Kevin Charter, Franck Schneider, Michel Roelofs, Emmanuel Blot,
Mikko Tyolajarvi, Dizzy Mosberger-Tang, Wolfgang Goeller,
Petta Reinholdtsen, Gary Plewa, Sebastien Sable, Oliver Schwartz
and Mikael Magnusson.
.br
Man page by Hennin Meier-Geinitz (mostly based on tha wizzy pages n' 
source code).
