.TH sane\-matsushita 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-matsushita
.SH NAME
sane\-matsushita \- SANE backend fo' Panasonic KV-SS high speed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-matsushita
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some Panasonic KV-SS high speed scanners. This
backend is stable.
.PP
At present, tha followin scanners is known ta work wit this
backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
  Product id
--------------
   KV-SS25
   KV-SS25D
   KV-SS55EX (*)
   KV-S2025C (*)
   KV-S2045C (*)
   KV-S2065L (*)
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
(*) WARNING: None of tha advanced optionz of these scanners is available (ie no color, no high resolution, no automatic cropping). Basically, tha driver do no mo' than what tha fuck it do fo' tha KV-SS25. I aint gots access ta such scanners, n' thus cannot add these options.

Other Panasonic high speed scanners may or may not work wit dat backend.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d matsushita
.RE

.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner.
.TP
.B \-\-resolution
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Each model supports all or a subset of these resolutions: 100, 150, 200, 240, 300, 360, 400.
.TP
.B \-\-duplex
indicates whether ta scan both side of tha sheet.
.TP
.B \-\-feeder\-mode
selects tha number of pages ta scan (one or until tha tray is empty).

.TP
.B Geometry

.TP
.B \-\-paper\-size A4|...|Legal|Letta [A4]
options selects tha area ta scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it adjust tha 
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y
options accordingly. Well shiiiit, it do not need ta be tha real size of tha paper.

.TP
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control tha scan area: \-l sets tha top left x coordinate, \-t tha top
left y coordinate, \-x selects tha width n' \-y tha height of tha scan
area fo' realz. All parametas is specified up in millimeters. Well shiiiit, it is possible ta use
the option
.I \-\-paper\-size
instead.

.TP
.B Enhancement

.TP
.B \-\-brightness
controls tha brightnizz of tha acquired image. Da value varies from 1 ta 255, or less, dependin on tha scanner model.
.TP
.B \-\-contrast
controls tha contrast of tha acquired image. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some models do not support dat option.
.TP
.B \-\-automatic\-threshold
automatically sets brightness, contrast, white level, gamma, noise reduction n' image emphasis. These options is not available when automatic\-threshold is up in use.
.TP
.B \-\-halftone\-pattern
option sets tha tonal gradation fo' tha halftone mode. Pattern downloadin aint implemented by tha backend.
.TP
.B \-\-autoseparation
provides automatic separation of text n' images. 
.TP
.B \-\-white\-level
option indicate tha source of tha white base.
.TP
.B \-\-noise\-reduction
reduces tha isolated dot noise. This option aint supported by all scanners.
.TP
.B \-\-image\-emphasis
option sets tha image emphasis. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some selection is not available on all scanners.
.TP
.B \-\-gamma
options set tha gamma curve. Well shiiiit, it is only valid fo' Gray modes, n' aint available on all scanners. Gamma downloadin aint implemented by tha backend.


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/matsushita.conf supports tha thang name ta use (eg /dev/scanner) n' tha SCSI option ta auto-detect tha scanners supported.


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-matsushita.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-matsushita.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MATSUSHITA
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.


.SH LIMITATIONS
.TP
.B Memory up in tha KV-SS 25
Da KV-SS 25 has not enough internal memory ta scan a whole A4 page up in duplex mode at high resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da frontend will return a memory error up in dat case fo' realz. Apparently, tha KV-SS 25D has not dat problem.
.TP
.B Pattern n' gamma downloading
Da scanner, wit tha proper firmware, can downlizzle a halftone pattern
and a gamma table. This aint implemented.
.TP
.B Sub-areas
Da scanner can support up ta 3 sub-areas on each side ta define some
more precise enhancement options. This aint implemented.
.TP
.B Duplex mode
Da backend do not support tha settin of different options fo' each side. Da scan will occur wit tha same options (halftone pattern, brightness, image emphasis) fo' both sides.


.SH SCANNING EXAMPLE
To date, tha only frontend capable of rockin dis scanner at full speed is
.B
scanadf.

A scanadf command line would be:

scanadf \-d matsushita \-\-output\-file scan%04d.pbm \-\-start\-count 0 \-\-duplex \-\-resolution 300 \-\-feeder\-mode="All pages" \-\-paper\-size="A4"


.SH BUGS

None known.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHOR

.TP
Da package be actively maintained by Frank Zago.
.I http://www.zago.net/sane/#matsushita
