.TH sane\-dll 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-dll
.SH NAME
sane\-dll \- SANE dynamic backend loader
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-dll
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta a arbitrary number of other SANE backends.  These
backendz may either be pre-loaded all up in tha time the
.B sane\-dll
library is built or, on systems dat support dynamic loadin of shared
libraries, tha backendz may be loaded at runtime.  In tha latta case,
addin support fo' a freshly smoked up backend simply involves installin the
relevant library in
.I /usr/lib64/sane
and addin a entry ta the
.I dll.conf
configuration file.  In other lyrics, no applications need ta be
modified or recompiled ta add support fo' freshly smoked up devices.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.IR backend : device
.RE
.PP
Where
.I backend
is tha name of tha backend and
.I device
is tha name of tha thang up in dis backend dat should be addressed.
If tha thang name do not contain a cold-ass lil colon (:), then tha entire string
is treated as the
.I device
strin fo' tha default backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Da default backend is tha backend
listed last up in tha configuration file (see below) or tha first
pre-loaded backend (if any).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I dll.conf
file be a list of backend names dat may be loaded dynamically upon demand.
Empty lines is ignored, also every last muthafuckin thang afta a hash mark (#) fo' realz. A sample
configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
net
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
pnm
.br
mustek
.RE
.PP
It be also possible ta add a gangbangin' file in
.I /etc/sane.d/dll.d
that gotz nuff tha list of backendz ta be added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Backendz mentioned up in a 
file included up in dis directory is ghon be added before any backendz listed 
in 
.I dll.conf.
Filez up in 
.I /etc/sane.d/dll.d
can be freely named. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! They shall follow tha format conventions as apply for
.I dll.conf.

.PP
Note dat backendz dat was pre-loaded when buildin dis library do
not gotta be listed up in dis configuration file.  That is, if a
backend was preloaded, then dat backend will always be present,
regardless of whether itz listed up in tha configuration file or not.
.PP
Da list of preloaded backendz is determined by macro
.B PRELOADABLE_BACKENDS
in file backend/Makefile.in of tha SANE source code distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  After
changin tha value of dis macro, it is necessary ta reconfigure, rebuild,
and reinstall SANE fo' tha chizzle ta take effect.

Aliases is defined up in tha config file 
.IR dll.aliases .
It can contain entriez of tha form
.PP
.RS
.br
alias SomeName SaneDeviceName
.br
alias "Some Name" SaneDeviceName
.br
hide SaneDeviceName
.RE
.PP
For example:

.PP
.RS
.br
alias Epson net:somehost:epson:/dev/sgX
.br
alias "Siemens ST400" st400:/dev/sgY
.br
hide net:somehost:pnm:0
.br
hide net:somehost:pnm:1
.br
alias "Read from file" pnm:0
.br
hide pnm:1
.RE
.PP

Aliased thang names is automatically hidden.

Da scam is dat playas don't gotta deal wit fucked up device
names (especially fo' networked devices), n' ta hide other exported
devices which might confuse em. Note dat a hidden thang can still
be accessed if tha thang name is known, it just don't step tha fuck up on the
list.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/dll.aliases
Da list of aliased or hidden backends.
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/dll.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dll.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dll.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_DLL
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. 

.ft CR
.nf
Value  Description
0      print severe errors only
1      print aiiight errors n' blingin lyrics
2      print aiiight lyrics
3      print debuggin lyrics
4      print every last muthafuckin thang
.fi
.ft R

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_DLL=3


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR scanimage (1),
.BR sane\-"backendname" (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger
