.TH sane\-gphoto2 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-gphoto2
.SH NAME
sane\-gphoto2 \- SANE backend fo' gphoto2 supported cameras
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-gphoto2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha digital cameras supported by gphoto2. 
This backend has only been tested wit a handful of cameras so far. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Patches
to support other models is welcome.
.PP
Because of tha limited testin of dis backend, it is commented out
in /etc/sane.d/dll.conf by default.  Either tha comment
characta must be removed or tha backend must be called explicitly.
E.g. `scanimage \-d gphoto2' or `xscanimage gphoto2'.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
Da current version of tha backend only allows one camera ta be
connected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da thang name be always "0".
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I gphoto2.conf
specify tha characteristics of tha camera ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   Resolutions
(high resolution, low resolution, n' thumbnail size) are
required since they is needed by tha sane frontendz yo, but can't be obtained
all up in tha gphoto2 intercourse.  Valid ports n' cameras can be obtained
by "gphoto2 \-\-list\-cameras" n' "gphoto2 \-\-list\-ports".
.PP
Da dumpinquiry line causes some shiznit bout tha camera ta 
be printed.
.PP
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
Da "topfolder" line specifies tha "fixed" part of tha file path.  For 
example, on tha Kodak DC-240, filez is stored up in tha directory 
/DCIM/100DC240.  Da /DCIM portion is constant yo, but 100DC240 will
change n' must be read from tha camera.  In dis case, tha 
line would read "topfolder=/DCIM"
.PP
Some cameras don't implement a gangbangin' file structure n' store all pictures
in tha "/" directory.  This is indicated by settin "subdirs=0" with
"topfolder=/"
.PP
.RS
port=usb:
.br
camera=Kodak DC240
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
high_resolution=1280x960
.br
low_resolution=640x480
.br
thumb_resolution=160x120
.br
dumpinquiry
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/gphoto2.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-gphoto2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-gphoto2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_GPHOTO2
If tha library was compiled wit debuggin support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. 
A value of 128 requests maximally copious debug output; smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.TP 
.B GP_DEBUG
Set ta 1, 2, or 3, ta enable various levelz of debuggin within tha 
gphoto2 libraries.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7)

.SH AUTHOR
Peta S. Fales

.PP
Da manpage was largely copied from tha dc210 manpage.

.SH BUGS
Many, no diggity.
.PP
Mo' general comments, suggestions, n' inquiries bout frontends
or SANE should git all up in tha SANE Developers mailin list 
(see http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html fo' details). 
Yo ass must be subscribed ta tha list, otherwise yo' mail won't be
sent ta tha subscribers.

