.TH sane\-umax1220u 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-umax
.SH NAME
sane\-umax1220u \- SANE backend fo' tha UMAX Astra 1220U n' similar scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B sane\-umax1220
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend fo' the
the UMAX Astra 1220U n' similar scanners.

For mo' shiznit on dis backend, please visit
.IR http://umax1220u\-sane.sourceforge.net/ .

.SH UMAX ASTRA 1600U/2000U/2100U SUPPORT

This backend be also able ta drive tha UMAX Astra 1600U/2000U/2100U.  The
2100U is confirmed ta work. For tha other scanners no reports done been received
yet. Please hollar at our asses n' tell our asses if yo' scanner works
(sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org).

.SH CONFIGURATION

Usually, no manual configuration is necessary. Da configuration file fo' dis backend resides in
.IR /etc/sane.d/umax1220u.conf .

Its contents be a list of thang names dat correspond ta UMAX Astra scanners.
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A sample
configuration file is shown below: 

.nf
 #usb vendor product
 usb 0x1606 0x0010
 # Device list fo' non-linux systems
 /dev/scanner 
 /dev/usb/scanner0
.fi

See sane\-usb(5) fo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta set tha access permissions on tha usb
device files.

.SH FILES

.TP
Da backend configuration file:
.I /etc/sane.d/umax1220u.conf
.TP
Da static library implementin dis backend:
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-umax1220u.a
.TP
Da shared library implementin dis backend:
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-umax1220u.so
(present on systems dat support dynamic loading)

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels reduce verbosity:

SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U joints

.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 1       print failures
 2       print shiznit
 3       print high-level function calls
 4       print high-level function checkpoints
 9       print mid-level function calls
 10      print mid-level function checkpoints
 80      print protocol-level function entry
 90      print protocol-level function exit
.fi
.ft R

.TP
Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U=10

.SH KNOWN BUGS

600 dpi scannin may fail fo' big-ass image sizes.

If you keep gettin I/O errors, try cyclin tha juice on yo' scanner ta reset dat shit.

There is no way ta quit a scan, since tha driver ignores sane_cancel().

If you try scannin a image which is too small, yo big-ass booty is ghon git I/O errors. Be
sure ta adjust tha scan area before bustin a scan, since by default, tha scan
area is zero.

.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7), sane\-usb(5)

.TP
(Old) homepage:
.I http://umax1220u\-sane.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR

Marcio Luis Teixeira <marciot@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH EMAIL-CONTACT
sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

.SH REPORTING BUGS

This backend aint actively maintained. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Nevertheless, bug reports n' comments
should be busted ta tha sane\-devel mailin list.  When reportin bugs, please run
the backend wit SANE_DEBUG_UMAX1220U set ta 10 n' attach a cold-ass lil copy of tha log
lyrics.
