.TH sane\-ibm 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-ibm
.SH NAME
sane\-ibm \- SANE backend fo' IBM n' Ricoh SCSI flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-ibm
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha IBM 2456 n' tha Ricoh IS-410, IS-420, n' IS-430 flatbed
scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' tha IS-410 n' IS-430 is untested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please contact the
maintainer or tha sane\-devel mailin list if you own such a scanner.
.PP
This backend be alpha-quality. Well shiiiit, it may have bugs n' some scanners aint been
tested at all. Be careful n' pull tha plug if tha scanner causes unusual
noise.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a SCSI
scanner n' shit. Da program
.I sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect device. Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sg0
or
.IR /dev/sga ,
for example.  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
for details.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I ibm.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta SCSI
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See 
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/ibm.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-ibm.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-ibm.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_IBM
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1),
.BR sane\-scsi (5),

.SH AUTHOR
mf <massifr@tiscalinet.it>
.br
Maintained by Hennin Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>
