.TH sane\-agfafocus 5 "10 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-agfafocus
.SH NAME
sane\-agfafocus \- SANE backend fo' AGFA Focus flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-agfafocus
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta AGFA Focus flatbed scanners fo' realz. At present, tha following
scanners is supported from dis backend:
.PP
.RS
AGFA Focus GS Scanner (6 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus Lineart Scanner (lineart) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus Pt II (8 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
AGFA Focus Color (24 bit color 3-pass)
.br
AGFA Focus Color Plus (24 bit color 3-pass)
.br
.PP
Siemens S9036 (8 bit gray scale) (untested)
.br
.RE
.PP
Da driver supports line art, 6bpp n' 8bpp gray, 18bpp n' 24bpp
color scans.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed above dat works with
this backend, please let our asses know by bustin  tha scannerz model name,
SCSI id, n' firmware revision to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Have a peep http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
concernin subscription ta sane\-devel.
.PP
All of these scanners is pre-SCSI-2, n' do not even report properly
to SCSI Inquiry.  This is typically evident up in SCSI bus scans, where
the scanner will come up wit only garbage as vendor n' models strings.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner n' shit. For SCSI scanners, tha special thang name must be a
generic SCSI thang or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such
a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I agfafocus.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta AGFA Focus
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE

.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/agfafocus.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/libsane\-agfafocus.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/libsane\-agfafocus.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels reduce verbosity.
SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS joints:

.sp 
.ft CR
.nf
Number  Remark
\ 
 0       print blingin errors (printed each time)
 1       print errors
 2       print sense
 3       print warnings
 4       print scanner-inquiry
 5       print shiznit
 6       print less blingin shiznit
 7       print called procedures
 8       print reader_process lyrics
 10      print called sane\-init-routines
 11      print called sane\-procedures
 12      print sane infos
 13      print sane option-control lyrics
.fi
.ft R

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY

Uploadin of dither matrices n' tonecurves has been implemented yo, but
so far has not proven ta be useful fo' anything.  For dis reason
these options done been disabled.

.SH BUGS
Da scanners dat do not support disconnect have problems wit SCSI
timeouts if tha SCSI bus gets loaded, eg. if you do a kernel build at
the same time as scanning.  To peep if yo' scanner supports
disconnect, run "SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS=128 scanimage \-L" up in sh n' look
for tha "disconnect:" line)

.SH DEBUG
If you have problems wit SANE not detectin yo' scanner, make shizzle the
Artec backend is disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Somehow, dis backend causes at least mah scanner
not ta respond erectly ta SCSI inquiry commands.
.PP
If you encounta a funky-ass bug please set tha environment variable
SANE_DEBUG_AGFAFOCUS ta 128 n' try ta regenerate tha problem. Then
send mah crazy ass a report wit tha log attached.
.PP
If you encounta a SCSI bus error or trimmed and/or displaced images please
also set tha environment variable SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI ta 128 before bustin  
me tha report.

.SH TODO
.TP
.B Mo' scanners?

Da AGFA ACS n' ARCUS scanners is similar ta tha FOCUS scanners.
Da driver could probably be extended ta support these scanners
without too nuff chizzles.  I aint gots access ta such scanners, and
cannot add support fo' dat shit.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if yo ass is up in possession of such
a scanner, I could be helpful up in addin support fo' these scanners.

Da AGFA HORIZON scanners is SCSI-2 scanners, n' it would probably
be easier ta support these scanners up in a SCSI-2 compliant backend.
.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Ingo Schneider n' Karl Andaz \[/O]ygard.

