.TH sane\-canon 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-canon
.SH NAME
sane\-canon \- SANE backend fo' Canon SCSI scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-canon
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha followin Canon flatbed n' film scanners:
.PP
.RS
CanoScan 300
.br
CanoScan 600
.br
CanoScan FB620S
.br
CanoScan FB1200S
.br
CanoScan FS2700F                                                          
.br
CanoScan FS2710S                                                          
.br
.RE
.PP
Parallel port n' STD scanners is not supported by dis backend; see
the manual pages fo' sane\-canon_pp n' sane\-canon630u fo' further
information.
.PP
IMPORTANT: This is beta code. We tested tha code on tha scanners listed
above, rockin tha computas n' operatin systems available ta our asses yo, but we
cannot guarantee dat tha backend will work smoothly wit future operating
systems, SCSI adapters, SANE frontend programs, or Canon scanners not
contained up in tha list above. In some cases yo' computa might even hang.
It cannot be excluded (although we consider it mad unlikely) dat your
scanner is ghon be damaged.
.PP
That holla'd, TESTERS ARE WELCOME. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Send yo' bug reports n' comments to
Manuel Panea <mpd@rzg.mpg.de>; fo' thangs concernin tha FB620 and
FB1200S contact Mitsuru Okaniwa <m\-okaniwa@bea.hi\-ho.ne.jp>, fo' the
FS2710S Ulrich Deitas <ukd@xenon.pc.uni\-koeln.de>.
.PP

.SH TIPS (FS2700F)
.PP
Scannin either slides or negatives has been found ta require rather
pimpin' gamma erectionz of bout 2.2 ta 2.4 (same value fo' red, green, 
and blue). Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta use tha automatic exposure controls
of tha frontend xsane fo' dopest thangs up in dis biatch.
.PP
Da "Auto Focus" function triggers a special pass ta determine tha focus
value fo' realz. Afta that, tha real scannin pass takes place.
.PP
Even wit "Auto Focus" turned on, tha scanned image is often a lil' bit too
blurred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Usin tha GIMP ta do a "Filter->Enhance->Sharpen" at bout 40
to 60 improves tha image considerably.
.PP

.SH TIPS (FS2710S)
.PP
Gamma erections is done not by tha scanner yo, but by tha backend.
Da scanner be always run up in 12-bit mode. In "color" mode tha image
data is erected fo' gamma, shadow point, etc., n' then truncated
to 8-bit intensities; tha default gamma value is 2.0. In "raw" mode the
image data is exported without erections as 16-bit intensities; this
mode can be recommended if extensive adjustments gotta be made ta a
picture (and if tha frontend can handle 16-bit intensities).
.PP
Negatives is handled by simple color inversion n' may require manual
removal of blue discoloration.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_CANON
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_CANON=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5)
.br
http://www.rzg.mpg.de/~mpd/sane/
.br
doc/canon.install2700F.txt (installation of a CanoScan 2700F
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Helmut Koeberle, Manuel Panea, n' Markus Mertinat; FB620S n' FB1200S support
by Mitsuru Okaniwa; FS2710S support by Ulrich Deiters
.br
Man page by Hennin Meier-Geinitz (mostly based on canon.README)
