.TH sane\-st400 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-st400
.SH NAME
sane\-st400 \- SANE backend fo' Siemens ST/Highscan flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-st400
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Siemens ST400 flatbed scanners n' compatibles.
At present, tha followin scanners is supported by dis backend:
.PP
.RS
Siemens ST400 (6 bit gray scale)
.br
Siemens ST800 (6 bit gray scale)
.br
.RE
.PP
Da driver supports line art n' gray scans up ta 8bpp.
.PP
Da Siemens ST/Highscan series includes nuff muthafuckin mo' models, e.g. tha ST300
and ST600.  If you own one of these scanners, or a scanner other than the
ones listed above dat works wit dis backend, please let our asses know by sending
the scannerz model name, SCSI ID, n' firmware revision to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Have a peep http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html concernin subscription
to sane\-devel.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner n' shit. For SCSI scanners, tha special thang name must be a
generic SCSI thang or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such
a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I st400.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Siemens
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE
.PP
Da default configuration file dat is distributed wit SANE looks like
this:
.PP
.RS
scsi SIEMENS "ST 400" Scanner * * 3 0
.RE
.PP
In dis configuration, tha driver can only access tha ST400 model
at SCSI ID 3 LUN 0 (see section "BUGS" below fo' tha reason).
To use tha driver wit other scanner models, add a appropriate line to
the configuration file.  For example, ta use it wit a ST800 at SCSI
ID 3 LUN 0, add tha line:
.PP
.RS
scsi SIEMENS "ST 800" Scanner * * 3 0
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/st400.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-st400.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-st400.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ST400
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels reduce verbosity.

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY

Everythang but da most thugged-out basic stuff.

.SH BUGS
Currently, tha backend do not check if tha attached thang straight-up is
a ST400.  It will happily accept every last muthafuckin thang dat matches tha configuration
entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  This make it easy as fuck  ta test tha backend wit other scanners:
Just add a appropriate line ta tha configuration file.  Da configuration
file as distributed (see above) only works wit tha ST400.  Be careful:
If there is no config file at all, tha backend defaults ta /dev/scanner.
.PP
Da ST400 lyrics on all eight SCSI LUNs.  Normally dis aint a problem,
as LUN support is probably disabled up in SCSI drivers yo, but if yo ass is seeing
multiple instancez of tha scanner up in a thang list, either disable LUNs in
your SCSI setup or chizzle tha entry up in tha configuration file ta match
LUN 0 only.

.SH DEBUG
If you encounta a funky-ass bug please set tha environment variable
SANE_DEBUG_ST400 ta 128 n' try ta regenerate tha problem. Then
send mah crazy ass a report wit tha log attached.
.PP
If you encounta a SCSI bus error or trimmed and/or displaced images please
also set tha environment variable SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI ta 128 before sending
me tha report.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.br
http://www.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de/~ingo/sane/ 

.SH AUTHOR

Ingo Wilken <Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>
