.TH sane\-qcam 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-qcam
.SH NAME
sane\-qcam \- SANE backend fo' Connectix QuickCam cameras
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-qcam
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access Connectix QuickCam cameras.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I port
.RE
.PP
Where
.I port
is tha I/O port address at which tha thang resides.  This address is
normally specified up in hexadecimal rockin C syntax (e.g., 0x37b) n' may
be prefixed wit tha letta "u" (e.g., u0x37b) ta force tha backend to
access tha camera up in uni-directionizzle mode.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I qcam.conf
file be a list port addresses dat may be connected ta a
Connectix QuickCam.  Empty lines n' every last muthafuckin thang startin from a hash
mark (#) up ta tha end of a line is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration
file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
0x37b  # /dev/lp0
.br
0x378  # /dev/lp1
.br
u0x278 # /dev/lp2 forced up in uni-directionizzle mode
.br
0x3bc  # /dev/lp0 (alternate address)
.RE
.PP
In general, it is safest ta list only tha port addresses dat straight-up
correspond ta a QuickCam.  For example, if one of tha listed addresses
actually connect ta a printer, then startin up dis backend will
cause tha printa ta big-ass up a thang reset (which is generally
undesirable).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/qcam.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-qcam.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-qcam.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_QCAM
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger
.SH BUGS
Support is currently limited ta tha color version of tha QuickCam.
Da black-and-white camera is startin ta work too yo, but I don't
believe it works up in all cases yet.  Reportedly, acquirin images of
certain sizes work fine yo, but others result up in shifted images (sounds
like a problem cuz of byte-padding).
.PP
Da program needz root-privileges since it need ta be able ta access
the cameraz I/O ports.
.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7)
