.TH sane\-kodak 5 "10 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-kodak

.SH NAME
sane\-kodak \- SANE backend fo' big-ass Kodak flatbed n' ADF scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-kodak
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta big-ass Kodak flatbed n' ADF scanners.

This document raps bout backend version 7, which shipped wit SANE 1.0.21.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This version should support models which drop a rhyme tha Kodak SCSI n' Firewire 
protocols. Da i1860 was used ta pimp tha backend yo, but other models may 
work wit only minimal modifications. Please peep tha list at 
http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html fo' a updated list.

If you gotz a machine not on dat list, or reported as 'untested': tha dopest way 
to determine level of support is ta test tha scanner directly, or ta collect a 
trace of tha windows driver up in action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Please contact tha lyricist fo' help or 
with test thangs up in dis biatch.

.SH UNSUPPORTED HARDWARE
Most of tha recent Kodak thug or workgroup level machines is based on 
other chipsets n' is not supported by dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these scanners 
may be supported by another backend.

.SH OPTIONS
Effort has been made ta expose tha basic hardware options, including:
.PP
source s 
.RS
Selects tha source fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Flatbed", "ADF Front", "ADF Back", "ADF Duplex".
.RE
.PP
mode m 
.RS
Selects tha mode fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Lineart", "Halftone", "Gray", n' "Color".
.RE
.PP
resolution 
.RS
Controls scan resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Available chizzlez may be limited by mode.
.RE
.PP
tl\-x, tl\-y, br\-x, br\-y
.RS
Sets scan area upper left n' lower right coordinates. These is renamed 
t, l, x, y by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
page\-width, page\-height
.RS
Sets paper size. Used by scanner ta determine centerin of scan
coordinates when rockin ADF n' ta detect double feed errors.
.RE
.PP
Other options is ghon be available based on tha capabilitizzlez of tha scanner.
Use 'scanimage \-\-help' ta git a list yo, but be aware dat some options may 
be settable only when another option has been set, n' dat advanced options 
may be hidden by some frontend programs.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "kodak.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look
for scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend.
This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list 
of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha configuration
file is missing, tha backend will bust a set of compiled defaults, which
are identical ta tha default configuration file shipped wit SANE.
.PP
Scanners can be specified up in tha configuration file up in 2 ways:
.PP
"scsi KODAK"
.RS
Requests backend ta search all scsi busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which reports itself ta be a scanner made by 'KODAK'. 
.RE
.PP
"scsi /dev/sg0" (or other scsi thang file)
.RS
Requests backend ta open tha named scsi device. Only useful if you have
multiple compatible scanners connected ta yo' system, n' need to
specify one. Probably should not be used wit tha other "scsi" line above.
.RE
.PP
Da only configuration option supported is "buffer\-size=xxx", allowin you
to set tha number of bytes up in tha data buffer ta suttin' other than tha 
compiled\-in default, 32768 (32K). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some playas report dat they scanner will
"hang" mid\-page, or fail ta transmit tha image if tha buffer aint large
enough.
.PP
Note: This option may step tha fuck up multiple times up in tha configuration file. Well shiiiit, it only
applies ta scanners discovered by 'scsi/usb' lines dat follow dis option.
.PP
Note: Da backend do not place a upper bound on dis value, as some users
required it ta be like large. Values above tha default is not recommended,
and may crash yo' OS or lockup yo' scsi card driver n' shit. Yo ass have been
warned.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_KODAK, which
enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Valid joints are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI trace
.br
30 SCSI detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Most hardware options is either not supported or not exposed fo' control by 
the user, including: multifeed detection, image compression, autocropping,
endorser, iThresholding, multi\-stream, etc.
.PP

.SH CREDITS
Da various authorz of tha sane\-fujitsu backend provided useful code.
.br
Kodak provided access ta hardware, documentation n' personnel.
  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>
