.TH sane\-apple 5 "11 Jul 2008"  "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-apple
.SH NAME
sane\-apple \- SANE backend fo' Applez flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-apple
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Applez flatbed scanners fo' realz. At present, tha following
scanners is supported from dis backend:
.PP
.br
.ft CR
.nf
--------------- ----- ------------------ ------
AppleScanner    4bit  16 Shadez of Gray
OneScanner      8bit  256 Shadez of Gray
ColorOneScanner 24bit RGB color          3-pass
.fi
.ft R

.PP
If you own a Applez scanner other than tha ones listed above that
works wit dis backend, please let our asses know by bustin  tha scanner's
model name, SCSI id, n' firmware revision to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
See http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html fo' details on how tha fuck ta subscribe to
sane\-devel.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner n' shit. For SCSI
scanners, tha special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.I apple.conf
file be a list of options n' thang names dat correspond ta Apple
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See sane\-scsi(5) on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid
device name.
.PP
Options come up in two flavors: global n' positionizzle ones.  Global
options apply ta all devices managed by tha backend, whereas positional
options apply just ta da most thugged-out recently mentioned device.  Note that
this means dat tha order up in which tha options step tha fuck up matters!

.SH SCSI ADAPTER TIPS
SCSI scanners is typically served up wit a ISA SCSI adapter.
Unfortunately, dat adapta aint worth much since it is not
interrupt driven. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It be sometimes possible ta git tha supplied card
to work yo, but without a interrupt line, scannin will put so much load on
the system dat it becomes almost unusable fo' other tasks.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/apple.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-apple.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-apple.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable is list of directories where SANE looks
for tha configuration file.  Under UNIX directory names are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2 by a semi-colon (`;').
If SANE_CONFIG_DIR aint set, SANE defaults to
searchin tha current hustlin directory (".") n' then /etc/sane.d.
If tha value of $SANE_CONFIG_DIR endz wit tha separator
character, tha default directories is searched afta tha directory list.
For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dat order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_APPLE
Controls tha debug level.  A value of 255 prints
all debug output.  Smalla joints reduce verbosity.  Requires a
library compiled wit debug support.

.SH CURRENT STATUS
Da apple backend is now up in version 0.3 (Tue Jul 21 1998). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since
I only have tha AppleScanner n' not tha other models (OneScanner,
ColorOneScanner) I can only pimp/test fo' tha AppleScanner effectively.
However wit dis release I almost completed tha gui part of all scanners.
Most of tha functionalitizzle is there, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho fo' realz. At least OneScanner should scan
at tha AppleScannerz compatible modes (LineArt, HalfTone, Gray16). My
personal belief is dat wit a slight bust a nut on of debuggin tha OneScanner
could be straight-up usable. Da ColorOneScanner needz mo' work fo' realz. AppleScanner
iz of course almost straight-up supported.

.SH MISSING FUNCTIONALITY
Currently all three models lack upload/downlizzle support.
.TP
.B AppleScanner
Cannot up/downlizzle a halftone pattern.
.TP
.B OneScanner
Cannot up/downlizzle halftone patterns or calibration vectors.
.TP
.B ColorOneScanner
Cannot up/downlizzle halftone patterns, calibration vectors,
custom Color Correction Tablez (CCT) n' of course custom gamma tables.
.TP
.B Park/UnPark (OneScanner, ColorOneScanner)
.PP
Da above functionalitizzles is missin cuz I don't
have tha hardware ta experiment on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Another reason is mah lack
of understandin as ta how tha fuck or if tha SANE API provide means
to describe any array type besides gamma.


.SH UNSUPPORTED FEATURES
Da followin "features" aint NEVER gonna be supported, at least while I maintain
the sane\-apple backend.
.TP
.B NoHome (AppleScanner)
Da scanner lamp stays on n' tha carriage assembly remains where it stops
at tha end of tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Afta two minutes, if tha scanner do not receive
another SCAN command, tha lamp goes off n' tha carriage returns ta tha home
position.
.TP
.B Compression (AppleScanner)
Da Scanner can compress data wit CCITT Group Pt III one dimensionizzle algorithm
(fax) n' tha Skip White Line algorithm.
.TP
.B Multiple Windows (AppleScanner)
AppleScanner may support multiple windows. Well shiiiit, it would be a cold-ass lil def feature
and a cold-ass lil challenge fo' me ta code if it could intermix different options
for different windows (scan areas). This way it could scan a thugged-out document
in LineArt mode but tha figures up in it up in Gray n' at a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different resolution.
Unfortunately dis is impossible.
.TP
.B Scan Direction (OneScanner)
It controls tha scan direction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (?)
.TP
.B Status/Reset Button (OneScanner)
This option controls tha statuz of tha button on tha OneScanner model. Yo ass can
also reset tha button status by software.

.SH BUGS
SANE backend bugs is divided up in two classes. Our thugged-out asses have
.B GUI
bugs and
.B scanner specific
bugs.
.PP
We know our crazy asses gotz a GUI bug when a parameta aint showin up when it
should (active) or vice versa. Findin up which parametas is active
across various Applez modes n' models from tha documentation
.B ftp://ftpdev.info.apple.com/devworld/Technical_Documentation/Peripherals_Documentation/
is a bangin-ass exercise. I may have missed some dependencies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! For example
of tha threshold parameta tha Applez Scanners Programmin Guide says
nothing. I had ta assume it is valid only up in LineArt mode.
.PP
Scanner specific bugs is mostly cuz of mandatory round-offs up in order to
scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In tha documentation up in one place states dat tha width of the
scan area should be a funky-ass byte multiple. In another place it say dat the
width of tha scan area should be a even byte multiple. Go figure...
.PP
Other sourcez of bugs is cuz of scsi communication, scsi connects and
disconnects yo. However tha old-ass bugs is still there, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So you may
encounta buffer overruns, null pointers, memory corruption and
.B SANE
API violations.
.TP
.B SIGSEGV on SliceBars
When you try ta modify tha scan area from tha slice bar you gotz a sick
lil thugged-out core dump. I don't give a fuck why. If you select tha scan area from
the peepshow window or by hand typin tha numbers every last muthafuckin thang is fine. The
SIGSEGV happens deep up in gtk library (gdk). I straight-up cannot debug dat shit.
.TP
.B Options too much
It be possible, especially fo' tha ColorOneScanner, fo' tha backend's
options panel ta extend beyond yo' screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it happens wit mine
and I be hustlin mah X Server at 1024x768. What can I say? Try smaller
fonts up in tha X server, or virtual screens.
.TP
.B Weird SCSI behaviour
I be quotin Dizzy Myers Here...

>> OS: FreeBSD 2.2.6
.br
>> CC: egcs-1.02
.br
Just wanted ta follow up on all dis bullshit...  I recently chizzled mah SCSI card from
the Adaptec 2940UW ta a thugged-out dual-channel Symbios 786 chipset.  When I started up
SANE wit yo' driver, I managed ta scan line art drawings all gravy yo, but Gray16
scans hustled ta a stream of SCSI error lyrics on tha console, ultimately
hangin wit a message sayin tha scanner wasn't releasin tha SCSI bus.
This may be dat tha Symbios is simply less tolerant of ancient
hardware, or may be bugs up in yo' driver or up in SANE itself...

.SH DEBUG
If you encounta a GUI bug please set tha environmenstrual variable
SANE_DEBUG_APPLE ta 255 n' rerun tha exact sequence of keystrokes
and menu selections ta reproduce dat shit. Then bust me a report wit the
log attached.
.PP
If you have a Applez Macintosh wit tha AppleScanners driver installed, 
reportin ta me which options is grayed up (inactive) up in what tha fuck modes
would be straight-up helpful.
.PP
If you wanna offer some help but you aint gots a scanner, or you
don't have tha model you wanna help with, or yo ass is
a SANE pimper n' you just wanna take a peep how tha fuck tha apple backend
looks like, goto ta apple.h n' #define tha NEUTRALIZE_BACKEND
macro. Yo ass can select tha scanner model all up in tha APPLE_MODEL_SELECT
macro fo' realz. Available options is APPLESCANNER, ONESCANNER, COLORONESCANNER.
.PP
If you encounta a SCSI bus error or trimmed and/or displaced images please
set tha environment variable SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI ta 255 before bustin  me
the report.

.SH TODO
.TP
.B Non Blockin Support
Make sane\-apple a non blockin backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Properly support
.B sane_set_io_mode
and
.B sane_get_select_fd
.TP
.B Scan
Make scannin possible fo' all models up in all supported modes.
.TP
.B Missin Functionality

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Da sane\-apple backend was freestyled not entirely from scratch by
Milon Firikis. Well shiiiit, it is mostly based on tha mustek backend from
Dizzy Mosberger n' Andreas Czechanowski
