.TH sane\-stv680 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-stv680
.SH NAME
sane\-stv680 \- SANE backend fo' STV680 camera's
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-stv680
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some STV680 cameras. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software biaaatch! STV680 cameras is sold under
various brandz like Aiptek.
This backend may or may not support yours.
.PP
Da cameras dat should work wit dis backend are:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor Model              STD vendor id  STD thang id  status
------------------------  -------------  --------------  --------
AIPTEK stv680                0x0553         0x0202       basic
Konica e-mini                0x04c8         0x0722       untested
DigitalDream l'espion XS     0x1183         0x0001       untested
Creatizzle WebCam Go mini      0x041e         0x4007       untested
.fi
.ft R

For all these cameras, peep tha backend home page (under AUTHOR)
for tha exact statuz of each camera.

For startup of dis backend check dat if present tha stv680 kernel module is
removed or disabled.
.br
Also before using, enable tha backend by editin tha /etc/sane.d/dll.conf file, 
change #stv680 ta stv680.

For problems wit tha untested cameras, you
should contact tha lyricist fo' dis shit.

Da options tha backend supports can either be selected through
command line options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI
elements up in xcam. For both programs use tha \-B option needed fo' size buffer.

Some frontendz examples:
.br
xcam
.RS
xcam \-B
.RE

scanimage: fo' freestylin up in batch mode ta a gangbangin' file or ta a freshly smoked up file each time.
.RS
scanimage \-B \-d stv680:libusb:001:002 \-\-batch=out.ppm \-\-batch-count 5 \-\-mode "Color RGB"
.RE
.RS
scanimage \-B \-d stv680:libusb:001:002 \-\-batch=out%d.ppm \-\-batch-count 5 \-\-mode "Color RGB"
.RE

.br
If you have any success wit a cold-ass lil camera not listed here, or if you have
any strange behavior, please report ta tha backend maintainer or to
the SANE mailin list.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d stv680
.RE


.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha webcams valid chizzles.

Da read resolution mode is 8 bits, output resolution is 24 bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
Selects tha resolution fo' a scan.
Da camera can do only tha resolutions listed.
.TP
.B \-\-Raw
In dis mode raw data is displayed
.TP
.B \-\-Color
In dis mode tha bayer unshuffle is done but no color erection
.TP
.B \-\-Color_RGB
Bizzleer unshuffle, color erection
.TP
.B \-\-Color_RGB_TXT
Bizzleer unshuffle, color erection, textline wit date n' time be added


.TP
.B Enhancement options

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-r
Selects what tha fuck red radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration 
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 up in stepz of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-g
Selects what tha fuck chronic radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration i
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 up in stepz of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-b
Selects what tha fuck blue radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale \-32 .. 0 .. +32 up in stepz of 1.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/stv680.conf supports only one
information: tha thang name ta use (eg usb 0x.... 0x....).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-stv680.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-stv680.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_STV680
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.

.SH LIMITATIONS
Da windows TWAIN driver has nuff mo' options than dis SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. However they is only software adjustments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This backend only
implements what tha fuck tha webcam can support.


.SH BUGS

.TP
Plenty. Partz of dis backend is still under pimpment.
1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some untested cameras.
.br
2. Video streamin slow n' stops sometimes (scanimage).
.br
3. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sometimes 1/3 of image is NOK (xcam).


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xcam(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHORS

Gerard Klaver http://gkall.hobby.nl/stv680-aiptek.html



.SH CREDITS

.TP
Thanks ta pimperz of tha other stv680 programs:
STV680 kernel module
.br
pencam2 program
.br
libghoto2 program (camlib stv0680)

