.TH sane\-epjitsu 5 "09 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-epjitsu

.SH NAME
sane\-epjitsu \- SANE backend fo' Epson-based Fujitsu STD scanners.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-epjitsu
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which serves up basic access tha Fujitsu fi\-60F n' ScanSnap S300/S1300 scanners.

.SH HARDWARE SUPPORT
These scanners is fairly limited, only supportin a cold-ass lil couple modes n' resolutions, n' always scannin full width. Da backend supports missin modes (binary, grayscale) up in software yo, but make no effort ta offer intermediate resolutions or scan area controls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.B KNOWN ISSUES.

This backend may support other scanners. If physical inspection reveals a Epson chipset, please contact tha lyricist fo' instructions on collectin a STD trace under Windows ta verify.

.SH OPTIONS
A limited effort has been made ta expose tha standard options ta tha API.  This allows a gangbangin' frontend ta set resolution, color mode, n' chizzle tha ADF setting. Da epjitsu backend supports tha followin basic options fo' most scanners:
.PP
source s 
.RS
Selects tha source fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options may include "Flatbed", "ADF Front", "ADF Back", "ADF Duplex".
.RE
.PP
mode m 
.RS
Selects tha mode fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options may include "Lineart", "Gray", "Color".
.RE
.PP
resolution, y\-resolution
.RS
Controls scan resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin \-\-resolution also sets \-\-y\-resolution, though dis behavior is overridden by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
Other options is ghon be available based on tha capabilitizzlez of tha scanner n' shit. Use 'scanimage \-\-help' ta git a list. Be aware dat some options may step tha fuck up only when another option has been set, n' dat advanced options may be hidden by tha frontend.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "/etc/sane.d/epjitsu.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look fo' scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha configuration file is missing, tha backend aint gonna work.
.PP
Scanners can be specified up in tha configuration file up in two ways:
.PP
"usb 0x04c5 0x10c7" (or other vendor/thang ids)
.RS
Requests backend ta search all usb busses up in tha system fo' a thang which uses dat vendor n' thang id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da thang will then be queried ta determine if it aint nuthin but a supported scanner.
.RE
.PP
"usb /dev/usb/scanner0" (or other thang file)
.RS
Some systems bust a kernel driver ta access usb scanners. This method is untested.
.RE
.PP
Da only configuration option supported is "firmware /PATH/TO/FILE", allowin you ta set tha location of tha firmware file you have extracted from tha Windows driver.
.PP
.B Note: 
This firmware be a cold-ass lil copyrighted work of Fujitsu, so cannot be provided by tha backend or tha lyricist. Please do not ask.
.PP
.B Note: 
These scanners REQUIRE a gangbangin' firmware file ta function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha supplied configuration file fo' mo' detail.
.PP
.B Note: 
This option may step tha fuck up multiple times up in tha configuration file. Well shiiiit, it only applies ta scanners discovered by 'usb' lines dat follow dis option.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_EPJITSU, which enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Valid joints are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 STD trace
.br
30 STD detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.PP
.RS
No scan area options is exposed.
.br
.br
fi\-60F hardware grayscale mode aint used.
.br
.br
Da S1100 aint currently supported yo, but a patch be available.
.RE

.SH CREDITS
S300 support funded by Microdea, Inc. n' Archivista, GmbH.
.br
fi\-60F support funded by TrueCheck, Inc.
.br
Improved calibration code provided by Slick Rick Goedeken.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>

