.TH sane\-sceptre 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-sceptre
.SH NAME
sane\-sceptre \- SANE backend fo' SCEPTRE scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-sceptre
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Sceptre flatbed scanners. This backend should be
considered
.B beta-quality
software biaaatch! Please report any strange behavior ta tha maintainer of the
backend or ta tha SANE mailin list.
.PP
At present, only one scanner is known ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model                        Connection Type
---------------------------  -------------------
Sceptre VividScan S1200      SCSI
.fi
.ft R
.RE

Da make of dis scanner is KINPO, so other scanners from dat manufacturer may also work (eg. tha S600).
.SH OPTIONS
Da options tha backend supports can either be selected all up in command line
options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI elements up in xscanimage or xsane.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d sceptre
.RE

.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode 
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner valid chizzlez is 
.I Lineart, Halftone, Gray n' Color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
Da Lineart n' Halftone mode is black n' white only (1 bit). Gray
will produce 256 levelz of gray (8 bits). Color will produce a 24 bits
color image. Da scanner supports 30 bits internally but it only
exports 24.

.TP
.B \-\-resolution
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner can do several
resolutions between 50 n' 1200.

.TP
.B \-\-halftone\-pattern
selects tha pattern mode dat is used up in Halftone mode. Valid options
are 1, 2, 3 n' 4.

.TP 
.B \-\-gamma\-correction
controls tha scanner internal gamma erection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid options are
"Default", "User defined", "High densitizzle printing" "Low density
printing" n' "High contrast printing".

.TP
.B \-\-custom\-gamma
(color mode only) allows tha user ta specify a gamma table (see the
next 3 parameters).

.TP 
.B \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha red channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP 
.B \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha chronic channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table
for tha blue channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-threshold
sets tha threshold fo' black n' white pixels up in lineart
mode. Possible joints is from 0 (darker) ta 255 (lighter).

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da resolution used fo' dat scan is 30 dpi
and tha scan area is tha maximum allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da scan mode is user
selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default is "no".

.TP
.B Da geometry options

.TP
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control tha scan area: \-l sets tha top left x coordinate, \-t tha top
left y coordinate, \-x selects tha width n' \-y tha height of tha scan
area fo' realz. All parametas is specified up in millimetas by default.


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/sceptre.conf supports only one shiznit: tha thang name ta use (eg /dev/scanner).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sceptre.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-sceptre.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_SCEPTRE
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH LIMITATIONS
.TP
.B Resolutions
Da windows TWAIN driver can be set ta any resolution between 50 ta 1200
(excludin software interpolation). This backend cannot. Only a
handful of resolution is available, although they should be a shitload of
enough.


.SH BUGS

None known.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHOR

.TP
Da package be actively maintained by Frank Zago.
.I http://www.zago.net/sane/#sceptre
