.TH sane\-nec 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-nec
.SH NAME
sane\-nec \- SANE backend fo' NEC scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-nec
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta NEC SCSI scanners.  This backend should be
considered
.B alpha-quality
software biaaatch!  In tha current state it is known ta work wit PC-IN500/4C 
scanners fo' realz. Another MultiReader scanner series aint supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. PC-IN
500/4C n' MultiReader scanner is only sold up in Japan.(except Multi
Reader PetiScan.)

For other scanners, it may or may not work.
.PP
Da backend has tha followin known problems:
.RS
\- ColorLineart mode aint supported.
.br
\- thang name is fixed ta /dev/scanner
.RE
.PP
At present,
the followin scanners is known ta work wit dis backend.
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor Product id
------ -----------
NEC    PC-IN500/4C
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/nec.conf
Da backend configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-nec.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-nec.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NEC
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Kazuya Fukuda
