.TH "sane\-pixma" "5" "24 Sep 2013" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-pixma
.SH NAME
sane\-pixma \- SANE backend fo' Canon Multi-Function Printas n' CanoScan Scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-pixma
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta Canon PIXMA / i-SENSYS / imageCLASS / imageRUNNER multi-function
devices (All-in-one printers) n' tha Canon CanoScan Flatbed/TPU scanners.
Da backend implements both STD intercourse n' network intercourse 
usin Canonz BJNP protocol. Da network intercourse supports scanners over
IPv4 as well as IPv6.
.PP
Currently, tha followin models work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
PIXMA MG2100, MG3100, MG4200, MG5100, MG5200, MG5300
.br
PIXMA MG6100, MG6200, MG6300, MG8200
.br
PIXMA MP140, MP150, MP160, MP170, MP180, MP190
.br
PIXMA MP210, MP220, MP230, MP240, MP250, MP260, MP270, MP280
.br
PIXMA MP360, MP370, MP390
.br
PIXMA MP450, MP460, MP470, MP480, MP490
.br
PIXMA MP500, MP510, MP520, MP530, MP540, MP550, MP560
.br
PIXMA MP600, MP600R, MP610, MP620, MP630, MP640
.br
PIXMA MP700, MP710, MP730, PIXMA MP750 (no grayscale)
.br
PIXMA MP800, MP800R, MP810, MP830
.br
PIXMA MP960, MP970, MP980, MP990
.br
PIXMA MX300, MX310, MX330, MX340, MX350, MX360, MX370
.br
PIXMA MX420, MX700, MX7600
.br
PIXMA MX850, MX860, MX870, MX882, MX885, MX890
.br
imageCLASS MF3110, MF3240, MF4010, MF4018
.br
imageCLASS MF4120, MF4122, MF4140, MF4150
.br
imageCLASS MF4270, MF4350d, MF4370dn, MF4380dn
.br
imageCLASS MF4410, MF4430, MF4660, MF4690, MF4770n
.br
imageCLASS MF5730, MF5770, MF6550, D420, D480
.br
i-SENSYS MF3010, MF4320d, MF4330d, MF4550d
.br
imageRUNNER 1020/1024/1025
.br
CanoScan 8800F, 9000F, 9000F Mark Pt II
.RE
.PP
Da followin models is not well tested and/or tha scanner sometimes hangs
and must be switched off n' on.
.PP
.RS
PIXMA MP760, MP770, MP780, MP790
.br
PIXMA MX360
.RE
.PP
Da followin models may use tha same Pixma protocol as dem listed 
above yo, but aint yet been reported ta work (or not). They is declared 
in tha backend so dat they git recognized n' activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
Feedback up in tha sane\-devel mailin list welcome.
.PP
.RS
PIXMA E500, E510, E600, E610
.br
PIXMA MG2200, MG2400, MG2500, MG3200, MG4100, MG5400, MG5500
.br
PIXMA MG6400, MG6500, MG7100, MG8100
.br
PIXMA MP375R, MP493, MP495, MP740
.br
PIXMA MX320, MX390, MX410, MX430, MX450, MX510, MX520
.br
PIXMA MX710, MX720, MX920
.br
imageCLASS MF4570dw, MF5630, MF5650, MF5750, MF8030, MF8170c
.br
imageRUNNER 1133
.br
i-SENSYS MF5880dn, MF6680dn
.RE
.PP
\#Da followin models may use kinda tha same Pixma protocol as other devices
\#listed above yo, but may still need some work. They is declared up in tha backend 
\#as experimental. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Snoop logs is required ta further investigate, please contact 
\#the sane\-devel mailin list.
\#.PP
\#.RS
\#PIXMA MP---
\#.RE
\#.PP
Da backend supports:
.PP
.RS
* resolutionz of 75, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 2400, 4800, n' 9600 DPI (some maybe buggy),
.br
* color n' grayscale mode, as well as lineart on certain models,
.br
* a cold-ass lil custom gamma table,
.br
* Automatic Document Feeder, Simplex n' Duplex.
.br
* Transparency Unit, 24 or 48 bits depth. Infrared channel on certain models.
.RE
.PP
Da thang name fo' STD devices is up in tha form pixma:xxxxyyyy_zzzzz
where x, y n' z is vendor ID, thang ID n' serial number respectively.
Example: pixma:04A91709_123456 be a MP150.
.PP
Device names fo' BJNP devices is up in tha form pixma:aaaa_bbbbb
where aaaa is tha scanners model n' bbbb is tha hostname or ip-adress.
.PP
This backend, based on clonin original gangsta Canon drivers protocols, is up in 
a thang stage. Designed has been carried up without any applicable
manufacturer documentation, probably never available. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat our crazy asses have tested 
it as well as we could yo, but it may not work up in all thangs. Yo ass will find 
an up-to-date status all up in tha project homepage. (See below). 
Users feedback is essential ta help improve features n' performances. 
.SH OPTIONS
Besides "well-known" options (e.g. resolution, mode etc.) pixma backend also
provides tha following
\#.B experimental
options fo' button handling, i.e. tha options might chizzle up in tha future.
.br
Da button status can be polled i.e. wit 'scanimage -A'.
.br
Button scan is disabled on MAC OS X cuz of darwin libusb not handling
timeouts up in usb interrupt reads.
.TP
.I button\-controlled
This option can be used by applications (like
.BR scanadf (1)
and
.BR scanimage (1))
in batch mode, fo' example when you wanna scan nuff photos or
multiple-page documents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If it is enabled (i.e. is set ta legit or yes), the
backend waits before every last muthafuckin scan until tha user presses tha "SCAN" button
(for MP150) or tha color-scan button (for other models). Just put the
first page up in tha scanner, press tha button, then tha next page, press
the button n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When you finished, press tha gray-scan button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (For
MP150 you gotta stop tha frontend by pressin Ctrl-C fo' example.)
.TP
.I button\-update
(write only) In tha past dis option was required ta be set ta force 
readin of tha button status for
.I button\-1
and
.I button\-2.
Da 
.B sane\-pixma
no longer requires dis option ta be used: if no fresh data be available, it 
will be now axed automatically from tha scanner n' shit. This option is left fo' 
backward compatibilitizzle reasons.
.TP
.I button\-1 button\-2
(read only) These options will return tha value of tha respectizzle buttons.
value 0 means dat tha button was not pressed, 1 is returned when tha button 
was pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Some scanners wit mo' than two buttons bust tha button number
as target.
.TP
.I original
(read only) Returns tha value of tha type or size of original gangsta ta be scanned
if tha scanner serves up dat data. Known jointz of type: 1 = document, 2 = foto,
5 = film. Known jointz of size: 1 = A4, 2 = Letter, 8 = 10x15, 9 = 13x18, b = auto.
Not all scanners can provide dis data.
.TP
.I target
(read only) Returns tha value of tha target of tha scan operation if tha scanner
provides dat data. Da joints depend on tha scanner type. Known joints:
1 = save ta disk, 2 = save ta pdf, 3 = bust ta email, 4 = bust ta application
or 1 = JPEG, 2 = TIFF, 3 = PDF, 4 = Compact PDF. For some scanners dis value
is equivalent ta tha number of tha pressed button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Not all scanners can provide
this data.
.TP
.I scan-resolution
(read only) Returns tha resolution of tha scan operation if tha scanner
provides dat data. Known joints: 1 = 75 dpi, 2 = 150 dpi, 3 = 300 dpi,
4 = 600 dpi. Not all scanners can provide dis data.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-pixma.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-pixma.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/pixma.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below). Da filez gotz nuff a optionizzle list of scanners. Normally only scanners
that can not be auto-detected cuz they is on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different subnet shall be
listed here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. If yo' OS do not allow enumeration of intercourses (i.e. it do not
support tha getifaddrs() function) you may need ta add yo' scanner here as well.
Scanners shall be listed as:
.PP
.RS
.I bjnp://<host>
.RE
.RS
where host is tha hostname or IP address of tha scanner, e.g. bjnp://10.0.1.4 
for IPv4, bjnp://[2001:888:118e:18e2:21e:8fff:fe36:b64a] fo' a literal 
IPv6-address or bjnp://myscanner.mydomain.org. Define each scanner on a freshly smoked up 
line.
.SH STD SUPPORT
STD scanners is ghon be auto-detected n' require no configuration.
.SH NETWORKING SUPPORT
Da pixma backend supports network scanners rockin tha so called Canon BJNP 
protocol. Both IPv4 n' IPv6 is supported.
.PP
Configuration is normally not required.
Da pixma backend will auto-detect yo' scanner if it is within
the same subnet as yo' computa if yo' OS do support all dis bullshit.
.PP
If yo' scanner can not be auto-detected, you can add it ta tha pixma 
configuration file (see above).
.SH FIREWALLING FOR NETWORKED SCANNERS
Da sane pixma backend communicates wit port 8612 on tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So
you will gotta allow outgoin traffic TO port 8612 on tha common subnet
for scanning.
.PP
Scanner detection is slightly mo' fucked up. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da pixma backend sends
a broadcast on all direct connected subnets it can find (provided yo' OS 
allows fo' enumeration of all netowrk intercourses). Da broadcast is busted FROM 
port 8612 TO port 8612 on tha broadcast address of each intercourse.
Da outgoin packets is ghon be allowed by tha rule busted lyrics bout above.
.PP
Responses from tha scanner is busted back ta tha computa TO port 8612.
Connection trackin however do not peep a match as tha response do not come
from tha broadcast address but from tha scanners own address.
For automatic detection of yo' scanner, yo big-ass booty is ghon therefore gotta allow 
incomin packets TO port 8612 on yo' computer.
.PP
So up in short: open tha firewall fo' all traffic from yo' computa ta port 8612 
AND ta port 8612 ta yo' computer.
.PP
With tha firewall rulez above there is no need ta add tha scanner ta the
pixma.conf file, unless tha scanner is on a network dat aint directly
connected ta yo' computer.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_PIXMA
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend itself yo. Higher value increases
the verbositizzle n' includes tha shiznit printed all up in tha lower levels.
.RS
0  print not a god damn thang (default)
.br
1  print error n' warnin lyrics (recommended)
.br
2  print shiznital lyrics
.br
3  print debug-level lyrics
.br
11 dump STD traffic
.br
21 full dump STD traffic
.br
.RE
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_BJNP
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' tha 
.B BJNP
network protocol fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. Higher value increases
the verbositizzle n' includes tha shiznit printed all up in tha lower levels.
.RS
0 print not a god damn thang (default)
.br
1 Print error n' warnin lyrics (recommended)
.br
2 Print high level function tracin shiznit
.br 
3 Print mo' detailed protocol tracin shiznit
.br
4 Print protocol headers
.br
5 Print full protocol contents
.RE
.TP
.B PIXMA_EXPERIMENT
Settin ta a non-zero value will enable tha support fo' experimenstrual models.
Yo ass should also set SANE_DEBUG_PIXMA ta 11.
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-dll (5),
.I http://home.arcor.de/wittawat/pixma/,
.I http://mp610.blogspot.com/
.PP
In case of shiznit wit a recent Pixma model, try tha sickest fuckin code fo' 
the pixma backend, available up in tha Sane git repository at:
.br
.I http://git.debian.org/?p=sane/sane-backends.git
.PP
Yo ass can also post tha fuck into tha Sane-devel mailin list fo' support.

.SH AUTHORS
Wittawat Yamwong, Nicolas Martin, Dennis Lou, Louis Lagendijk, Rolf Bensch
.PP
Us thugs wanna give props ta all testas n' helpers. Without dem we could not be
able ta write subdrivers fo' models our phat asses don't have. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha project
homepage.
