.TH sane\-dc240 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-dc240
.SH NAME
sane\-dc240 \- SANE backend fo' Kodak DC240 Digital Camera
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-dc240
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha Kodak DC240 camera. THIS IS EXTREMELY ALPHA
CODE!  USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!!
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
Da current version of tha backend only allows one camera ta be
connected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da thang name be always "0".
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I dc240.conf
specify tha serial port n' baud rate ta use.  Da baud rate 
specifies tha maximum rate ta use while downloadin pictures.  (The
camera be always initialized rockin 9600 baud, then switches ta the
higher rate).  On a 450MHz Pentium, I probably have no problems downloading
at 115200 baud, though tha camera sometimes has ta resend packets due
to lost characters.  Results is betta when 
the "interrupt-unmask flag" is set up in tha IDE driver (hdparm \-u1).
Supported baud rates are: 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, n' 115200.
.PP
Da dumpinquiry line causes some shiznit bout tha camera ta 
be printed.
.PP
cmdrespause specifies how tha fuck nuff usec (1,000,000thz of a) between
writin tha command n' readin tha result should be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 125000
seems ta be tha lowest I could go reliably.
.PP
breakpause is tha time up in 1,000,000thz of a usec between bustin  the
"back ta default" break bustin  commands.      
.PP
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
port=/dev/ttyS0
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
baud=115200
.br
dumpinquiry
.br
cmdrespause=125000
.br
breakpause=1000000
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/dc240.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dc240.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dc240.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_DC240
If tha library was compiled wit debuggin support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. 
A value of 128 requests maximally copious debug output; smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7)

.SH AUTHOR
Peta S. Fales

.PP
This backend borrows heavily from tha dc210 backend by Brian J. Murrell
which is based somewhat on tha dc25 backend by Peta Fales.
.PP
Da manpage was largely copied from tha dc210 manpage.

.SH BUGS
Da major limitation dat I know of is dat tha backend assumes
the directory up in tha camera is 100dc240.  Once tha camera has
taken mo' than 9999 pictures, tha directory will increment ta 101dc240. 
Not only should we check fo' tha additionizzle directory yo, but pictures may
actually be found up in multiple directories.
.PP
Mo' general comments, suggestions, n' inquiries bout frontends
or SANE should git all up in tha SANE Developers mailin list 
(see http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html fo' details). 
Yo ass must be subscribed ta tha list, otherwise yo' mail won't be
sent ta tha subscribers.

