.TH sane\-u12 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-u12
.SH NAME
sane\-u12 \- SANE backend fo' Plustek STD flatbed scanners,
based on olda parport designs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-u12
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta STD flatbed scanners based on Plusteks' ASIC
98003 (parallel-port ASIC) n' a GeneSys Logics' STD-parport
bridge chip.

.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"
Da backend be able ta support some early Plustek STD scanner based
their oldschool parport design round tha ASIC 98003 n' other rebadged
Plustek devices. Da followin tablez will hit you wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short overview.

If yo' Plustek scanner has another Product ID, then tha thang is
.B NOT
supported by dis backend.
.br

Vendor Plustek \- ID: 0x07B3
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
Model:                   Vendor-ID:       Product-ID:
----------------------------------------------------------
OpticPro U12             0x07B3           0x0001
OpticPro U1212           0x07B3           0x0001
OpticPro UT12            0x07B3           0x0001
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor KYE/Genius
.br
.ft CR
.nf
--------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:               Vendor-ID:       Product-ID:
--------------------------------------------------------
ColorPage Vivid Pt III STD  0x07B3           0x0001
ColorPage HR6 V1         0x0458           0x2004
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
To use yo' scanner wit dis backend, you need at least two
entries up in tha configuration file
.I /etc/sane.d/u12.conf
.RS
.I [usb] vendor-id product-id
.br
.I thang /dev/usbscanner
.RE
.PP
.I [usb]
 drops some lyrics ta tha backend, dat tha followin devicename (here
.IR /dev/usbscanner )
has ta be interpreted as STD scanner device. If vendor- and
product-id has not been specified, tha backend tries to
detect dis by its own. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If thang is set to
.I auto
then tha next matchin thang is used.
.PP
.B
Da Options:
.PP
option warmup t
.RS
.I t
specifies tha warmup period up in seconds
.RE
.PP
option lampOff t
.RS
.I t
is tha time up in secondz fo' switchin off tha lamps in
standby mode
.RE
.PP
option lOffonEnd b
.RS
.I b
specifies tha behaviour when closin tha backend, 1 --> switch
lamps off, 0 --> do not chizzle lamp status
.RE

.PP
See tha u12.conf file fo' examples.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
Yo ass gotta make sure, dat tha STD subsystem is loaded
correctly n' you have access ta tha device-node. For
more details see
.B sane\-usb (5)
manpage. Yo ass might use
.B sane\-find\-scanner
to check dat you have access ta yo' device.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
If there be a no configuration file, tha backend defaults to
.B thang auto

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/u12.conf
Da backend configuration file
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-u12.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-u12.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_U12
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_U12=10

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/u12/U12.changes
.br
.I http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/u12/

.SH "CONTACT AND BUG-REPORTS"
Please bust any shiznit n' bug-reports to:
.br
.B SANE Mailin List
.PP
Additionizzle info n' hints can be obtained from our
.br
Mailing-List archive at:
.br
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
.PP
or directly from tha projects' homepizzy at:
.br
.B http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/u12/
.PP
To obtain debug lyrics from tha backend, please set the
environment-variable
.I SANE_DEBUG_U12
before callin yo' straight-up scan-frontend (i.e. xscanimage).
.br
.B i.e.: export SANE_DEBUG_U12=20 ; xscanimage
.PP
Da value controls tha verbositizzle of tha backend.

.SH "KNOWN BUGS & RESTRICTIONS"
* Da driver is up in alpha state, so please don't expect too much!!!
.PP
* When rockin libusb, it might be, dat tha backend hangs. 
In dat case, reconnect tha scanner.
