.TH sane\-hp 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp
.SH NAME
sane\-hp \- SANE backend fo' HP ScanJet scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta HP ScanJet scanners which support SCL (Scanner
Control Language by HP).  Da following
scanners is known positively ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model:         Product id:     Interface:
----------     -----------     ----------
ScanJet Plus   C9195A          HP Parallel Interface Card
ScanJet Pt IIc    C1750A 3226     SCSI
ScanJet Pt IIcx   C2500A 3332     SCSI
ScanJet Pt IIp    C1790A          SCSI
ScanJet 3C     C2520A 3503     SCSI
ScanJet 3P     C2570A 3406     SCSI
ScanJet 4C     C2520A          SCSI
ScanJet 4P     C1130A 3540     SCSI
ScanJet 4100C  C6290A          STD
ScanJet 5P     C5110A          SCSI
ScanJet 5100C  C5190A          parallel port
ScanJet 5200C  C7190A 3846     parallel port/STD
ScanJet 6100C  C2520A 3644     SCSI
ScanJet 6200C  C6270A 3828     SCSI/STD
ScanJet 6250C  C6270A 3828     SCSI/STD
ScanJet 6300C  C7670A          SCSI/STD
ScanJet 6350C  C7670A          SCSI/STD
ScanJet 6390C  C7670A          SCSI/STD
PhotoSmart     C5100A R029,R030,R032    SCSI
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Support fo' models 5100C/5200C connected ta tha parallel port requires
the ppSCSI driver available at 
.I http://cyberelk.net/tim/parport/ppscsi.html
and
.IR http://penguin-breeder.org/kernel/download/ .

.PP
Support fo' models 5200C/62X0C/63X0C connected ta tha STD require
the kernel scanner driver or libusb. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-usb (5)
for mo' details.
.PP
Da "hp" backend no longer supports OfficeJet multi-function peripherals.
For these devices use tha external "hpoj" backend up in version 0.90 n' lata of
the "HP OfficeJet Linux driver", available at 
.br
.IR http://hpoj.sourceforge.net
.
.PP
Because Hewlett-Packard do no longer produce scanners dat support
SCL (beside tha OfficeJets), tha above list of supported scanners is
complete.
Other HP scanners is not supported by tha "hp" backend yo, but might be supported
by another one. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/ .
Yo ass can also peep tha sane\-devel mailin list at
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html .
.PP
Mo' details bout tha hp backend can be found on its homepizzy 
.IR http://www.kirchgessner.net/sane.html .
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha UNIX path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta the
scanner n' shit.  For SCSI scanners tha special thang name must be a generic SCSI
device or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sg2 ,
for example. If tha special thang name gotz nuff "usb", "uscanner" or "ugen",
it be assumed dat tha scanner is connected by STD.
For tha HP ScanJet Plus tha special thang name must be tha device
that correspondz ta tha parallel intercourse card dat was shipped wit the
scanner n' shit. That is
.IR /dev/hpscan .
A special driver is required fo' dis card.
See ftp://rvs.ctrl\-c.liu.se/pub/wingel/hpscan fo' details. If tha link
does not work, try ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/kernel/patches/scanners.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I hp.conf
file be a list of options n' thang names dat correspond ta HP ScanJet
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark
(#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See
.BR sane\-scsi (5)
and
.BR sane\-usb (5)
on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.
.PP
Options specified up in front of tha straight-up original gangsta line dat gotz nuff a thang name 
are defaults fo' all devices. Options specified below a line that
gotz nuff a thang name apply just ta da most thugged-out recently mentioned device.
.PP
Supported options are
.BR connect\-scsi ,
.BR connect\-device ,
.BR enable\-image\-bufferin ,
and
.BR dumb\-read .

Option
.B connect\-scsi
specifies dat tha scanner is connected ta tha system by SCSI.
Input/output is performed rockin SCSI-commands. This is tha default.
But if yo' SCSI thang name gotz nuff "usb", "uscanner" or "ugen",
option connect\-scsi must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Otherwise it be assumed that
the scanner is connected by STD.

Option
.B connect\-device
specifies dat tha scanner is connected ta tha system by a special
device. Input/output is performed by read()/write()-operations
on tha device. This option must be used fo' HP ScanJet Plus
or scanners connected ta STD which is accessed all up in a named device
(e.g. /dev/usb/scanner0).
For thang names dat contain "usb", "uscanner" or "ugen", it is not
necessary ta specify option connect\-device.

Option
.B enable\-image\-buffering
stores tha scanned image up in memory before passin it ta tha frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Could be
used up in case of forward/backward movin scanner lamp.

Option
.B dumb\-read
can be used ta work round problems wit "Error durin thang I/O". These
problems may occur wit certain SCSI-to-STD convertas or Buslogic SCSI cards.
Da option should not be used fo' SCSI devices which is hustlin erectly.
Otherwise startup of frontendz n' changin parametas might be slower.
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
/dev/scanner
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
/dev/hpscan
  option connect\-device
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
/dev/scanner is typically a symlink ta tha actual SCSI scanner device.
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/hp.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I $HOME/.sane/calib-hp:<device>.dat
Calibration data fo' HP PhotoSmart PhotoScanner dat is retrieved from the
scanner afta calibration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da data is uploaded ta tha scanner at start
of tha backend if it is up in media mode 'print media' or if tha media mode is
changed ta 'print media'.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_HOME_HP
Only used fo' OS/2 n' along wit use of HP PhotoSmart PhotoScanner.
Must be set ta tha directory where tha directory .sane is located. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
Is used ta save n' read tha calibration file.
.TP
.B SANE_HP_KEEPOPEN_SCSI
.TP
.B SANE_HP_KEEPOPEN_STD
.TP
.B SANE_HP_KEEPOPEN_DEVICE
For each type of connection (connect\-scsi, connect\-usb, connect\-device)
it can be specified if tha connection ta tha thang should be kept open ("1")
or not ("0").
Usually tha connections is closed afta a operation is performed.
Keepin connection open ta SCSI-devices can result up in errors durin thang IO
when tha scanner has not been used fo' some time. By default, STD-connections
are kept open. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Other connections is closed.
.TP
.B SANE_HP_RDREDO
Specifies number of retries fo' read operation before returnin a EOF error.
Only supported fo' non-SCSI devices. Default: 1 retry. Time between retries
is 0.1 seconds.

.SH BUGS
.TP
.B HP PhotoSmart PhotoScanner
In media mode 'slide' n' 'negative', scan resolutions is rounded to
multiple of 300 dpi. Da scanner do not scale tha data erectly
on other resolutions. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some newer models (firmware code R030 n' later)
do not support adjustment of contrast/intensitizzle level n' tone map.
Da backend will simulate dis by software yo, but only fo' gray
and 24 bit color.
.TP
.B Automatic Document Feeder (ADF)
For use of tha ADF wit xscanimage(1), first place paper up in tha ADF and
then chizzle option scan source ta 'ADF'. Press 'change document'
to load a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sheet. Then press 'scan' ta start a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Maybe it is sufficient ta press 'scan' without 'change document'
for repeated scans. Da use of tha peepshow window aint recommended
when hustlin wit tha ADF.
Settin a window ta scan from ADF aint supported wit xscanimage(1).
Try xsane(1).
.TP
.B Immediate actions
Some actions up in xscanimage(1) (i.e. unload, select media, calibrate)
have a immediate effect on tha scanner without startin a scan.
These options can not be used wit scanimage.

.SH TODO
.TP
.B HP PhotoSmart PhotoScanner
PhotoScanners wit firmware release R030 n' up have
no firmware support fo' contrast/brightness/gamma table. In tha current
backend dis is simulated by software on 24 bits data.
Simulation on 30 bits should give betta thangs up in dis biatch.
.TP
.B Data widths pimped outa than 8 bits
Custom gamma table do not work.
.TP
.B Parallel scanner support
Beside tha ScanJet Plus which came wit its own parallel intercourse card,
currently only tha HP ScanJet 5100C/5200C is supported.
These scanners is rockin a internal parallel-to-SCSI converta which
is supported by tha ppSCSI-driver (see above).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Da sane\-hp backend was freestyled by Geoffrey T. Dairiki yo. HP PhotoSmart
PhotoScanner support by Peta Kirchgessner.
