.TH sane\-abaton 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-abaton
.SH NAME
sane\-abaton \- SANE backend fo' Abaton flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-abaton
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Abaton flatbed scanners fo' realz. At present, only tha Scan
300/GS (8bit, 256 levelz of gray) is straight-up supported, cuz of the
absence of programmin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da Scan 300/S (black n' white)
is recognized yo, but support fo' it is untested.
.PP
If you own a Abaton scanner other than tha ones listed above that
works wit dis backend, or if you own a Abaton scanner dat do not
work wit dis backend, please contact
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
with tha model number, so dat arrangements can be made ta include
support fo' it yo. Have a peep http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
concernin subscription ta sane\-devel.
.PP
Abaton is outta bidnizz, n' these scanners is not supported by
Everex (the parent company of Abaton), nor is there any programming
information ta be found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This driver is therefore based on
information obtained by hustlin Abatonz scannin desk accessory under
MacsBug n' tracin tha MacOS SCSI Manager calls it made durin image
acquisition.
.PP
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha protocol is straight-up similar to, though not compatible with,
the one used by tha Applez scanners, therefore, if dis backend is ever
extended ta support tha other Abaton models (they also done cooked up a cold-ass lil color
flatbed scanner), it may be possible ta fill up in some "missin pieces"
from tha (quite detailed) Applez scanner documentation.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a SCSI
scanner n' shit. For SCSI scanners, tha special thang name must be a generic
SCSI thang or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thugged-out device
name takes a gangbangin' format such as
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sg0 ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I abaton.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Abaton scanners.
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
sane\-scsi(5) on detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a valid thang name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/abaton.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-abaton.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-abaton.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ABATON
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.SH BUGS
There is all dem known ones, n' definitely some unknown ones.
.TP
.B Scan area miscalculations
For tha sake of programmer efficiency, dis backend handlez all
measurements up in millimetres, n' floors (rather than rounds) joints to
avoid possible damage ta tha scanner mechanism.  Therefore, it may not
be possible ta scan ta tha off tha hook right or bottom edgez of tha page.
.TP
.B Cancellin tha scan
This might not work erectly, or it might abort tha frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  The
forma is mo' likely than tha latter.
.PP
If you have found suttin' dat you be thinkin be a funky-ass bug, please attempt to
recreate it wit tha SANE_DEBUG_ABATON environment variable set to
255, n' bust a report detailin tha conditions surroundin tha bug to
.IR sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .

.SH TODO
.TP
.B Implement non-blockin support
.TP
.B Finish reverse-engineerin tha MacOS driver
This will allow me ta add support fo' other models wit reasonable
confidence dat it will work, as well as ta straight-up exploit the
information returned by tha INQUIRY command.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Da sane\-abaton backend was partially freestyled by Dizzy Huggins-Daines,
based on tha sane\-apple backend by Milon Firikis.
