.TH sane\-hp4200 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp4200
.SH NAME
sane\-hp4200 \- SANE backend fo' Hewlett-Packard 4200 scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp4200
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha followin Hewlett-Packard STD flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
ScanJet 4200 C
.br
ScanJet 4200 Cxi
.br
ScanJet 4200 Cse
.RE
.PP
Mo' details can be found on tha hp4200 backend homepizzy 
.IR http://hp4200\-backend.sourceforge.net/ .
.PP
This is BETA software. Keep yo' hand all up in tha scannerz plug n' unplug it, if
the head bumps all up in tha end of tha scan area. 
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed above dat works wit this
backend, please let our asses know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta us. Even if tha scannerz name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let our asses know.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I hp4200.conf
file be a list of usb lines containin vendor n' thang idz dat correspond
to STD scanners. Da file can also contain tha namez of thang filez that
correspond ta a HP 4200 scanner n' shit.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash
mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da scanners is autodetected by
.B usb vendor_id product_id
statements which is already included into
.IR hp4200.conf .
"vendor_id" n' "product_id" is hexadecimal numbers dat identify the
scanner n' shit. If autodetection do not work, add tha thang name of yo' scanner
to tha configuration file, e.g.
.IR /dev/usb/scanner0 .
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/hp4200.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp4200.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp4200.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP4200
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_HP4200=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.br
.I http://hp4200\-backend.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Perez Jorge, Andrew Jizzy Lewis, Arnar Mar Hrafnkelsson, Frank Zago,
Hennin Meier-Geinitz. Current maintainer: Hennin Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>.

.SH BUGS
Tested only wit Linux.
.PP
Only 8 bit color mode works.
.PP
Scannin is slow cuz of backtracking.
.PP
Send bug reports ta tha sane\-devel mailin list:
sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org.
