.TH sane\-microtek2 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH NAME
sane\-microtek2 \- SANE backend fo' Microtek scanners wit SCSI-2 command set
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-microtek2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Microtek scanners wit a SCSI-2 command set.
This backend can be considered alpha ta beta. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some scanner models is reported
to work well, others not. New pimpment versionz of dis backend can be
obtained from
.B http://karstenfestag.gmxhome.de
.PP
There exists a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different backend fo' Microtek scanners wit SCSI-1 command
set.
Refer ta sane\-microtek(5) fo' details.
.PP
And there is work up in progress fo' tha ScanMaker 3600.
See
.B http://sourceforge.net/projects/sm3600
.PP
At present, tha followin scanners is known positively ta work wit this
backend:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor     Product id        Remark
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Microtek   E3+               Parport n' SCSI
Microtek   X6                SCSI
Microtek   X6EL              SCSI
Microtek   X6STD             STD
Microtek   ScanMaker V300    Parport n' SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker V310    Parport n' SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker V600    Parport n' SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 330     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 630     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 636     SCSI
Microtek   ScanMaker 9600XL  SCSI; only flatbed mode?
Microtek   Phantom 330CX     Parport
Microtek   SlimScan C3       Parport
Microtek   SlimScan C6       STD
Microtek   Phantom 636       SCSI
Microtek   Phantom 636CX     Parport
Microtek   V6USL             SCSI n' STD
Microtek   V6UPL             STD; not stable
Microtek   X12USL            SCSI; only 8bit color, work up in progress
Vobis      HighScan          SCSI (E3+ based models)
Scanport   SQ300             Parport?
Scanport   SQ4836            SCSI
Scanpaq    SQ2030            Parport
.fi
.ft R
.PP
Additionizzle shiznit can be found at
.BR http://www.sane\-project.org/ .
.PP
If you own a Microtek scanner other than tha ones listed above,
it may or may not work wit SANE! Because equal scanners is sold under
different names up in different ghettos yo' model may be equivalent ta one of
the above.
.PP
Da parport scanners work wit tha ppscsi + onscsi kernel modules. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.I http://cyberelk.net/tim/parport/ppscsi.html
and
.IR http://penguin-breeder.org/kernel/download/ .

.PP
Da STD scanners work wit tha microtek kernel module. Yo ass may gotta add the
vendor n' model codes ta microtek.c if they aren't yet listed there.
.PP
Both parport n' STD scanners need tha generic SCSI support, so check if you
have loaded tha scsi_mod n' sg modules!
.PP
If you try yo' scanner fo' tha last time keep a eye on dat shit. If it gets
commandz dat it don't KNOW tha scanhead may go beyond tha scan area.
Da scanner then make strange noises. In dis case immediately switch off
the scanner or disconnect its juice cable ta prevent damages!
.PP
If yo' scanner be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different one than tha models mentioned above n' it is
workin please tell tha lyricist bout dat shit. Well shiiiit, it would be sick if you add a logfile
to dis shiznit (creation of tha logfile: peep below).
.PP
If yo' scanner aint hustlin properly you also should create a logfile and
send it ta tha lyricist yo. Dude will use tha shiznit ta improve tha backend and
possibly make yo' scanner work.
.PP
.br
How tha fuck ta create tha logfile?
.TP
\- put tha line
.br
"option dump 2" tha fuck into your
.I microtek2.conf
file or chizzle tha existin "option dump" ta "2"
.TP
\- up in a terminal (bash) type
.br
"export SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2=30" n' then
.br
"scanimage \-l0 \-t0 \-x100 \-y20 2>scan.log >sout.pnm"
.br
Yo ass git two files: scan.log gotz nuff tha logfile n' sout.pnm tha scanned
image (if there was scanned something). Zip dem before sending.

.SH "FRONTEND OPTIONS"
This backend dynamically enablez tha options fo' tha frontend, dat are
supported by tha scanner up in dependence of tha scanning-mode n' other
options.
Not supported options is disabled.
.PP
Da followin options is supported by tha Microtek2-driver:
.PP
Color, grayscale, halftone n' lineart scans.
.PP
Highlight, midtone, shadow, contrast, brightness, exposure time control,
gamma erection, threshold (dependent of tha scan mode n' tha scanner
capabilities)
.PP
Transparency media adapter, automatic document feeder
.PP
Additionizzle options can be enabled or disabled up in the
.I microtek2.conf
file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha configuration section of dis manpage.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I  special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha UNIX path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta the
scanner n' shit.  Da special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I  /dev/sga
or
.I  /dev/sge
for example.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Da configuration file fo' dis backend resides in
.IR /etc/sane.d/microtek2.conf .

Its contents be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Microtek
scanners wit SCSI-2 intercourse. Empty lines n' lines startin with
a hash mark (#) is ignored.
.PP
Da configuration file may also contain options. Global options dat is valid
for all devices is placed above tha thang names. Device-specific options
are
placed under tha thang name. Note that, except fo' option dump <n> and
option strip-height <n>, tha entry up in tha microtek2.conf file only enables
the correspondin option fo' bein flossed up in tha frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. There, up in the
frontend, you can switch tha options on n' off.
Currently tha followin options is supported:
.PP
.RS
option dump <n>
.br
option strip\-height <n>
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option <on/off>
.br
option lightlid\-35 <on/off>
.br
option toggle\-lamp <on/off>
.br
option lineart\-autoadjust <on/off>
.br
option backend\-calibration <on/off>
.br
option colorbalance\-adjust <on/off>
.RE
.PP
.I option dump <n>
enablez printin of additionizzle shiznit bout tha SCSI commandz dat are
sent ta tha scanner ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This option is primarily useful fo' debugging
purpose. This option has ta be a global option n' is dopest placed all up in tha top
of the
.I microtek2.conf
file.
.PP
If n=1 tha contentz of tha command blocks
and tha thangs up in dis biatch fo' tha INQUIRY n' READ SCANNER ATTRIBUTES command are
printed ta stderr.
.PP
If n=2 tha contentz of tha command blocks fo' all other SCSI commandz are
printed ta stderr, like a muthafucka. If n=3 tha contentz of tha gamma table is
printed, like a muthafucka. If n=4 all scan data be additionally printed ta stderr.
.PP
Da default is n=1.
.PP
.I option strip\-height <n>
, where <n> be a gangbangin' floatin point number, limits tha amount of data dat is
read from tha scanner wit one read command.
Da unit is inch n' <n> defaults ta 1.0, if dis option aint set up in the
configuration file. If less than <n> inch of data fit tha fuck into tha SCSI buffer,
then tha smalla value is used n' dis option has no effect.
.PP
If yo' system has a funky-ass big-ass SCSI buffer n' you wanna make use of tha whole
buffer, increase tha value fo' <n>. For example, if <n> is set ta 14.0,
no restrictions apply fo' scanners wit a letter, legal or A4 sized scan area.
.PP
.PP
Da followin options enable or disable additionizzle frontend options. If an
option is set ta <on> a appropriate option will step tha fuck up in tha frontend.
.PP
.I option no\-backtrack\-option <on/off>
prevents tha scanner head from movin backwardz between tha read commands.
This speedz up scanning. Try dat shit.
.PP
.I option lightlid\-35 <on/off>
If you use tha LightLid-35 transparency adapta you git a advanced
option which switches off tha flatbed lamp durin tha scan.
.PP
.I option toggle\-lamp <on/off>
Yo ass git a funky-ass button up in tha frontend where you can switch on n' off tha flatbed
lamp.
.PP
.I option lineart\-autoadjust <on/off>
Yo ass can tell tha backend ta try ta determine a phat value fo' tha lineart
threshold.
.PP
.I option backend\-calibration <on/off>
Some scanners (e.g. Phantom 330CX n' 636CX) need ta have calibrated tha data
by tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Try dis option if you peep vertical stripes up in yo' pictures.
.PP
.I option colorbalance\-adjust <on/off>
Some scanners (e.g. Phantom 330CX n' 636CX) need ta have erected
the color balance. If dis option is enabled you git advanced options
where you can balizzle tha colors fo' realz. And you gonna git a funky-ass button
to use tha joints dat tha firmware of tha scanner provides.
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
option dump 1
.br
option strip\-height 1.0
.br
/dev/scanner
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option on
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/sge
.br
option lightlid\-35 on
.RE

This backend also supports tha freshly smoked up configuration file format which makes
it easier ta detect scanners under Linux. If you have only one scanner it
would be dopest ta use tha followin configuration file fo' dis backend:
.PP
.RS
option dump 1
.br
option strip\-height 14.0
.br
option no\-backtrack\-option on
.br
option backend\-calibration on
.br
option lightlid\-35 on
.br
option toggle\-lamp on
.br
option lineart\-autoadjust on
.br
option colorbalance\-adjust off
.br
scsi * * Scanner
.RE

In dis case all SCSI-Scanners should be detected automatically cuz of the
.PP
scsi * * Scanner
.PP
line.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/microtek2.conf
Da backend configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-microtek2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-microtek2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity. To peep error lyrics on stderr set
SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2 ta 1 (Remark: Da whole debuggin levels should
be betta revised).
.br
E.g. just say:
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_MICROTEK2=128
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), sane(7)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bernd Schroeder (not actizzle no mo')
.br
Karsten Festag  karsten.festag@gmx.de





