.TH sane\-dmc 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-dmc
.SH NAME
sane\-dmc \- SANE backend fo' tha Polarizzle Digital Microscope Camera
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-dmc
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha Polarizzle Digital Microscope Camera.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha UNIX path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta the
scanner n' shit.  Da special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Under Linux, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.
.SH IMAGING MODES
Da Polarizzle DMC supports a fuckin shitload of imagin modes.  This driver supports
five of tha imagin modes:
.PP
.TP
.B Full Frame
This mode correspondz ta tha 801-by-600 pixel full-color full-frame image.
.TP
.B Viewfinder
This mode correspondz ta tha 270-by-201 pixel grey-scale viewfinder image.
This image be acquired straight-up doggystyle.
.TP
.B Raw
This mode correspondz ta tha 1599-by-600 pixel "raw" image from the
CCD.  It be grey-scale, wit pixels alternatin horizontally between
red, chronic n' blue stripes.  Da pixels is twice as high as they are
wide, so tha image is distorted.
.TP
.B Thumbnail
This mode correspondz ta tha 80-by-60 pixel full-color thumbnail image.
.TP
.B Supa Resolution
This image be a 1599-by-1200 pixel full-color image constructed by filtering
and interpolatin tha "raw" image.  Da filterin n' interpolation is
done up in software, so dis mode is straight-up slow.  Also, dis mode places
restrictions on how tha fuck tha image is read which means dat tha "preview" mode
of xscanimage do not work up in Supa Resolution mode.  (xcam n' the
non-preview modez of scanimage n' xscanimage work fine, however.)
.PP
.SH OTHER SETTINGS
.TP
.B ASA Setting
This settin adjusts tha cameraz sensitivity.  Yo ass can chizzle one of
25, 50, or 100 "equivalent" ASA.
.TP
.B Shutta Speed
Yo ass can select a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shutta speed from 8 ta 1000 milliseconds.  Da shutter
speed is quantized up in unitz of 32 microseconds.
.TP
.B White Balance
Yo ass can chizzle one of "Daylight", "Incandescent" or "Fluorescent"
white balances.  This settin more-or-less correspondz ta the
"Color Temperature" settings on Polaroidz Windows n' Mac software.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I dmc.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta DMC
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/scanner
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/sge
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/dmc.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dmc.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-dmc.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_DMC
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH BUGS
In tha "Full Frame" n' "Raw" modes, images must be read up in units
of entire lines.  Da driver performs no bufferin up in these modes;
if you ask sane_read ta read a non-integral number of lines, it
may read less than you ask for. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If you ask sane_read ta read
less than a single line, it returns SANE_STATUS_INVAL.
.PP
In tha "Supa Resolution" mode, images must be read up in units of
\fItwo\fR lines (3198 pixels or 9594 bytes.)  If you try ta read less
than two lines, you git SANE_STATUS_INVAL.  Da Supa Resolution mode
is straight-up slow.
.PP
In tha "Viewfinder" n' "Thumbnail" modes, tha entire image must
be read up in one SCSI transfer n' shit.  In dis case, tha driver performs
bufferin n' you can read tha image up in as lil' small-ass a increment as you
like.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll
.PP
Da backend is derived from
.BR sane\-hp
by Dizzy Mosberger
