.\" $Id$
.TH sane\-niash 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-niash

.SH NAME
sane\-niash \- SANE backend fo' scanners based on tha NIASH chipset.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-niash
implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta NIASH chipset based scanners. This backend will try ta support
the followin models:

.ft CR
.nf
MANUFACTURER:    MODEL:          STD ID:
---------------  ----------------  ---------
Agfa             Snapscan Touch    06BD-0100 (1)(a)
Trust            Office Scan 19200 047B-1000 (1)(a)
Hewlett-Packard  Scanjet 3300c     03F0-0205 (1)(a)(b)
Hewlett-Packard  Scanjet 3400c     03F0-0405 (2)(b)
Hewlett-Packard  Scanjet 4300c     03F0-0305 (2)(a)
Silitek          ScanJet 4300c     047B-1002 (2)(b)
.fi
.ft R
.PP
.br
ASIC: (1) \- NIASH00012/00013/00014 / (2) \- NIASH00019
.br
ANALOG FRONT-END: (a) \- ESIC ES8100QA / (b) \- WM8143-12
.br

.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.I niash.conf
file is meant fo' future configuration options.
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Currently no configuration options exist.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-niash.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.

.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-niash.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH CAVEATS
If you use a
.br
Hewlett-Packard Scanjet 3400c
or
.br
Hewlett-Packard Scanjet 4300c
.br
together wit Linux kernel
.BR 2.6 ,
kernel version
.B 2.6.8
or newer is necessary.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NIASH
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_NIASH=255

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5)
.br
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/hp3300backend
.SH AUTHOR
Bertrik Sikken <bertrik@zonnet.nl>
