.TH sane\-cardscan 5 "10 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-cardscan

.SH NAME
sane\-cardscan \- SANE backend fo' Corex CardScan usb scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-cardscan
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta tha Corex CardScan 800c & 600c small-format scanners.

Da backend supports only grayscale n' color modes n' media of 
(theoretically) infinite length.

This backend may support other scanners. Da best
way ta determine level of support is ta git a trace of tha windows 
driver up in action, n' bust it ta tha lyricist.

.SH OPTIONS
Da cardscan backend supports tha followin options:
.PP
mode m
.RS
Selects tha mode fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options is "Gray" n' "Color".
.RE
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "cardscan.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look
for scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend.
This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list 
of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha configuration
file is missing, tha backend will bust a set of compiled defaults, which
are identical ta tha default configuration file shipped wit SANE.
.PP
Scanners can be specified up in tha configuration file up in 2 ways:
.PP
"usb 0x04c5 0x1042" (or other vendor/thang ids)
.RS
Requests backend ta search all usb busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which uses dat vendor n' thang id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da thang will then be queried
to determine if it aint nuthin but a cold-ass lil cardscan scanner.
.RE
.PP
"usb /dev/usb/scanner0" (or other thang file)
.RS
Some systems bust a kernel driver ta access usb scanners. This method is untested.
.RE

Additionally, there be two configuration options dat control tha protocol
used by tha backend:

.PP
"lines_per_block 16" (or other number from 1 ta 32)
.RS
Controls tha number of linez of image data which is ghon be aquired up in each pass.
Older scanners will require dis number set lower, often 1.
.RE
.PP
"has_cal_buffer 1" (1 or 0)
.RS
Causes tha backend ta git calibration data from scanner durin initialization.
Older scanners do not support dis request, n' must be set ta 0.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_CARDSCAN, which
enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Valid joints are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI/STD trace
.br
30 SCSI/STD detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.PP
.RS
Da scanner do not seem ta have much control possible, so tha backend
cannot set x/y coordinizzle joints, resolutions, etc. These thangs could
be simulated up in tha backend yo, but there be nuff command line tools.
.br
.br
Da backend also do not bust all tha commandz dat tha windows driver 
does, so it may not function tha same.
.br
.br
Da backend aint gots tha calibration or ejection optionz of tha 
windows driver.
.br
.br
.RE

.SH CREDITS
Da hardware ta build dis driver was provided ta tha lyricist by:
  Jeff Kowalczyk <jtk a t yahoo d o t com>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>

