.TH sane\-plustek 5 "13 Feb 2013" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-plustek
.SH NAME
sane\-plustek \- SANE backend fo' LM983[1/2/3] based
STD flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-plustek
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta STD flatbed scanners based on Nationizzle Semiconductor
Merlin chipsets (LM9831, 9832 n' 9833).
If you lookin fo' parallel-port support fo' Plustek scanner
please refer ta the
.B sane\-plustek_pp
backend.

.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"
Da Backend be able ta support STD scanner based on tha National
Semiconductor chipsets LM9831, LM9832 n' LM9833. Da followin tables
show various devices which is currently reported ta work. If your
Plustek scanner has another Product ID, then tha thang is
.B NOT
supported by dis backend.
.br

Vendor Plustek \- ID: 0x07B3
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
OpticPro U12       LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0010
OpticPro UT12      LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0013
OpticPro UT12      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0017
OpticPro UT16      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0017
OpticPro U24       LM9831 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0011
OpticPro U24       LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0015
OpticPro UT24      LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x0017
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor KYE/Genius \- ID: 0x0458
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Colorpage HR6 V2   LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2007
Colorpage HR6 V2   LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2008
Colorpage HR6A     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2009
Colorpage HR7      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2013
Colorpage HR7LE    LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2015
Colorpage HR6X     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2016
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Hewlett-Packard \- ID: 0x03F0
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
ScanJet 2100C      LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0505
ScanJet 2200C      LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0605
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Mustek \- ID: 0x0400
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
BearPaw 1200       LM9831  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1000
BearPaw 1200       LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1001*
BearPaw 2400       LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit   2Mb 0x1001
.fi
.ft R
* peep also description fo' model override switch below!
.PP

Vendor UMAX \- ID: 0x1606
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
UMAX 3400          LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0050
UMAX 3400/3450     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0060
UMAX 5400          LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x0160
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor COMPAQ \- ID: 0x049F
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
S4-100             LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x001A
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Epson \- ID: 0x04B8
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Perfection 1250    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x010F
Perfection 1260    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x011D
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor CANON \- ID: 0x04A9
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
CanoScan N650/656U LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2206
CanoScan N1220U    LM9832 1200x2400dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2207
CanoScan D660U     LM9832  600x1200dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2208
CanoScan N670/676U LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220D
CanoScan N1240U    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220E
CanoScan LIDE20    LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220D
CanoScan LIDE25    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x2220
CanoScan LIDE30    LM9833 1200x2400dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x220E
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Syscan \- ID: 0x0A82
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Travelscan 662     LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x6620
Travelscan 464     LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x4600
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Portable Peripheral Co., Ltd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \- ID: 0x0A53
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Q-Scan STD001      LM9832   300x600dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x1000
Q-Scan STD201      LM9832   300x600dpi 42bit 512Kb 0x2000
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Vendor Visioneer \- ID: 0x04A7
.br
.ft CR
.nf
----------------------------------------------------------
STD Model:         ASIC:  Properties:              Prod-ID
----------------------------------------------------------
Strobe XP100       LM9833  600x1200dpi 48bit 512Kb 0x0427
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.SH "OTHER PLUSTEK SCANNERS"
For parallelport thang support peep the
.B plustek_pp
backend.
.br
Da SCSI scanner OpticPro 19200S be a rebadged Artec AM12S scanner
and is supported by the
.B Artec
backend.
.br
Only tha Nationizzle Semiconductor LM983[1/2/] based devicez of Plustek
are supported by dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Older versionz of tha U12, tha UT12,
the U1212 n' U1248 (GrandTech chipset) is not supported.
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model             Chipset    backend
------------------------------------
U1248             GrandTech  gt68xx
UT16B             GrandTech  gt68xx
OpticSlim 1200    GrandTech  gt68xx
OpticSlim 2400    GrandTech  gt68xx
U12                P98003     u12
UT12               P98003     u12
1212U              P98003     u12
.fi
.ft R
For a mo' complete n' up ta date list see:
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
To use yo' scanner wit dis backend, you need at least two
entries up in tha configuration file
.I /etc/sane.d/plustek.conf
.RS
.I [usb] vendor-id product-id
.br
.I thang /dev/usbscanner
.RE
.PP
.I [usb]
 drops some lyrics ta tha backend, dat tha followin devicename (here
.IR /dev/usbscanner )
has ta be interpreted as STD scanner device. If vendor- and
product-id has not been specified, tha backend tries to
detect dis by its own. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If thang is set to
.I auto
then tha next matchin thang is used.
.br
Da followin options can be used fo' a thugged-out default setup of
your device. Most of dem is also available through
the frontend.
.PP
.B
Da Options:
.PP
option warmup t
.RS
.I t
specifies tha warmup period up in seconds, if set ta \-1, tha 
automatic warmup function is ghon be used
.RE
.PP
option lampOff t
.RS
.I t
is tha time up in secondz fo' switchin off tha lamps in
standby mode
.RE
.PP
option lOffonEnd b
.RS
.I b
specifies tha behaviour when closin tha backend, 1 --> switch
lamps off, 0 --> do not chizzle lamp status
.RE
.PP
option mov m
.RS
.I m
is tha model override switch. Well shiiiit, it works only wit Mustek
BearPaw devices.
.br
.br
.ft CR
.nf
m/PID |    0x1000    |    0x1001
------+--------------+--------------
  0   | BearPaw 1200 | BearPaw 2400
  1   |  no function | BearPaw 1200
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
option invertNegatives b
.RS
.I b
0 --> do not invert tha picture durin negativ scans,
.br
1 --> invert picture
.RE
.PP
option cacheCalData b
.RS
.I b
0 --> do not save calibration thangs up in dis biatch,
.br
1 --> save thangs up in dis biatch of calibration up in ~/.sane/ directory
.RE
.PP
option altCalibration b
.RS
.I b
0 --> use standard calibration routines,
.br
1 --> use alternate calibration (only non Plustek devices, standard fo' CIS devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipFine b
.RS
.I b
0 --> big-ass up fine calibration,
.br
1 --> skip fine calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipFineWhite b
.RS
.I b
0 --> big-ass up white fine calibration,
.br
1 --> skip white fine calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option skipDarkStrip b
.RS
.I b
0 --> big-ass up dark calibration, wit enabled lamp rockin the
dark calibration strip of tha scanner n' shit. If tha scanner do
not have such a strip, tha alternatizzle way is ta switch off
the lamp durin dis step.
.br
1 --> always switch off tha lamp fo' dark calibration, even
a black strip be available
.RE
.PP
option skipCalibration b
.RS
.I b
0 --> big-ass up calibration,
.br
1 --> skip calibration (only non Plustek devices)
.RE
.PP
option enableTPA b
.RS
.I b
0 --> default behaviour, specified by tha internal tables,
.br
1 --> override internal tablez n' allow TPA mode (EPSON/UMAX only)
.RE

.PP
option posOffX x
.br
option posOffY y
.br
option tpaOffX x
.br
option tpaOffY y
.br
option negOffX x
.br
option negOffY y
.RS
.I x y
By rockin dis settings, tha user can adjust tha given image
positions.
.B Please note, dat there be a no internal range checkin for
.B dis feature.
.RE
.PP
option posShadingY p
.br
option tpaShadingY p
.br
option negShadingY p
.RS
.I p
overrides tha internal shadin position. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da joints is up in steps.
.B Please note, dat there be a no internal range checkin for
.B dis feature.
.RE
.PP
option redGamma r
.br
option greenGamma g
.br
option blueGamma b
.br
option grayGamma gr
.RS
.I r g b gr
.RE
By rockin these joints, tha internal linear gamma table (r,g,b,gr = 1.0)
can be adjusted.
.PP
option red_gain r
.br
option red_offset ro
.br
option green_gain g
.br
option green_offset go
.br
option blue_gain b
.br
option blue_offset bo
.RS
.I r g b ro go bo
These joints can be used ta set tha bust n' offset joints of
the AFE fo' each channel. Da range is between 0 n' 63. \-1
means autocalibration.
.RE

.PP
See tha plustek.conf file fo' examples.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
Yo ass gotta make sure, dat tha STD subsystem is loaded
correctly n' you have access ta tha device-node. For
more details see
.B sane\-usb (5)
manpage. Yo ass might use
.B sane\-find\-scanner
to check dat you have access ta yo' device.
.PP
.B Note:
.br
If there be a no configuration file, tha backend defaults to
.B thang auto

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/plustek.conf
Da backend configuration file
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-plustek.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-plustek.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK=10

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-u12 (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5),
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/plustek/Plustek-STD.changes
.br
.I http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek/

.SH "CONTACT AND BUG-REPORTS"
Please bust any shiznit n' bug-reports to:
.br
.B SANE Mailin List
.PP
Additionizzle info n' hints can be obtained from our
.br
Mailing-List archive at:
.br
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
.PP
or directly from tha projects' homepizzy at:
.br
.B http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek/
.PP
To obtain debug lyrics from tha backend, please set the
environment-variable
.I SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK
before callin yo' straight-up scan-frontend (i.e. xscanimage).
.br
.B i.e.: export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK=20 ; xscanimage
.PP
Da value controls tha verbositizzle of tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Please note, that
values pimped outa than 24 force tha backend ta output raw data files,
which could be rather large. Da endin of these filez is ".raw".
For problem reports it should be enough tha set tha verbositizzle to
13.

.SH "KNOWN BUGS & RESTRICTIONS"

.PP
* Da driver do not support these manic scalings up
to 16 times tha physical resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da only scaling
is done on resolutions between tha physical resolution
of tha CCD-/CIS-sensor n' tha stepper motor i.e. you 
have a 600x1200 dpi scanner n' yo ass is scannin rockin 
800dpi, so scalin is necessary, cuz tha sensor only 
delivers 600dpi but tha motor is capable ta big-ass up 
1200dpi steps.
.PP
* Plusteks' model policy is somewhat inconsistent. They 
sell technologically different devices under the
same thang name. Therefore it is possible dat some
devices like tha UT12 or U12 won't work \- please check
the model list above n' compare tha product-id to
the one yo' thang has.
.PP
* Negative/Slide scannin qualitizzle is skanky.
