.TH sane\-teco2 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-teco2
.SH NAME
sane\-teco2 \- SANE backend fo' TECO / RELISYS scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-teco2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some TECO SCSI flatbed scanners. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software biaaatch! TECO scanners is sold under
various brandz like Mustek, Relisys, Piotech, Primax, TRUST.
This backend may or may not support yours.
.PP
Da scanners dat should work wit dis backend are:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
   Vendor Model           TECO model       status
----------------------  --------------  -----------
  Mustek ScanMagic 4830S   VM3575        untested
  Primax Jewel 4800        VM356A         good
  Primax Profi 9600        VM6575         basic
  Primax Profi 19200       VM6586         good
  Relisys APOLLO Express 3 VM356A         basic
  Relisys APOLLO Express 6 VM6565         good
  Relisys APOLLO Express 12   , biatch?          untested
  Relisys AVEC Pt II S3       VM3564         good
  Relisys AVEC Supa 3     VM3575         basic
  Relisys SCORPIO Pro      VM6575         good
  Relisys SCORPIO Pro-S    VM6586        untested
  Relisys SCORPIO Supa 3  VM3575         good
.fi
.ft R
.RE

For all these scanners, lineart n' gray mode work
well. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat most of dem do not support mo' than a handful of
resolutions up in color mode. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha backend home page (under AUTHOR)
for tha exact statuz of each scanner.

Note dat tha untested scanner aint gonna be directly supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. You
should contact tha lyricist fo' dis shit.

Da TECO VM number can probably be found all up in tha back of the
scanner n' shit. Well shiiiit, it be also part of tha FCC ID. 

Da options tha backend supports can either be selected through
command line options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI
elements up in xscanimage, xsane, quiteinsane or kooka.

.br
If you have any success wit a scanner not listed here, or if you have
any strange behavior, please report ta tha backend maintainer or to
the SANE mailin list.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d teco2
.RE

.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner valid chizzlez is 
.I Lineart
,
.I Gray
and
.I Color
Da Lineart mode is black n' white only (1 bit). Gray mode
will produce 256 levelz of gray (8 bits). Color will produce a 24 bits
color image.

.TP
.B \-\-resolution
Lineart n' Gray
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner can do all resolutions
between 1 n' 600, up in incrementz of 1.


Color
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner can do only tha 
resolutions listed.

All joints wit ydpi > 300 (300 x 600) or 600 (600 x 1200) result up in 
a wack proportion fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da proportion can be adjusted wit 
the followin imagemagick command: 
convert \-geometry (dpi/max_xdpi * 100%)x100% 
max_xdpi is fo' tha vm3575 constant wit 300 dpi      
e.g. 600dpi adjust with: convert \-geometry 200%x100%  

.TP
.B Geometry options

.TP
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control tha scan area: \-l sets tha top left x coordinate, \-t tha top
left y coordinate, \-x selects tha width n' \-y tha height of tha scan
area fo' realz. All parametas is specified up in millimetas by default.


.TP
.B Enhancement options

.TP
.B \-\-custom\-gamma (no custom gamma option fo' tha VM3564 n' VM356A)
(color mode only) allows tha user ta specify a gamma table (see the
next 3 parameters).

.TP 
.B \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha red channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP 
.B \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha chronic channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table
for tha blue channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-r
(VM3564, VM356A, VM3575 n' VM6575 only) Selects what tha fuck red radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration 
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale 0..64 up in stepz of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-g
(VM3564, VM356A, VM3575 n' VM6575 only) Selects what tha fuck chronic radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration i
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale 0..64 up in stepz of 1.

.TP
.B \-\-white\-level\-b
(VM3564, VM356A, VM3575 n' VM6575 only) Selects what tha fuck blue radiizzle level should be
considered "white", when scannin some sheets by changin tha calibration
value loaded tha fuck into tha scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scale 0..64 up in stepz of 1.

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da resolution used fo' dat scan is 50  dpi
(for VM356A n' VM6575 75 dpi) n' tha scan area is tha maximum allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Da scan mode is user selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default is "no".


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/teco2.conf supports only one
information: tha thang name ta use (eg /dev/scanner).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-teco2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-teco2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_TECO2
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.
.TP
.B SANE_TECO2_CAL_ALGO
Either 0 or 1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Selects tha algorithm fo' tha calibration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A
value of 1 seems ta give betta scans on tha VM356A, VM3575.
Feedback on it is welcome.
For VM3564, VM356A, VM3575, VM6575 default 1.
For other supported types default 0.


.SH LIMITATIONS
Da windows TWAIN driver has nuff mo' options than dis SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. However they is only software adjustments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This backend only
implements what tha fuck tha scanner can support.


.SH BUGS

Plenty. Partz of dis backend is still under pimpment.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHORS
.TP
Frank Zago
.I http://www.zago.net/sane/#teco2
.TP
Da package be actively maintained by Gerard Klaver.
.I http://gkall.hobby.nl/teco2.html




.SH CREDITS

Thanks to:
.TP
Gerard Klaver fo' his bangin relentless VM3575 testings n' contributed a patch ta support tha VM3564 n' VM356A.
.TP
Mark Plowman fo' providin tha straight-up original gangsta SCSI traces from a VM3575.
.TP
Andreas Klaedtke fo' providin tha straight-up original gangsta SCSI traces from a VM6586 n' fo' his cold-ass testing, n' ta Stefan von Dombrowski fo' his cold-ass testing.
.TP
Nicolas Peyresaubes fo' providin tha straight-up original gangsta SCSI traces from a VM656A n' fo' his cold-ass testing.
.TP
Dizzle Parker fo' testin tha support fo' tha VM6575.
.TP
Mike Hoella fo' testin tha support fo' tha VM356A.
.TP
Christoph.Hoeffner fo' testin tha support fo' tha VM3564 (Relisys AVEC Pt II S3 firmware 1.09).
