.TH sane\-s9036 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-s9036
.SH NAME
sane\-s9036 \- SANE backend fo' Siemens 9036 flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-s9036
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Siemens 9036 flatbed scanners.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta a
SCSI scanner n' shit. Da special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a
symlink ta such a thugged-out device.  Da program 
.IR sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect device. Under Linux, such a thang name
could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane\-scsi(5) fo' details.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/s9036.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-s9036.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-s9036.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_S9036
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_S9036=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Ingo Schneider
