.TH sane\-v4l 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-v4l
.SH NAME
sane\-v4l \- SANE intercourse fo' Video fo' Linux API
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-v4l
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides generic access ta vizzle cameras n' similar shiznit using
the V4L (Video fo' Linux) API.
.PP
This is ALPHA software. Straight-Up dawwwwg! Important features is missin n' there are
lotz of bugs. Da code is currently only tested on a Linux 2.4 system wit a
Hauppauge WinTV vizzle card.
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha UNIX path-name fo' tha special thang dat correspondz ta the
v4l device.  Da special thang name must be a v4l thang or a symlink
to such a thugged-out device.  For example, such a thang name could be
.I /dev/video0
or
.IR /dev/bttv0 .
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I v4l.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta v4l
devices.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
/dev/bttv0
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
/dev/video3
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/v4l.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-v4l.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-v4l.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_V4L
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH AUTHOR
Juergen G. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schimmer, Hennin Meier-Geinitz

.SH BUGS:
If mo' than one vizzle card is present, a cold-ass lil crash may occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Frequency n' geometry
selection is missing.
.br
Send bug reports ta tha SANE mailin list: sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org.  Yo ass must
be subscribed ta tha list ta bust mail. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html fo' details.

.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7), xcam(1).
