.TH sane\-hpsj5s 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hpsj5s
.SH NAME
sane\-hpsj5s \- SANE backend fo' HP ScanJet 5S sheet-fed scanner
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hpsj5s
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta a parallel port Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 5S scanner.
.PP
IMPORTANT: dis be alpha code. Don't expect dis ta work
correctly. Many functions is missing, others contain errors. In some
cases, yo' computa might even hang. Well shiiiit, it cannot be excluded (although
I consider it mad improbable) dat yo' scanner will be
damaged.
.PP
LIMITATIONS: For now dis backend works only on Linux.  This limitation
is cuz of dependence on tha libieee1284 library. If yo' system supports libieee1284 too,
this backend should work. If you ported libieee1284 fo' yo' platform, please let
me know. Yo crazy-ass system should support
.B EPP
(or
.B EPP+ECP
) mode ta operate dis scanner n' shit. Future versions will support ECP n' SPP
(Nibble n' Byte) modes also. It aint nuthin but planned ta support scanners not only
at daisy-chain posizzle 0 yo, but anywhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' multiple scanners could
be implemented like a muthafucka.
.PP
Current version implements only gray scale scanning. True Color n' B/W modes are
not supported fo' now, nahmeean?
.PP
That holla'd, TESTERS ARE WELCOME. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Send yo' bug reports n' comments to
Max Vorobiev <pcwizard@yandex.ru>.
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is tha parallel port name up in form, libieee1284 expects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Well shiiiit, it seems ta be system dependent.
Under Linux itz parport0, parport1, etc.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I hpsj5s.conf
file be a list of parport names dat correspond ta HP ScanJet 5S
scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Only one thang name can be listed in
.IR hpsj5s.conf
for dis moment. Future versions will support daisy chain selection.

.SH TIPS
.PP
It seems dat HP ScanJet 5S scanner uses software noise erection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This
feature aint implemented fo' now, nahmeean? Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So do gamma erection n' calibration.
I be bout ta handle it up in future versions.
Natizzle resolution fo' dis scanner is 300 DPI. Other modes could be jagged up in some
ways.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/hpsj5s.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hpsj5s.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hpsj5s.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).

.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7)
.br
http://hpsj5s.sourceforge.net
.br
http://cyberelk.net/tim/libieee1284
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Max Vorobiev
.br
Man page mostly based on canon.man
