.TH sane\-hp5590 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hp5590
.SH NAME
sane\-hp5590 \- SANE backend for
Hewlett-Packard 4500C/4570C/5500C/5550C/5590/7650 Workgroup/Document scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hp5590
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha followin Hewlett-Packard Workgroup/Document scanners:
.PP
.RS
ScanJet 4500C
.br
ScanJet 4570C
.br
ScanJet 5500C
.br
ScanJet 5550C
.br
ScanJet 5590
.br
ScanJet 7650
.RE
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed above dat works wit this
backend, please let our asses know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta us. Even if tha scannerz name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let our asses know.
.SH CONFIGURATION
None required.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp5590.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-hp5590.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_HP5590
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See used levels below.
.P
.RS
Level 10 - generic processing
.br
Level 20 - verbose backend lyrics
.br
Level 40 - HP5590 high-level commands
.br
Level 50 - HP5590 low-level (STD-in-STD) commands

.P
Example: 

export SANE_DEBUG_HP5590=50

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),

.SH AUTHOR
Ilia Sotnikov <hostcc@gmail.com>
