.TH sane\-plustek_pp 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-plustek_pp
.SH NAME
sane\-plustek_pp \- SANE backend fo' Plustek parallel port
flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-plustek_pp
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Plustek ASIC 9600[1/3] n' P9800[1/3] based
parallel port flatbed scanners.
Da access of tha scanner is either done directly by tha backend
or via kernel module, called pt_drv which can be pimped up of
the plustek_pp backend code \- peep also section
.B "BUILDING THE KERNEL MODULE"
for further shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"

At present, tha followin scanners should work wit dis backend
and/or tha kernel module:
.PP
.B "PLUSTEK SCANNERS"
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Parallelport Model:    ASIC: Properties:
---------------------- ----- ------------------------
OpticPro PT12          98003 600x1200 dpi 36bit 512Kb
OpticPro P12           98003 600x1200 dpi 36bit 512Kb
OpticPro 9636T/12000T  98001 600x1200 dpi 36bit 512Kb
OpticPro 12000P Turbo  98001 600x1200 dpi 36bit 512Kb
OpticPro 9636P+/Turbo  98001 600x1200 dpi 36bit 512Kb
OpticPro 9636P         96003 600x1200 dpi 36bit 128Kb
OpticPro 12000P/96000P 96003 600x1200 dpi 36bit 128Kb
OpticPro 1236P         96003 600x1200 dpi 30bit 128Kb
OpticPro 9600P         96003 600x1200 dpi 30bit 128Kb
OpticPro 9630P/STDV    96003 600x1200 dpi 30bit 128Kb
OpticPro 9630PL (14")  96003 600x1200 dpi 30bit 128Kb
OpticPro A3I           96003  400x800 dpi 36bit 128Kb
OpticPro 600P/6000P    96003  300x600 dpi 30bit  32Kb
OpticPro 4831P         96003  300x600 dpi 30bit  32Kb
OpticPro 4830P/STDII   96003  300x600 dpi 30bit  32Kb
OpticPro 4800P/STDI    96001  300x600 dpi 24bit  32Kb
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.B "PRIMAX SCANNERS"

There is some scanners sold by Primax yo, but they is up in fact
Plustek devices. These scanners is also supported.
Da followin table will show tha relationshizzle:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                      Plustek Model:  Remarks:
--------------------------- --------------  ------------
Colorado 4800               OpticPro 4800   not tested
Compact 4800 Direct         OpticPro 600    mov=2
Compact 4800 Direct 30bit   OpticPro 4830   mov=7
Compact 9600 Direct 30bit   OpticPro 9630   works
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.B "GENIUS SCANNERS"

Da followin devices is sold as Genius Scanners yo, but is up in fact
Plustek devices.
Da table will show tha relationshizzle:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                      Remarks:
--------------------------- ----------------------------
Colorpage Vivid Pt III V2      Like P12 but has two buttons
                            n' Wolfson DAC
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.B "ARIES SCANNERS"

Therez one scanner sold as Aries Scanner yo, but is up in fact a
Plustek device.
Da followin table will show tha relationshizzle:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                      Plustek Model:  Remarks:
--------------------------- --------------  ------------
Scan-It 4800                OpticPro 600    mov=2
.fi
.ft R
.PP

.B "BrightScan SCANNERS"

Therez one scanner sold as BrightScan OpticPro Scanner, dis be also
a rebadged Plustek device.
Da followin table will show tha relationshizzle:
.PP
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                      Remarks:
--------------------------- ----------------------------
BrightScan OpticPro         OpticPro P12
.fi
.ft R

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend works up in two modes, tha so called "direct-mode"
and tha "kernel-mode". In direct-mode, tha user-space backend is
used, up in kernel-mode, you should gotz a kernel-module named pt_drv
loaded.
This backendz default thang is:
.PP
.RS
.I 0x378
.RE
.PP
This "default device" is ghon be used, if no configuration
file can be found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it is rather tha base address of tha parallel port
on i386 machines.
.PP
As tha backend supports up ta four devices, it is possible to
specify dem up in tha configuration file
.PP
.RS
.I /etc/sane.d/plustek_pp.conf
.RE
.PP
See dis file fo' examples.
.PP

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.PP
This section raps bout tha backends' configuration file entries.
Da file is located at:
.I /etc/sane.d/plustek_pp.conf
.PP
For a proper setup, yo big-ass booty is ghon need at least two entries:
.RS
.I [direct]
.br
.I thang 0x378
.RE
.PP
or
.RS
.I [kernel]
.br
.I thang /dev/pt_drv
.RE
.PP
.I direct
 drops some lyrics ta tha backend, dat tha followin devicename (here
.IR 0x378 )
has ta be interpreted as parallel port scanner device. In
fact it is tha address ta use, alternatively you can use
.I /dev/parport0
if tha backend has been compiled wit libieee1284 support.
.I kernel
should only be used, when a kernel-module has been built
out of tha backend sources. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See below fo' mo' instructions
about all dis bullshit.
.PP
Further options:
.PP
option warmup t
.RS
.I t
specifies tha warmup period up in seconds
.RE
.PP
option lampOff t
.RS
.I t
is tha time up in secondz fo' switchin off tha lamps in
standby mode
.RE
.PP
option lOffonEnd b
.RS
.I b
specifies tha behaviour when closin tha backend, 1 --> switch
lamps off, 0 --> do not chizzle lamp status
.RE
.PP
option mov m
.RS
.I m
is tha model override switch, which only works up in direct mode.
.TP
.IR m " = 0"
default: no override
.TP
.IR m " = 1"
OpticPro 9630PL override (works if OP9630
has been detected) forces legal size (14")
.TP
.IR m " = 2"
Primax 4800Direct override (works if OP600
has been detected) swaps red/chronic color
.TP
.IR m " = 3"
OpticPro 9636 override (works if OP9636 has
been detected) disablez backends
transparency/negatizzle capabilities
.TP
.IR m " = 4"
OpticPro 9636P override (works if OP9636 has
been detected) disablez backends
transparency/negatizzle capabilities
.TP
.IR m " = 5"
OpticPro A3I override (works if OP12000 has
been detected) enablez A3 scanning
.TP
.IR m " = 6"
OpticPro 4800P override (works if OP600
has been detected) swaps red/chronic color
.TP
.IR m " = 7"
Primax 4800Direct 30bit override (works if
OP4830 has been detected)
.RE
.PP
See tha plustek_pp.conf file fo' examples.
.PP

.SH "BUILDING THE KERNEL MODULE"
As mentioned before, tha plustek_pp backend code can also
be compiled n' installed as linux kernel module. To do so,
you will need tha source-filez of dis sane\-backend installation.
Unpack dis tar-bizzle n' git all up in tha directory:
.br
.I sane\-backends/doc/plustek
.br
Within dis directory, you should find a script called:
.br
.I MakeModule.sh
.br
Now if yo' Linux kernelsources is installed erectly, 
it should be possible ta build, install n' load tha 
module
.B pt_drv.
.B Please note, 
that tha kernelsources need ta be configured erectly.
Refer ta yo' distributions 
manual on how tha fuck dis is done fo' realz. As root user, try
.br
.I ./MakeModule.sh
.br
the script will try n' git all necessary shiznit bout your
runnin kernel n' will lead you all up in tha whole installation
process.
.br
.B Note: Installin n' loadin tha can only be done as 
superuser.
.PP

.SH "KERNEL MODULE SETUP"
Da configuration of tha kernel module is done by providing
some or mo' options found below ta tha kernel module at
load time. This can be done by invokin insmod wit the
appropriate parametas or appendin tha options ta tha file
.B /etc/modules.conf (kernel < 2.6.x)
or
.B /etc/modprobe.conf (kernel >= 2.6.x)
.PP
.B
Da Options:
.br
lampoff=lll
.RS
Da value
.I lll
 drops some lyrics ta tha driver, afta how tha fuck nuff secondz to
switch-off tha lamp(s). Da default value is 180.
0 will disable dis feature.
.br
.B HINT:
Do not bust a value dat is too small, cuz often
switchin on/off tha lamps will reduce they gametime.
.RE
.PP
port=ppp
.RS
.I ppp
specifies tha port base address, where tha scanner
is connected to. Da default value is 0x378, which
is normally a standard.
.RE
.PP
warmup=www
.RS
.I www
specifies tha time up in seconds, how tha fuck long a lamp has ta be on,
until tha driver will start ta scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default value is 30.
.RE
.PP
lOffonEnd=e
.RS
.I e
specifies tha behaviour when unloadin tha driver, 1 --> switch
lamps off, 0 --> do not chizzle lamp status
.RE
.PP
slowIO=s
.RS
.I s
specifies which I/O functions tha driver should use, 1 --> use
delayed functions, 0 --> use tha non-delayed ones
.RE
.PP
forceMode=fm
.RS
.I fm
specifies port mode which should be used, 0 --> autodetection,
1 --> use SPP mode n' 2 --> use EPP mode
.RE
.PP
mov=m
.RS
.TP
.IR m " = 0"
default: no override
.TP
.IR m " = 1"
OpticPro 9630PL override (works if OP9630
has been detected) forces legal size (14")
.TP
.IR m " = 2"
Primax 4800Direct override (works if OP600
has been detected) swaps red/chronic color
.TP
.IR m " = 3"
OpticPro 9636 override (works if OP9636 has
been detected) disablez backends
transparency/negatizzle capabilities
.TP
.IR m " = 4"
OpticPro 9636P override (works if OP9636 has
been detected) disablez backends
transparency/negatizzle capabilities
.TP
.IR m " = 5"
OpticPro A3I override (works if OP12000 has
been detected) enablez A3 scanning
.TP
.IR m " = 6"
OpticPro 4800P override (works if OP600
has been detected) swaps red/chronic color
.TP
.IR m " = 7"
Primax 4800Direct 30bit override (works if
OP4830 has been detected)
.RE
.PP
Sample entry fo' file
.B "/etc/modules.conf"
:
.br
.I alias char\-major\-40 pt_drv
.br
.I pre-install pt_drv modprobe -k parport
.br
.I options pt_drv lampoff=180 warmup=15 port=0x378 lOffonEnd=0 mov=0 slowIO=0 forceMode=0
.PP
For multidevice support, simply add joints separated by commas to
the different options
.br
.I options pt_drv port=0x378,0x278 mov=0,4 slowIO=0,1 forceMode=0,1
.PP
Remember ta booty-call depmod afta changin /etc/conf.modules.
.PP

.SH "PARALLEL PORT MODES"
.PP
Da current driver works best, when tha parallel port
has been set ta EPP-mode. When detectin any other
mode like fuckin ECP or PS/2 tha driver tries ta set ta a
faster, supported mode. If dis fails, it will use the
SPP mode, as dis mode should work wit all Linux supported
parallel ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If up in doubt, enta yo' BIOS n' set it to
any mode except ECP.
.PP
Forma Plustek scanner models (4830, 9630) supplied a
ISA parallel port adapta card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This card is
.BR not
supported by tha driver.
.PP
Da ASIC 96001/3 based models have sometimes shiznit with
high resolution modes. If you encounta sporadic corrupted
images (parts duplicated or shifted horizontally) bust a cap up in all
other applications before scannin n' (if sufficient
memory available) disable swapping.
.PP
See tha plustek_pp.conf file fo' examples.
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/plustek_pp.conf
Da backend configuration file
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-plustek_pp.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-plustek_pp.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I /lib/modules/<Kernel-Version>/kernel/drivers/parport/pt_drv.o
Da Linux kernelmodule fo' kernels < 2.6.x.
.TP
.I /lib/modules/<Kernel-Version>/kernel/drivers/parport/pt_drv.ko
Da Linux kernelmodule fo' kernels >= 2.6.x.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK_PP
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK_PP=10

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/plustek/Plustek\-PARPORT.changes
.br
.I http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek_pp/

.SH "CONTACT AND BUG-REPORTS"
Please bust any shiznit n' bug-reports to:
.br
.B SANE Mailin List
.PP
Additionizzle info n' hints can be obtained from our
.br
Mailing-List archive at:
.br
.B http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
.PP
or directly from tha projects' homepizzy at:
.br
.B http://www.gjaeger.de/scanner/plustek_pp/
.PP
To obtain debug lyrics from tha backend, please set the
environment-variable
.I SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK_PP
before callin yo' straight-up scan-frontend (i.e. xscanimage).
.br
.B i.e.: export SANE_DEBUG_PLUSTEK_PP=20 ; xscanimage
.PP
Da value controls tha verbositizzle of tha backend.
.PP

.SH "KNOWN BUGS & RESTRICTIONS"
.PP
* Da Halftonin works yo, but tha qualitizzle is skanky
.PP
* Printas (especially HP models) will start to
print durin scanning. This up in fact be a problem
to other printas too, rockin bidirectionizzle protocol
(see www.plustek.com (TAIWAN) page fo' further details)
.PP
* Da driver do not support these manic scalings up
to 16 times tha physical resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da only scaling
is done on resolutions between tha physical resolution
of tha CCD-sensor n' tha stepper motor i.e. you have a
600x1200 dpi scanner n' yo ass is scannin rockin 800dpi,
so scalin is necessary, cuz tha sensor only delivers
600dpi but tha motor is capable ta big-ass up 800dpi steps.
.PP
* On some devices, tha pictures seems bluish
.PP
.I ASIC 98001 based models:
.PP
* Da 300dpi transparency n' wack mode do not work
correctly.
.PP
* There is currently no way ta distinguish a model with
and without transparency unit.
.PP
* Da scanned images seem ta be too dark (P9636T)
.PP
.I ASIC 96003/1 based models:
.PP
* 30bit mode is currently not supported.
.PP
* On low end systems under heavy system load the
driver may lose data, which can result up in picture 
corruption or cause tha sensor ta hit tha scan bed.
.PP
* Da scannin speed on 600x1200 dpi models is slow.
.PP
* Da scannin qualitizzle of tha A3I is skanky
