.TH sane\-artec_eplus48u 5 "11 Jul 2008" "" "SANE"
.SH NAME
sane\-artec_eplus48u \- SANE backend fo' tha scanner Artec E+ 48U n' re-badged models
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-artec_eplus48u
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta nuff muthafuckin STD flatbed scanners rockin tha GT6816 chipset like tha Artec E+ 48U.
These scanners gotz a cold-ass lil contact image sensor (CIS) n' a STD intercourse.
.PP
A complete list of supported devices can be found on
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html .
.PP
This is ALPHA software. Especially if you test freshly smoked up or untested scanners, keep
your hand all up in tha scannerz plug n' unplug it, if tha head bumps all up in tha end of
the scan area.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones mentioned on tha list dat works wit this
backend, please let our asses know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from /proc/bus/usb/devices,
sane\-find\-scanner or syslog) ta mah dirty ass. Even if tha scannerz name is only
slightly different from tha models mentioned above, please let me know.
.PP
.SH KERNEL ISSUES
If libusb-0.1.6 or lata is installed, dis section can be skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
scanner should be found by sane\-find\-scanner without further actions. For
settin permissions n' general STD shiznit peep sane\-usb(5).
.PP
When yo ass is rockin tha scanner module, a Linux kernel 2.4.12 or newer is
required.

.SH FIRMWARE FILE
Yo ass need a gangbangin' firmware file fo' yo' scanner n' shit. Thatz a lil' small-ass file containing
software dat is ghon be uploaded ta tha scannerz memory. For tha scanners
mentioned above, itz probably named Artec48.usb or 1200.usb. Yo ass can find it on
the installation CD dat was provided by tha manufacturer, normally up in the
directory Win98, WinMe or similar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If tha Windows-driver is installed on your
computer, then you can also find tha firmware file under
c:\\windows\\system32\\drivers.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I artec_eplus48u.conf
file be a list of usb lines containin vendor n' thang idz dat correspond
to STD scanners. Da file can also contain option lines.  Empty lines and
lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da scanners are
autodetected by
.I usb vendor_id product_id
statements which is already included into
.I artec_eplus48u.conf .
"vendor_id" n' "product_id" is hexadecimal numbers dat identify the
.B scanner.
.PP
Every usb section can have additionizzle options
.TP
.B artecFirmwareFile /usr/share/sane/artec_eplus48u/Artec48.usb
Da path ta tha firmware file. This option is required.
.TP
.B redGamma         1.0
.TP
.B greenGamma       1.0
.TP
.B blueGamma        1.0
.TP
.B masterGamma      1.9
These is tha default gamma joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If you set tha "Defaults" option wit a gangbangin' frontend,
then tha gamma options is reset ta tha joints specified here.
.TP
.B redOffset        0x28
.TP
.B greenOffset      0x2f
.TP
.B blueOffset       0x2f
.TP
.B redExposure      0xa7
.TP
.B greenExposure    0x116
.TP
.B blueExposure     0xdc
These is tha default joints fo' offset n' exposure time. Yo ass can e.g. chizzle dem ta speed up calibration,
if you don't wanna save tha calibration data ta disk.
.TP
.B vendorStrin "Artec"
.TP
.B modelStrin "E+ 48U"
By default, tha scanner is reported as "Artec E+ 48U". If you don't like this, e.g.
because you have a Tevion MD 9693, then chizzle tha options accordingly.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/sane.d/artec_eplus48u.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/sane/libsane\-artec_eplus48u.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/sane/libsane\-artec_eplus48u.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /usr/local/etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/usr/local/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC_EPLUS48U
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example:
export SANE_DEBUG_ARTEC_EPLUS48U=3

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Herder
.br
This backend is based on tha gt68xx test-program freestyled by Sergey Vlasov, Andreas Nowack, and
Dizzy Stevenson. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Thanks ta all dem fools dat tested tha backend or reported bugs.
.br
This playa page is based on playa sane\-gt68xx, freestyled by Hennin Meier-Geinitz.
.SH BUGS
This backend has been tested on Linux only. If yo ass is rockin it on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different platform, please
hollar at our asses.
.PP
Interpolation wit 1200 dpi is weak.
.PP
Support fo' buttons is missin cuz of missin support up in SANE.
.PP
Please hollar at our asses if you find a funky-ass bug: 
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/bugs.html .

