.TH sane\-coolscan 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-coolscan

.SH NAME
sane\-coolscan \- SANE backend fo' Nikon film-scanners

.SH ABOUT THIS FILE

This file be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of tha coolscan-backend fo' sane biaaatch! 

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B sane\-coolscan
library implements a SANE backend dat serves up tha intercourse ta tha followin Nikon Coolscan Film scanners: Nikon LS20, LS30, LS1000, LS2000.

.B Even though tha backend has hit dat shiznit fo' a fuckin shitload of people, there be still some problems, especially up in combination wit some SCSI card/drivers (AHA-1505/aha152x.o) n' tha autofocus command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass should consider dis backend 'alpha' n' be careful when rockin it tha last time.

.SH CONFIGURATION

Da configuration file fo' dis backend resides up in 
.IR /etc/sane.d/coolscan.conf .

Its contents be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Nikon Coolscan scanners. Empty lines
and lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A sample configuration file is
shown below: 

.nf
 #scsi Vendor Model Type 
 scsi Nikon * Scanner 
 /dev/scanner 
.fi

Da special thang name must be a generic SCSI thang or a symlink ta such a thugged-out device.
To smoke up ta which thang yo' scanner be assigned n' how tha fuck you gotta set the
permissionz of dat device, gotz a peep sane\-scsi. 

.SH SCSI ADAPTER TIPS

Some SCSI-adaptas n' low-level SCSI drivers do not work erectly wit dis backend n' the
Coolscan scanners. These systems hang when tha autofocus command is bust ta tha Scanner.
To peep a list of which card/driver combinations work or dont work gotz a peep:
http://andreas.rick.free.fr/sane/autofocus.html.



.SH FILES

.TP
Da backend configuration file:
.I /etc/sane.d/coolscan.conf
.TP
Da static library implementin dis backend:
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-coolscan.a
.TP
Da shared library implementin dis backend:
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-coolscan.so
(present on systems dat support dynamic loading)

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_COOLSCAN
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g., a value of 128
requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels reduce verbosity:
SANE_DEBUG_COOLSCAN joints

Examples:

on bash:
.br
export SANE_DEBUG_COOLSCAN=8

on csh:
.br
setenv SANE_DEBUG_COOLSCAN 8

.SH BUGS

Da autofocus command do not work wit some SCSI card/driver combinations
.PP
Da gamma table aint implemented fo' tha LS1000 yet.
.PP
Da dust-removal aint hustlin yet

.SH SEE ALSO

.TP
.I http://andreas.rick.free.fr/sane/
Da homepizzy of dis backend
.TP
.I http://www.sema.be/coolscan/
Da original gangsta version of tha coolscan backend by Didier
.PP
sane(7), sane\-scsi(5)

.SH THANKS TO

.PP
Didier Carlier \- For freestylin tha original gangsta Coolscan backend (without it I would not have started this)
.PP
Oliver Rauch \- For adaptin xsane so quickly ta tha infrared stuff.
.PP
All tha other playas hustlin on SANE.

.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Rick

.SH EMAIL-CONTACT
andreas.rick@free.fr
