.TH sane\-coolscan2 5 "11 Jul 2008"  "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-coolscan2
.SH NAME
sane\-coolscan2 \- SANE backend fo' Nikon Coolscan film scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-coolscan2
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta Nikon Coolscan film scanners.  Some functionz of dis 
backend should be considered
.B beta-quality
software. Most functions done been stable fo' a long-ass time yo, but of 
course freshly smoked up pimpment can not n' aint gonna function properly from
the straight-up first day. It make me wanna hollar playa! Please report any strange behaviour ta tha 
maintainer of tha backend.

.PP
At present, tha followin scanners is known ta work wit dis backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Model:                       Connection Type
---------------------------  -------------------
LS-30 (Coolscan Pt III)         SCSI
LS-2000                      SCSI
LS-40 ED (Coolscan IV)       STD
LS-4000 ED                   IEEE 1394
LS-8000 ED                   IEEE 1394
.fi
.ft R
.RE

Please bust mail ta tha backend lyricist (andras@users.sourceforge.net) to
report successes or failures.

.SH OPTIONS
Da options tha backend supports can either be selected all up in command line
options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI elements up in xscanimage or xsane.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d coolscan2:<interface>:<device>
.RE
where <interface> n' <device> specify tha thang up in question, as up in the
configuration file (see next section). Da \-d parameta n' its argument
can be omitted ta obtain shiznit on tha straight-up original gangsta scanner identified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use
the command
.RS
scanimage \-L
.RE
to list all devices recognized by yo' SANE installation.

Da options should be straight-up busted lyrics bout by tha description or tooltips given by
frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. Here be a thugged-out description of a shitload of da most thugged-out blingin options, up in the
syntax wit which they must be supplied ta scanimage:
.TP
.I \-\-frame <n>
This option specifies which frame ta operate on, if a motorized film strip
feeder or APS adapta is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da frame number
.I <n>
ranges from 1 ta tha number of frames available, which is sensed each time
the backend is initialized (usually each time you start tha frontend).
.TP
.I \-\-subframe <x>
This option shifts tha scan window by tha specified amount (default
unit is mm).
.TP
.I \-\-infrared=yes/no
If set ta "yes", tha scanner will read tha infrared channel, thus allowing
defect removal up in software. Da infrared image is read durin a second scan,
with no options altered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da backend must not be restarted between tha scans. 
If you use scanimage, big-ass up a funky-ass batch scan wit batch\-count=2 ta obtain the
IR shiznit.
.TP
.I \-\-depth <n>
Here <n> can either be 8 or tha maximum number of bits supported by the
scanner (10, 12, or 14). Well shiiiit, it specifies whether or not tha scanner reduces
the scanned data ta 8 bits before bustin  it ta tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. If 8 bits are
used, some shiznit n' thus image qualitizzle is lost yo, but tha amount of data
is smalla compared ta higher depths fo' realz. Also, nuff imagin programs n' image
formats cannot handle depths pimped outa than 8 bits.
.TP
.I \-\-autofocus
Perform autofocus operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Unless otherwise specified by tha other options (
.I \-\-focus\-on\-centre
and playas), focusin is performed on tha centre of tha selected scan area.
.TP
.I \-\-ae\-wb
.TP
.I \-\-ae
Perform a pre-scan ta calculate exposure joints automatically.
.I \-\-ae\-wb
will maintain tha white balance, while
.I \-\-ae
will adjust each channel separately.
.TP
.I \-\-exposure
Multiply all exposure times wit dis value. This allows exposure
correction without modifyin white balance.
.TP
.I \-\-load
Load tha next slide when rockin tha slide loader.
.TP
.I \-\-eject
Eject tha film strip or mounted slide when rockin tha slide loader.
.TP
.I \-\-reset
Reset scanner n' shit. Da scanner will big-ass up tha same action as when juice is
turned on: it will eject tha film strip n' calibrate itself. Use this
whenever tha scanner refuses ta load a gangbangin' film strip properly, as a result of
which
.I \-\-eject
does not work.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/coolscan2.conf specifies tha device(s)
that tha backend will use. Owin ta tha nature of tha supported connection
types SCSI, STD, n' IEEE 1394, tha default configuration file supplied with
the SANE distribution should work without bein edited.

Each line up in tha configuration file is either of tha following, where all
entries is case-sensitive:
.TP
.I blank or startin wit a '#' character
These lines is ignored, thus '#' can be used ta include comments.
.TP
.I containin only tha word """auto"""
This instructs tha backend ta probe fo' a scanner by scannin tha buses for
devices wit know identifiers. This is tha action taken when no
configuration file is present.
.TP
.I a line of tha form <interface>:<device>
Here <interface> can be one of "scsi" or "usb", n' <device> is tha device
file of tha scanner n' shit. Note dat IEEE 1394 devices is handled by tha SBP-2
module up in tha kernel n' step tha fuck up ta SANE as SCSI devices.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-coolscan2.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-coolscan2.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/coolscan2.conf
Configuration file fo' dis backend, read each time tha backend is
initialized.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_COOLSCAN2
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), sane\-usb(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1)

.SH BUGS
Currently, tha SANE protocol do not allow automatically uppimpin options
whenever tha hardware chizzles. Thus tha number of chizzlez fo' the
.B \-\-frame
option is ghon be fixed when tha backend is initialized (usually when tha user
runs tha frontend). In particular, if there is no film strip up in the
automatic film strip feeder when tha backend is initialized, tha frame option
will not step tha fuck up at all fo' realz. Also, restartin tha frontend afta swappin film
adaptas is straight fuckin recommended.

Linux kernels prior ta 2.4.19 had a patch dat truncated INQUIRY data
from IEEE 1394 scanners ta 36 bytes, discardin vital shiznit
about tha scanner n' shit. Da IEEE 1394 models therefore only work with
2.4.19 or later.

No real bugs currently known, please report any ta tha backend maintainer
or tha SANE pimpers' email list.

.SH AUTHORS
Da backend is freestyled n' maintained by Andr\['a]s Major
(andras@users.sourceforge.net).
