.TH "sane\-rts8891" "5" "8 Dec 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH "NAME"
sane\-rts8891 \- SANE backend fo' rts8891 based scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-rts8891
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta scanners based on tha rts8891 ASIC.
.PP 
Da scanners dat work wit dis backend are:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
   Vendor Model           status
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  Umax Astra 4400       untested
  Umax Astra 4450       untested
  HP scanjet 4000c      good
  HP scanjet 4470c      good
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

Da options tha backend supports can either be selected through
command line options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI
elements up in xscanimage or xsane.

.br 
If you have any strange behavior, please report ta tha backend
maintainer or ta tha SANE mailin list.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d rts8891
.RE

.TP 
.B Scan Mode Options

.TP 
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner valid chizzlez is 
.I R Color ,
.I Gray
and
.I Lineart
Da default mode is Color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da Lineart mode is black n' white only (1 bit). 
Grayscale will produce 256 levelz of gray (8 bits). Color mode allows fo' over
16 mazillion different flavas produced from 24 bitz of color shiznit.

.TP 
.B \-\-resolution
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da horizontal n' vertical resolutions is set 
by tha value of dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner is capable of tha followin resolutions fo' tha specified option value:
.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
  Value   Hor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Resolution  Vert. Resolution 
  \-\-\-\-\-   \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
  75      75dpi            75dpi
  150     150dpi           150dpi 
  300     300dpi           300dpi 
  600     600dpi           600dpi 
  1200    1200dpi          1200dpi
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da resolution used fo' dat scan is 75 dpi
and tha scan area n' tha scan mode is as specified all up in they options, 
or tha default if not specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default value fo' peepshow mode is "no".

.TP 
.B \-\-threshold
selects tha  minimum\-brightnizz ta git a white point. Da threshold is only used wit Lineart mode scans.
It be specified as a cementage up in tha range 0..100% (in stepz of 1).  
Da default value of tha threshold option is 50.


.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
Da configuration file
.B /etc/sane.d/rts8891.conf
gotz nuff tha usb thang idz of supported scanners (eg usb 0x043d 0x007c) n' scanner configuration options.
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored.
.PP 
Da options supported are
.B allowsharing
,
.B modelnumber 
.

Option
.PP
.B allowsharing
enablez or not tha pluggin of tha scanner between multiple frontendz all up in tha same time.
.PP
.B modelnumber
is used ta force tha reported model by tha backend n' is only useful up in tha case of a scanner which NVRAM has been erased.
.RS
.ft CR
.nf 
0 ta report a HP4470c.
1 ta report a HP4400c.
2 ta report a Astra 4400.
.fi 
.ft R
.RE

.PP 
.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-rts8891.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-rts8891.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_RTS8891 SANE_DEBUG_RTS8891_LOW SANE_DEBUG_RTS88XX_LIB
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, these
environment variablez controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH "LIMITATIONS"
Scannerz of tha same model exist wit different sensors, cuz of lack of data
(ie STD logs) some sensors is betta supported than others fo' realz. At least 75 dpi
mode is hustlin fo' any model. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sharin tha scanner between nuff muthafuckin frontends
at tha same time (allowsharin option) may not work on some STD controllers.
.PP
XPA is no (yet) supported.
.SH "BUGS"
.br 
No bugs currently known.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH "AUTHOR"
.TP 
This backend has been pimped by St\['e]phane Voltz.
.I http://stef.dev.free.fr/sane/rts8891
.SH "CREDITS"
.TP 
Many props go to:
Laurent Fournier whoz ass donated mah crazy ass a HP4470c.
Vladimir Sysoev n' "TheUnruly Squash" fo' tha time they dropped recording
STD activitizzle n' testin tha experimenstrual version on HP4400 models.
