.TH "sane\-p5" "5" "15 Feb 2010" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-p5
.SH "NAME"
sane\-p5 \- SANE backend fo' tha Primax PagePartner
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-p5
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha Primax PagePartner parallel port shizzle fed scanner.
.PP 
This backend handlez 100, 150, 200, 300 n' 600 dpi scan resolutions,
in color n' gray modes. Da 600 dpi is straight-up 300x600 wit lines
enlarged ta match tha vertical resolution.
.PP 
.B EPP/ECP MODES ONLY
Da current version of tha backend uses only EPP or ECP mode ta rap 
with tha scanner n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is 
recommended dat you set yo' parallel port ta EPP up in BIOS wit tha current 
version of dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. ECPEPP will only
work if you bust a 2.4 or 2.6 kernel wit ppdev characta thang support.
.PP 

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP 
.RS
.I port value
.RE
.PP 
Where
\fBvalue\fR is : 

.RS
.TP
auto
autodetect all parallel ports n' probe
them fo' scanner
.TP
/dev/parport0
uses linux ppdev device, dependin on the
number of available parallel port, you
have ta use /dev/parport1, /dev/parport2, ...
.PP 
.RE
Yo ass can rename any thang rockin the
.PP 
.RS
.br
.I option name my_name
.RE
.PP 
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option apply ta tha last port option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Please make shizzle ta edit dll.conf
.B before
you use tha backend, since dis backend aint enabled by default.
.PP 

.PP 



.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /etc/sane.d/p5.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-p5.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-p5.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_P5
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 255 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
level   debug output
\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
 0       critical errors
 1       errors
 2       warnings & minor errors
 4       shiznit lyrics
 8       start/stop of functions
 16      tracin lyrics              
 32      I/O functions
 64      I/O functions wit traces
 128     scanned/calibration data
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP 
.TP 

.PP 
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
.PP 
 
.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-net(5), saned(8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
St\['e]phane Voltz <stef.dev@free.fr>

.SH "CREDITS"
Support fo' tha Prima PagePartner has been made possible give props ta ta a hardware donation
by S\['e]bastien Lange.

.SH "BUG REPORTS"
If suttin' don't work mail sane-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org or use tha bug
tracker at https://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?atid=410366&group_id=30186 .
Please give as much shiznit as you can. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

.TP 
.I SANE version
run "scanimage \-V" ta determine this
.TP 
.I tha backend version n' yo' scanner hardware
run "SANE_DEBUG_P5=255 scanimage \-L 2>log" as root. If you don't git any output
from tha p5 backend, make shizzle a line "p5" is included into
your /etc/sane.d/dll.conf.
If yo' scanner aint detected, make shizzle you've defined tha right port address, or the
correct thang 
in yo' p5.conf.
.TP 
.I tha name of yo' scanner/vendor
also a worthy shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Please also include tha optical resolution n' lamp type of yo' scanner, both can be found up in tha manual of yo' scanner.
.TP 
.I any further comments
if you have comments bout tha documentation (what could be done better), or you
think I should know something, please include dat shit.
