.TH sane\-fujitsu 5 "17 Sep 2013" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-fujitsu

.SH NAME
sane\-fujitsu \- SANE backend fo' Fujitsu flatbed n' ADF scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B sane\-fujitsu
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access ta most Fujitsu flatbed n' ADF scanners.

This document raps bout backend version 117, which shipped wit SANE 1.0.24.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This version supports every last muthafuckin known model which speaks tha Fujitsu SCSI n' 
SCSI\-over\-STD protocols. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifically, tha SCSI M309x n' M409x series, tha 
SCSI fi\-series, most of tha STD fi\-series, tha STD ScanSnap S5xx/S15xx, and
the STD iX5xx series scanners is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please peep tha list at 
http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html fo' details.

This backend may support other Fujitsu scanners. Da best
way ta determine level of support is ta test tha scanner directly,
or ta collect a trace of tha windows driver up in action.
Please contact tha lyricist fo' help or wit test thangs up in dis biatch.

.SH UNSUPPORTED HARDWARE
Da followin scanners is known NOT ta work wit dis backend,
either cuz they gotz a non\-fujitsu chipset, or a unsupported
interface type. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these scanners may be supported by another
backend.
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
SCSI:        SERIAL:      STD:
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
ScanStation  M3093E/DE/EX fi\-4110EOX/2
ScanPartner  M3096EX      fi\-4010CU
SP\-Jr        M3097E+/DE   S300/S300M
SP\-10/10C    M3099A/EH/EX S1300/S1100
SP\-15C/300C               fi\-60F
SP\-600C/620C              fi\-5015C
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.P

.SH OPTIONS
Effort has been made ta expose all hardware options, including:
.PP
source s 
.RS
Selects tha source fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Flatbed", "ADF Front", "ADF Back", "ADF Duplex".
.RE
.PP
mode m 
.RS
Selects tha mode fo' tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Options
may include "Lineart", "Halftone", "Gray", n' "Color".
.RE
.PP
resolution, y\-resolution
.RS
Controls scan resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin \-\-resolution also sets \-\-y\-resolution, 
though dis behavior is overridden by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
tl\-x, tl\-y, br\-x, br\-y
.RS
Sets scan area upper left n' lower right coordinates. These is renamed 
t, l, x, y by some frontends.
.RE
.PP
page\-width, page\-height
.RS
Sets paper size. Used by scanner ta determine centerin of scan
coordinates when rockin ADF n' ta detect double feed errors.
.RE
.PP
Other options is ghon be available based on tha capabilitizzlez of tha scanner:
machines wit IPC or DTC gonna git additionizzle enhancement options, them
with CMP gonna git compression options, dem wit a printa gonna git a
group of endorser options.

Additionally, nuff muthafuckin 'software' options is exposed by tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. These
are reimplementationz of features provided natively by larger scanners yo, but
runnin on tha host computer n' shit. This enablez smalla machines ta have similar
capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Please note dat these features is somewhat simplistic, n' 
may not big-ass up as well as tha natizzle implementations. Note also dat these 
features all require dat tha driver cache tha entire image up in memory. This 
will almost certainly result up in a reduction of scannin speed.

Use 'scanimage \-\-help' ta git a list yo, but be aware dat some options may 
be settable only when another option has been set, n' dat advanced options 
may be hidden by some frontend programs.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file "fujitsu.conf" is used ta tell tha backend how tha fuck ta look
for scanners, n' provide options controllin tha operation of tha backend.
This file is read each time tha frontend asks tha backend fo' a list 
of scanners, generally only when tha frontend starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha configuration
file is missing, tha backend is ghon be unable ta locate any scanners.
.PP
Scanners can be specified up in tha configuration file up in 4 ways:
.PP
"scsi FUJITSU"
.RS
Requests backend ta search all scsi busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which reports itself ta be a scanner made by 'FUJITSU'. 
.RE
.PP
"scsi /dev/sg0" (or other scsi thang file)
.RS
Requests backend ta open tha named scsi device. Only useful if you have
multiple compatible scanners connected ta yo' system, n' need to
specify one. Probably should not be used wit tha other "scsi" line above.
.RE
.PP
"usb 0x04c5 0x1042" (or other vendor/thang ids)
.RS
Requests backend ta search all usb busses up in tha system fo' a thang 
which uses dat vendor n' thang id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da thang will then be queried
to determine if it aint nuthin but a Fujitsu scanner.
.RE
.PP
"usb /dev/usb/scanner0" (or other thang file)
.RS
Some systems bust a kernel driver ta access usb scanners. This method is
untested.
.RE
.PP
Da only configuration option supported is "buffer\-size=xxx", allowin you
to set tha number of bytes up in tha data buffer ta suttin' other than tha 
compiled\-in default, 65536 (64K). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some playas report dat they scanner will
"hang" mid\-page, or fail ta transmit tha image if tha buffer aint large
enough.
.PP
Note: This option may step tha fuck up multiple times up in tha configuration file. Well shiiiit, it only
applies ta scanners discovered by 'scsi/usb' lines dat follow dis option.
.PP
Note: Da backend do not place a upper bound on dis value, as some users
required it ta be like large. Values above tha default is not recommended,
and may crash yo' OS or lockup yo' scsi card driver n' shit. Yo ass have been
warned.
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_FUJITSU, which
enablez debuggin output ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Valid joints are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI/STD trace
.br
30 SCSI/STD writes
.br
31 SCSI/STD reads
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Flatbed units may fail ta scan at maximum area, particularly at
high resolution.
.PP
Any model dat do not support VPD durin inquiry aint gonna function until 
an override be added ta tha backend.
.PP
CCITT Fax compression used by olda scanners aint supported.
.PP
JPEG output is supported by tha backend yo, but not by tha SANE protocol, so is
disabled up in dis release. Well shiiiit, it can be enabled if you rebuild from source. 

.SH CREDITS
m3091 backend: Frederik Ramm <frederik a t remote d o t org>
.br
m3096g backend: Randolph Bentson <bentson a t holmsjoen d o t com>
.br
  (with credit ta tha unnamed lyricist of tha coolscan driver)
.br
fujitsu backend, m3093, fi\-4340C, ipc, cmp, long\-time maintainer:
.br
  Oliver Schirrmeista <oschirr a t abm d o t de>
.br
m3092: Mario Goppold <mgoppold a t tbzpariv d o t tcc\-chemnitz dot de>
.br
fi\-4220C n' basic STD support: Ron Cemer <ron a t roncemer d o t com>
.br
fi\-4120, fi\-series color, backend re\-write, jpeg, current maintainer:
  m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>

JPEG output n' low memory usage support funded by:
  Archivista GmbH
  www.archivista.ch

Endorser support funded by:
  O A S Oilfield Accountin Service Ltd
  1500, 840 \- 7th Avenue S.W.
  Calgary, Alberta
  T2P 3G2 Canada
  1\-403\-263\-2600
  www.oas.ca

Automatic length detection support funded by:
  Martin G. Miller
  mgmilla at optonline.net

Hardware donated, software image enhancement n' fi-6xxx support funded by:
  Fujitsu Computa Shiznit of America, Inc.
  www.fcpa.com

iX500 support funded by:
  Prefix Computa Skillz
  www.prefixservice.com

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane\-scsi(5),
sane\-usb(5),
sane\-sp15c(5),
sane\-avision(5),
sane\-epjitsu(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>

