.TH sane\-teco1 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-teco1
.SH NAME
sane\-teco1 \- SANE backend fo' TECO / RELISYS scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-teco1
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta some TECO SCSI flatbed scanners. This backend
should be considered
.B beta-quality
software biaaatch! TECO scanners is sold under
various brandz like RELISYS, PIOTECH, TRUST. This backend may or
may not support yours.
.PP
Da scanners dat should work wit dis backend are:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
   Vendor Model           TECO model      status
----------------------  --------------  -----------
  Relisys AVEC 2400        VM3520        tested  
  Relisys AVEC 2412        VM3520+       tested
  Relisys AVEC 4800        VM4530        untested  
  Relisys AVEC 4816        VM4530+       untested  
  Relisys RELI 2400        VM3530        untested  
  Relisys RELI 2412        VM3530+       tested
  Relisys RELI 2412        VM3530+       untested  
  Relisys RELI 4816        VM4540        tested  
  Relisys RELI 4830        VM4542        tested
  Relisys RELI 9600        VM6530        untested  
  Relisys RELI 9612        VM6530*       untested  
  Relisys RELI 9624        VM6530+       untested  
  Relisys RELI 9630        VM6540        untested  
  Relisys RELI DS15        VM3440        untested  
  Relisys RELI DS6         VM3420        untested  
  Dextra  DF-600P          VM3510        tested
  Dextra  DF-4830T         VM4542        untested
  Dextra  DF-1200T+        VM3530+       untested
  Dextra  DF-9624          VM6530+       untested
.fi
.ft R
.RE

Note dat tha untested scanner aint gonna be directly supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. You
should contact tha lyricist fo' dis shit.

Da TECO VM number can probably be found all up in tha back of tha scanner n' shit. It
is also part of tha FCC ID. "sane\-find\-scanner \-v" will also show the
scsi inquiry, n' if it aint nuthin but a TECO scanner, tha name is ghon be there like a muthafucka.

Da options tha backend supports can either be selected through
command line options ta programs like scanimage or all up in GUI
elements up in xscanimage or xsane.

.br
If you have any success wit a scanner not listed here, or if you have
any strange behavior, please report ta tha backend maintainer or to
the SANE mailin list.

Valid command line options n' they syntax can be listed by rockin 
.RS
scanimage \-\-help \-d teco1
.RE

.TP
.B Scan Mode

.TP
.B \-\-mode
selects tha basic mode of operation of tha scanner valid chizzlez is 
.I Black & White
,
.I Grayscale
and
.I Color
Da Black & White mode is black n' white only (1 bit). Grayscale
will produce 256 levelz of gray (8 bits). Color will produce a 24 bits
color image.

.TP
.B \-\-resolution
selects tha resolution fo' a scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da scanner can do all resolutions
between 1 n' 600, up in incrementz of 1.


.TP
.B Geometry options

.TP
.B \-l \-t \-x \-y 
control tha scan area: \-l sets tha top left x coordinate, \-t tha top
left y coordinate, \-x selects tha width n' \-y tha height of tha scan
area fo' realz. All parametas is specified up in millimetas by default.


.TP
.B Enhancement options

.TP
.B \-\-custom\-gamma
(color mode only) allows tha user ta specify a gamma table (see the
next 3 parameters).

.TP 
.B \-\-red\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha red channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP 
.B \-\-green\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined
gamma table fo' tha chronic channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-blue\-gamma\-table 
(color mode only) can be used ta downlizzle a user defined gamma table
for tha blue channel. Da table must be 256 bytes long.

.TP
.B \-\-dither
(Black & White only) select tha dither mask ta use. Possible joints is 
.I Line art
,
.I 2x2
,
.I 3x3
,
.I 4x4 bayer
,
.I 4x4 smooth
,
.I 8x8 bayer
,
.I 8x8 smooth
,
.I 8x8 horizontal
and
.I 8x8 vertical


.TP 
.B \-\-preview
requests a peepshow scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da resolution used fo' dat scan is 22 dpi
and tha scan area is tha maximum allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da scan mode is user
selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default is "no".


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da configuration file /etc/sane.d/teco1.conf supports only one shiznit: tha thang name ta use (eg /dev/scanner).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-teco1.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-teco1.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_TECO1
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smalla levels
reduce verbosity.


.SH LIMITATIONS
Da windows TWAIN driver has nuff mo' options than dis SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. However they is only software adjustments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This backend only
implements what tha fuck tha scanner can support.


.SH BUGS

None known.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

sane\-scsi(5), scanimage(1), xscanimage(1), xsane(1), sane(7)


.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Da package be actively maintained by Frank Zago.
.I http://www.zago.net/sane/#teco

.SH CREDITS

Thanks ta Gerard Delafond fo' tha VM4542 support.
Thanks ta Jean-Yves Semen fo' tha VM3510 support.
