.TH sane\-xerox_mfp 5 "15 Dec 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-xerox_mfp
.SH NAME
sane\-xerox_mfp \- SANE backend fo' Xerox Phaser 3200MFP device
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-xerox_mfp
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta tha followin STD n' network multifunction-peripheral:
.PP
.RS
Phaser 3200MFP
.br
Dell MFP Laser Printa 1815dn
.br
Xerox Phaser 6110MFP
.br
Samsung CLX-3170fn & CLX-3175FW
.br
Samsung SCX-4200
.br
Samsung SCX-4300
.br
Samsung SCX-4500
.br
Samsung SCX-4500W
.br
Samsung SCX4725-FN
.br
Xerox WorkCentre 3119 Series
.RE
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed above dat works wit this
backend, please let our asses know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.IR /proc/bus/usb/devices ,
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta us. Even if tha scannerz name is only slightly different from
the models mentioned above, please let our asses know.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.I /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf
STD scanners do not need any configuration.

For SCX-4500W up in network mode you need ta specify
.PP
.RS
.B tcp host_address [port]
.RE
.PP
Da 
.B host_address
is passed all up in resolver, thus can be a thugged-out dotted quad or a name from /etc/hosts or resolvable all up in DNS.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf
Da backend configuration file. By default all scanner types/models is enabled, you
may wanna comment up unwanted.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-xerox_mfp.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-xerox_mfp.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B SANE_DEBUG_XEROX_MFP
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_XEROX_MFP=4
.SH AUTHOR
Alex Belkin <abc@telekom.ru>

Samsung SCX-4500W scan over network support
Alexander Kuznetsov <acca(at)cpan.org>
.SH BUGS:
Multicast autoconfiguration fo' LAN scanners aint implemented yet. IPv6 addressin never been tested.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5)
.br

