.\" .IX sane-magicolor
.TH "sane-magicolor" "5" "10 Jan 2011" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH "NAME"
sane\-magicolor \- SANE backend fo' KONICA MINOLTA magicolor scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-magicolor
backend supports KONICA MINOLTA magicolor scanners connected via STD or LAN. Currently, only tha magicolor 1690MF thang is supported, no other devices wit tha same scannin protocol is known.
.SH "SUPPORTED DEVICES"
Da followin scanner should work wit dis backend:

Device Details
.br 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
.br 
Vendor: KONICA MINOLTA
.br 
Model: magicolor 1690MF

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.PP 
This section raps bout tha backendz configuration file entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da file is located at:
.IP 
.I /etc/sane.d/magicolor.conf
.PP 
For a proper setup, at least one of tha followin entries is needed:
.IP 
.I net autodiscovery
.br
.I net [IP ADDRESS] [DEVICE-ID]
.br
.I usb
.br
.I usb [VENDOR-ID] [DEVICE-ID]

.SH "FILES"
.TP 
.I /etc/sane.d/magicolor.conf
Da backend configuration file
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-magicolor.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP 
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-magicolor.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems dat support dynamic loading).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories is separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a semi\-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current hustlin directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of tha environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then tha default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "/tmp/config", ".", n' "/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP 
.B SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output.

Example: export SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR=127

To obtain debug lyrics from tha backend, set dis environment variable before callin yo' straight-up frontend (e.g. xscanimage).

Example: SANE_DEBUG_MAGICOLOR=65 xscanimage
.SH "KNOWN BUGS AND RESTRICTIONS"
.PP 
Big-Ass color scans may sometimes timeout cuz of unknown reasons (the scanner simply stops returnin data)
.PP 
Cancellin big-ass scans may lock up tha scanner.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.br 
.I http://wiki.kainhofer.com/hardware/magicolor_scan
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Reinhold Kainhofer <reinhold@kainhofer.com>
