.TH sane\-net 5 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-net
.SH NAME
sane\-net \- SANE network backend
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-net
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta image acquisizzle devices all up in a network
connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This make it possible ta control devices attached ta a
remote host n' also serves up a means ta grant playas access to
protected resources.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects thang namez of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.IR host : device
.RE
.PP
Where
.I host
is tha name (or IP address) of tha (remote) host and
.I device
is tha name of tha thang on dis host dat should be addressed.
If tha thang name do not contain a cold-ass lil colon (:), then tha entire string
is treated as the
.I device
strin fo' tha default host.  Da default host is tha host listed last
in tha configuration file (see below).
.PP
An IPv6 address can be specified enclosed up in square brackets:
.PP
.RS
.IR [::1] : device
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.IR net. Put yo muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel this!conf
file gotz nuff both backend options n' a list of host names (or IP
addresses) dat should be contacted fo' scan requests fo' realz. Anythang that
aint one of tha options listed below is ghon be treated as a host name.
.PP
.TP
.B connect_timeout = nsecs
Timeout (in seconds) fo' tha initial connection ta the
.I saned
server n' shit. This will prevent tha backend from blockin fo' several
minutes tryin ta connect ta a unresponsive
.I saned
host (network outage, host down, ...). Da environment variable
.B SANE_NET_TIMEOUT
can also be used ta specify tha timeout at runtime.
.PP
Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat IPv6 addresses up in dis file do not need ta be enclosed
in square brackets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
scan\-server.somedomain.firm
.br
192.168.0.1
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
localhost
.br
::1
.RE
.PP
Da above list of hosts can be extended at run-time rockin environment
variable
.BR SANE_NET_HOSTS .
This environment variable be a cold-ass lil colon-separated list of hostnames or IP
addresses dat should be contacted up in addizzle ta tha hosts mentioned in
the configuration file.  For example, a user could set tha environment
variable ta tha string:
.PP
.RS
new.scanner.com:[::1]:192.168.0.2:scanner.univ.edu
.RE
.PP
To request dat hosts
.I new.scanner.com
,
.I [::1]
,
.I 192.168.0.2
and
.I scanner.univ.edu
are contacted up in addizzle ta tha hosts listed above.
.PP
For dis backend ta function properly, it be also necessary ta define the
.B sane\-port
service in
.IR /etc/skillz .
The
.B sane
service should be defined rockin a line of tha followin form:
.PP
.RS
sane\-port 6566/tcp # SANE network scanner daemon
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/net.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-net.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-net.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_NET_HOSTS
A colon-separated list of host names or IP addresses ta be contacted by this
backend.
.TP
.B SANE_NET_TIMEOUT
Number of secondz ta wait fo' a response from the
.I saned
server fo' tha initial connection request.
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NET
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH BUGS
If saned has timed out, tha net backend may loop wit authorization requests.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), saned(8), sane\-dll(5), scanimage(1)

.I http://www.penguin-breeder.org/?page=sane\-net
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger n' Andreas Beck
