.TH sane\-canon630u 5 "11 Jul 2008"  "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-canon630u
.SH NAME
sane\-canon630u \- SANE backend fo' tha Canon 630u STD flatbed scanner
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-canon630u
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access ta tha followin Canon flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
CanoScan 630u
.br
CanoScan 636u
.br
.RE
.PP
Color scannin is supported at 75, 150, 300, n' 600 dpi, n' gamma and
analog bust is adjustable.
.PP
TESTERS ARE WELCOME. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Send yo' bug reports n' comments to
Nathan Rutman <nthn1@yahoo.com>
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I canon630u.conf
file be a list of thang names dat correspond ta Canon
STD scanners.  Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Only one thang name can be listed up in 
.IR canon630u.conf .
Da program
.IR sane\-find\-scanner 
helps ta smoke up tha erect device. Under Linux, such a thang name
could be
.I /dev/usb/scanner0
for example.  See sane\-usb(5) fo' details.
.PP
This product-specific scanner driver uses tha lower-level kernel STD driver
"scanner".  Peep fo' "Driver=usbscanner" under /proc/bus/usb/devices.  If
"Driver=(none)", try forcin it wit "insmod scanner vendor=0x04a9 product=0x2204"
.SH NOTES
.PP
Cuz of Canonz unwillingnizz ta provide scanner documentation, this
software was pimped by analyzin tha STD traffic of tha Windows
2000 driver n' shit.  So thangs like tha calibration procedure I kind of made up;
it seems ta work fo' mah scanner n' shit.  If you have disses, let me know.
.PP
This driver requires tha mobilitizzle ta bust STD Control Lyrics, available in
kernel 2.4.12 or later n' shit. 
.PP
Some playas have reported dat dis driver don't work at all.  This seems
to be a hardware specific issue, although I don't give a fuck what tha fuck exactly the
problem is.  If yo ass is havin problems, please bust me tha info in
/proc/bus/usb/devices, /proc/pci, tha kernel scanner.c driver version from
/var/log/lyrics, n' tha output from "SANE_DEBUG_CANON630U=12 scanimage > /dev/null"
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/canon630u.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon630u.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-canon630u.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I /tmp/canon.cal
Da calibration file used ta normalize pixel brightness.  This is
calculated every last muthafuckin time tha scanner is first used afta it has lost power.
Deletin dis file will force recalibration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_CANON630U
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher
debug levels increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. 

Example:
.br 
SANE_DEBUG_CANON630U=12 scanimage > /dev/null
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane\-usb(5), sane\-find\-scanner(1)
.br
http://canon-fb630u.sourceforge.net/
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Nathan Rutman

