.TH sane\-gt68xx 5 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-gt68xx
.SH NAME
sane\-gt68xx \- SANE backend fo' GT-68XX based STD flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-gt68xx
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend dat provides
access ta STD flatbed scanners based on tha Grandtech GT-6801 n' GT-6816
chips.  A list of supported scanners can be found on tha gt68xx backend
homepage: 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/gt68xx\-backend/ .
.PP
This is BETA software. Especially if you test freshly smoked up or untested scanners, keep
your hand all up in tha scannerz plug n' unplug it, if tha head bumps all up in tha end of
the scan area.
.PP
If you own a scanner other than tha ones listed on tha gt68xx homepizzy dat works wit this
backend, please let me know dis by bustin  tha scannerz exact model name and
the STD vendor n' thang idz (e.g. from
.I sane\-find\-scanner
or syslog) ta mah dirty ass. Even if tha scannerz name is only slightly different from
the models already listed as supported, please let me know.
.PP
If you own a scanner dat aint detected by tha gt68xx backend but has a GT-6801
or GT-6816 chipset, you can try ta add it ta tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin' yo. Have a peep the
followin wizzy page: 
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/gt68xx\-backend/adding.html
.PP
.SH LIBSTD ISSUES
Please use libusb-0.1.8 or later n' shit. Without libusb or wit olda libusb versions
all kindz of shiznit can be expected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da scanner should be found by
sane\-find\-scanner without further actions. For settin permissions n' general
STD shiznit looks at
.BR sane\-usb (5).
.PP

.SH FIRMWARE FILE
Yo ass need a gangbangin' firmware file fo' yo' scanner n' shit. Thatz a lil' small-ass file containing
software dat is ghon be uploaded ta tha scannerz memory. It aint nuthin but probably named
*.usb, e.g. 
.IR PS1fw.usb .
It comes on tha installation CD dat was provided by tha manufacturer yo, but it
may be packaged together wit tha installation program up in a .exe file. For
Mustek scanners, tha file can be downloaded from tha gt68xx backend homepage. For
other scanners, check tha CD fo' .usb files. If you only find *.cab files, try
cabextract ta unpack. If every last muthafuckin thang else fails, you must install tha Windows
driver n' git tha firmware from there (usually up in the
.I windows/system
or
.I system32
directories). Put dat firmware file into
.IR /usr/share/sane/gt68xx/ .
Make shizzle dat itz readable by everyone.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Da contentz of the
.I gt68xx.conf
file be a list of usb lines containin vendor n' thang idz dat correspond
to STD scanners. Da file can also contain option lines.  Empty lines and
lines startin wit a hash mark (#) is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da scanners are
autodetected by
.B usb vendor_id product_id
statements which is already included into
.IR gt68xx.conf .
"vendor_id" n' "product_id" is hexadecimal numbers dat identify the
scanner n' shit. 
.PP
Da 
.BR override ,
.BR firmware ,
.BR vendor ,
.BR model ,
and
.B afe
options must be placed afta the
.B usb
line they refer to.
.PP
Option
.B override
is used ta override tha default model parameters. Thatz necessary fo' some
scanners dat use tha same vendor/thang idz but is different. For these
scanners there be already commented up override lines up in tha configuration
file. 
.B override "mustek\-scanexpress\-1200\-ub\-plus"
is necessary fo' tha Mustek Scanexpress 1200 UB Plus, the
Medion/Lifetec/Tevion LT 9452, n' tha Trust Compact Scan STD 19200.
.B override "artec\-ultima\-2000"
is used fo' tha Artec Ultima 2000, tha Boeder SmartScan Slim Edition, the
Medion/ Lifetec/ Tevion/ Cytron MD/LT 9385, tha Medion/ Lifetec/ Tevion MD
9458, n' tha Trust Flat Scan STD 19200.
.B override "mustek\-bearpaw\-2400\-cu"
is necessary fo' tha Mustek BearPaw 2400 CU n' tha Fujitsu 1200CUS. The
.B override
option must be tha straight-up original gangsta one afta tha 
.B usb
line.
.PP
Option
.B firmware
selects tha name n' path of tha firmware file. It aint nuthin but only necessary if the
default (or override) don't work. Da default firmware directory is
.IR /usr/share/sane/gt68xx/ .
Yo ass may need ta create dis directory. If you wanna place tha firmware files
at a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different path, use a
.B firmware
line.
.PP
Da 
.B vendor
and
.B model
options is not straight-up necessary but fo' convenience. Quite a shitload of
scanners from different manufacturers share tha same vendor/thang idz so you
can set tha "correct" name here.
.PP
The
.B afe
option allows ta set custom offset n' bust joints fo' tha Analog FrontEnd of
the scanner n' shit. This option can be either used ta select tha AFE joints if
automatic coarse calibration is disabled, or ta make automatic coarse
calibration fasta n' shit. For tha latta usage, enable debug level 3 (see below),
scan a image n' look fo' debug line strang wit "afe". Copy dis line to
.IR gt68xx.conf .
Da option has six parameters: red offset, red gain, chronic offset, chronic gain,
blue offset, n' blue gain.
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
usb 0x05d8 0x4002
.br
override "mustek\-scanexpress\-1200\-ub\-plus"
.br
firmware "/opt/gt68xx/SBfw.usb"
.br
vendor "Trust"
.br
model "Compact Scan STD 19200"
.br
afe 0x20 0x02 0x22 0x03 0x1f 0x04
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/gt68xx.conf
Da backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-gt68xx.a
Da static library implementin dis backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-gt68xx.so
Da shared library implementin dis backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_GT68XX
If tha library was compiled wit debug support enabled, dis environment
variable controls tha debug level fo' dis backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Higher debug levels
increase tha verbositizzle of tha output. If tha debug level is set ta 1 or higher,
some debug options become available dat is normally hidden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch yo. Handle dem with
care.

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_GT68XX=4

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-artec_eplus48u (5)
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5)
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/gt68xx/gt68xx.CHANGES
.br
.I http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/gt68xx

.SH AUTHOR
Hennin Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier\-geinitz.de>
.br
Da original gangsta gt68xx driver was freestyled by Sergey Vlasov, Andreas Nowack, and
Dizzy Stevenson. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Thanks fo' bustin  patches n' answerin thangs ta them
and all tha other contributors.

.SH BUGS
Da first few linez of tha image is garbage fo' tha 2400 TA
Plus.
.PP
Interpolation should be used instead of just copyin data, when tha X- and
Y-resolution differ.
.PP
Support fo' buttons is missing.
.PP
Mo' detailed bug shiznit be available all up in tha gt68xx backend homepage
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/gt68xx\-backend/ .
Please hollar at our asses if you find a funky-ass bug or missin feature:
<sane\-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>. Please bust a thugged-out debug log if yo' scanner aint
detected erectly (see SANE_DEBUG_GT68XX above).
