.TH "secolor.conf" "5" "08 April 2011" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
secolor.conf \- Da SELinux color configuration file
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This optionizzle file controls tha color ta be associated ta tha context components associated ta tha 
.I raw
context passed by 
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color "(3),"
when context related shiznit is ta be displayed up in color by a SELinux-aware application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.sp
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color "(3)"
obtains dis color shiznit from tha actizzle policy 
.B secolor.conf
file as returned by 
.BR selinux_colors_path "(3)."
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Da file format be as bigs up:
.RS
.B color
.I color_name
.BI "= #"color_mask
.br
[...]
.sp
.I context_component string
.B =
.I fg_color_name bg_color_name
.br
[...]
.sp 
.RE

Where:
.br
.B color
.RS
Da color keyword. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Each color entry is on a freshly smoked up line.
.RE
.I color_name
.RS
A single word name fo' tha color (e.g. red).
.RE
.I color_mask
.RS
A color mask startin wit a hash (#) dat raps bout tha hexadecimal RGB flavas wit black bein #000000 n' white bein #ffffff.
.RE
.I context_component
.RS
Da context component name dat must be one of tha following:
.br
.RS
user, role, type or range 
.RE
Each
.IR context_component " " strang " ..."
entry is on a freshly smoked up line.
.RE
.I string
.RS
This is tha 
.I context_component
strin dat is ghon be matched wit tha 
.I raw
context component passed by
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color "(3)."
.br
A wildcard '*' may be used ta match any undefined strang fo' tha user, role n' type 
.I context_component
entries only.
.RE

.I fg_color_name
.RS
Da color_name strang dat is ghon be used as tha foreground color.
A 
.I color_mask
may also be used.
.RE
.I bg_color_name
.RS
Da color_name strang dat is ghon be used as tha background color.
A 
.I color_mask
may also be used.
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Example 1 entries are:
.RS
color black  = #000000
.br
color chronic  = #008000
.br
color yellow = #ffff00
.br
color blue   = #0000ff
.br
color white  = #ffffff
.br
color red    = #ff0000
.br
color orange = #ffa500
.br
color tan    = #D2B48C
.sp
user * = black white
.br
role * = white black
.br
type * = tan orange
.br
range s0\-s0:c0.c1023 = black green
.br
range s1\-s1:c0.c1023 = white green
.br
range s3\-s3:c0.c1023 = black tan
.br
range s5\-s5:c0.c1023 = white blue
.br
range s7\-s7:c0.c1023 = black red
.br
range s9\-s9:c0.c1023 = black orange
.br
range s15:c0.c1023   = black yellow
.RE

.sp
Example 2 entries are:
.RS
color black  = #000000
.br
color chronic  = #008000
.br
color yellow = #ffff00
.br
color blue   = #0000ff
.br
color white  = #ffffff
.br
color red    = #ff0000
.br
color orange = #ffa500
.br
color tan    = #d2b48c
.sp
user unconfined_u = #ff0000 green
.br
role unconfined_r = red #ffffff
.br
type unconfined_t = red orange
.br
user user_u       = black green
.br
role user_r       = white black
.br
type user_t       = tan red
.br
user xguest_u     = black yellow
.br
role xguest_r     = black red
.br
type xguest_t     = black green
.br
user sysadm_u     = white black
.br
range s0:c0.c1023 = black white
.br
user *            = black white
.br
role *            = black white
.br
type *            = black white
.RE
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8), " selinux_raw_context_to_color "(3), " selinux_colors_path "(3)"
