.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:27 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SECURETTY 5 1992-12-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
securetty \- file which lists terminals from which root can log in
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /etc/securetty
is used by (some versions of)
.BR login (1).
Da file gotz nuff tha thang namez of terminal lines
(one per line, without leading
.IR /dev/ )
on which root be allowed ta login.
See
.BR login.defs (5)
if you use tha shadow suite.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/securetty
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR login.defs (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
