.TH "selinux_config" "5" "18 Nov 2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration file"

.SH "NAME"
config \- Da SELinux sub-system configuration file.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da SELinux \fIconfig\fR file controls tha state of SELinux regarding:
.RS
.IP "1." 4
Da policy enforcement status \- \fIenforcing\fR, \fIpermissive\fR or \fIdisabled\fR.
.IP "2." 4
Da policy name or type dat forms a path ta tha policy ta be loaded n' its supportin configuration files.
.IP "3." 4
How tha fuck local playas n' booleans is ghon be managed when tha policy is loaded (note dat dis function was used by olda releasez of SELinux n' is now deprecated).
.IP "4." 4
How tha fuck SELinux-aware login applications should behave if no valid SELinux playas is configured.
.IP "5." 4
Whether tha system is ta be relabeled or not.
.RE

Da entries controllin these functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBFILE FORMAT\fR section.
.sp
Da straight-up qualified path name of tha SELinux configuration file is \fI/etc/selinux/config\fR.
.sp
If tha \fIconfig\fR file is missin or corrupt, then no SELinux policy is loaded (i.e. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux is disabled).
.sp
Da \fBsestatus\fR (8) command n' tha libselinux function \fBselinux_path\fR (3) will return tha location of tha \fIconfig\fR file.

.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Da \fIconfig\fR file supports tha followin parameters:
.sp
.RS
\fBSELINUX = \fIenforcing\fR | \fIpermissive\fR | \fIdisabled\fR
.br
\fBSELINUXTYPE = \fIpolicy_name\fR
.br
\fBSETLOCALDEFS = \fI0\fR | \fI1\fR
.br
\fBREQUIREUSERS = \fI0\fR | \fI1\fR
.br
\fBAUTORELABEL = \fI0\fR | \fI1\fR
.RE
.sp
Where:
.br
.B SELINUX
.RS
This entry can contain one of three joints:
.RS
.IP \fIenforcing\fR 4
SELinux securitizzle policy is enforced.
.IP \fIpermissive\fR 4
SELinux securitizzle policy aint enforced but logs tha warnings (i.e. tha action be allowed ta proceed).
.IP \fIdisabled\fR
SELinux is disabled n' no policy is loaded.
.RE
.sp
Da entry can be determined rockin tha \fBsestatus\fR(8) command or \fBselinux_getenforcemode\fR(3).
.RE
.sp
.B SELINUXTYPE
.RS
Da \fIpolicy_name\fR entry is used ta identify tha policy type, n' becomes tha directory name of where tha policy n' its configuration filez is located.
.sp
Da entry can be determined rockin tha \fBsestatus\fR(8) command or \fBselinux_getpolicytype\fR(3).
.sp
Da \fIpolicy_name\fR is relatizzle ta a path dat is defined within tha SELinux subsystem dat can be retrieved by rockin \fBselinux_path\fR(3) fo' realz. An example entry retrieved by \fBselinux_path\fR(3) is:
.br
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/
.RE
.sp
Da \fIpolicy_name\fR is then appended ta dis n' becomes tha 'policy root' location dat can be retrieved by \fBselinux_policy_root_path\fR(3) fo' realz. An example entry retrieved is:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/targeted
.RE
.sp
Da actual binary policy is located relatizzle ta dis directory n' also has a policy name pre-allocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This shiznit can be retrieved rockin \fBselinux_binary_policy_path\fR(3) fo' realz. An example entry retrieved by \fBselinux_binary_policy_path\fR(3) is:
.br
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/targeted/policy/policy
.RE
.sp
Da binary policy name has by convention tha SELinux policy version dat it supports appended ta dat shit. Da maximum policy version supported by tha kernel can be determined rockin tha \fBsestatus\fR(8) command or \fBsecurity_policyvers\fR(3) fo' realz. An example binary policy file wit tha version is:
.br
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/targeted/policy/policy.24
.RE
.RE
.sp
.B SETLOCALDEFS
.RS
This entry is deprecated n' should be removed or set ta \fI0\fR.
.sp
If set ta \fI1\fR, then \fBselinux_mkload_policy\fR(3) will read tha local customization fo' booleans (see \fBbooleans\fR(5)) n' playas (see \fBlocal.users\fR(5)).
.RE
.sp
.B REQUIRESEUSERS
.RS
This optionizzle entry can be used ta fail a login if there is no matchin or default entry up in the
.BR seusers "(5) file or if tha " seusers " file is missing. "
.sp
It be checked by \fBgetseuserbyname\fR(3) dat is called by SELinux-aware login applications like fuckin \fBPAM\fR(8).
.sp
If set ta \fI0\fR or tha entry missing:
.RS
.BR getseuserbyname "(3) will return tha GNU / Linux user name as tha SELinux user."
.RE
.sp
If set ta \fI1\fR:
.RS
.BR getseuserbyname "(3) will fail."
.RE
.sp
Da \fBgetseuserbyname\fR(3) playa page should be consulted fo' its use. Da format of tha \fIseusers\fR file is shown up in \fBseusers\fR(5).
.sp
.RE
.sp
.B AUTORELABEL
.RS
This be a optionizzle entry dat allows tha file system ta be relabeled.
.sp
If set ta \fI0\fR n' there be a gangbangin' file called \fI.autorelabel\fR up in tha root directory, then on a reboot, tha loader will drop ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell where a root login is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! An administrator can then manually relabel tha file system.
.sp
If set ta \fI1\fR or no entry present (the default) n' there be a \fI.autorelabel\fR file up in tha root directory, then tha file system is ghon be automatically relabeled rockin \fBfixfilez \-F restore\fR
.sp
In both cases tha \fI/.autorelabel\fR file is ghon be removed so dat relabelin aint done again.
.RE
.sp

.SH "EXAMPLE"
This example \fIconfig\fR file shows tha minimum contents fo' a system ta run SELinux up in enforcin mode, wit a \fIpolicy_name\fR of 'targeted':
.sp
.RS
SELINUX = enforcing
.br
SELINUXTYPE = targeted
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8), " sestatus "(8), " selinux_path "(3), " selinux_policy_root_path "(3), " selinux_binary_policy_path "(3), " getseuserbyname "(3), " PAM "(8), " fixfilez "(8), " selinux_mkload_policy "(3), " selinux_getpolicytype "(3), " security_policyvers "(3), " selinux_getenforcemode "(3), " seusers "(5), " booleans "(5), " local.users "(5) "
