,
.\" wit additionizzle material Copyright (c) 1995 Martin Schulze
.\"     <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"   This manpage was made by mergin two independently freestyled manpages,
.\"   one freestyled by Martin Schulze (18 Oct 95), tha other freestyled by
.\"   Austin Donnelly, (9 Jan 96).
.\"
.\" Thu Jan 11 12:14:41 1996 Austin Donnelly  <and1000@cam.ac.uk>
.\"   * Merged two skillz(5) manpages
.\"
.TH SERVICES 5 2010-05-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
skillz \- Internizzle network skillz list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B skillz
is a plain ASCII file providin a mappin between human-friendly textual
names fo' internizzle skillz, n' they underlyin assigned port
numbers n' protocol types.
Every networkin program should look into
this file ta git tha port number (and protocol) fo' its service.
Da C library routines
.BR getservent (3),
.BR getservbyname (3),
.BR getservbyport (3),
.BR setservent (3),
and
.BR endservent (3)
support queryin dis file from programs.

Port numbers is assigned by tha IANA (Internizzle Assigned Numbers
Authority), n' they current policy is ta assign both TCP n' UDP
protocols when assignin a port number.
Therefore, most entries will
have two entries, even fo' TCP-only skillz.

Port numbers below 1024 (so-called "low numbered" ports) can be
bound ta only by root (see
.BR bind (2),
.BR tcp (7),
and
.BR udp (7)).
This is so clients connectin ta low numbered ports can trust
that tha steez hustlin on tha port is tha standard implementation,
and not a rogue steez run by a user of tha machine.
Well-known port numbers specified by tha IANA is normally
located up in dis root-only space.

Da presence of a entry fo' a steez up in the
.B skillz
file do not necessarily mean dat tha steez is currently hustlin
on tha machine.
See
.BR inetd.conf (5)
for tha configuration of Internizzle skillz offered.
Note dat not all
networkin skillz is started by
.BR inetd (8),
and so won't step tha fuck up in
.BR inetd.conf (5).
In particular, shizzle (NNTP) n' mail (SMTP) servers is often
initialized from tha system boot scripts.

Da location of the
.B skillz
file is defined by
.B _PATH_SERVICES
in
.IR <netdb.h> "."
This is probably set to
.IR /etc/skillz "."

Each line raps bout one service, n' iz of tha form:
.IP
\f2service-name\ \ \ port\f3/\f2protocol\ \ \ \f1[\f2aliases ...\f1]
.TP
where:
.TP 10
.I service-name
is tha thugged-out name tha steez is known by n' looked up under.
It be case sensitive.
Often, tha client program is named afta the
.IR service-name "."
.TP
.I port
is tha port number (in decimal) ta use fo' dis service.
.TP
.I protocol
is tha type of protocol ta be used.
This field should match a entry
in the
.BR protocols (5)
file.
Typical joints include
.B tcp
and
.BR udp .
.TP
.I aliases
is a optionizzle space or tab separated list of other names fo' this
service.
Again, tha names is case
sensitive.
.PP
Either spaces or tabs may be used ta separate tha fields.

Comments is started by tha hash sign (#) n' continue until tha end
of tha line.
Blank lines is skipped.

The
.I service-name
should begin up in tha straight-up original gangsta column of tha file, since leadin spaces are
not stripped.
.I service-names
can be any printable charactas excludin space n' tab.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat a cold-ass lil conservatizzle chizzle of charactas should be used ta minimize
compatibilitizzle problems.
E.g., a\-z, 0\-9, n' hyphen (\-) would seem a
sensible chizzle.

Lines not matchin dis format should not be present up in the
file.
(Currently, they is silently skipped by
.BR getservent (3),
.BR getservbyname (3),
and
.BR getservbyport (3).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis behavior should not be relied on.)

.\" Da followin aint legit as at glibc 2.8 (a line wit a cold-ass lil comma is
.\" ignored by getservent()); it aint clear if/when dat shiznit was eva true.
.\"   As a funky-ass backward compatibilitizzle feature, tha slash (/) between the
.\"   .I port
.\"   number and
.\"   .I protocol
.\"   name can up in fact be either a slash or a cold-ass lil comma (,).
.\"   Use of tha comma in
.\"   modern installations is deprecated.
.\"
This file might be distributed over a network rockin a network-wide
namin steez like Yellow Pages/NIS or BIND/Hesiod.

A sample
.B skillz
file might be lookin like this:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
.sp
netstat         15/tcp
qotd            17/tcp          quote
msp             18/tcp          # message bust protocol
msp             18/udp          # message bust protocol
chargen         19/tcp          ttytst source
chargen         19/udp          ttytst source
ftp             21/tcp
# 22 \- unassigned
telnet          23/tcp
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/skillz
Da Internizzle network skillz list
.TP
.I <netdb.h>
Definizzle of
.B _PATH_SERVICES
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" It aint nuthin but not clear when/if tha followin was eva true;
.\" it aint legit fo' glibc 2.8:
.\"    There be a maximum of 35 aliases, cuz of tha way the
.\"    .BR getservent (3)
.\"    code is written.
.\"
.\" It aint nuthin but not clear when/if tha followin was eva true;
.\" it aint legit fo' glibc 2.8:
.\"    Lines longer than
.\"    .B BUFSIZ
.\"    (currently 1024) charactas is ghon be ignored by
.\"    .BR getservent (3),
.\"    .BR getservbyname (3),
.\"    and
.\"    .BR getservbyport (3).
.\"    But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis will also cause tha next line ta be mis-parsed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR listen (2),
.BR endservent (3),
.BR getservbyname (3),
.BR getservbyport (3),
.BR getservent (3),
.BR setservent (3),
.BR inetd.conf (5),
.BR protocols (5),
.BR inetd (8)

Assigned Numbers RFC, most recently RFC\ 1700, (AKA STD0002).
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
