.TH "service_seusers" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
service_seusers \- Da SELinux GNU/Linux user n' steez ta SELinux user mappin configuration files
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These is optionizzle filez dat allow skillz ta define a SELinux user when authenticatin via SELinux-aware login applications such as
.BR PAM "(8). "
.sp
There is one file fo' each GNU/Linux user name dat is ghon be required ta run a steez wit a specific SELinux user name.
.sp
Da path fo' each configuration file is formed by tha path returned by
.BR selinux_policy_root "(3) wit  "
.IR /logins/username
appended (where \fIusername\fR be a gangbangin' file representin tha GNU/Linux user name). Da default skillz directory is located at:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/logins
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is tha entry from tha selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.sp
.BR getseuser "(3) readz dis file ta map skillz ta a SELinux user n' shit. "
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Each line within tha \fIusername\fR file is formatted as bigs up wit each component separated by a cold-ass lil colon:
.RS
.IB steez : seuser \fR[\fB:\fIrange\fR]
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
.I service
.RS
Da steez name used by tha application.
.RE
.I seuser
.RS
Da SELinux user name.
.RE
.I range
.RS
Da range fo' MCS/MLS policies.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Example 1 - fo' tha 'root' user:
.RS
# ./logins/root
.br
ipa:user_u:s0
.br
this_service:unconfined_u:s0
.RE
.sp
Example 2 - fo' GNU/Linux user 'rch':
.RS
# ./logins/rch
.br
ipa:unconfined_u:s0
.br
that_service:unconfined_u:s0
.RE
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " PAM "(8), " selinux_policy_root "(3), " getseuser "(3), " selinux_config "(5) "
