.TH "sestatus.conf" "5" "26-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "sestatus configuration file"

.SH "NAME"
sestatus.conf \- Da \fBsestatus\fR(8) configuration file.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da \fIsestatus.conf\fR file is used by tha \fBsestatus\fR(8) command wit tha \fB\-v\fR option ta determine what tha fuck file n' process securitizzle contexts should be displayed.
.sp
Da straight-up qualified path name of tha configuration file is:
.RS
\fI/etc/sestatus.conf\fR
.RE
.RE
.sp
Da file consistz of two optionizzle sections as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBFILE FORMAT\fR section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Whether these exist or not, tha followin will always be displayed:
.RS
Da current process context
.br
Da init process context
.br
Da controllin terminal file context
.RE

.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Da format consistz of two optionizzle sections as bigs up:
.RS
.B [files]
.br
.I file_name
.br
.I [file_name]
.br
.I ...
.sp
.B [process]
.br
.I executable_file_name
.br
.I [executable_file_name]
.br
.I ...
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
.B [files]
.RS
Da start of tha file list block.
.RE
.I file_name
.RS
One or mo' straight-up qualified file names, each on a freshly smoked up line will dat gonna git its context displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha file do not exist, then it is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha file be a symbolic link, then \fBsestatus \-v\fR will also display tha target file context.
.RE
.sp
.B [process]
.RS
Da start of tha process list block.
.RE
.I executable_file_name
.RS
One or mo' straight-up qualified executable file names dat should it be a actizzle process, have its context displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Each entry is on a freshly smoked up line.
.RE
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"
# /etc/sestatus.conf
.br
[files]
.br
/etc/passwd
.br
/etc/shadow
.br
/bin/bash
.br
/bin/login
.br
/lib/libc.so.6
.br
/lib/ld-linux.so.2
.br
/lib/ld.so.1
.sp
[process]
.br
/sbin/mingetty
.br
/sbin/agetty
.br
/usr/sbin/sshd
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8), " sestatus "(8) "
