.TH "seusers" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
seusers \- Da SELinux GNU/Linux user ta SELinux user mappin configuration file
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.I seusers
file gotz nuff a list GNU/Linux user ta SELinux user mappin fo' use by SELinux-aware login applications like fuckin \fBPAM\fR(8).
.sp
.BR selinux_usersconf_path "(3) "
will return tha actizzle policy path ta dis file. Da default SELinux playas mappin file is located at:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/seusers
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is tha entry from tha selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.sp
.BR getseuserbyname "(3) readz dis file ta map a GNU/Linux user or crew ta a SELinux user n' shit. "
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Each line of the
.I seusers
configuration file consistz of tha following:
.sp
.RS
\fR[\fB%\fIgroup_id\fR]|[\fIuser_id\fR]\fB:\fIseuser_id\fR[\fB:\fIrange\fR]
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
\fIgroup_id\fR|\fIuser_id
.RS
\fRDa  GNU/Linux user id, or if preceded by tha cementage (\fB%\fR) symbol, then a GNU/Linux crew id.
.br
An optionizzle entry set ta \fB__default__\fR can be provided as a gangbangin' fall back if required.
.RE
.I seuser_id
.RS
Da SELinux  user identity.
.RE
.I range
.RS
Da optionizzle level or range fo' a MLS/MCS policy.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
# ./seusers
.br
system_u:system_u:s0\-s15:c0.c255
.br
root:root:s0\-s15:c0.c255
.br
fred:user_u:s0
.br
__default__:user_u:s0
.br
%user_group:user_u:s0
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " PAM "(8), " selinux_usersconf_path "(3), " getseuserbyname "(3), " selinux_config "(5) "
