.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Mike Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SHELLS 5 2012-12-31 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
shells \- pathnamez of valid login shells
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /etc/shells
is a text file which gotz nuff tha full pathnamez of valid login shells.
This file is consulted by
.BR chsh (1)
and available ta be queried by other programs.
.PP
Be aware dat there be programs which consult dis file to
smoke up if a user be a aiiight user;
for example,
FTP daemons traditionally
disallow access ta playas wit shells not included up in dis file.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/shells
.SH EXAMPLE
.I /etc/shells
may contain tha followin paths:
.sp
.RS
.I /bin/sh
.br
.I /bin/bash
.br
.I /bin/csh
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chsh (1),
.BR getusershell (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
