.ig
Copyright (C) 2002-10 Bruce Allen <smartmontools-support@lists.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-13 Christian Franke <smartmontools-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

$Id: smartd.conf.5.in 3833 2013-07-20 15:00:04Z chrfranke $

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
any lata version.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
(for example COPYING); If not, peep <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

This code was originally pimped as a Ballin Thesis by Mike Cornwell
at tha Concurrent Systems Laboratory (now part of tha Storage Systems
Research Center), Jack Baskin School of Engineering, Universitizzle of
California, Gangsta Cruz. http://ssrc.soe.ucsc.edu/

..
.TH SMARTD.CONF 5 2014-07-16 smartmontools-6.2 2014-07-16
.SH NAME
\fBsmartd.conf\fP \- SMART Disk Monitorin Daemon Configuration File\fP

.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
.SH FULL PATH
.B /etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf

.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows
.SH PACKAGE VERSION
smartmontools-6.2 2014-07-16 r3952

.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" %IF NOT OS ALL
[This playa page is generated fo' tha Linux version of smartmontools. \"#
It do not contain info specific ta other platforms.] \"#
.PP \"#
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS ALL
\fB/etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf\fP is tha configuration file fo' tha \fBsmartd\fP
daemon.

If tha configuration file \fB/etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf\fP is present,
\fBsmartd\fP readz it at startup, before \fBfork\fP(2)in tha fuck into the
background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fBsmartd\fP subsequently receives a \fBHUP\fP signal,
it will then re-read tha configuration file.  If \fBsmartd\fP is
runnin up in debug mode, then a \fBINT\fP signal will also make it
re-read tha configuration file. This signal can be generated by typing
\fB\<CONTROL-C\>\fP up in tha terminal window where \fBsmartd\fP is
running.

In tha absence of a cold-ass lil configuration file
\fBsmartd\fP will try ta open all available devices
(see \fBsmartd\fP(8) playa page).
A configuration file wit a single line \fB\'DEVICESCAN \-a'\fP
would have tha same effect.

This can be buggin if you have a ATA or SCSI thang dat hangs or
misbehaves when receivin SMART commands.  Even if dis causes no
problems, you may be annoyed by tha strang of error log lyrics bout devices
that can\'t be opened.

One can avoid dis problem, n' bust mo' control over tha types of
events monitored by
\fBsmartd\fP,
by rockin tha configuration file
.B /etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf.
This file gotz nuff a list of devices ta monitor, wit one thang per
line.  An example file is included wit the
.B smartmontools
distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass will find dis sample configuration file in
\fB/usr/share/doc/smartmontools/\fP. For security, tha configuration file
should not be writable by mah playas but root. Da syntax of tha file be as
bigs up:
.IP \(bu 4
There should be one thang listed per line, although you may have
lines dat is entirely comments or white space.
.IP \(bu 4
Any text followin a hash sign \'#\' n' up ta tha end of tha line is
taken ta be a cold-ass lil comment, n' ignored.
.IP \(bu 4
Lines may be continued by rockin a funky-ass backslash \'\e\' as tha last
non-whitespace or non-comment item on a line.
.IP \(bu 4
Note: a line whose first characta be a hash sign \'#\' is treated as
a white-space blank line, \fBnot\fP as a non-existent line, n' will
\fBend\fP a cold-ass lil continuation line.
.PP 0
.fi
Here be a example configuration file.  It\z fo' illustratizzle purposes
only; please don\'t copy it onto yo' system without readin ta tha end
of the
.B DIRECTIVES
Section below!

.nf
.B ################################################
.B # This be a example smartd startup config file
.B # /etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf fo' monitorin three
.B # ATA disks, three SCSI disks, six ATA disks
.B # behind two 3ware controllers, three SATA disks
.B # directly connected ta tha HighPoint Rocket-
.B # RAID controller, two SATA disks connected to
.B # tha HighPoint RocketRAID controlla via a pmport
.B # device, four SATA disks connected ta a Areca
.B # RAID controller, n' one SATA disk.
.B #
.nf
.B # First ATA disk on two different intercourses. On
.B # tha second disk, start a long-ass self-test every
.B # Sundizzle between 3 n' 4 am.
.B #
.B \ \ /dev/hda -a -m admin@example.com,root@localhost 
.B \ \ /dev/hdc -a -I 194 -I 5 -i 12 -s L/../../7/03
.B #
.nf
.B # SCSI disks.  Send a TEST warnin email ta admin on
.B # startup.
.B #
.B \ \ /dev/sda
.B \ \ /dev/sdb -m admin@example.com -M test
.B #
.nf
.B # Strange device.  It\z SCSI. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Start a scheduled
.B # long self test between 5 n' 6 be Monday/Thursday
.B \ \ /dev/weird -d scsi -s L/../../(1|4)/05
.B #
.nf
.B # An ATA disk may step tha fuck up as a SCSI thang ta the
.B # OS. If a SCSI ta ATA Translation (SAT) layer
.B # is between tha OS n' tha thang then dis can be
.B # flagged wit tha '-d sat' option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This thang
.B # may become common wit SATA disks up in SAS n' FC
.B # environments.
.B \ \ /dev/sda -a -d sat
.B #
.nf
.\" %IF OS Linux
.B # Three disks connected ta a MegaRAID controller
.B # Start short self-tests everyday between 1-2, 2-3, and
.B # 3-4 am.
.B \ \ /dev/sda -d megaraid,0 -a -s S/../.././01
.B \ \ /dev/sda -d megaraid,1 -a -s S/../.././02
.B \ \ /dev/sda -d megaraid,2 -a -s S/../.././03
.B \ \ /dev/bus/0 -d megaraid,2 -a -s S/../.././03
.B
.B #
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.nf
.B # Four ATA disks on a 3ware 6/7/8000 controller.
.B # Start short self-tests everyday between midnight n' 1am,
.B # 1-2, 2-3, n' 3-4 am.  Startin wit tha Linux 2.6
.B # kernel series, /dev/sdX is deprecated up in favor of
.B # /dev/tweN.  For example replace /dev/sdc by /dev/twe0
.B # n' /dev/sdd by /dev/twe1.
.B \ \ /dev/sdc -d 3ware,0 -a -s S/../.././00
.B \ \ /dev/sdc -d 3ware,1 -a -s S/../.././01
.B \ \ /dev/sdd -d 3ware,2 -a -s S/../.././02
.B \ \ /dev/sdd -d 3ware,3 -a -s S/../.././03
.B #
.nf
.B # Two ATA disks on a 3ware 9000 controller.
.B # Start long self-tests Sundays between midnight and
.B # 1am n' 2-3 am
.B \ \ /dev/twa0 -d 3ware,0 -a -s L/../../7/00
.B \ \ /dev/twa0 -d 3ware,1 -a -s L/../../7/02
.B #
.nf
.B # Two SATA (not SAS) disks on a 3ware 9750 controller.
.B # Start long self-tests Sundays between midnight and
.B # 1am n' 2-3 am
.\" %IF OS Linux
.B \ \ /dev/twl0 -d 3ware,0 -a -s L/../../7/00
.B \ \ /dev/twl0 -d 3ware,1 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.\"# .\" %IF OS FreeBSD
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/tws0 -d 3ware,0 -a -s L/../../7/00
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/tws0 -d 3ware,1 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD
.B #
.nf
.B # Three SATA disks on a HighPoint RocketRAID controller.
.B # Start short self-tests everyday between 1-2, 2-3, and
.B # 3-4 am.
.\" %IF OS Linux
.B # under Linux
.B \ \ /dev/sde -d hpt,1/1 -a -s S/../.././01
.B \ \ /dev/sde -d hpt,1/2 -a -s S/../.././02
.B \ \ /dev/sde -d hpt,1/3 -a -s S/../.././03
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.\"# .\" %IF OS FreeBSD
.\"# .B # under FreeBSD
.\"# .B  /dev/hptrr -d hpt,1/1 -a -s S/../.././01
.\"# .B  /dev/hptrr -d hpt,1/2 -a -s S/../.././02
.\"# .B  /dev/hptrr -d hpt,1/3 -a -s S/../.././03
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD
.B #
.nf
.B # Two SATA disks connected ta a HighPoint RocketRAID 
.B # via a pmport device.  Start long self-tests Sundays
.B # between midnight n' 1am n' 2-3 am.
.\" %IF OS Linux
.B # under Linux
.B \ \ /dev/sde -d hpt,1/4/1 -a -s L/../../7/00
.B \ \ /dev/sde -d hpt,1/4/2 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.\"# .\" %IF OS FreeBSD
.\"# .B # under FreeBSD
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/hptrr -d hpt,1/4/1 -a -s L/../../7/00
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/hptrr -d hpt,1/4/2 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\"# .B #
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD
.nf
.B # Three SATA disks connected ta a Areca
.B # RAID controlla n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Start long self-tests Sundays
.B # between midnight n' 3 am.
.\" %IF OS Linux
.B \ \ /dev/sg2 -d areca,1 -a -s L/../../7/00
.B \ \ /dev/sg2 -d areca,2 -a -s L/../../7/01
.B \ \ /dev/sg2 -d areca,3 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.\"# .\" %IF OS FreeBSD
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/arcmsr0 -d areca,1 -a -s L/../../7/00
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/arcmsr0 -d areca,2 -a -s L/../../7/01
.\"# .B \ \ /dev/arcmsr0 -d areca,3 -a -s L/../../7/02
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD
.B #
.nf
.B # Da followin line enablez monitorin of tha 
.B # ATA Error Log n' tha Self-Test Error Log.  
.B # It also tracks chizzlez up in both Prefailure
.B # n' Usage Attributes, apart from Attributes
.B # 9, 194, n' 231, n' shows  continued lines:
.B #
.B \ \ /dev/hdd\ -l\ error\ \e
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ -l\ selftest\ \e
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ -t\ \e\ \ \ \ \ \ # Attributes not tracked:
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ -I\ 194\ \e\ \ # temperature
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ -I\ 231\ \e\ \ # also temperature
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ -I 9\ \ \ \ \ \ # power-on hours
.B #
.B ################################################
.fi

.PP 
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE DIRECTIVES
.PP

If a non-comment entry up in tha configuration file is tha text string
.B DEVICESCAN
in capital letters, then
\fBsmartd\fP
will ignore any remainin lines up in tha configuration file, n' will
scan fo' devices.
.B DEVICESCAN
may optionally be followed by Directives dat will apply ta all
devices dat is found up in tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Please peep below fo' additional
details.

[NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE] If a entry up in tha configuration file
starts with
.B DEFAULT
instead of a thang name, then all directives up in dis entry is set
as defaults fo' tha next thang entries.

This configuration:

.nf
\ \ DEFAULT -a -R5! -W 2,40,45 -I 194 -s L/../../7/00 -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sda
\ \ /dev/sdb
\ \ /dev/sdc
\ \ DEFAULT -H -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sdd
\ \ /dev/sde -d removable
.fi

has tha same ol' dirty effect as:

.nf
\ \ /dev/sda -a -R5! -W 2,40,45 -I 194 -s L/../../7/00 -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sdb -a -R5! -W 2,40,45 -I 194 -s L/../../7/00 -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sdc -a -R5! -W 2,40,45 -I 194 -s L/../../7/00 -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sdd -H -m admin@example.com
\ \ /dev/sde -d removable -H -m admin@example.com
.fi

.sp 2
Da followin is tha Directives dat may step tha fuck up followin tha device
name or
.B DEVICESCAN
or
.B DEFAULT
on any line of the
.B /etc/smartmontools/smartd.conf
configuration file. Note that
.B these is NOT command-line options fo' 
\fBsmartd\fP.
Da Directives below may step tha fuck up in any order, followin tha device
name. 

.B For a ATA device,
if no Directives appear, then tha thang is ghon be monitored
as if tha \'\-a\' Directizzle (monitor all SMART properties) had been given.

.B If a SCSI disk is listed,
it is ghon be monitored all up in tha maximum implemented level: roughly
equivalent ta rockin tha \'\-H \-l selftest\' options fo' a ATA disk.
So wit tha exception of \'\-d\', \'\-m\', \'\-l selftest\', \'\-s\', and
\'\-M\', tha Directives below is ignored fo' SCSI disks.  For SCSI
disks, tha \'\-m\' Directizzle sendz a warnin email if tha SMART status
indicates a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk failure or problem, if tha SCSI inquiry bout disk
status fails, or if freshly smoked up errors step tha fuck up in tha self-test log.

.B If a 3ware controlla is used
then tha correspondin SCSI (/dev/sd?) or characta thang (/dev/twe?,
/dev/twa?, /dev/twl, biatch? or /dev/tws?) must be listed, along wit tha \'\-d 3ware,N\'
Directizzle (see below).  Da individual ATA disks hosted by tha 3ware
controlla step tha fuck up ta \fBsmartd\fP as aiiight ATA devices.  Hence all
the ATA directives can be used fo' these disks (but peep note below).

.\" %IF OS Linux FreeBSD
.B If a Areca controlla is used
then tha correspondin thang (SCSI /dev/sg, biatch? on Linux or /dev/arcmsr0 on 
FreeBSD) must be listed, along wit tha \'\-d areca,N\' Directizzle (see below).
Da individual SATA disks hosted by tha Areca controlla step tha fuck up ta \fBsmartd\fP
as aiiight ATA devices.  Hence all tha ATA directives can be used for
these disks.  Areca firmware version 1.46 or lata which supports
smartmontools must be used; Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page
for further details.
.\" %ENDIF OS Linux FreeBSD
.TP
.B \-d TYPE
Specifies tha type of tha device.
Da valid arguments ta dis directizzle are:

.I auto
\- attempt ta guess tha thang type from tha thang name or from
controlla type info provided by tha operatin system or from
a matchin STD ID entry up in tha drive database.
This is tha default.

.I ata
\- tha thang type is ATA.  This prevents
\fBsmartd\fP
from issuin SCSI commandz ta a ATA device.

.\" %IF NOT OS Darwin
.I scsi
\- tha thang type is SCSI.  This prevents
\fBsmartd\fP
from issuin ATA commandz ta a SCSI device.

.I sat[,auto][,N]
\- tha thang type is SCSI ta ATA Translation (SAT).
This is fo' ATA disks dat gotz a SCSI ta ATA Translation (SAT) Layer
(SATL) between tha disk n' tha operatin system.
SAT defines two ATA PASS THROUGH SCSI commands, one 12 bytes long and
the other 16 bytes long.  Da default is tha 16 byte variant which can be
overridden wit either \'\-d sat,12\' or \'\-d sat,16\'.

If \'\-d sat,auto\' is specified, thang type SAT (for ATA/SATA disks) is
only used if tha SCSI INQUIRY data reports a SATL (VENDOR: "ATA     ").
Otherwise thang type SCSI (for SCSI/SAS disks) is used.

.I usbcypress
\- dis thang type is fo' ATA disks dat is behind a Cypress STD ta PATA
bridge.  This will use tha ATACB proprietary scsi pass all up in command.
Da default SCSI operation code is 0x24 yo, but although it can be overridden
with \'\-d usbcypress,0xN\', where N is tha scsi operation code,
yo ass is hustlin tha risk of damage ta tha thang or filesystems on dat shit.

.I usbjmicron[,p][,x][,PORT]
\- dis thang type is fo' SATA disks dat is behind a JMicron STD to
PATA/SATA bridge.  Da 48-bit ATA commandz (required e.g. fo' \'\-l xerror\',
see below) do not work wit all of these bridges n' is therefore disabled by
default.  These commandz can be enabled by \'\-d usbjmicron,x\'.
If two disks is connected ta a funky-ass bridge wit two ports, a error message is printed
if no PORT is specified.
Da port can be specified by \'\-d usbjmicron[,x],PORT\' where PORT is 0
(master) or 1 (slave).  This aint necessary if tha thang uses a port
multiplier ta connect multiple disks ta one port.  Da disks step tha fuck up under
separate /dev/ice names then.
CAUTION: Specifyin \',x\' fo' a thang which do not support it thangs up in dis biatch
in I/O errors n' may disconnect tha drive.  Da same applies if tha specified
PORT do not exist or aint connected ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk.

[NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE]
Da Prolific PL2507/3507 STD bridges wit olda firmware support a pass-through
command similar ta JMicron n' work wit \'\-d usbjmicron,0\'.
Newer Prolific firmware requires a modified command which can be selected by
\'\-d usbjmicron,p\'.
Note dat dis do not yet support tha SMART status command.

.I usbsunplus
\- dis thang type is fo' SATA disks dat is behind a SunplusIT STD ta SATA
bridge.

.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Darwin
.\" %IF OS Linux
.I marvell
\- [Linux only] interact wit SATA disks behind Marvell chip-set
controllaz (usin tha Marvell rather than libata driver).

.I megaraid,N
\- [Linux only] tha thang consistz of one or mo' SCSI/SAS disks connected
to a MegaRAID controlla n' shit.  Da non-negatizzle integer N (in tha range of 0 to
127 inclusive) denotes which disk on tha controlla is monitored.
This intercourse will also work fo' Dell PERC controllers.
In log filez n' email lyrics dis disk is ghon be identified as
megaraid_disk_XXX wit XXX up in tha range from 000 ta 127 inclusive.
It be possible ta set RAID thang name as /dev/bus/N, where N be a SCSI bus 
number.
Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page fo' further details.

.\" %ENDIF OS Linux
.\" %IF OS FreeBSD Linux
.I 3ware,N
\- [FreeBSD n' Linux only] tha thang consistz of one or mo' ATA disks
connected ta a 3ware RAID controlla n' shit.  Da non-negatizzle integer N
(in tha range from 0 ta 127 inclusive) denotes which disk on tha controller
is monitored.
In log filez n' email lyrics dis disk is ghon be identified as 3ware_disk_XXX
with XXX up in tha range from 000 ta 127 inclusive.

Note dat while you may use \fBany\fP of tha 3ware SCSI logical devices /dev/tw*
to address \fBany\fP of tha physical disks (3ware ports), error n' log
lyrics will make da most thugged-out sense if you always list tha 3ware SCSI
logical thang correspondin ta tha particular physical disks.
Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page fo' further details.

.\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD Linux
.\" %IF OS FreeBSD Linux Windows Cygwin
.I areca,N
\- [FreeBSD, Linux, Windows n' Cygwin only] tha thang consistz of one or mo' SATA disks
connected ta a Areca SATA RAID controlla n' shit.  Da positizzle integer N (in tha range
from 1 ta 24 inclusive) denotes which disk on tha controlla is monitored.
In log filez n' email lyrics dis disk is ghon be identifed as
areca_disk_XX wit XX up in tha range from 01 ta 24 inclusive.
Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page fo' further details.

.I areca,N/E
\- [FreeBSD, Linux, Windows n' Cygwin only] [NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE] the
device consistz of one or mo' SATA or SAS disks connected ta a Areca SAS RAID controller.
Da integer N (range 1 ta 128) denotes tha channel (slot) n' E (range
1 ta 8) denotes tha enclosure.
Important: This requires Areca SAS controlla firmware version 1.51 or later.

.\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD Linux Windows Cygwin
.\" %IF OS FreeBSD Linux
.I cciss,N
\- [FreeBSD n' Linux only] tha thang consistz of one or mo' SCSI/SAS or SATA disks
connected ta a cold-ass lil cciss RAID controlla n' shit.  Da non-negatizzle integer N (in tha range
from 0 ta 15 inclusive) denotes which disk on tha controlla is monitored.
In log filez n' email lyrics dis disk is ghon be identified as cciss_disk_XX
with XX up in tha range from 00 ta 15 inclusive.
Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page fo' further details.

.I hpt,L/M/N
\- [FreeBSD n' Linux only] tha thang consistz of one or mo' ATA disks
connected ta a HighPoint RocketRAID controlla n' shit.  Da integer L is the
controlla id, tha integer M is tha channel number, n' tha integer N
is tha PMPort number if it be available.  Da allowed jointz of L are
from 1 ta 4 inclusive, M is from 1 ta 128 inclusive n' N from 1 ta 4
if PMPort available.  And also these joints is limited by tha model
of tha HighPoint RocketRAID controller.
In log filez n' email lyrics dis disk is ghon be identified as
hpt_X/X/X n' X/X/X is tha same ol' dirty as L/M/N, note if no N indicated, N set
to tha default value 1.
Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP(8) playa page fo' further details.

.\" %ENDIF OS FreeBSD Linux
.I ignore
\- [NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE]
the thang specified by dis configuration entry should be ignored.
This allows ta ignore specific devices which is detected by a gangbangin' following
DEVICESCAN configuration line.
It may also be used ta temporary disable longer multi-line configuration entries.
This Directizzle may be used up in conjunction wit tha other \'\-d\' Directives.

.I removable
\- tha thang or its media is removable.  This indicates to
\fBsmartd\fP
that it should continue (instead of exiting, which is tha default
behavior) if tha thang do not step tha fuck up ta be present when
\fBsmartd\fP is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This Directizzle may be used up in conjunction
with tha other \'\-d\' Directives.
.TP
.B \-n POWERMODE[,N][,q]
[ATA only] This \'nocheck\' Directizzle is used ta prevent a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk from
bein spun-up when it is periodically polled by \fBsmartd\fP.

ATA disks have five different juice states. In order of increasing
power consumption they are: \'OFF\', \'SLEEP\', \'STANDBY\', \'IDLE\',
and \'ACTIVE\'.  Typically up in tha OFF, SLEEP, n' STANDBY modes the
disk\z plattas is not spinning. But usually, up in response ta SMART
commandz issued by \fBsmartd\fP, tha disk plattas is spun up.  So if
this option aint used, then a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk which is up in a low-power mode may
be spun up n' put tha fuck into a higher-power mode when it is periodically
polled by \fBsmartd\fP.

Note dat if tha disk is up in SLEEP mode when \fBsmartd\fP is started,
then it won't respond ta \fBsmartd\fP commands, n' so tha disk won't
be registered as a thang fo' \fBsmartd\fP ta monitor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk is in
any other low-power mode, then tha commandz issued by \fBsmartd\fP to
regista tha disk will probably cause it ta spin-up.

Da \'\fB\-n\fP\' (nocheck) Directizzle specifies if \fBsmartd\fP\'s
periodic checks should still be carried up when tha thang is up in a
low-power mode.  It may be used ta prevent a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk from bein spun-up
by periodic \fBsmartd\fP polling.  Da allowed jointz of POWERMODE
are:

.I never
\- \fBsmartd\fP will poll (check) tha thang regardless of its power
mode. This may cause a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk which is spun-down ta be spun-up when
\fBsmartd\fP checks dat shit.  This is tha default behavior if tha '\-n'
Directizzle aint given.

.I chill
\- check tha thang unless it is up in SLEEP mode.

.I standby
\- check tha thang unless it is up in SLEEP or STANDBY mode.  In
these modes most disks is not spinning, so if you wanna prevent
a laptop disk from spinnin up each time dat \fBsmartd\fP polls,
this is probably what tha fuck you want.

.I idle
\- check tha thang unless it is up in SLEEP, STANDBY or IDLE mode.
In tha IDLE state, most disks is still spinning, so dis is probably
not what tha fuck you want.

Maximum number of skipped checks (in a row) can be specified by
appendin positizzle number \',N\' ta POWERMODE (like \'\-n standby,15\').
Afta N checks is skipped up in a row, powermode is ignored n' the
check is performed anyway.

When a periodic test is skipped, \fBsmartd\fP normally writes an
informal log message. Da message can be suppressed by appending
the option \',q\' ta POWERMODE (like \'\-n standby,q\').
This prevents a laptop disk from spinnin up cuz of dis message.

Both \',N\' n' \',q\' can be specified together.
.TP
.B \-T TYPE
Specifies how tha fuck tolerant
\fBsmartd\fP
should be of SMART command failures.  Da valid arguments ta this
Directizzle are:

.I normal
\- do not try ta monitor tha disk if a mandatory SMART command fails yo, but
continue if a optionizzle SMART command fails.  This is tha default.

.I permissive
\- try ta monitor tha disk even if it appears ta lack SMART
capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  This may be required fo' some oldschool disks (prior to
ATA-3 revision 4) dat implemented SMART before tha SMART standards
were incorporated tha fuck into tha ATA/ATAPI Justifications.
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-T\fP command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-o VALUE
[ATA only] Enablez or disablez SMART Automatic Offline Testin when
\fBsmartd\fP
starts up n' has no further effect.  Da valid arguments ta this
Directizzle is \fIon\fP n' \fIoff\fP.

Da delay between tests is vendor-specific yo, but is typically four
hours.

Note dat SMART Automatic Offline Testin is \fBnot\fP part of tha ATA
Specification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Please peep the
.B smartctl \-o
command-line option documentation fo' further shiznit bout this
feature.
.TP
.B \-S VALUE
Enablez or disablez Attribute Autosave when \fBsmartd\fP
starts up n' has no further effect.  Da valid arguments ta this
Directizzle is \fIon\fP n' \fIoff\fP.  Also affects SCSI devices.
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-S\fP command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-H
[ATA only] Peep tha SMART game statuz of tha disk.  If any Prefailure
Attributes is less than or equal ta they threshold joints, then disk
failure is predicted up in less than 24 hours, n' a message at loglevel
.B \'LOG_CRIT\'
will be logged ta syslog.  [Please peep the
.B smartctl \-H
command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-l TYPE
Reports increases up in tha number of errors up in one of three SMART logs.  The
valid arguments ta dis Directizzle are:

.I error
\- [ATA only] report if tha number of ATA errors reported up in tha Summary SMART
error log has increased since tha last check.

.I xerror
\- [ATA only] report if tha number of ATA errors reported up in tha Extended
Comprehensive SMART error log has increased since tha last check.

If both \'\-l error\' n' \'\-l xerror\' is specified, smartd checks
the maximum of both joints.

[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-l xerror\fP command-line option.]

.I selftest
\- report if tha number of failed tests reported up in tha SMART
Self-Test Log has increased since tha last check, or if tha timestamp
associated wit da most thugged-out recent failed test has increased. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note that
such errors will \fBonly\fP be logged if you run self-tests on the
disk (and it fails a test!).  Self-Tests can be run automatically by
\fBsmartd\fP: please peep tha \fB\'\-s\'\fP Directizzle below.
Self-Tests can also be run manually by rockin tha \fB\'\-t\ short\'\fP
and \fB\'\-t\ long\'\fP optionz of \fBsmartctl\fP n' tha thangs up in dis biatch of
the testin can be observed rockin tha \fBsmartctl \'\-l\ selftest\'\fP
command-line option.
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-l\fP n' \fB\-t\fP command-line
options.]

[ATA only] Failed self-tests outdated by a newer successful extended
self-test is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da warnin email counta is reset if the
number of failed self tests dropped ta 0.  This typically happens when
an extended self-test is run afta all wack sectors done been reallocated.

.I offlinests[,ns]
\- [ATA only] report if tha Offline Data Collection status has chizzled
since tha last check.  Da report is ghon be logged as LOG_CRIT if tha new
status indicates a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  With some drives tha status often chizzles,
therefore \'\-l offlinests\' aint enabled by '\-a\' Directive.
.\" %IF NOT OS Cygwin Windows
Appendin \',ns\' (no standby) ta dis directizzle aint implemented \"#
on Linux. \"#
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Cygwin Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS Cygwin Windows
.\"# 
.\"# [Windows n' Cygwin only] If \',ns\' (no standby) be appended ta this
.\"# directive, smartd disablez system auto standby as long as a Offline
.\"# Data Collection is up in progress. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \'\-l selfteststs,ns\' below.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Cygwin Windows

.I selfteststs[,ns]
\- [ATA only] report if tha Self-Test execution status has chizzled
since tha last check.  Da report is ghon be logged as LOG_CRIT if tha new
status indicates a error.
.\" %IF NOT OS Cygwin Windows
Appendin \',ns\' (no standby) ta dis directizzle aint implemented \"#
on Linux. \"#
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Cygwin Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS Cygwin Windows
.\"# 
.\"# [Windows n' Cygwin only] If \',ns\' (no standby) be appended ta this
.\"# directive, smartd disablez system auto standby as long as a Self-Test
.\"# is up in progress.  This prevents dat a Self-Test be aborted cuz the
.\"# OS sets tha system ta a standby/sleep mode when idle.  Smartd check
.\"# interval (\'\-i\' option) should be shorta than tha configured idle
.\"# timeout.  Auto standby aint disabled if tha system is hustlin on
.\"# battery.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Cygwin Windows

.I scterc,READTIME,WRITETIME
\- [ATA only] sets tha SCT Error Recovery Control settings ta tha specified
values (deciseconds) when \fBsmartd\fP starts up n' has no further effect.
Valuez of 0 disable tha feature, other joints less than 65 is probably
not supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  For RAID configurations, dis is typically set to
70,70 deciseconds.
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-l scterc\fP command-line option.]

.TP
.B \-e NAME[,VALUE]
Sets non-SMART thang settings when \fBsmartd\fP starts up n' has no
further effect.
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-\-set\fP command-line option.]
Valid arguments are:

.I aam,[N|off]
\- [ATA only] Sets tha Automatic Acoustic Management (AAM) feature.

.I apm,[N|off]
\- [ATA only] Sets tha Advanced Juice Management (APM) feature.

.I lookahead,[on|off]
\- [ATA only] Sets tha read look-ahead feature.

.I security-freeze
\- [ATA only] Sets ATA Securitizzle feature ta frozen mode.

.I standby,[N|off]
\- [ATA only] Sets tha standby (spindown) timer n' places tha drive up in the
IDLE mode.

.I wcache,[on|off]
\- [ATA only] Sets tha volatile write cache feature.

.TP
.B \-s REGEXP
Run Self-Tests or Offline Immediate Tests, at scheduled times.  A
Self- or Offline Immediate Test is ghon be run all up in tha end of periodic
device polling, if all 12 charactaz of tha strang \fBT/MM/DD/d/HH\fP
match tha extended regular expression \fBREGEXP\fP yo. Here:
.RS 7
.IP \fBT\fP 4
is tha type of tha test.  Da joints dat \fBsmartd\fP will try to
match (in turn) are: \'L\' fo' a \fBL\fPong Self-Test, \'S\' fo' a
\fBS\fPhort Self-Test, \'C\' fo' a \fBC\fPonveyizzle Self-Test (ATA
only), n' \'O\' fo' a \fBO\fPffline Immediate Test (ATA only).  As
soon as a match is found, tha test is ghon be started n' no additional
matches is ghon be sought fo' dat thang n' dat pollin cycle.

To run scheduled Selectizzle Self-Tests, use \'n\' fo' \fBn\fPext span,
\'r\' ta \fBr\fPedo last span, or \'c\' ta \fBc\fPontinue wit next span
or redo last span based on statuz of last test.
Da LBA range is based on tha straight-up original gangsta span from tha last test.
See tha \fBsmartctl \-t select,[next|redo|cont]\fP options for
further info.

Some disks (e.g. WD) do not preserve tha selectizzle self test log accross
power cycles.  If state persistence (\'\-s\' option) is enabled, tha last
test span is preserved by smartd n' used if (and only if) tha selective
self test log is empty.

.IP \fBMM\fP 4
is tha month of tha year, expressed wit two decimal digits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  The
range is from 01 (January) ta 12 (December) inclusive.  Do \fBnot\fP
use a single decimal digit or tha match will always fail!
.IP \fBDD\fP 4
is tha dizzle of tha month, expressed wit two decimal digits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. The
range is from 01 ta 31 inclusive.  Do \fBnot\fP
use a single decimal digit or tha match will always fail!
.IP \fBd\fP 4
is tha dizzle of tha week, expressed wit one decimal digit.  The
range is from 1 (Monday) ta 7 (Sunday) inclusive.
.IP \fBHH\fP 4
is tha minute of tha day, freestyled wit two decimal digits, n' given in
hours afta midnight.  Da range is 00 (midnight ta just before 1am)
to 23 (11pm ta just before midnight) inclusive.  Do \fBnot\fP use a
single decimal digit or tha match will always fail!
.RE
.\"  Da followin two lines is a workaround fo' a man2html bug.  Please leave em.
.\" They define a non-existent option; useful cuz man2html can't erectly reset tha margins.
.TP
.B \&
Some examplez follow.  In readin these, keep up in mind dat up in extended
regular expressions a thugged-out dot \fB\'.\'\fP matches any single character, and
a parenthetical expression like fuckin \fB\'(A|B|C)\'\fP denotes any one of tha three possibilitizzles \fBA\fP,
\fBB\fP, or \fBC\fP.

To schedule a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short Self-Test between 2-3am every last muthafuckin morning, use:
.nf
\fB \-s S/../.././02\fP
.fi
To schedule a long-ass Self-Test between 4-5am every last muthafuckin Sundizzle morning, use:
.nf
\fB \-s L/../../7/04\fP
.fi
To schedule a long-ass Self-Test between 10-11pm on tha straight-up original gangsta and
fifteenth dizzle of each month, use:
.nf
\fB \-s L/../(01|15)/./22\fP
.fi
To schedule a Offline Immediate test afta every last muthafuckin midnight, 6am,
noon,and 6pm, plus a Short Self-Test everyday at 1-2am n' a Long
Self-Test every last muthafuckin Saturdizzle at 3-4am, use:
.nf
\fB \-s (O/../.././(00|06|12|18)|S/../.././01|L/../../6/03)\fP
.fi
If Long Self-Testz of a big-ass disks take longer than tha system uptime,
a full disk test can be performed by nuff muthafuckin Selectizzle Self-Tests.
To setup a gangbangin' full test of a 1TB disk within 20 minutes (one 50GB span
each day), run dis command once:
.nf
  smartctl -t select,0-99999999 /dev/sda
.fi
To run tha next test spans on Monday-Fridizzle between 12-13am, run smartd
with dis directive:
.nf
\fB \-s n/../../[1-5]/12\fP
.fi


Scheduled tests is run immediately followin tha regularly-scheduled
device polling, if tha current local date, time, n' test type, match
\fBREGEXP\fP.  By default tha regularly-scheduled thang polling
occurs every last muthafuckin thirty minutes afta startin \fBsmartd\fP.  Take caution
if you use tha \'\-i\' option ta make dis pollin interval mo' than
sixty minutes: tha poll times may fail ta coincizzle wit any of the
testin times dat you have specified wit \fBREGEXP\fP.  In dis case
the test is ghon be run followin tha next thang polling.

Before hustlin a offline or self-test, \fBsmartd\fP checks ta be sure
that a self-test aint already hustlin.  If a self-test \fBis\fP
already hustlin, then dis hustlin self test will \fBnot\fP be
interrupted ta begin another test.

\fBsmartd\fP aint gonna attempt ta run \fBany\fP type of test if another
test was already started or run up in tha same hour.

To avoid performizzle problems durin system boot, \fBsmartd\fP will
not attempt ta run any scheduled tests followin tha straight-up first
device pollin (unless \'\-q onecheck\' is specified).

Each time a test is run, \fBsmartd\fP will log a entry ta SYSLOG.
Yo ass can use these or tha '-q showtests' command-line option ta verify
that you constructed \fBREGEXP\fP erectly.  Da matchin order
(\fBL\fP before \fBS\fP before \fBC\fP before \fBO\fP) ensures that
if multiple test types is all scheduled fo' tha same hour, the
longer test type has precedence.  This is probably tha desired behavior.

If tha scheduled tests is used up in conjunction wit state persistence
(\'\-s\' option), smartd will also try ta match tha minutes since last
shutdown (or 90 minutes at most). If any test would done been started
durin downtime, tha longest (see above) of these tests is run after
second thang polling.

If tha \'\-n\' directizzle is used n' any test would done been started
durin disk standby time, tha longest of these tests is run when the
disk be actizzle again.

Unix users: please beware dat tha rulez fo' extended regular
expressions [regex(7)] is \fBnot\fP tha same as tha rulez for
file-name pattern matchin by tha shell [glob(7)].  \fBsmartd\fP will
issue harmless shiznital warnin lyrics if it detects characters
in \fBREGEXP\fP dat step tha fuck up ta indicate dat you have made this
mistake.
.TP
.B \-m ADD
Send a warnin email ta tha email address \fBADD\fP if tha \'\-H\',
\'\-l\', \'\-f\', \'\-C\', or \'\-O\' Directives detect a gangbangin' failure or a
new error, or if a SMART command ta tha disk fails. This Directive
only works up in conjunction wit these other Directives (or wit the
equivalent default \'\-a\' Directive).

To prevent yo' email in-box from gettin filled up wit warning
lyrics, by default only a single warnin is ghon be busted fo' each of
the enabled alert types, \'\-H\', \'\-l\', \'\-f\', \'\-C\', or
\'\-O\' even if mo' than one failure or error is detected or if the
failure or error persists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  [This behavior can be modified; peep the
\'\-M\' Directizzle below.]

To bust email ta mo' than one user, please use tha followin "comma
separated" form fo' tha address: \fBuser1@add1,user2@add2,...,userN@addN\fP
(with no spaces).

To test dat email is bein busted erectly, use tha \'\-M test\'
Directizzle busted lyrics bout below ta bust one test email message on
\fBsmartd\fP
startup.

By default, email is busted rockin tha system 
.B mail
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  In order that
\fBsmartd\fP
find tha mail command (normally /bin/mail) a executable named
.B \'mail\'
must be up in tha path of tha shell or environment from which
\fBsmartd\fP
was started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If you wish ta specify a explicit path ta tha mail
executable (for example /usr/local/bin/mail) or a cold-ass lil custom script to
run, please use tha \'\-M exec\' Directizzle below.

.\"# .\" %IF OS Solaris
.\"# Note dat by default under Solaris, up in tha previous paragraph,
.\"# \'\fBmailx\fP\' n' \'\fB/bin/mailx\fP\' is used, since Solaris
.\"# \'/bin/mail\' do not accept a \'\-s\' (Subject) command-line
.\"# argument.
.\"# 
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Solaris
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# On Windows, tha \'\fBBlat\fP\' mailer
.\"# (\fBhttp://blat.sourceforge.net/\fP) is used by default.
.\"# This maila uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different command line syntax, see
.\"# \'\-M exec\' below.
.\"# 
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
Note also dat there be a special argument
.B <nomailer>
which can be given ta tha \'\-m\' Directizzle up in conjunction wit tha \'\-M
exec\' Directive. Please peep below fo' a explanation of its effect.

If tha maila or tha shell hustlin it produces any STDERR/STDOUT
output, then a snippet of dat output is ghon be copied ta SYSLOG.  The
remainder of tha output is discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If problems is encountered in
sendin mail, dis should help you ta KNOW n' fix em.  If
you have mail problems, we recommend hustlin \fBsmartd\fP up in debug
mode wit tha \'-d\' flag, rockin tha \'-M test\' Directizzle busted lyrics about
below.
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows

[NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE]
If a word of tha comma separated list has tha form \'@plugin\', a cold-ass lil custom
script /etc/smartmontools/smartd_warning.d/plugin is run n' tha word is
removed from tha list before bustin  mail. Da strang \'plugin\' may be any
valid name except \'ALL\'.
If \'@ALL\' is specified, all scripts up in /etc/smartmontools/smartd_warning.d/*
are run instead.
This is handled by tha script /etc/smartmontools/smartd_warning.sh
(see also \'\-M exec\' below).
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# 
.\"# [Windows only] [NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE]
.\"# If one of tha followin lyrics is used as tha straight-up original gangsta address up in the
.\"# comma separated list, warnin lyrics is busted via WTSSendMessage().
.\"# This displays message boxes on tha desktopz of tha selected sessions.
.\"# Address \'\fBconsole\fP\' specifies tha console session only,
.\"# \'\fBactive\fP\' specifies tha console session n' all actizzle remote
.\"# sessions, n' \'\fBconnected\fP\' specifies tha console session and
.\"# all connected (actizzle or waitin fo' login) remote sessions.
.\"# This is handled by tha script EXEDIR/smartd_warning.cmd which runs
.\"# tha tool EXEDIR/wtssendmsg.exe (see also \'\-M exec\' below).
.\"# Da addresses \'\fBmsgbox\fP\' n' \'\fBsysmsgbox\fP\' is now
.\"# deprecated n' have tha same effect as \'\fBconsole\fP\'.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
.TP
.B \-M TYPE
These Directives modify tha behavior of the
\fBsmartd\fP
email warnings enabled wit tha \'\-m\' email Directizzle busted lyrics bout above.
These \'\-M\' Directives only work up in conjunction wit tha \'\-m\'
Directizzle n' can not be used without dat shit.

Multiple \-M Directives may be given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If mo' than one of the
followin three \-M Directives is given (example: \-M once \-M everyday)
then tha final one (in tha example, \-M everyday) is used.

Da valid arguments ta tha \-M Directizzle is (one of tha following
three):

.I once
\- bust only one warnin email fo' each type of disk problem detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This
is tha default unless state persistence (\'\-s\' option) is enabled.

.I everyday
\- bust additionizzle warnin reminder emails, once per day, fo' each type
of disk problem detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This is tha default if state persistence
(\'\-s\' option) is enabled.

.I diminishing
\- bust additionizzle warnin reminder emails, afta a one-dizzle interval,
then a two-dizzle interval, then a gangbangin' four-dizzle interval, n' so on fo' each
type of disk problem detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Each interval is twice as long as the
previous interval.

If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk problem is no longer detected, tha internal email counta is
reset.  If tha problem reappears a freshly smoked up warnin email is busted immediately.

In addition, one may add zero or mo' of tha followin Directives:

.I test
\- bust a single test email
immediately upon
\fBsmartd\fP
startup.  This allows one ta verify dat email is served up erectly.
Note dat if dis Directizzle is used,
\fBsmartd\fP
will also bust tha aiiight email warnings dat was enabled wit tha \'\-m\' Directive,
in addizzle ta tha single test email!

.I exec PATH
\- run tha executable PATH instead of tha default mail command, when
\fBsmartd\fP
needz ta bust email.  PATH must point ta a executable binary file or
script.
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# 
.\"# [Windows only] Da PATH may contain space characters.
.\"# Then it must be included up in double quotes.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows

By settin PATH ta point ta a cold-ass lil customized script, you can make
\fBsmartd\fP big-ass up useful tricks when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk problem is detected
(beepin tha console, shuttin down tha machine, broadcastin warnings
to all logged-in users, etc.)  But please be careful naaahhmean, biatch? \fBsmartd\fP
will \fBblock\fP until tha executable PATH returns, so if your
executable hangs, then \fBsmartd\fP will also hang.
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
Some sample scripts is included in
/usr/share/doc/smartmontools/examplescripts/.
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows

Da return statuz of tha executable is recorded by \fBsmartd\fP in
SYSLOG. Da executable aint sposed ta fuckin write ta STDOUT or
STDERR.  If it do, then dis is interpreted as indicatin that
suttin' is goin wack wit yo' executable, n' a gangbangin' fragment of this
output is logged ta SYSLOG ta help you ta KNOW tha problem.
Normally, if you wish ta leave some record behind, tha executable
should bust mail or write ta a gangbangin' file or device.

Before hustlin tha executable, \fBsmartd\fP sets a number of
environment variables.  These environment variablez may be used to
control tha executable\z behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da environment variables
exported by \fBsmartd\fP are:
.RS 7
.IP \fBSMARTD_MAILER\fP 4
is set ta tha argument of \-M exec, if present or else ta \'mail\'
(examples: /bin/mail, mail).
.IP \fBSMARTD_DEVICE\fP 4
is set ta tha thang path (examples: /dev/hda, /dev/sdb).
.IP \fBSMARTD_DEVICETYPE\fP 4
is set ta tha thang type specified by \'-d\' directizzle or
\'auto\' if none.
.IP \fBSMARTD_DEVICESTRING\fP 4
is set ta tha thang description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For SMARTD_DEVICETYPE of ata or
scsi, dis is tha same ol' dirty as SMARTD_DEVICE.  For 3ware RAID controllers,
the form used is \'/dev/sdc [3ware_disk_01]\'.  For HighPoint
RocketRAID controller, tha form is \'/dev/sdd [hpt_1/1/1]\' under Linux
or \'/dev/hptrr [hpt_1/1/1]\' under FreeBSD.  For Areca controllers, the
form is \'/dev/sg2 [areca_disk_09]\' on Linux or  \'/dev/arcmsr0 [areca_disk_09]\' on FreeBSD.  In these cases tha thang string
gotz nuff a space n' is NOT quoted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  So ta use $SMARTD_DEVICESTRING up in a
bash script you should probably enclose it up in double quotes.
.IP \fBSMARTD_DEVICEINFO\fP 4
is set ta thang identify shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It includes most of tha info printed
by \fBsmartctl \-i\fP but uses a funky-ass brief single line format.
This thang info be also logged when \fBsmartd\fP starts up.
Da strang gotz nuff space charactas n' is NOT quoted.
.IP \fBSMARTD_FAILTYPE\fP 4
gives tha reason fo' tha warnin or message email.  Da possible joints that
it takes n' they meanings are:
.nf
.fi
\fIEmailTest\fP: dis be a email test message.
.nf
.fi
\fIHealth\fP: tha SMART game status indicates imminent failure.
.nf
.fi
\fIUsage\fP: a usage Attribute has failed.
.nf
.fi
\fISelfTest\fP: tha number of self-test failures has increased.
.nf
.fi
\fIErrorCount\fP: tha number of errors up in tha ATA error log has increased.
.nf
.fi
\fICurrentPendingSector\fP: one of mo' disk sectors could not be
read n' is marked ta be reallocated (replaced wit spare sectors).
.nf
.fi
\fIOfflineUncorrectableSector\fP: durin off-line testing, or self-testing,
one or mo' disk sectors could not be read.
.nf
.fi
\fITemperature\fP: Temperature reached critical limit (see \-W directive).
.nf
.fi
\fIFailedHealthCheck\fP: tha SMART game status command failed.
.nf
.fi
\fIFailedReadSmartData\fP: tha command ta read SMART Attribute data failed.
.nf
.fi
\fIFailedReadSmartErrorLog\fP: tha command ta read tha SMART error log failed.
.nf
.fi
\fIFailedReadSmartSelfTestLog\fP: tha command ta read tha SMART self-test log failed.
.nf
.fi
\fIFailedOpenDevice\fP: tha open() command ta tha thang failed.
.IP \fBSMARTD_ADDRESS\fP 4
is determined by tha address argument ADD of tha \'\-m\' Directive.
If ADD is \fB<nomailer>\fP, then \fBSMARTD_ADDRESS\fP aint set.
Otherwise, it is set ta tha comma-separated-list of email addresses
given by tha argument ADD, wit tha commas replaced by spaces
(example:admin@example.com root).  If mo' than one email address is
given, then dis strang will contain space charactas n' is NOT
quoted, so ta use it up in a funky-ass bash script you may wanna enclose it in
double quotes.
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# .IP \fBSMARTD_ADDRCSV\fP 4
.\"# [Windows only] is set ta a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of tha addresses from
.\"# SMARTD_ADDRESS.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
.IP \fBSMARTD_MESSAGE\fP 4
is set ta tha one sentence summary warnin email message strang from
\fBsmartd\fP. 
This message strang gotz nuff space charactas n' is NOT quoted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So to
use $SMARTD_MESSAGE up in a funky-ass bash script you should probably enclose it in
double quotes.
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
.IP \fBSMARTD_FULLMESSAGE\fP 4
is set ta tha contentz of tha entire email warnin message strang from
\fBsmartd\fP. 
This message strang gotz nuff space n' return charactas n' is NOT quoted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So to
use $SMARTD_FULLMESSAGE up in a funky-ass bash script you should probably enclose it in
double quotes.
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# .IP \fBSMARTD_FULLMSGFILE\fP 4
.\"# [Windows only] is tha path ta a temporary file containin tha full message.
.\"# Da path may contain space charactas n' is NOT quoted.
.\"# Da file is pimped by tha smartd_warning.cmd script n' removed when
.\"# tha maila or command exits.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
.IP \fBSMARTD_TFIRST\fP 4
is a text strang givin tha time n' date at which tha straight-up original gangsta problem
of dis type was reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This text strang gotz nuff space characters
and no newlines, n' is NOT quoted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For example:
.nf
.fi
Sun Feb  9 14:58:19 2003 CST
.IP \fBSMARTD_TFIRSTEPOCH\fP 4
is a integer, which is tha unix epoch (number of secondz since Jan 1,
1970) fo' \fBSMARTD_TFIRST\fP.
.IP \fBSMARTD_PREVCNT\fP 4
is a integer specifyin tha number of previous lyrics sent.
It be set ta \'0\' fo' tha straight-up original gangsta message.
.IP \fBSMARTD_NEXTDAYS\fP 4
is a integer specifyin tha number of minutes until tha next message is ghon be sent.
It it set ta empty on \'\-M once\' n' set ta \'1\' on \'\-M everyday\'.
.RE
.\"  Da followin two lines is a workaround fo' a man2html bug.  Please leave em.
.\" They define a non-existent option; useful cuz man2html can't erectly reset tha margins.
.TP
.B \&
Da shell which is used ta run PATH is system-dependent. For vanilla
Linux/glibc it\z bash. For other systems, tha playa page for
\fBpopen\fP(3) should say what tha fuck shell is used.

If tha \'\-m ADD\' Directizzle is given wit a aiiight address argument,
then tha executable pointed ta by PATH is ghon be run up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell with
STDIN receivin tha body of tha email message, n' wit tha same
command-line arguments:
.nf
-s "$SMARTD_SUBJECT" $SMARTD_ADDRESS
.fi
that would normally be provided ta \'mail\'.  Examplez include:
.nf
.B -m user@home -M exec /bin/mail
.B -m admin@work -M exec /usr/local/bin/mailto
.B -m root -M exec /Example_1/bash/script/below
.fi

.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# [Windows only] On Windows, tha syntax of tha \'\fBBlat\fP\' maila is
.\"# used:
.\"# .nf
.\"# - -q -subject "%SMARTD_SUBJECT%" -to %SMARTD_ADDRCSV%
.\"# .fi
.\"# 
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
If tha \'\-m ADD\' Directizzle is given wit tha special address argument
.B <nomailer>
then tha executable pointed ta by PATH is run up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell with
.B no
STDIN and
.B no
command-line arguments, fo' example:
.nf
.B -m <nomailer> -M exec /Example_2/bash/script/below
.fi
If tha executable produces any STDERR/STDOUT output, then \fBsmartd\fP
assumes dat suttin' is goin wrong, n' a snippet of dat output
will be copied ta SYSLOG.  Da remainder of tha output is then
discarded.

Some EXAMPLES of scripts dat can be used wit tha \'\-M exec\'
Directizzle is given below.
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
Some sample scripts is also included in
/usr/share/doc/smartmontools/examplescripts/.
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows

[NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE] Da executable is run by tha script
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
/etc/smartmontools/smartd_warning.sh.
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS ALL
.\"# (Windows: EXEDIR/smartd_warning.cmd)
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS ALL
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# .\"! EXEDIR/smartd_warning.cmd.
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
This script formats subject n' full message based on SMARTD_MESSAGE n' other
environment variablez set by \fBsmartd\fP.
Da environment variables
.\" %IF NOT OS Windows
SMARTD_SUBJECT n' SMARTD_FULLMESSAGE
.\" %ENDIF NOT OS Windows
.\"# .\" %IF OS ALL
.\"# (Windows: SMARTD_SUBJECT, SMARTD_FULLMSGFILE n' SMARTD_ADDRCSV)
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS ALL
.\"# .\" %IF OS Windows
.\"# .\"! SMARTD_SUBJECT, SMARTD_FULLMSGFILE n' SMARTD_ADDRCSV
.\"# .\" %ENDIF OS Windows
are set by tha script before hustlin tha executable.

.TP
.B \-f
[ATA only] Peep fo' \'failure\' of any Usage Attributes.  If these
Attributes is less than or equal ta tha threshold, it do NOT indicate
imminent disk failure.  It "indicates a advisory condizzle where tha usage
or age of tha thang has exceeded its intended design game period."
[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-A\fP command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-p
[ATA only] Report anytime dat a Prefail Attribute has chizzled
its value since tha last check. [Please peep the
.B smartctl \-A
command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-u
[ATA only] Report anytime dat a Usage Attribute has chizzled its value
since tha last check. [Please peep the
.B smartctl \-A
command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-t
[ATA only] Equivalent ta turnin on tha two previous flags \'\-p\' n' \'\-u\'.
Tracks chizzlez up in \fIall\fP thang Attributes (both Prefailure and
Usage). [Please peep tha \fBsmartctl\fP \-A command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-i ID
[ATA only] Ignore thang Attribute number \fBID\fP when checkin fo' failure
of Usage Attributes.  \fBID\fP must be a thugged-out decimal integer up in tha range
from 1 ta 255.  This Directizzle modifies tha behavior of tha \'\-f\'
Directizzle n' has no effect without dat shit.

This is useful, fo' example, if you gotz a straight-up oldschool disk n' don\'t
wanna keep gettin lyrics bout tha hours-on-lifetime Attribute
(usually Attribute 9) failing.  This Directizzle may step tha fuck up multiple
times fo' a single device, if you wanna ignore multiple Attributes.
.TP
.B \-I ID
[ATA only] Ignore thang Attribute \fBID\fP when trackin chizzlez up in the
Attribute joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  \fBID\fP must be a thugged-out decimal integer up in tha range
from 1 ta 255.  This Directizzle modifies tha behavior of tha \'\-p\',
\'\-u\', n' \'\-t\' trackin Directives n' has no effect without one
of em.

This is useful, fo' example, if one of tha thang Attributes is tha disk
temperature (usually Attribute 194 or 231). It\z buggin ta git reports
each time tha temperature chizzles.  This Directizzle may step tha fuck up multiple
times fo' a single device, if you wanna ignore multiple Attributes.
.TP
.B \-r ID[!]
[ATA only] When tracking, report tha \fIRaw\fP value of Attribute \fBID\fP
along wit its (normally reported) \fINormalized\fP value.  \fBID\fP must
be a thugged-out decimal integer up in tha range from 1 ta 255.  This Directizzle modifies
the behavior of tha \'\-p\', \'\-u\', n' \'\-t\' trackin Directives
and has no effect without one of em.  This Directizzle may be given
multiple times.

A common use of dis Directizzle is ta track tha thang Temperature
(often ID=194 or 231).

If tha optionizzle flag \'!\' be appended, a cold-ass lil chizzle of tha Normalized
value is considered critical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Da report is ghon be logged as LOG_CRIT
and a warnin email is ghon be busted if \'\-m\' is specified.
.TP
.B \-R ID[!]
[ATA only] When tracking, report whenever tha \fIRaw\fP value of Attribute
\fBID\fP chizzles.  (Normally \fBsmartd\fP only tracks/reports chizzles
of tha \fINormalized\fP Attribute joints.)  \fBID\fP must be a thugged-out decimal
integer up in tha range from 1 ta 255.  This Directizzle modifies the
behavior of tha \'\-p\', \'\-u\', n' \'\-t\' trackin Directives and
has no effect without one of em.  This Directizzle may be given
multiple times.

If dis Directizzle is given, it automatically implies tha \'\-r\'
Directizzle fo' tha same Attribute, so dat tha Raw value of the
Attribute is reported.

A common use of dis Directizzle is ta track tha thang Temperature
(often ID=194 or 231).  It be also useful fo' understandin how
different typez of system behavior affects tha jointz of certain
Attributes.

If tha optionizzle flag \'!\' be appended, a cold-ass lil chizzle of tha Raw
value is considered critical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Da report is ghon be logged as
LOG_CRIT n' a warnin email is ghon be busted if \'\-m\' is specified.
An example is \'-R 5!\' ta warn when freshly smoked up sectors is reallocated.
.TP
.B \-C ID[+]
[ATA only] Report if tha current number of pendin sectors is
non-zero.  Here \fBID\fP is tha id number of tha Attribute whose raw
value is tha Current Pendin Sector count.  Da allowed range of
\fBID\fP is 0 ta 255 inclusive.  To turn off dis reporting, use
ID\ =\ 0.  If tha \fB\-C ID\fP option aint given, then it defaults to
\fB\-C 197\fP (since Attribute 197 is generally used ta monitor
pendin sectors).  If tha name of dis Attribute is chizzled by a
\'\-v 197,FORMAT,NAME\' directive, tha default is chizzled to
\fB\-C 0\fP.

If \'+\' is specified, a report is only printed if tha number of sectors
has increased between two check cycles. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some disks do not reset this
attribute when a wack sector is reallocated.
See also \'\-v 197,increasing\' below.

Da warnin email counta is reset if tha number of pendin sectors
dropped ta 0.  This typically happens when all pendin sectors have
been reallocated or could be read again.

A pendin sector be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk sector (containin 512 bytez of yo' data)
which tha thang wanna mark as ``bad" n' reallocate.
Typically dis is cuz yo' computa tried ta read dat sector, and
the read failed cuz tha data on it has been corrupted n' has
inconsistent Error Checkin n' Correction (ECC) codes.  This is
important ta know, cuz it means dat there is some unreadable data
on tha disk.  Da problem of figurin up what tha fuck file dis data belongs
to is operatin system n' file system specific.  Yo ass can typically
force tha sector ta reallocate by freestylin ta it (translation: make the
device substitute a spare phat sector fo' tha wack one) but at the
price of losin tha 512 bytez of data stored there.
.TP
.B \-U ID[+]
[ATA only] Report if tha number of offline uncorrectable sectors is
non-zero.  Here \fBID\fP is tha id number of tha Attribute whose raw
value is tha Offline Uncorrectable Sector count.  Da allowed range of
\fBID\fP is 0 ta 255 inclusive.  To turn off dis reporting, use
ID\ =\ 0.  If tha \fB\-U ID\fP option aint given, then it defaults to
\fB\-U 198\fP (since Attribute 198 is generally used ta monitor
offline uncorrectable sectors).  If tha name of dis Attribute is chizzled
by a \'\-v 198,FORMAT,NAME\' (except \'\-v 198,FORMAT,Offline_Scan_UNC_SectCt\'),
directive, tha default is chizzled ta \fB\-U 0\fP.

If \'+\' is specified, a report is only printed if tha number of sectors
has increased since tha last check cycle. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some disks do not reset this
attribute when a wack sector is reallocated.
See also \'\-v 198,increasing\' below.

Da warnin email counta is reset if tha number of offline uncorrectable
sectors dropped ta 0.  This typically happens when all offline uncorrectable
sectors done been reallocated or could be read again.

An offline uncorrectable sector be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk sector which was not
readable durin a off-line scan or a self-test.  This is blingin
to know, cuz if you have data stored up in dis disk sector, n' you
need ta read it, tha read will fail.  Please peep tha previous \'\-C\'
option fo' mo' details.
.TP
.B \-W DIFF[,INFO[,CRIT]]
Report if tha current temperature had chizzled by at least \fBDIFF\fP
degrees since last report, or if freshly smoked up min or max temperature is detected.
Report or Warn if tha temperature is pimped outa or equal than one of
\fBINFO\fP or \fBCRIT\fP degrees Celsius.
If tha limit \fBCRIT\fP is reached, a message wit loglevel
\fB\'LOG_CRIT\'\fP is ghon be logged ta syslog n' a warnin email
will be bust if \'\-m\' is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If only tha limit \fBINFO\fP is
reached, a message wit loglevel \fB\'LOG_INFO\'\fP is ghon be logged.

Da warnin email counta is reset if tha temperature dropped below
\fBINFO\fP or \fBCRIT\fP-5 if \fBINFO\fP aint specified.

If dis directizzle is used up in conjunction wit state persistence
(\'\-s\' option), tha min n' max temperature joints is preserved
across boot cycles. Da minimum temperature value aint updated
durin tha straight-up original gangsta 30 minutes afta startup.

To disable any of tha 3 reports, set tha correspondin limit ta 0.
Trailin zero arguments may be omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. By default, all temperature
reports is disabled (\'-W 0\').

To track temperature chizzlez of at least 2 degrees, use:
.nf
.B \-W 2
.fi
To log informal lyrics on temperaturez of at least 40 degrees, use:
.nf
.B \-W 0,40
.fi
For warnin lyrics/mails on temperaturez of at least 45 degrees, use:
.nf
.B \-W 0,0,45
.fi
To combine all of tha above reports, use:
.nf
.B \-W 2,40,45
.fi

For ATA devices, smartd interprets Attribute 194 or 190 as Temperature Celsius
by default. This can be chizzled ta Attribute 9 or 220 by tha drive
database or by tha \'\-v 9,temp\' or \'\-v 220,temp\' directive.
.TP
.B \-F TYPE
[ATA only] Modifies tha behavior of \fBsmartd\fP ta compensate fo' some
known n' understood thang firmware bug.  This directizzle may be used
multiple times.  Da valid arguments are:

.I none
\- Assume dat tha thang firmware obeys tha ATA justifications.  This
is tha default, unless tha thang has presets fo' \'\-F\' up in the
drive database.  Usin dis directizzle will over-ride any preset joints.

.I nologdir
\- Suppresses read attemptz of SMART or GP Log Directory.
Support fo' all standard logs be assumed without a actual check.
Some Intel SSDs may freeze if log address 0 is read.

.I samsung
\- In some Samsung disks (example: model SV4012H Firmware Version:
RM100-08) a shitload of tha two- n' four-byte quantitizzles up in tha SMART data
structures is byte-swapped (relatizzle ta tha ATA justification).
Enablin dis option  drops some lyrics ta \fBsmartd\fP ta evaluate these quantities
in byte-reversed order n' shit.  Some signs dat yo' disk needz dis option
are (1) no self-test log printed, even though you have run self-tests;
(2) straight-up big-ass numberz of ATA errors reported up in tha ATA error log;
(3) strange n' impossible joints fo' tha ATA error log timestamps.

.I samsung2
\- In some Samsung disks tha number of ATA errors reported is byte swapped.
Enablin dis option  drops some lyrics ta \fBsmartd\fP ta evaluate dis quantitizzle in
byte-reversed order.

.I samsung3
\- Some Samsung disks (at least SP2514N wit Firmware VF100-37) report
a self-test still up in progress wit 0% remainin when tha test was already
completed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If dis directizzle is specified, \fBsmartd\fP aint gonna skip the
next scheduled self-test (see Directizzle \'\-s\' above) up in dis case.

.I xerrorlba
\- This only affects \fBsmartctl\fP.

[Please peep tha \fBsmartctl \-F\fP command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-v ID,FORMAT[:BYTEORDER][,NAME]
[ATA only] Sets a vendor-specific raw value print FORMAT, a optional
BYTEORDER n' a optionizzle NAME fo' Attribute ID.
This directizzle may be used multiple times.
Please peep \fBsmartctl -v\fP command-line option fo' further details.

Da followin arguments affect smartd warnin output:

.I 197,increasing
\- Raw Attribute number 197 (Current Pendin Sector Count) is not
reset if uncorrectable sectors is reallocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This sets \'-C 197+\'
if no other \'-C\' directizzle is specified.

.I 198,increasing
\- Raw Attribute number 198 (Offline Uncorrectable Sector Count) is not
reset if uncorrectable sector is reallocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This sets \'-U 198+\'
if no other \'-U\' directizzle is specified.
.TP
.B \-P TYPE
[ATA only] Specifies whether \fBsmartd\fP should use any preset options
that is available fo' dis drive.
Da valid arguments ta dis Directizzle are:

.I use
\- use any presets dat is available fo' dis drive.  This is tha default.

.I ignore
\- do not use any presets fo' dis drive.

.I show
\- show tha presets listed fo' dis drive up in tha database.

.I showall
\- show tha presets dat is available fo' all drives n' then exit.

[Please peep the
.B smartctl \-P
command-line option.]
.TP
.B \-a
Equivalent ta turnin on all of tha followin Directives: 
.B \'\-H\' 
to check tha SMART game status,
.B \'\-f\' 
to report failurez of Usage (rather than Prefail) Attributes,
.B \'\-t\' 
to track chizzlez up in both Prefailure n' Usage Attributes,
.B \'\-l\ error\'
to report increases up in tha number of ATA errors,
.B \'\-l\ selftest\'
to report increases up in tha number of Self-Test Log errors,
.B \'\-l\ selfteststs\'
to report chizzlez of Self-Test execution status,
.B \'\-C 197\'
to report nonzero jointz of tha current pendin sector count, and
.B \'\-U 198\'
to report nonzero jointz of tha offline pendin sector count.

Note dat \-a is tha default fo' ATA devices.  If none of these other
Directives is given, then \-a be assumed.
.TP
.B #
Comment: ignore tha remainder of tha line.
.TP
.B \e
Continuation character: if dis is tha last non-white or non-comment
characta on a line, then tha followin line be a cold-ass lil continuation of tha current
one.
.PP
If yo ass is not shizzle which Directives ta use, I suggest fuckin wit
for all dem minutes with
.B smartctl
to peep what tha fuck SMART functionalitizzle yo' disk(s) support(s).  If you do
not like voluminous syslog lyrics, a phat chizzle of
\fBsmartd\fP
configuration file Directives might be:
.nf
.B \-H \-l\ selftest \-l\ error \-f.
.fi
If you want mo' frequent shiznit, use:
.B -a.

.TP
.B ADDITIONAL DETAILS ABOUT DEVICESCAN
If a non-comment entry up in tha configuration file is tha text
strin \fBDEVICESCAN\fP up in capital letters, then \fBsmartd\fP will
ignore any remainin lines up in tha configuration file, n' will scan
for devices (see also \fBsmartd\fP(8) playa page).

If \fBDEVICESCAN\fP aint followed by any Directives, then smartd
will scan fo' both ATA n' SCSI devices, n' will monitor all possible
SMART propertizzlez of any devices dat is found.

\fBDEVICESCAN\fP may optionally be followed by any valid Directives,
which is ghon be applied ta all devices dat is found up in tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For
example
.nf
.B DEVICESCAN -m root@example.com
.fi
will scan fo' all devices, n' then monitor em.  It will bust one
email warnin per thang fo' any problems dat is found.
.nf
.B  DEVICESCAN -d ata -m root@example.com
.fi
will do tha same yo, but restricts tha scan ta ATA devices only.  
.nf
.B  DEVICESCAN -H -d ata -m root@example.com
.fi
will do tha same yo, but only monitors tha SMART game statuz of the
devices, (rather than tha default \-a, which monitors all SMART
properties).

[NEW EXPERIMENTAL SMARTD FEATURE]
Configuration entries fo' specific devices may precede tha \fBDEVICESCAN\fP entry.
For example
.nf
.B  DEFAULT -m root@example.com
.B  /dev/sda -s S/../.././02
.B  /dev/sdc -d ignore
.B  DEVICESCAN -s L/../.././02
.fi
will scan fo' all devices except /dev/sda n' /dev/sdc, monitor them, n' run a long
test between 2-3am every last muthafuckin morning.  Device /dev/sda will also be monitored yo, but
only a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short test is ghon be run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Device /dev/sdc is ghon be ignored.
Warnin emails is ghon be busted fo' all monitored devices.

.TP
.B EXAMPLES OF SHELL SCRIPTS FOR \'\-M exec\'
These is two examplez of shell scripts dat can be used wit tha \'\-M
exec PATH\' Directizzle busted lyrics bout previously.  Da paths ta these scripts
and similar executablez is tha PATH argument ta tha \'\-M exec PATH\'
Directive.

Example 1: This script is fo' use wit \'\-m ADDRESS -M exec PATH\'.  It appends
the output of
.B smartctl -a
to tha output of tha smartd email warnin message n' sendz it ta ADDRESS.

.nf
\fB
#! /bin/bash

# Save tha email message (STDIN) ta a gangbangin' file:
cat > /root/msg

# Append tha output of smartctl -a ta tha message:
/usr/sbin/smartctl -a -d $SMART_DEVICETYPE $SMARTD_DEVICE >> /root/msg
 
# Now email tha message ta tha user at address ADD:
/bin/mail -s "$SMARTD_SUBJECT" $SMARTD_ADDRESS < /root/msg
\fP
.fi

Example 2: This script is fo' use wit \'\-m <nomailer> \-M exec
PATH\'. Well shiiiit, it warns all playas on some gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk problem, waits 30 seconds, and
then powers down tha machine.

.nf
\fB
#! /bin/bash

# Warn all playaz of a problem
wall \'Problem detected wit disk: \' "$SMARTD_DEVICESTRING"
wall \'Warnin message from smartd is: \' "$SMARTD_MESSAGE"
wall \'Shuttin down machine up in 30 seconds... \'
 
# Wait half a minute
sleep 30
 
# Juice down tha machine
/sbin/shutdown -hf now
\fP
.fi

Some example scripts is distributed wit tha smartmontools package,
in /usr/share/doc/smartmontools/examplescripts/.

Please note dat these scripts typically run as root, so any files
that they read/write should not be writable by ordinary playas or
reside up in directories like /tmp dat is writable by ordinary users
and may expose yo' system ta symlink attacks.

As previously busted lyrics about, if tha scripts write ta STDOUT or STDERR,
this is interpreted as indicatin dat there was a internal error
within tha script, n' a snippet of STDOUT/STDERR is logged ta SYSLOG.
Da remainder is flushed.

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
\fBBruce Allen\fP
.br
Universitizzle of Wisconsin \- Milwaukee Physics Department
.br
\fBChristian Franke\fP (Windows intercourse, C++ redesign, most enhancements
since 2009)
.br
\fBsmartmontools\-support@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.PP
.SH CONTRIBUTORS
Da followin have made big-ass contributions ta smartmontools:
.nf
\fBCasper Dik\fP (Solaris SCSI intercourse)
\fBDouglas Gilbert\fP (SCSI subsystem)
\fBGuido Guenther\fP (Autoconf/Automake packaging)
\fBGeoffrey Keating\fP (Darwin ATA intercourse)
\fBEduard Martinescu\fP (FreeBSD intercourse)
\fBFr\['e]d\['e]ric L. W. Meunier\fP (Web joint n' Mailin list)
\fBGabriele Pohl\fP (Web joint n' Wiki, conversion from CVS ta SVN)
\fBKeiji Sawada\fP (Solaris ATA intercourse)
\fBManfred Schwarb\fP (Drive database)
\fBSergey Svishchev\fP (NetBSD intercourse)
\fBDizzy Snyder n' Sergey Svishchev\fP (OpenBSD intercourse)
\fBPhil Williams\fP (User intercourse n' drive database)
\fBShengfeng Zhou\fP (Linux/FreeBSD HighPoint RocketRAID intercourse)
.fi
Many other dudes have made smalla contributions n' erections.

.PP
.SH CREDITS
.fi
This code was derived from tha smartsuite package, freestyled by Michael
Cornwell, n' from tha previous UCSC smartsuite package.  It extends
these ta cover ATA-5 disks.  This code was originally pimped as a
Ballin Thesis by Mike Cornwell all up in tha Concurrent Systems Laboratory
(now part of tha Storage Systems Research Center), Jack Baskin School
of Engineering, Universitizzle of California, Gangsta
Cruz. \fBhttp://ssrc.soe.ucsc.edu/\fP .
.SH
HOME PAGE FOR SMARTMONTOOLS: 
.fi
Please peep tha followin wizzy joint fo' thugged-out shit, further documentation, bug
reports n' patches: \fBhttp://smartmontools.sourceforge.net/\fP

.SH
SEE ALSO:
\fBsmartd\fP(8), \fBsmartctl\fP(8), \fBsyslogd\fP(8),
\fBsyslog.conf\fP(5), \fBbadblocks\fP(8), \fBide\-smart\fP(8), \fBregex\fP(7).

.SH
SVN ID OF THIS PAGE:
$Id: smartd.conf.5.in 3833 2013-07-20 15:00:04Z chrfranke $
