.TH SNMP_CONFIG 5 "08 Mar 2010" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
snmp_config - handlin of Net-SNMP configuration files
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Net-SNMP package uses various configuration filez ta configure its 
applications.  This manual page merely raps bout tha overall nature of 
them, so dat tha other manual pages aint gots to.
.SH "DIRECTORIES SEARCHED"
First off, there be a shitload of places dat configuration filez can be
found n' read from.  By default, tha applications look for
configuration filez up in tha followin 4 directories, up in order:
/etc/snmp,
/usr/share/snmp, /usr/lib(64)/snmp, n' $HOME/.snmp.  In each of these
directories, it looks fo' filez wit tha extension of both
.IR conf " n' " local.conf
(readin tha second ones last).  In dis manner, there are
8 default places a cold-ass lil configuration file can exist fo' any given
configuration file type.
.PP
Additionally, tha above default search path can be overridden by
settin tha environment variable SNMPCONFPATH ta a cold-ass lil colon-separated
list of directories ta search for. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da path fo' tha persistent
data should be included when hustlin applications dat use
persistent storage, like fuckin snmpd.
.PP
Applications will read persistent configuration filez 
in tha followin order of preference:
.RS
.PP
file up in 
.B SNMP_PERSISTENT_FILE
environment variable
.br
directories up in 
.B SNMPCONFPATH
environment variable
.br
directory defined by 
.B
persistentDir 
snmp.conf variable
.br
directory up in 
.B
SNMP_PERSISTENT_DIR 
environment variable
.br
default 
.B
/var/lib/net-snmp 
directory
.RE
.PP
Finally, applications will write persistent configuration filez 
in tha followin order of preference:
.RS
.PP
file up in 
.B SNMP_PERSISTENT_FILE
environment variable
.br
directory defined by 
.B
persistentDir 
snmp.conf variable
.br
directory up in 
.B
SNMP_PERSISTENT_DIR 
environment variable
.br
default 
.B
/var/lib/net-snmp 
directory
.RE
.PP
Note:  When rockin SNMP_PERSISTENT_FILE, tha filename should match tha 
application name.  For example, /var/net-snmp/snmpd.conf.
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE TYPES"
Each application may use multiple configuration files, which will
configure various different aspectz of tha application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For instance, 
the SNMP agent
.RB ( snmpd )
knows how tha fuck ta KNOW configuration
directives up in both tha snmpd.conf n' tha snmp.conf files.  In fact,
most applications KNOW how tha fuck ta read tha contentz of tha snmp.conf 
files.  Note, however, dat configuration directives understood up in one 
file may not be understood up in another file.  For further shiznit,
read tha associated manual page wit each configuration file type.
Also, most of tha applications support a 
.B -H
switch on tha command line dat will list tha configuration filez it
will look fo' n' tha directives up in each one dat it understands.
.PP
Da snmp.conf configuration file is intended ta be a application suite 
wide configuration file dat supports directives dat is useful for
controllin tha fundamenstrual nature of all of tha SNMP applications,
like fuckin how tha fuck they all manipulate n' parse tha textual SNMP MIB files.
.SH "SWITCHING CONFIGURATION TYPES IN MID-FILE"
It aint nuthin but possible ta switch up in mid-file tha configuration type dat the
parser is supposed ta be reading.  Since dat sentence don't make
much sense, lets hit you wit a example: say dat you wanted ta turn on
packet dumpin output fo' tha agent by default yo, but you didn't want to
do dat fo' tha rest of tha applications (ie, snmpget, snmpwalk, ...).
Normally ta enable packet dumpin up in tha configuration file
you'd need ta put a line like:
.PP
.RS
dumpPacket true
.RE
.PP
into tha snmp.conf file.  But, dis would turn it on fo' all of the
applications.  So, instead, you can put tha same line up in the
snmpd.conf file so dat it only applies ta tha snmpd daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  However,
you need ta tell tha parser ta expect dis line.  Yo ass do dis by
puttin a special type justification token inside a [] set.  In other
words, inside yo' snmpd.conf file you could put tha above snmp.conf
directizzle by addin a line like so:
.PP
.RS
[snmp] dumpPacket true
.RE
.PP
This  drops some lyrics ta tha parser ta parse tha above line as if it was inside a
snmp.conf file instead of a snmpd.conf file.  If you wanna parse a
bunch of lines rather than just one then you can make tha context
switch apply ta tha remainder of tha file or until tha next context
switch directizzle by puttin tha special token on a line by itself:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# make dis file handle snmp.conf tokens:
[snmp]
dumpPacket true
logTimestamp true
# return ta our original gangsta snmpd.conf tokens:
[snmpd]
rocommunitizzle mypublic
.fi
.RE
.PP
Da same approach can be used ta set configuration directives fo' a
particular client application (or crew of applications).  For example,
any program dat uses tha 'snmp_parse_args()' call ta handle command-line
arguments (includin tha standard command-line tools shipped as part of the
Net-SNMP distributions) will automatically read tha config file 'snmpapp.conf'.
To set library-level settings fo' these applications (but not other
more-specific tools), use configuration like fuckin tha following:
.PP
.RS
[snmp] defCommunitizzle myCommunity
.RE
.PP
for a single directive, or
.PP
.RS
.nf
# make dis file handle snmp.conf tokens:
[snmp]
defCommunitizzle myCommunity
defVersion   2c
# return ta our original gangsta snmpapp.conf tokens:
[snmpapp]
.fi
.RE
.PP
for multiple settings.
Similarly fo' any other application token (as passed ta init_snmp()).
.SH COMMENTS
.PP
Any lines beginnin wit tha characta '#' up in tha configuration files
are treated as a cold-ass lil comment n' is not parsed.
.SH "INCLUDING OTHER CONFIGURATION FILES"
It be possible ta include other configuration filez fo' processing
durin aiiight configuration file processing.:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# include joint specific config
include crib.conf
.RE
.PP
This will search every last muthafuckin directory up in tha configuration path fo' files
named crib.conf, n' will process dem filez before returnin ta the
processin of tha original gangsta file. Note dat if '.conf' is omitted,
it is ghon be appended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! That is, all configuration filez must end
in '.conf'.
.SH "API INTERFACE"
.PP
Hype bout freestylin C code dat make use of dis system in
either tha agentz MIB modulez or up in applications can be found up in the
.I netsnmp_config_api(3)
manual page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snmpconf(1),
netsnmp_config_api(3),
snmp.conf(5),
snmpd.conf(5)
.\" Local Variables:
.\"  mode: nroff
.\" End:
