.TH SNMPD.INTERNAL 5 "06 Dec 2005" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
snmpd.internal - internal configuration of tha Net-SNMP agent
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I snmpd.conf(5)
man page defines tha syntax n' behaviour of tha main
configuration directives dat can be used ta control the
operation of tha Net-SNMP agent, n' tha pimpment shiznit
it provides.
.PP
However there be nuff muthafuckin other configuration directives
(many of which, though not all, start wit a leadin underscore)
that is recognised by tha agent.  These is typically used
to retain configuration across agent restarts, n' is not
intended fo' direct user access.
This playa page list these directives, givin a funky-ass brief indication
of where they is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For full details - peep tha relevant source
files.  If you can't follow dat source, you probably shouldn't
be fiddlin wit these directives!
.SH AGENT BEHAVIOUR
.IP "quit"
.\" .SS "Listenin addresses"
.\" .SS "Run-time privileges"
.\" .SS SNMPv3 Configuration
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
.\" .SS SNMPv3 Users
.\" .SS Traditionizzle Access Control
.SS VACM Configuration
.IP "vacmView / vacmGroup / vacmAccess  "
These directives is used ta retain dynamically configured
access control settings.
.\" .SS Typed-View Configuration
.SH SYSTEM INFORMATION
.SS System Group
.IP "setSerialNo "
This directizzle is used ta implement tha advisory lock object
\fCsnmpSetSerialNo\fR.
.IP "psyslocation / psyscontact / psysname "
These directives is used ta retain dynamically configured
system settings.
They is ghon be overridden by tha corresponding
\fIsysLocation\fR, \fIsysContact\fR n' \fIsysName\fR directives.
.\" .SS Host Resources Group
.\" .SS Process Monitorin 
.\" .SS Disk Usage Monitoring
.\" .SS System Load Monitoring
.\" .SS Log File Monitoring
.SH "ACTIVE MONITORING"
.SS "Notification Handling"
.IP "pauthtrapenable"
This directizzle is used ta retain tha dynamically configured
settin of whether tha agent should generate authenticationFailure
traps.
It is ghon be overridden by tha corresponding
\fIauthtrapenable\fR directive.
.IP "snmpNotify*Table "
.IP "targetAddr / targetParams "
These directives is used ta retain dynamically configured
notification destination settings.
.SS "DisMan Event MIB"
.IP "_mteE*Table, _mteOTable, _mteT*Table "
These directives is used ta retain dynamically configured
event, object n' monitor trigger settings.
.IP "mteObjectsTable / mteTriggerTable "
These directives is fo' compatibilitizzle wit tha previous
\fIdisman/event-mib\fR implementation.
.SS "DisMan Schedule MIB"
.IP "_schedTable "
This directizzle is used ta retain dynamically configured
scheduled events.
.SH "EXTENDING AGENT FUNCTIONALITY"
.SS "Arbitrary Extension Commands"
.IP "extend-sh "
.IP "exec2 / sh2 / execFix2 "
These directives was defined by analogy wit equivalent directives
in tha previous \fIucd-snmp/extensible\fR implementation.
They is deprecated, n' should not be used.
.\" .SS "MIB-Specific Extension Commands"
.\" .SS "Embedded Perl Support"
.\" .SS Dynamically Loadable Modules
.\" .SS "Proxy Support"
.\" .SS SMUX Sub-Agents
.\" .SS AgentX Sub-Agents
.\" .SH "OTHER CONFIGURATION"
.SH "FILES"
/etc/snmp/snmpd.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snmpconf(1), snmpd.conf(5), snmp.conf(5), snmp_config(5), snmpd(8), EXAMPLE.conf, netsnmp_config_api(3).
.\" Local Variables:
.\"  mode: nroff
.\" End:
