.\"
.\" Author: Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland
.\"                    All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\"
.\" As far as I be concerned, tha code I have freestyled fo' dis software
.\" can be used freely fo' any purpose.  Any derived versionz of this
.\" software must be clearly marked as such, n' if tha derived work is
.\" incompatible wit tha protocol description up in tha RFC file, it must be
.\" called by a name other than "ssh" or "Secure Shell".
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 Markus Friedl.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Aaron Campbell.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Theo de Raadt.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $OpenBSD: ssh_config.5,v 1.166 2013/06/27 14:05:37 jmc Exp $
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 27 2013 $
.Dt SSH_CONFIG 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh_config
.Nd OpenSSH SSH client configuration files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ~/.ssh/config
.Nm /etc/ssh/ssh_config
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Xr ssh 1
obtains configuration data from tha followin sources in
the followin order:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact
.It
command-line options
.It
userz configuration file
.Pq Pa ~/.ssh/config
.It
system-wide configuration file
.Pq Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_config
.El
.Pp
For each parameter, tha straight-up original gangsta obtained value
will be used.
Da configuration filez contain sections separated by
.Dq Host
specifications, n' dat section is only applied fo' hosts that
match one of tha patterns given up in tha justification.
Da matched host name is tha one given on tha command line.
.Pp
Since tha straight-up original gangsta obtained value fo' each parameta is used, more
host-specific declarations should be given near tha beginnin of the
file, n' general defaults all up in tha end.
.Pp
Da configuration file has tha followin format:
.Pp
Empty lines n' lines startin with
.Ql #
are comments.
Otherwise a line iz of tha format
.Dq keyword arguments .
Configuration options may be separated by whitespace or
optionizzle whitespace n' exactly one
.Ql = ;
the latta format is useful ta avoid tha need ta quote whitespace
when specifyin configuration options rockin the
.Nm ssh ,
.Nm scp ,
and
.Nm sftp
.Fl o
option.
Arguments may optionally be enclosed up in double quotes
.Pq \&"
in order ta represent arguments containin spaces.
.Pp
Da possible
keywordz n' they meanings is as bigs up (note that
keywordz is case-insensitizzle n' arguments is case-sensitive):
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm Host
Restricts tha followin declarations (up ta tha next
.Cm Host
keyword) ta be only fo' dem hosts dat match one of tha patterns
given afta tha keyword.
If mo' than one pattern is provided, they should be separated by whitespace.
A single
.Ql *
as a pattern can be used ta provide global
defaults fo' all hosts.
Da host is the
.Ar hostname
argument given on tha command line (i.e. tha name aint converted to
a canonicalized host name before matching).
.Pp
A pattern entry may be negated by prefixin it wit a exclamation mark
.Pq Sq !\& .
If a negated entry is matched, then the
.Cm Host
entry is ignored, regardless of whether any other patterns on tha line
match.
Negated matches is therefore useful ta provide exceptions fo' wildcard
matches.
.Pp
See
.Sx PATTERNS
for mo' shiznit on patterns.
.It Cm AddressFamily
Specifies which address crew ta use when connecting.
Valid arguments are
.Dq any ,
.Dq inet
(use IPv4 only), or
.Dq inet6
(use IPv6 only).
.It Cm BatchMode
If set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
passphrase/password queryin is ghon be disabled.
This option is useful up in scripts n' other batch thangs where no user
is present ta supply tha password.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm BindAddress
Use tha specified address on tha local machine as tha source address of
the connection.
Only useful on systems wit mo' than one address.
Note dat dis option do not work if
.Cm UsePrivilegedPort
is set to
.Dq yeaaaa .
.It Cm ChallengeResponseAuthentication
Specifies whether ta use challenge-response authentication.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
.It Cm CheckHostIP
If dis flag is set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Xr ssh 1
will additionally check tha host IP address up in the
.Pa known_hosts
file.
This allows ssh ta detect if a host key chizzled cuz of DNS spoofing.
If tha option is set to
.Dq no ,
the check aint gonna be executed.
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
.It Cm Cipher
Specifies tha cipher ta use fo' encryptin tha session
in protocol version 1.
Currently,
.Dq blowfish ,
.Dq 3des ,
and
.Dq des
are supported.
.Ar des
is only supported up in the
.Xr ssh 1
client fo' interoperabilitizzle wit legacy protocol 1 implementations
that do not support the
.Ar 3des
cipher.
Its use is straight fuckin discouraged cuz of cryptographic weaknesses.
Da default is
.Dq 3des .
.It Cm Ciphers
Specifies tha ciphers allowed fo' protocol version 2
in order of preference.
Multiple ciphers must be comma-separated.
Da supported ciphers are
.Dq 3des-cbc ,
.Dq aes128-cbc ,
.Dq aes192-cbc ,
.Dq aes256-cbc ,
.Dq aes128-ctr ,
.Dq aes192-ctr ,
.Dq aes256-ctr ,
.Dq aes128-gcm@openssh.com ,
.Dq aes256-gcm@openssh.com ,
.Dq arcfour128 ,
.Dq arcfour256 ,
.Dq arcfour ,
.Dq blowfish-cbc ,
and
.Dq cast128-cbc .
Da default is:
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
aes128-ctr,aes192-ctr,aes256-ctr,arcfour256,arcfour128,
aes128-gcm@openssh.com,aes256-gcm@openssh.com,
aes128-cbc,3des-cbc,blowfish-cbc,cast128-cbc,aes192-cbc,
aes256-cbc,arcfour
.Ed
.It Cm ClearAllForwardings
Specifies dat all local, remote, n' dynamic port forwardings
specified up in tha configuration filez or on tha command line be
cleared.
This option is primarily useful when used from the
.Xr ssh 1
command line ta clear port forwardings set in
configuration files, n' be automatically set by
.Xr scp 1
and
.Xr sftp 1 .
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm Compression
Specifies whether ta use compression.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm CompressionLevel
Specifies tha compression level ta use if compression is enabled.
Da argument must be a integer from 1 (fast) ta 9 (slow, best).
Da default level is 6, which is phat fo' most applications.
Da meanin of tha joints is tha same ol' dirty as in
.Xr gzip 1 .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 1 only.
.It Cm ConnectionAttempts
Specifies tha number of tries (one per second) ta make before exiting.
Da argument must be a integer.
This may be useful up in scripts if tha connection sometimes fails.
Da default is 1.
.It Cm ConnectTimeout
Specifies tha timeout (in seconds) used when connectin ta the
SSH server, instead of rockin tha default system TCP timeout.
This value is used only when tha target is down or straight-up unreachable,
not when it refuses tha connection.
.It Cm ControlMaster
Enablez tha pluggin of multiple sessions over a single network connection.
When set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Xr ssh 1
will listen fo' connections on a cold-ass lil control socket specified rockin the
.Cm ControlPath
argument.
Additionizzle sessions can connect ta dis socket rockin tha same
.Cm ControlPath
with
.Cm ControlMaster
set to
.Dq no
(the default).
These sessions will try ta reuse tha masta instancez network connection
rather than initiatin freshly smoked up ones yo, but will fall back ta connectin normally
if tha control socket do not exist, or aint listening.
.Pp
Settin dis to
.Dq ask
will cause ssh
to listen fo' control connections yo, but require confirmation rockin the
.Ev SSH_ASKPASS
program before they is accepted (see
.Xr ssh-add 1
for details).
If the
.Cm ControlPath
cannot be opened,
ssh will continue without connectin ta a masta instance.
.Pp
X11 and
.Xr ssh-agent 1
forwardin is supported over these multiplexed connections, however the
display n' agent forwarded is ghon be tha one belongin ta tha master
connection i.e. it aint possible ta forward multiple displays or agents.
.Pp
Two additionizzle options allow fo' opportunistic multiplexing: try ta use a
masta connection but fall back ta bustin a freshly smoked up one if one do not already
exist.
These options are:
.Dq auto
and
.Dq autoask .
Da latta requires confirmation like the
.Dq ask
option.
.It Cm ControlPath
Specify tha path ta tha control socket used fo' connection pluggin as busted lyrics about
in the
.Cm ControlMaster
section above or tha string
.Dq none
to disable connection sharing.
In tha path,
.Ql %L
will be substituted by tha straight-up original gangsta component of tha local host name,
.Ql %l
will be substituted by tha local host name (includin any domain name),
.Ql %h
will be substituted by tha target host name,
.Ql %n
will be substituted by tha original gangsta target host name
specified on tha command line,
.Ql %p
the port,
.Ql %r
by tha remote login username, and
.Ql %u
by tha username of tha user hustlin
.Xr ssh 1 .
It be recommended dat any
.Cm ControlPath
used fo' opportunistic connection pluggin include
at least %h, %p, n' %r.
This ensures dat shared connections is uniquely identified.
.It Cm ControlPersist
When used up in conjunction with
.Cm ControlMasta ,
specifies dat tha masta connection should remain open
in tha background (waitin fo' future client connections)
afta tha initial client connection has been closed.
If set to
.Dq no ,
then tha masta connection aint gonna be placed tha fuck into tha background,
and will close as soon as tha initial client connection is closed.
If set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
then tha masta connection will remain up in tha background indefinitely
(until capped or closed via a mechanizzle like fuckin the
.Xr ssh 1
.Dq Fl O No exit
option).
If set ta a time up in seconds, or a time up in any of tha formats documented in
.Xr sshd_config 5 ,
then tha backgrounded masta connection will automatically terminate
afta it has remained idle (with no client connections) fo' the
specified time.
.It Cm DynamicForward
Specifies dat a TCP port on tha local machine be forwarded
over tha secure channel, n' tha application
protocol is then used ta determine where ta connect ta from the
remote machine.
.Pp
Da argument must be
.Sm off
.Oo Ar bind_address : Oc Ar port .
.Sm on
IPv6 addresses can be specified by enclosin addresses up in square brackets.
By default, tha local port is bound up in accordizzle wit the
.Cm GatewayPorts
setting.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat a explicit
.Ar bind_address
may be used ta bind tha connection ta a specific address.
The
.Ar bind_address
of
.Dq localhost
indicates dat tha listenin port be bound fo' local use only, while an
empty address or
.Sq *
indicates dat tha port should be available from all intercourses.
.Pp
Currently tha SOCKS4 n' SOCKS5 protocols is supported, and
.Xr ssh 1
will act as a SOCKS server.
Multiple forwardings may be specified, and
additionizzle forwardings can be given on tha command line.
Only tha superuser can forward privileged ports.
.It Cm EnableSSHKeysign
Settin dis option to
.Dq yes
in tha global client configuration file
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_config
enablez tha use of tha helper program
.Xr ssh-keysign 8
during
.Cm HostbasedAuthentication .
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
This option should be placed up in tha non-hostspecific section.
See
.Xr ssh-keysign 8
for mo' shiznit.
.It Cm EscapeChar
Sets tha escape characta (default:
.Ql ~ ) .
Da escape characta can also
be set on tha command line.
Da argument should be a single character,
.Ql ^
followed by a letter, or
.Dq none
to disable tha escape
characta entirely (makin tha connection transparent fo' binary
data).
.It Cm ExitOnForwardFailure
Specifies whether
.Xr ssh 1
should terminizzle tha connection if it cannot set up all requested
dynamic, tunnel, local, n' remote port forwardings.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm ForwardAgent
Specifies whether tha connection ta tha authentication agent (if any)
will be forwarded ta tha remote machine.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.Pp
Agent forwardin should be enabled wit caution.
Users wit tha mobilitizzle ta bypass file permissions on tha remote host
(for tha agentz Unix-domain socket)
can access tha local agent all up in tha forwarded connection.
An attacker cannot obtain key material from tha agent,
however they can big-ass up operations on tha keys dat enable dem to
authenticate rockin tha identitizzles loaded tha fuck into tha agent.
.It Cm ForwardX11
Specifies whether X11 connections is ghon be automatically redirected
over tha secure channel and
.Ev DISPLAY
set.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.Pp
X11 forwardin should be enabled wit caution.
Users wit tha mobilitizzle ta bypass file permissions on tha remote host
(for tha userz X11 authorization database)
can access tha local X11 display all up in tha forwarded connection.
An attacker may then be able ta big-ass up activitizzles like fuckin keystroke monitoring
if the
.Cm ForwardX11Trusted
option be also enabled.
.It Cm ForwardX11Timeout
Specify a timeout fo' untrusted X11 forwarding
usin tha format busted lyrics bout up in the
TIME FORMATS section of
.Xr sshd_config 5 .
X11 connections received by
.Xr ssh 1
afta dis time is ghon be refused.
Da default is ta disable untrusted X11 forwardin afta twenty minutes has
elapsed.
.It Cm ForwardX11Trusted
If dis option is set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
remote X11 clients gonna git full access ta tha original gangsta X11 display.
.Pp
If dis option is set to
.Dq no ,
remote X11 clients is ghon be considered untrusted n' prevented
from jackin or tamperin wit data belongin ta trusted X11
clients.
Furthermore, the
.Xr xauth 1
token used fo' tha session is ghon be set ta expire afta 20 minutes.
Remote clients is ghon be refused access afta dis time.
.Pp
Da default is
.Dq no .
.Pp
See tha X11 SECURITY extension justification fo' full details on
the restrictions imposed on untrusted clients.
.It Cm GatewayPorts
Specifies whether remote hosts is allowed ta connect ta local
forwarded ports.
By default,
.Xr ssh 1
bindz local port forwardings ta tha loopback address.
This prevents other remote hosts from connectin ta forwarded ports.
.Cm GatewayPorts
can be used ta specify dat ssh
should bind local port forwardings ta tha wildcard address,
thus allowin remote hosts ta connect ta forwarded ports.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm GlobalKnownHostsFile
Specifies one or mo' filez ta use fo' tha global
host key database, separated by whitespace.
Da default is
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts ,
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts2 .
.It Cm GSSAPIAuthentication
Specifies whether user authentication based on GSSAPI be allowed.
Da default is
.Dq no .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm GSSAPIKeyExchange
Specifies whether key exchange based on GSSAPI may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When using
GSSAPI key exchange tha server need not gotz a host key.
Da default is
.Dq no .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm GSSAPIClientIdentity
If set, specifies tha GSSAPI client identitizzle dat ssh should use when 
connectin ta tha server n' shit. Da default is unset, which means dat tha default 
identitizzle is ghon be used.
.It Cm GSSAPIServerIdentity
If set, specifies tha GSSAPI server identitizzle dat ssh should expect when 
connectin ta tha server n' shit. Da default is unset, which means dat the
expected GSSAPI server identitizzle is ghon be determined from tha target
hostname.
.It Cm GSSAPIDelegateCredentials
Forward (delegate) credentials ta tha server.
Da default is
.Dq no .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 2 connections rockin GSSAPI.
.It Cm GSSAPIRenewalForcesRekey
If set ta 
.Dq yes
then renewal of tha clientz GSSAPI credentials will force tha rekeyin of the
ssh connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With a cold-ass lil compatible server, dis can delegate tha renewed 
credentials ta a session on tha server.
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm GSSAPITrustDns
Set ta 
.Dq yeaaaa ta indicate dat tha DNS is trusted ta securely canonicalize
the name of tha host bein connected to. If 
.Dq no, tha hostname entered on the
command line is ghon be passed untouched ta tha GSSAPI library.
Da default is
.Dq no .
This option only applies ta protocol version 2 connections rockin GSSAPI.
.It Cm HashKnownHosts
Indicates that
.Xr ssh 1
should hash host names n' addresses when they is added to
.Pa ~/.ssh/known_hosts .
These hashed names may be used normally by
.Xr ssh 1
and
.Xr sshd 8 ,
but they do not reveal identifyin shiznit should tha filez contents
be disclosed.
Da default is
.Dq no .
Note dat existin names n' addresses up in known hosts files
will not be converted automatically,
but may be manually hashed using
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 .
.It Cm HostbasedAuthentication
Specifies whether ta try rhosts based authentication wit hood key
authentication.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
This option applies ta protocol version 2 only and
is similar to
.Cm RhostsRSAAuthentication .
.It Cm HostKeyAlgorithms
Specifies tha protocol version 2 host key algorithms
that tha client wants ta use up in order of preference.
Da default fo' dis option is:
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
ecdsa-sha2-nistp256-cert-v01@openssh.com,
ecdsa-sha2-nistp384-cert-v01@openssh.com,
ecdsa-sha2-nistp521-cert-v01@openssh.com,
ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com,ssh-dss-cert-v01@openssh.com,
ssh-rsa-cert-v00@openssh.com,ssh-dss-cert-v00@openssh.com,
ecdsa-sha2-nistp256,ecdsa-sha2-nistp384,ecdsa-sha2-nistp521,
ssh-rsa,ssh-dss
.Ed
.Pp
If hostkeys is known fo' tha destination host then dis default is modified
to prefer they algorithms.
.It Cm HostKeyAlias
Specifies a alias dat should be used instead of the
real host name when lookin up or savin tha host key
in tha host key database files.
This option is useful fo' tunnelin SSH connections
or fo' multiple servers hustlin on a single host.
.It Cm HostName
Specifies tha real host name ta log into.
This can be used ta specify nicknames or abbreviations fo' hosts.
If tha hostname gotz nuff tha characta sequence
.Ql %h ,
then dis is ghon be replaced wit tha host name specified on tha command line
(this is useful fo' manipulatin unqualified names).
Da default is tha name given on tha command line.
Numeric IP addresses is also permitted (both on tha command line n' in
.Cm HostName
specifications).
.It Cm IdentitiesOnly
Specifies that
.Xr ssh 1
should only use tha authentication identitizzle filez configured up in the
.Nm
files,
even if
.Xr ssh-agent 1
or a
.Cm PKCS11Provider
offers mo' identities.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
This option is intended fo' thangs where ssh-agent
offers nuff different identities.
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm IdentityFile
Specifies a gangbangin' file from which tha userz DSA, ECDSA or RSA authentication
identitizzle is read.
Da default is
.Pa ~/.ssh/identity
for protocol version 1, and
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_dsa ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa
and
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_rsa
for protocol version 2.
Additionally, any identitizzles represented by tha authentication agent
will be used fo' authentication unless
.Cm IdentitiesOnly
is set.
.Xr ssh 1
will try ta load certificate shiznit from tha filename obtained by
appending
.Pa -cert.pub
to tha path of a specified
.Cm IdentityFile .
.Pp
Da file name may use tha tilde
syntax ta refer ta a userz home directory or one of tha following
escape characters:
.Ql %d
(local userz home directory),
.Ql %u
(local user name),
.Ql %l
(local host name),
.Ql %h
(remote host name) or
.Ql %r
(remote user name).
.Pp
It be possible ta have
multiple identitizzle filez specified up in configuration files; all these
identitizzles is ghon be tried up in sequence.
Multiple
.Cm IdentityFile
directives will add ta tha list of identitizzles tried (this behaviour
differs from dat of other configuration directives).
.Pp
.Cm IdentityFile
may be used up in conjunction with
.Cm IdentitiesOnly
to select which identitizzles up in a agent is offered durin authentication.
.It Cm IgnoreUnknown
Specifies a pattern-list of unknown options ta be ignored if they are
encountered up in configuration parsing.
This may be used ta suppress errors if
.Nm
gotz nuff options dat is unrecognised by
.Xr ssh 1 .
It be recommended that
.Cm IgnoreUnknown
be listed early up in tha configuration file as it aint gonna be applied
to unknown options dat step tha fuck up before dat shit.
.It Cm IPQoS
Specifies tha IPv4 type-of-service or DSCP class fo' connections.
Accepted joints are
.Dq af11 ,
.Dq af12 ,
.Dq af13 ,
.Dq af21 ,
.Dq af22 ,
.Dq af23 ,
.Dq af31 ,
.Dq af32 ,
.Dq af33 ,
.Dq af41 ,
.Dq af42 ,
.Dq af43 ,
.Dq cs0 ,
.Dq cs1 ,
.Dq cs2 ,
.Dq cs3 ,
.Dq cs4 ,
.Dq cs5 ,
.Dq cs6 ,
.Dq cs7 ,
.Dq ef ,
.Dq lowdelay ,
.Dq throughput ,
.Dq reliabilitizzle ,
or a numeric value.
This option may take one or two arguments, separated by whitespace.
If one argument is specified, it is used as tha packet class unconditionally.
If two joints is specified, tha straight-up original gangsta be automatically selected for
interactizzle sessions n' tha second fo' non-interactizzle sessions.
Da default is
.Dq lowdelay
for interactizzle sessions and
.Dq throughput
for non-interactizzle sessions.
.It Cm KbdInteractiveAuthentication
Specifies whether ta use keyboard-interactizzle authentication.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
.It Cm KbdInteractiveDevices
Specifies tha list of methodz ta use up in keyboard-interactizzle authentication.
Multiple method names must be comma-separated.
Da default is ta use tha server specified list.
Da methodz available vary dependin on what tha fuck tha server supports.
For a OpenSSH server,
it may be zero or mo' of:
.Dq bsdauth ,
.Dq pam ,
and
.Dq skey .
.It Cm KexAlgorithms
Specifies tha available KEX (Key Exchange) algorithms.
Multiple algorithms must be comma-separated.
Da default is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ecdh-sha2-nistp256,ecdh-sha2-nistp384,ecdh-sha2-nistp521,
diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha256,
diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha1,
diffie-hellman-group14-sha1,
diffie-hellman-group1-sha1
.Ed
.It Cm LocalCommand
Specifies a cold-ass lil command ta execute on tha local machine afta successfully
connectin ta tha server.
Da command strang extendz ta tha end of tha line, n' is executed with
the userz shell.
Da followin escape characta substitutions is ghon be performed:
.Ql %d
(local userz home directory),
.Ql %h
(remote host name),
.Ql %l
(local host name),
.Ql %n
(host name as provided on tha command line),
.Ql %p
(remote port),
.Ql %r
(remote user name) or
.Ql %u
(local user name).
.Pp
Da command is run synchronously n' aint gots access ta the
session of the
.Xr ssh 1
that spawned dat shit.
It should not be used fo' interactizzle commands.
.Pp
This directizzle is ignored unless
.Cm PermitLocalCommand
has been enabled.
.It Cm LocalForward
Specifies dat a TCP port on tha local machine be forwarded over
the secure channel ta tha specified host n' port from tha remote machine.
Da first argument must be
.Sm off
.Oo Ar bind_address : Oc Ar port
.Sm on
and tha second argument must be
.Ar host : Ns Ar hostport .
IPv6 addresses can be specified by enclosin addresses up in square brackets.
Multiple forwardings may be specified, n' additionizzle forwardings can be
given on tha command line.
Only tha superuser can forward privileged ports.
By default, tha local port is bound up in accordizzle wit the
.Cm GatewayPorts
setting.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat a explicit
.Ar bind_address
may be used ta bind tha connection ta a specific address.
The
.Ar bind_address
of
.Dq localhost
indicates dat tha listenin port be bound fo' local use only, while an
empty address or
.Sq *
indicates dat tha port should be available from all intercourses.
.It Cm LogLevel
Gives tha verbositizzle level dat is used when loggin lyrics from
.Xr ssh 1 .
Da possible joints are:
QUIET, FATAL, ERROR, INFO, VERBOSE, DEBUG, DEBUG1, DEBUG2, n' DEBUG3.
Da default is INFO.
DEBUG n' DEBUG1 is equivalent.
DEBUG2 n' DEBUG3 each specify higher levelz of verbose output.
.It Cm MACs
Specifies tha MAC (message authentication code) algorithms
in order of preference.
Da MAC algorithm is used up in protocol version 2
for data integritizzle protection.
Multiple algorithms must be comma-separated.
Da algorithms dat contain
.Dq -etm
calculate tha MAC afta encryption (encrypt-then-mac).
These is considered less thuggy n' they use recommended.
Da default is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
hmac-md5-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha1-etm@openssh.com,
umac-64-etm@openssh.com,umac-128-etm@openssh.com,
hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-512-etm@openssh.com,
hmac-ripemd160-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha1-96-etm@openssh.com,
hmac-md5-96-etm@openssh.com,
hmac-md5,hmac-sha1,umac-64@openssh.com,umac-128@openssh.com,
hmac-sha2-256,hmac-sha2-512,hmac-ripemd160,
hmac-sha1-96,hmac-md5-96
.Ed
.It Cm NoHostAuthenticationForLocalhost
This option can be used if tha home directory is shared across machines.
In dis case localhost will refer ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different machine on each of
the machines n' tha user will git nuff warnings bout chizzled host keys.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis option disablez host authentication fo' localhost.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is ta check tha host key fo' localhost.
.It Cm NumberOfPasswordPrompts
Specifies tha number of password prompts before givin up.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be a integer.
Da default is 3.
.It Cm PasswordAuthentication
Specifies whether ta use password authentication.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
.It Cm PermitLocalCommand
Allow local command execution via the
.Ic LocalCommand
option or rockin the
.Ic !\& Ns Ar command
escape sequence in
.Xr ssh 1 .
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm PKCS11Provider
Specifies which PKCS#11 provider ta use.
Da argument ta dis keyword is tha PKCS#11 shared library
.Xr ssh 1
should use ta rap wit a PKCS#11 token providin tha user's
private RSA key.
.It Cm Port
Specifies tha port number ta connect on tha remote host.
Da default is 22.
.It Cm PreferredAuthentications
Specifies tha order up in which tha client should try protocol 2
authentication methods.
This allows a cold-ass lil client ta prefer one method (e.g.\&
.Cm keyboard-interactizzle )
over another method (e.g.\&
.Cm password ) .
Da default is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
gssapi-with-mic,hostbased,publickey,
keyboard-interactive,password
.Ed
.It Cm Protocol
Specifies tha protocol versions
.Xr ssh 1
should support up in order of preference.
Da possible joints are
.Sq 1
and
.Sq 2 .
Multiple versions must be comma-separated.
When dis option is set to
.Dq 2,1
.Nm ssh
will try version 2 n' fall back ta version 1
if version 2 aint available.
Da default is
.Sq 2 .
.It Cm ProxyCommand
Specifies tha command ta use ta connect ta tha server.
Da command
strin extendz ta tha end of tha line, n' is executed with
the userz shell.
In tha command string, any occurrence of
.Ql %h
will be substituted by tha host name to
connect,
.Ql %p
by tha port, and
.Ql %r
by tha remote user name.
Da command can be basically anything,
and should read from its standard input n' write ta its standard output.
It should eventually connect an
.Xr sshd 8
server hustlin on some machine, or execute
.Ic sshd -i
somewhere.
Host key pimpment is ghon be done rockin the
HostName of tha host bein connected (defaultin ta tha name typed by
the user).
Settin tha command to
.Dq none
disablez dis option entirely.
Note that
.Cm CheckHostIP
is not available fo' connects wit a proxy command.
.Pp
This directizzle is useful up in conjunction with
.Xr nc 1
and its proxy support.
For example, tha followin directizzle would connect via a HTTP proxy at
192.0.2.0:
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
ProxyCommand /usr/bin/nc -X connect -x 192.0.2.0:8080 %h %p
.Ed
.It Cm PubkeyAuthentication
Specifies whether ta try hood key authentication.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
This option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm RekeyLimit
Specifies tha maximum amount of data dat may be transmitted before the
session key is renegotiated, optionally followed a maximum amount of
time dat may pass before tha session key is renegotiated.
Da first argument is specified up in bytes n' may gotz a suffix of
.Sq K ,
.Sq M ,
or
.Sq G
to indicate Kilobytes, Megabytes, or Gigabytes, respectively.
Da default is between
.Sq 1G
and
.Sq 4G ,
dependin on tha cipher.
Da optionizzle second value is specified up in secondz n' may use any of the
units documented up in the
TIME FORMATS section of
.Xr sshd_config 5 .
Da default value for
.Cm RekeyLimit
is
.Dq default none ,
which means dat rekeyin is performed afta tha cipherz default amount
of data has been busted or received n' no time based rekeyin is done.
This option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm RemoteForward
Specifies dat a TCP port on tha remote machine be forwarded over
the secure channel ta tha specified host n' port from tha local machine.
Da first argument must be
.Sm off
.Oo Ar bind_address : Oc Ar port
.Sm on
and tha second argument must be
.Ar host : Ns Ar hostport .
IPv6 addresses can be specified by enclosin addresses up in square brackets.
Multiple forwardings may be specified, n' additional
forwardings can be given on tha command line.
Privileged ports can be forwarded only when
loggin up in as root on tha remote machine.
.Pp
If the
.Ar port
argument is
.Ql 0 ,
the listen port is ghon be dynamically allocated on tha server n' reported
to tha client at run time.
.Pp
If the
.Ar bind_address
is not specified, tha default is ta only bind ta loopback addresses.
If the
.Ar bind_address
is
.Ql *
or a empty string, then tha forwardin be axed ta listen on all
interfaces.
Specifyin a remote
.Ar bind_address
will only succeed if tha server's
.Cm GatewayPorts
option is enabled (see
.Xr sshd_config 5 ) .
.It Cm RequestTTY
Specifies whether ta request a pseudo-tty fo' tha session.
Da argument may be one of:
.Dq no
(never request a TTY),
.Dq yes
(always request a TTY when standard input be a TTY),
.Dq force
(always request a TTY) or
.Dq auto
(request a TTY when openin a login session).
This option mirrors the
.Fl t
and
.Fl T
flags for
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Cm RhostsRSAAuthentication
Specifies whether ta try rhosts based authentication wit RSA host
authentication.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
This option applies ta protocol version 1 only n' requires
.Xr ssh 1
to be setuid root.
.It Cm RSAAuthentication
Specifies whether ta try RSA authentication.
Da argument ta dis keyword must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
RSA authentication will only be
attempted if tha identitizzle file exists, or a authentication agent is
running.
Da default is
.Dq yeaaaa .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 1 only.
.It Cm SendEnv
Specifies what tha fuck variablez from tha local
.Xr environ 7
should be busted ta tha server.
Note dat environment passin is only supported fo' protocol 2.
Da server must also support it, n' tha server must be configured to
accept these environment variables.
Refer to
.Cm AcceptEnv
in
.Xr sshd_config 5
for how tha fuck ta configure tha server.
Variablez is specified by name, which may contain wildcard characters.
Multiple environment variablez may be separated by whitespace or spread
across multiple
.Cm SendEnv
directives.
Da default aint ta bust any environment variables.
.Pp
See
.Sx PATTERNS
for mo' shiznit on patterns.
.It Cm ServerKickin ItCountMax
Sets tha number of server kickin it lyrics (see below) which may be
sent without
.Xr ssh 1
receivin any lyrics back from tha server.
If dis threshold is reached while server kickin it lyrics is bein sent,
ssh will disconnect from tha server, terminatin tha session.
It be blingin ta note dat tha use of server kickin it lyrics is hella
different from
.Cm TCPKeepKickin It
(below).
Da server kickin it lyrics is busted all up in tha encrypted channel
and therefore aint gonna be spoofable.
Da TCP keepkickin it option enabled by
.Cm TCPKeepKickin It
is spoofable.
Da server kickin it mechanizzle is valuable when tha client or
server depend on knowin when a cold-ass lil connection has become inactive.
.Pp
Da default value is 3.
If, fo' example,
.Cm ServerKickin ItInterval
(see below) is set ta 15 and
.Cm ServerKickin ItCountMax
is left all up in tha default, if tha server becomes unresponsive,
ssh will disconnect afta approximately 45 seconds.
This option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm ServerKickin ItInterval
Sets a timeout interval up in secondz afta which if no data has been received
from tha server,
.Xr ssh 1
will bust a message all up in tha encrypted
channel ta request a response from tha server.
Da default
is 0, indicatin dat these lyrics aint gonna be busted ta tha server.
This option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.It Cm StrictHostKeyChecking
If dis flag is set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Xr ssh 1
will never automatically add host keys ta the
.Pa ~/.ssh/known_hosts
file, n' refuses ta connect ta hosts whose host key has chizzled.
This serves up maximum protection against trojan cow attacks,
though it can be buggin when the
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts
file is skankyly maintained or when connections ta freshly smoked up hosts are
frequently made.
This option forces tha user ta manually
add all freshly smoked up hosts.
If dis flag is set to
.Dq no ,
ssh will automatically add freshly smoked up host keys ta the
user known hosts files.
If dis flag is set to
.Dq ask ,
new host keys
will be added ta tha user known host filez only afta tha user
has confirmed dat is what tha fuck they straight-up wanna do, and
ssh will refuse ta connect ta hosts whose host key has chizzled.
Da host keys of
known hosts is ghon be verified automatically up in all cases.
Da argument must be
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Dq no ,
or
.Dq ask .
Da default is
.Dq ask .
.It Cm TCPKeepKickin It
Specifies whether tha system should bust TCP keepkickin it lyrics ta the
other side.
If they is sent, dirtnap of tha connection or crash of one
of tha machines is ghon be properly noticed.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis means that
connections will take a thugged-out dirtnap if tha route is down temporarily, n' some people
find it buggin.
.Pp
Da default is
.Dq yes
(to bust TCP keepkickin it lyrics), n' tha client will notice
if tha network goes down or tha remote host dies.
This is blingin up in scripts, n' nuff playas want it like a muthafucka.
.Pp
To disable TCP keepkickin it lyrics, tha value should be set to
.Dq no .
.It Cm Tunnel
Request
.Xr tun 4
device forwardin between tha client n' tha server.
Da argument must be
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Dq point-to-point
(layer 3),
.Dq ethernet
(layer 2),
or
.Dq no .
Specifying
.Dq yes
requests tha default tunnel mode, which is
.Dq point-to-point .
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm TunnelDevice
Specifies the
.Xr tun 4
devices ta open on tha client
.Pq Ar local_tun
and tha server
.Pq Ar remote_tun .
.Pp
Da argument must be
.Sm off
.Ar local_tun Op : Ar remote_tun .
.Sm on
Da devices may be specified by numerical ID or tha keyword
.Dq any ,
which uses tha next available tunnel device.
If
.Ar remote_tun
is not specified, it defaults to
.Dq any .
Da default is
.Dq any:any .
.It Cm UsePrivilegedPort
Specifies whether ta bust a privileged port fo' outgoin connections.
Da argument must be
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
Da default is
.Dq no .
If set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Xr ssh 1
must be setuid root.
Note dat dis option must be set to
.Dq yes
for
.Cm RhostsRSAAuthentication
with olda servers.
.It Cm User
Specifies tha user ta log up in as.
This can be useful when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different user name is used on different machines.
This saves tha shiznit of
havin ta remember ta give tha user name on tha command line.
.It Cm UserKnownHostsFile
Specifies one or mo' filez ta use fo' tha user
host key database, separated by whitespace.
Da default is
.Pa ~/.ssh/known_hosts ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/known_hosts2 .
.It Cm VerifyHostKeyDNS
Specifies whether ta verify tha remote key rockin DNS n' SSHFP resource
records.
If dis option is set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
the client will implicitly trust keys dat match a secure fingerprint
from DNS.
Insecure fingerprints is ghon be handled as if dis option was set to
.Dq ask .
If dis option is set to
.Dq ask ,
information on fingerprint match is ghon be displayed yo, but tha user will still
need ta confirm freshly smoked up host keys accordin ta the
.Cm StrictHostKeyChecking
option.
Da argument must be
.Dq yeaaaa ,
.Dq no ,
or
.Dq ask .
Da default is
.Dq no .
Note dat dis option applies ta protocol version 2 only.
.Pp
See also VERIFYING HOST KEYS in
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Cm VisualHostKey
If dis flag is set to
.Dq yeaaaa ,
an ASCII art representation of tha remote host key fingerprint is
printed up in addizzle ta tha hex fingerprint strang at login and
for unknown host keys.
If dis flag is set to
.Dq no ,
no fingerprint strings is printed at login and
only tha hex fingerprint strang is ghon be printed fo' unknown host keys.
Da default is
.Dq no .
.It Cm XAuthLocation
Specifies tha full pathname of the
.Xr xauth 1
program.
Da default is
.Pa /usr/bin/xauth .
.El
.Sh PATTERNS
A
.Em pattern
consistz of zero or mo' non-whitespace characters,
.Sq *
(a wildcard dat matches zero or mo' characters),
or
.Sq ?\&
(a wildcard dat matches exactly one character).
For example, ta specify a set of declarations fo' any host up in the
.Dq .co.uk
set of domains,
the followin pattern could be used:
.Pp
.Dl Host *.co.uk
.Pp
Da followin pattern
would match any host up in tha 192.168.0.[0-9] network range:
.Pp
.Dl Host 192.168.0.?
.Pp
A
.Em pattern-list
is a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of patterns.
Patterns within pattern-lists may be negated
by precedin dem wit a exclamation mark
.Pq Sq !\& .
For example,
to allow a key ta be used from anywhere within a organisation
except from the
.Dq dialup
pool,
the followin entry (in authorized_keys) could be used:
.Pp
.Dl from=\&"!*.dialup.example.com,*.example.com\&"
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.ssh/config
This is tha per-user configuration file.
Da format of dis file is busted lyrics bout above.
This file is used by tha SSH client.
Because of tha potential fo' abuse, dis file must have strict permissions:
read/write fo' tha user, n' not accessible by others.
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_config
Systemwide configuration file.
This file serves up defaults fo' them
values dat is not specified up in tha userz configuration file, and
for dem playas whoz ass aint gots a cold-ass lil configuration file.
This file must be ghetto-readable.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1
.Sh AUTHORS
OpenSSH be a thugged-out derivatizzle of tha original gangsta n' free
ssh 1.2.12 release by Tatu Ylonen.
Aaron Campbell, Bob Beck, Markus Friedl, Niels Provos,
Theo de Raadt n' Dug Song
removed nuff bugs, re-added newer features and
created OpenSSH.
Markus Friedl contributed tha support fo' SSH
protocol versions 1.5 n' 2.0.
