.\"
.\"
.\"     Licensed ta tha Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.\"     or mo' contributor license agreements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See tha NOTICE file
.\"     distributed wit dis work fo' additionizzle shiznit
.\"     regardin copyright ballership.  Da ASF licenses dis file
.\"     ta you under tha Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.\"     "License"); you may not use dis file except up in compliance
.\"     wit tha License.  Yo ass may obtain a cold-ass lil copy of tha License at
.\"    
.\"       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"    
.\"     Unless required by applicable law or agreed ta up in writing,
.\"     software distributed under tha License is distributed on an
.\"     "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.\"     KIND, either express or implied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See tha License fo' the
.\"     specific language governin permissions n' limitations
.\"     under tha License.
.\"
.\"
.\" Yo ass can view dis file with:
.\" nroff -man [filename]
.\"
.TH svnserve.conf 5
.SH NAME
svnserve.conf \- Repository configuration file fo' svnserve
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fIrepository-path\fP\fB/conf/svnserve.conf\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsvnserve.conf\fP controls tha behavior of tha \fBsvnserve\fP daemon
on a per-repository basis.  It be located up in tha \fBconf\fP
subdirectory of tha repository.
.PP
Da overall structure of tha file is tha same ol' dirty as tha structure of
Subversion user configuration files.  At tha top level is sections,
which is specified by lyrics up in square brackets; inside each section
are variable definitionz of tha form "variable = value".  Lines
beginnin wit '#' is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  \fBsvnserve.conf\fP currently uses
only one section named "general", n' supports tha following
variables:
.PP
.TP 5
\fBanon-access\fP = \fBnone\fP|\fBread\fP|\fBwrite\fP
Determines tha access level fo' unauthenticated users.  \fBwrite\fP
access allows all repository operations.  \fBread\fP access allows all
operations except committin n' changin revision properties.
\fBnone\fP access allows no access.  Da default level is \fBread\fP.
.PP
.TP 5
\fBauth-access\fP = \fBnone\fP|\fBread\fP|\fBwrite\fP
Determines tha access level fo' authenticated users, rockin tha same
access levels as above.  Da default level is \fBwrite\fP.
.PP
.TP 5
\fBpassword-db\fP = \fIfilename\fP
Sets tha location of tha password database.  \fIfilename\fP may be
relatizzle ta tha repository conf directory.  There is no default value.
Da password database has tha same ol' dirty overall format as dis file.  It
uses only one section "users"; each variable within tha section be a
username, n' each value be a password.
.PP
.TP 5
\fBauthz-db\fP = \fIpath\fP
Da authz-db option controls tha location of tha authorization
rulez fo' path-based access control.  \fIpath\fP may be 
relatizzle ta tha repository conf directory.  \fIpath\fP may be a repository
relatizzle URL (^/) or absolute file:// URL ta a text file up in a Subversion
repository.  There is no default value.  If you don't specify a authz-db,
no path-based access control is done.
.PP
.TP 5
\fBrealm\fP = \fIrealm\-name\fP
Sets tha authentication realm of tha repository.  If two repositories
have tha same password database, they should have tha same realm, and
vice versa; dis association allows clients ta bust a single cached
password fo' nuff muthafuckin repositories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da default realm value is the
repositoryz uuid.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin example \fBsvnserve.conf\fP allows read access for
authenticated users, no access fo' anonymous users, points ta a passwd
database up in tha same directory, n' defines a realm name.
.PP
.nf
 [general]
 anon-access = none
 auth-access = read
 password-db = passwd
 realm = My fuckin First Repository
.fi
.PP
Da file "passwd" would look like:
.PP
.nf
 [users]
 joeuser = joepassword
 jayrandom = randomjay
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svnserve (8)
