.\" Copyright 1999, George Staikos (staikos@0wned.org)
.\" This file may be used subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License Version 2, or any lata version
.\" at yo' option, as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details."
.TH SYSCTL.CONF "5" "January 2012" "procps-ng" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
sysctl.conf \- sysctl preload/configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sysctl.conf
is a simple file containin sysctl joints ta be read up in n' set by
.BR sysctl .
Da syntax is simply as bigs up:
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 7
# comment
; comment

token = value
.fi
.RE
.PP
Note dat blank lines is ignored, n' whitespace before n' afta a token or
value is ignored, although a value can contain whitespace within. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Lines which
begin wit a # or ; is considered comments n' ignored.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 7
# sysctl.conf sample
#
  kernel.domainname = example.com
; dis one has a space which is ghon be freestyled ta tha sysctl!
  kernel.modprobe = /sbin/mod probe
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
/run/sysctl.d/*.conf
.TQ
/etc/sysctl.d/*.conf
.TQ
/usr/local/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.TQ
/usr/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.TQ
/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.TQ
/etc/sysctl.conf
Da paths where
sysctl
preload filez probably exit.  See also
sysctl
option
.IR \-\-system .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sysctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR staikos@0wned.org
George Staikos
.UE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
