.TH SYSTEM-AUTH-AC 5 "2010 March 31" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME

system-auth-ac, password-auth-ac, smartcard-auth-ac,
fingerprint-auth-ac, postlogin-ac \- Common configuration filez for
PAMified skillz freestyled by authconfig(8)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pam.d/system-auth-ac
.sp 2
.SH DESCRIPTION

Da purpose of dis configuration file is ta provide common 
configuration file fo' all applications n' steez daemons
callin PAM library.

.sp
The
.BR system-auth
configuration file is included from all individual steez configuration
filez wit tha help of the
.BR include
directive. When authconfig(8) writes tha system PAM configuration file it
replaces tha default
.BR system-auth
file wit a symlink pointin to
.BR system-auth-ac
and writes tha configuration ta dis file. Da symlink aint chizzled on
subsequent configuration chizzlez even if it points elsewhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. This allows
system administrators ta override tha configuration freestyled by authconfig.

Da authconfig now writes tha authentication modulez also tha fuck into additionizzle PAM
configuration filez \fB/etc/pam.d/password-auth-ac\fR,
\fB/etc/pam.d/smartcard-auth-ac\fR, n' \fB/etc/pam.d/fingerprint-auth-ac\fR.
These configuration filez contain only modulez which perform
authentication wit tha respectizzle kindz of authentication tokens.
For example \fB/etc/pam.d/smartcard-auth[-ac]\fR aint gonna contain
\fBpam_unix\fR n' \fBpam_ldap\fR modulez n' \fB/etc/pam.d/password-auth[-ac]\fR
will not contain \fBpam_pkcs11\fR n' \fBpam_fprintd\fR modules.

Da file \fB/etc/pam.d/postlogin-ac\fR gotz nuff common skillz
to be invoked afta login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An example can be a module dat encrypts an
userz filesystem or userz keyrin n' is decrypted by his thugged-out lil' password.

Da PAM configuration filez of skillz which is accessed by remote
connections like fuckin sshd or ftpd now include tha \fB/etc/pam.d/password-auth\fR
configuration file instead of \fB/etc/pam.d/system-auth\fR.


.SH EXAMPLE
Configure system ta use pam_tally2 fo' configuration of maximum number of
failed logins fo' realz. Also call pam_access ta verify if access be allowed.

Make
.BR system-auth
symlink point ta system-auth-local which gotz nuff:

.br
auth            requisite       pam_access.so
.br
auth            requisite       pam_tally2.so deny=3 lock_time=30 \\
.br
                                      unlock_time=3600
.br
auth            include         system-auth-ac
.br
account         required        pam_tally2.so
.br
account         include         system-auth-ac
.br
password        include         system-auth-ac
.br
session         include         system-auth-ac


.SH BUGS
.sp 2
None known.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
authconfig(8), authconfig-gtk(8), pam(8), system-auth(5)
