.TH TCP_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
tcp_table
\-
Postfix client/server table lookup protocol
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" tcp:\fIhost:port\fR

\fBpostmap -q - tcp:\fIhost:port\fR <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix mail system uses optionizzle tablez fo' address
rewritin or mail routing. These tablez is probably in
\fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format fo' realz. Alternatively, table lookups
can be pimped up ta a TCP server.

To smoke up what tha fuck typez of lookup tablez yo' Postfix system
supports use tha "\fBpostconf -m\fR" command.

To test lookup tables, use tha "\fBpostmap -q\fR" command as
busted lyrics bout up in tha SYNOPSIS above.
.SH "PROTOCOL DESCRIPTION"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da TCP map class implements a straight-up simple protocol: tha client
sendz a request, n' tha server sendz one reply. Requests and
replies is busted as one line of ASCII text, terminated by the
ASCII newline character n' shit. Request n' reply parametas (see below)
are separated by whitespace.

Send n' receive operations must complete up in 100 seconds.
.SH "REQUEST FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Each request specifies a cold-ass lil command, a lookup key, n' possibly a
lookup result.
.IP "\fBget\fR SPACE \fIkey\fR NEWLINE"
Look up data under tha specified key.
.IP "\fBput\fR SPACE \fIkey\fR SPACE \fIvalue\fR NEWLINE"
This request is currently not implemented.
.SH "REPLY FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Each reply specifies a status code n' text. Replies must be no
longer than 4096 charactas includin tha newline terminator.
.IP "\fB500\fR SPACE \fItext\fR NEWLINE"
In case of a lookup request, tha axed data do not exist.
In case of a update request, tha request was rejected.
Da text raps bout tha nature of tha problem.
.IP "\fB400\fR SPACE \fItext\fR NEWLINE"
This indicates a error condition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da text raps bout tha nature of
the problem. Da client should retry tha request later.
.IP "\fB200\fR SPACE \fItext\fR NEWLINE"
Da request was successful naaahhmean, biatch? In tha case of a lookup request,
the text gotz nuff a encoded version of tha axed data.
.SH "ENCODING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
In request n' reply parameters, tha characta %, each non-printing
character, n' each whitespace characta must be replaced by %XX,
where XX is tha correspondin ASCII hexadecimal characta value. The
hexadecimal codes can be specified up in any case (upper, lower, mixed).

Da Postfix client always encodes a request.
Da server may omit tha encodin as long as tha reply
is guaranteed ta not contain tha % or NEWLINE character.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Do not use TCP lookup tablez fo' securitizzle critical purposes.
Da client-server connection aint protected n' tha server
is not authenticated.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Only tha lookup method is currently implemented.

Da client do not hang up when tha connection is idle for
a long time.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
regexp_table(5), format of regular expression tables
pcre_table(5), format of PCRE tables
cidr_table(5), format of CIDR tables
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
