.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Internationistic Businizz Machines Corporation
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "tcsd.conf" 5 "2006-07-14" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack
.SH NAME
tcsd.conf \- configuration file fo' tha trousers TCS daemon.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This file, by default
.IR /etc/tcsd.conf
is read by tha trousers TCSD daemon, tcsd (see tcsd(8)). Da tcsd.conf file
that is installed by trousers gotz nuff all tha default options, commented out.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.BI port
Da port dat TCSD will listen on fo' connections, local n' remote, from
applications.

.BI num_threads
Da maximum number of threadz dat tha TCSD will spawn simultaneously ta service
applications fo' realz. After
.BI num_threads
threadz done been spawned, any application dat attempts ta connect ta tha TCSD
will receive a error.

.BI system_ps_file
Da location of tha system persistent storage file. Da system persistent
storage file holdz keys n' data across restartz of tha TCSD n' system
reboots.

.BI firmware_log_file
Path ta tha file containin tha current firmware PCR event log data. The
interface ta dis log is probably provided by tha TPM thang driver.

.BI kernel_log_file
Path ta tha file containin tha current kernel PCR event log data. By default,
this data is ghon be parsed up in tha format provided by tha Integritizzle Measurement
Architecture LSM.

.BI firmware_pcrs
A list of PCR indices dat is manipulated only by tha system firmware and
therefore is not extended or logged by tha TCSD fo' realz. Applications dat call
Tcsi_PcrExtend on PCRs listed here will receive a error.

.BI kernel_pcrs
A list of PCR indices dat is manipulated only by tha kernel n' therefore
are not extended or logged by tha TCSD fo' realz. Applications dat call Tcsi_PcrExtend
on PCRs listed here will receive a error.

.BI platform_cred
Path ta tha platform credential fo' yo' TPM.  Yo crazy-ass TPM manufacturer may have
provided you wit a set of credentials (certificates) dat should be used when
bustin identitizzles rockin yo' TPM. When a user of yo' TPM make a identity,
this credential is ghon be encrypted as part of dat process. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha 1.1b TPM Main
specification section 9.3 fo' shiznit on dis process.

.BI conformance_cred
Path ta tha conformizzle credential fo' yo' TPM.  Yo crazy-ass TPM manufacturer may have
provided you wit a set of credentials (certificates) dat should be used when
bustin identitizzles rockin yo' TPM. When a user of yo' TPM make a identity,
this credential is ghon be encrypted as part of dat process. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha 1.1b TPM Main
specification section 9.3 fo' shiznit on dis process.

.BI endorsement_cred
Path ta tha endorsement credential fo' yo' TPM.  Yo crazy-ass TPM manufacturer may have
provided you wit a set of credentials (certificates) dat should be used when
bustin identitizzles rockin yo' TPM. When a user of yo' TPM make a identity,
this credential is ghon be encrypted as part of dat process. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha 1.1b TPM Main
specification section 9.3 fo' shiznit on dis process.

.BI remote_ops
A list of TCS commandz which is ghon be allowed ta be executed on dis machine's
TCSD by TSPz on non-local hosts (over tha internet). By default, access ta all
operations is denied.

.BI host_platform_class
Determines tha TCG justification of tha hostz platform class. This refers to
one of tha justifications contained up in tha TCG wizzy crib. Da default is PC
specification version 1.2 .

.BI all_platform_classes
Specifies all tha TCG defined platforms associated wit tha host platform. The
host_platform_class must not be defined here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. By default, all platforms but
the host platform is associated.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
.IP
.nf
port = 30003
num_threadz = 10
system_ps_file = /var/lib/tpm/system.data
firmware_log_file = /proc/tpm/firmware_events
kernel_log_file = /proc/tcg/measurement_events
firmware_pcrs = 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
kernel_pcrs = 10,11
platform_cred = /var/lib/tpm/platform.cert
conformance_cred = /var/lib/tpm/conformance.cert
endorsement_cred = /var/lib/tpm/endorsement.cert
remote_ops = create_key,random
host_platform_class = server_12
all_platform_classes = pc_11,pc_12,mobile_12
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBtcsd\fR(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kent Yoder
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs ta <trousers-tech@lists.sf.net>
