.TH TRANSPORT 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
transport
\-
Postfix transhiznit table format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/transport\fR

\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" /etc/postfix/transport\fR

\fBpostmap -q - /etc/postfix/transhiznit <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBtransport\fR(5) table specifies a mappin from email
addresses ta message delivery transports n' next-hop destinations.
Message delivery transports like fuckin \fBlocal\fR or \fBsmtp\fR
are defined up in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file, n' next-hop
destinations is typically hosts or domain names. The
table is searched by tha \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) daemon.

This mappin overrides tha default \fItransport\fR:\fInexthop\fR
selection dat is built tha fuck into Postfix:
.IP "\fBlocal_transhiznit (default: local:$myhostname)\fR"
This is tha default fo' final delivery ta domains listed
with \fBmydestination\fR, n' fo' [\fIipaddress\fR]
destinations dat match \fB$inet_interfaces\fR or
\fB$proxy_interfaces\fR. Da default \fInexthop\fR destination
is tha MTA hostname.
.IP "\fBvirtual_transhiznit (default: virtual:)\fR"
This is tha default fo' final delivery ta domains listed
with \fBvirtual_mailbox_domains\fR. Da default \fInexthop\fR
destination is tha recipient domain.
.IP "\fBrelay_transhiznit (default: relay:)\fR"
This is tha default fo' remote delivery ta domains listed
with \fBrelay_domains\fR. In order of decreasin precedence,
the \fInexthop\fR destination is taken from \fBrelay_transport\fR,
\fBsender_dependent_relayhost_maps\fR, \fBrelayhost\fR, or from the
recipient domain.
.IP "\fBdefault_transhiznit (default: smtp:)\fR"
This is tha default fo' remote delivery ta other destinations.
In order of decreasin precedence, tha \fInexthop\fR
destination is taken from \fBsender_dependent_default_transport_maps,
\fBdefault_transport\fR, \fBsender_dependent_relayhost_maps\fR,
\fBrelayhost\fR, or from tha recipient domain.
.PP
Normally, tha \fBtransport\fR(5) table is specified as a text file
that serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command.
Da result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format, is used
for fast searchin by tha mail system. Execute tha command
"\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/transport\fR" ta rebuild a indexed
file afta changin tha correspondin transhiznit table.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions, or lookups
can be pimped up ta TCP-based server n' shit. In dem case, tha lookups
are done up in a slightly different way as busted lyrics bout below under
"REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES" or "TCP-BASED TABLES".
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da search strang is folded ta lowercase before database
lookup fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3, tha search strang aint case
folded wit database types like fuckin regexp: or pcre: whose
lookup fieldz can match both upper n' lower case.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da input format fo' tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command be as bigs up:
.IP "\fIpattern result\fR"
When \fIpattern\fR matches tha recipient address or domain, use the
correspondin \fIresult\fR.
.IP "blank lines n' comments"
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP "multi-line text"
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.PP
Da \fIpattern\fR specifies a email address, a thugged-out domain name, or
a domain name hierarchy, as busted lyrics bout up in section "TABLE LOOKUP".

Da \fIresult\fR iz of tha form \fItransport:nexthop\fR and
specifies how tha fuck or where ta serve up mail. This is busted lyrics bout in
section "RESULT FORMAT".
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With lookups from indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked
tablez like fuckin NIS, LDAP or SQL, patterns is tried up in tha order as
listed below:
.IP "\fIuser+extension@domain transport\fR:\fInexthop\fR"
Deliver mail fo' \fIuser+extension@domain\fR through
\fItransport\fR to
\fInexthop\fR.
.IP "\fIuser@domain transport\fR:\fInexthop\fR"
Deliver mail fo' \fIuser@domain\fR all up in \fItransport\fR to
\fInexthop\fR.
.IP "\fIdomain transport\fR:\fInexthop\fR"
Deliver mail fo' \fIdomain\fR all up in \fItransport\fR to
\fInexthop\fR.
.IP "\fI.domain transport\fR:\fInexthop\fR"
Deliver mail fo' any subdomain of \fIdomain\fR through
\fItransport\fR ta \fInexthop\fR. This applies only when the
strin \fBtransport_maps\fR aint listed up in the
\fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains\fR configuration setting.
Otherwise, a thugged-out domain name matches itself n' its subdomains.
.IP "\fB*\fI transport\fR:\fInexthop\fR"
Da special pattern \fB*\fR represents any address (i.e. it
functions as tha wild-card pattern, n' is unique ta Postfix
transhiznit tables).
.PP
Note 1: tha null recipient address is looked up as
\fB$empty_address_recipient\fR@\fB$myhostname\fR (default:
mailer-daemon@hostname).

Note 2: \fIuser@domain\fR or \fIuser+extension@domain\fR
lookup be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.SH "RESULT FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da lookup result iz of tha form \fItransport\fB:\fInexthop\fR.
Da \fItransport\fR field specifies a mail delivery transport
like fuckin \fBsmtp\fR or \fBlocal\fR. Da \fInexthop\fR field
specifies where n' how tha fuck ta serve up mail.

Da transhiznit field specifies tha name of a mail delivery transport
(the first name of a mail delivery steez entry up in tha Postfix
\fBmaster.cf\fR file).

Da interpretation of tha nexthop field is transport
dependent. In tha case of SMTP, specify a steez on a non-default
port as \fIhost\fR:\fIservice\fR, n' disable MX (mail exchanger)
DNS lookups wit [\fIhost\fR] or [\fIhost\fR]:\fIport\fR. Da [] form
is required when you specify a IP address instead of a hostname.

A null \fItransport\fR n' null \fInexthop\fR result means "do
not chizzle": use tha delivery transhiznit n' nexthop shiznit
that would be used when tha entire transhiznit table did not exist.

A non-null \fItransport\fR field wit a null \fInexthop\fR field
resets tha nexthop shiznit ta tha recipient domain.

A null \fItransport\fR field wit non-null \fInexthop\fR field
does not modify tha transhiznit shiznit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
In order ta serve up internal mail directly, while rockin a
mail relay fo' all other mail, specify a null entry for
internal destinations (do not chizzle tha delivery transhiznit or
the nexthop shiznit) n' specify a wildcard fo' all other
destinations.

.nf
     \fB\&my.domain    :\fR
     \fB\&.my.domain   :\fR
     \fB*            smtp:outbound-relay.my.domain\fR
.fi

In order ta bust mail fo' \fBexample.com\fR n' its subdomains
via tha \fBuucp\fR transhiznit ta tha UUCP host named \fBexample\fR:

.nf
     \fBexample.com      uucp:example\fR
     \fB\&.example.com     uucp:example\fR
.fi

When no nexthop host name is specified, tha destination domain
name is used instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For example, tha followin directs mail for
\fIuser\fR@\fBexample.com\fR via tha \fBslow\fR transhiznit ta a mail
exchanger fo' \fBexample.com\fR.  Da \fBslow\fR transhiznit could be
configured ta run at most one delivery process at a time:

.nf
     \fBexample.com      slow:\fR
.fi

When no transhiznit is specified, Postfix uses tha transhiznit that
matches tha address domain class (see DESCRIPTION
above).  Da followin sendz all mail fo' \fBexample.com\fR n' its
subdomains ta host \fBgateway.example.com\fR:

.nf
     \fBexample.com      :[gateway.example.com]\fR
     \fB\&.example.com     :[gateway.example.com]\fR
.fi

In tha above example, tha [] suppress MX lookups.
This prevents mail routin loops when yo' machine is primary MX
host fo' \fBexample.com\fR.

In tha case of delivery via SMTP, one may specify
\fIhostname\fR:\fIservice\fR instead of just a host:

.nf
     \fBexample.com      smtp:bar.example:2025\fR
.fi

This directs mail fo' \fIuser\fR@\fBexample.com\fR ta host \fBbar.example\fR
port \fB2025\fR. Instead of a numerical port a symbolic name may be
used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specify [] round tha hostname if MX lookups must be disabled.

Da error maila can be used ta bounce mail:

.nf
     \fB\&.example.com     error:mail fo' *.example.com aint deliverable\fR
.fi

This causes all mail fo' \fIuser\fR@\fIanything\fB.example.com\fR
to be bounced.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions. For a thugged-out description of
regular expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5)
or \fBpcre_table\fR(5).

Each pattern be a regular expression dat be applied ta tha entire
address bein looked up. Thus, \fIsome.domain.hierarchy\fR is not
looked up via its parent domains,
nor is \fIuser+foo@domain\fR looked up as \fIuser@domain\fR.

Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.

Da \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) server disallows regular
expression substitution of $1 etc. up in regular expression
lookup tables, cuz dat could open a securitizzle hole
(Postfix version 2.3 n' later).
.SH "TCP-BASED TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when lookups
are pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of tha TCP
client/server lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each lookup operation uses tha entire recipient address once.  Thus,
\fIsome.domain.hierarchy\fR aint looked up via its parent domains,
nor is \fIuser+foo@domain\fR looked up as \fIuser@domain\fR.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP \fBempty_address_recipient\fR
Da address dat is looked up instead of tha null sender address.
.IP \fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains\fR
List of Postfix features dat use \fIdomain.tld\fR patterns
to match \fIsub.domain.tld\fR (as opposed to
requirin \fI.domain.tld\fR patterns).
.IP \fBtransport_maps\fR
List of transhiznit lookup tables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
trivial-rewrite(8), rewrite n' resolve addresses
master(5), master.cf file format
postconf(5), configuration parameters
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, address rewritin guide
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
FILTER_README, external content filter
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
