.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:17:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 19 21:25:21 MET 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond
.\" <esr@thyrsus.com>xk
.TH TTYTYPE 5 2012-12-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ttytype \- terminal thang ta default terminal type mapping
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I /etc/ttytype
file associates
.BR termcap (5)/ terminfo (5)
terminal type names
with tty lines.
Each line consistz of a terminal type, followed by
whitespace, followed by a tty name (a thang name without the
.IR /dev/ ") prefix."

This association is used by tha program
.BR tset (1)
to set tha environment variable
.B TERM
to tha default terminal name for
the userz current tty.

This facilitizzle was designed fo' a traditionizzle time-sharin environment
featurin character-cell terminals hardwired ta a UNIX minicomputer.
It be lil used on modern workstation n' underground UNIX systems.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ttytype
the tty definitions file.
.SH EXAMPLE
A typical
.I /etc/ttytype
is:
.RS
.sp
con80x25 tty1
.br
vt320 ttys0
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR termcap (5),
.BR terminfo (5),
.BR agetty (8),
.BR mingetty (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
