.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This file is up in tha hood domain, so clarified as of
.\" 1996-06-05 by Arthur Dizzy Olson <arthur_david_olson@nih.gov>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" @(#)tzfile.5	7.11
.\"
.TH TZFILE 5 2012-05-04 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tzfile \- timezone shiznit
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page raps bout tha structure of tha timezone filez used by
.BR tzset (3).
These filez is typically found under one of tha directories
.IR /usr/lib/zoneinfo
or
.IR /usr/share/zoneinfo .

Timezone shiznit files
begin wit tha magic charactas "TZif" ta identify dem as
timezone shiznit files,
followed by a cold-ass lil characta identifyin tha version of tha filez format
(az of 2005, either a ASCII NUL (\(aq\\0\(aq) or a \(aq2\(aq)
followed by fifteen bytes containin zeros reserved fo' future use,
followed by six four-byte jointz of type
.IR long ,
written up in a "standard" byte order
(the high-order byte of tha value is freestyled first).
These joints are,
in order:
.TP
.I tzh_ttisgmtcnt
Da number of UTC/local indicators stored up in tha file.
.TP
.I tzh_ttisstdcnt
Da number of standard/wall indicators stored up in tha file.
.TP
.I tzh_leapcnt
Da number of leap secondz fo' which data is stored up in tha file.
.TP
.I tzh_timecnt
Da number of "transizzle times" fo' which data is stored
in tha file.
.TP
.I tzh_typecnt
Da number of "local time types" fo' which data is stored
in tha file (must not be zero).
.TP
.I tzh_charcnt
Da number of charactaz of "timezone abbreviation strings"
stored up in tha file.
.PP
Da above header is followed by
.I tzh_timecnt
four-byte jointz of type
.IR long ,
sorted up in ascendin order.
These joints is freestyled up in "standard" byte order.
Each is used as a transizzle time (as returned by
.BR time (2))
at which tha rulez fo' computin local time chizzle.
Next come
.I tzh_timecnt
one-byte jointz of type
.IR "unsigned char" ;
each one  drops some lyrics ta which of tha different typez of "local time" types
busted lyrics bout up in tha file be associated wit tha same-indexed transizzle time.
These joints serve as indices tha fuck into a array of
.I ttinfo
structures (with
.I tzh_typecnt
entries) dat step tha fuck up next up in tha file;
these structures is defined as bigs up:
.in +4n
.sp
.nf
struct ttinfo {
    long         tt_gmtoff;
    int          tt_isdst;
    unsigned int tt_abbrind;
};
.in
.fi
.sp
Each structure is freestyled as a gangbangin' four-byte value for
.I tt_gmtoff
of type
.IR long ,
in a standard byte order, followed by a one-byte value for
.I tt_isdst
and a one-byte value for
.IR tt_abbrind .
In each structure,
.I tt_gmtoff
gives tha number of secondz ta be added ta UTC,
.I tt_isdst
 drops some lyrics ta whether
.I tm_isdst
should be set by
.BR localtime (3),
and
.I tt_abbrind
serves as a index tha fuck into tha array of timezone abbreviation characters
that follow the
.I ttinfo
structure(s) up in tha file.
.PP
Then there are
.I tzh_leapcnt
pairz of four-byte joints, freestyled up in standard byte order;
the first value of each pair gives tha time
(as returned by
.BR time (2))
at which a leap second occurs;
the second gives the
.I total
number of leap secondz ta be applied afta tha given time.
Da pairz of joints is sorted up in ascendin order by time.
.PP
Then there are
.I tzh_ttisstdcnt
standard/wall indicators, each stored as a one-byte value;
they tell whether tha transizzle times associated wit local time types
were specified as standard time or wall clock time,
and is used when a timezone file is used up in handlin POSIX-style
timezone environment variables.
.PP
Finally, there are
.I tzh_ttisgmtcnt
UTC/local indicators, each stored as a one-byte value;
they tell whether tha transizzle times associated wit local time types
were specified as UTC or local time,
and is used when a timezone file is used up in handlin POSIX-style
timezone environment variables.
.PP
.BR localtime (3)
uses tha straight-up original gangsta standard-time
.I ttinfo
structure up in tha file
(or simply tha first
.I ttinfo
structure up in tha absence of a standard-time structure)
if either
.I tzh_timecnt
is zero or tha time argument is less than tha straight-up original gangsta transizzle time recorded
in tha file.
.PP
For version-2-format timezone files,
the above header n' data is followed by a second header n' data,
identical up in format except that
eight bytes is used fo' each transizzle time or leap-second time.
Afta tha second header n' data comes a newline-enclosed,
POSIX-TZ-environment-variable-style strang fo' use up in handlin instants
afta tha last transizzle time stored up in tha file
(with not a god damn thang between tha newlines if there is no POSIX representation for
such instants).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctime (3),
.BR tzset (3),
.BR tzselect (8),

.I timezone/tzfile.h
in tha glibc source tree
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
