.\" A playa page fo' updatedb.conf. -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2008 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License fo' 
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH updatedb.conf 5 "Jun 2008" mlocate

.SH NAME
/etc/updatedb.conf \- a cold-ass lil configuration file fo' updatedb(8)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B /etc/updatedb.conf
is a text file.
Blank lines is ignored.
A
.B #
characta outside of a quoted strang starts a cold-ass lil comment
extendin until end of line.

Other lines must be of tha followin form:
.RS
.I VARIABLE
.B =
\fB"\fIVALUE\fB"\fR
.RE

White space between tokens is ignored.
.I VARIABLE
is a alphanumeric strang which do not start wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit.
.I VALUE
can contain any characta except fo' \fB\(dq\fR.
No escape mechanizzle is supported within
.I VALUE
and there is no way ta write
.I VALUE
spannin mo' than one line.

Unknown
.I VARIABLE
values is considered a error.
Da defined variablez are:

.TP
\fBPRUNEFS\fR
A whitespace-separated list of file system types (as used up in \fB/etc/mtab\fR)
which should not be scanned by
.BR updatedb (8).
Da file system type matchin is case-insensitive.  By default, no file system
types is skipped.

When scannin a gangbangin' file system is skipped,
all file systems mounted up in tha subtree is skipped too,
even if they type do not match any entry up in \fBPRUNEFS\fR.

.TP
\fBPRUNENAMES\fR
A whitespace-separated list of directory names (without paths) which should not
be scanned by
.BR updatedb (8).
By default, no directory names is skipped.

Note dat only directories can be specified, n' no pattern mechanizzle (e.g.
globbing) is used.

.TP
\fBPRUNEPATHS\fR
A whitespace-separated list of path namez of directories which should not be
scanned by
.BR updatedb (8).
Each path name must be exactly up in tha form
in which tha directory would be reported by
.BR locate (1).

By default, no paths is skipped.

.TP
\fBPRUNE_BIND_MOUNTS\FR
One of tha strings \fB0\fR, \fBno\fR, \fB1\fR or \fByes\fR.
If
.B PRUNE_BIND_MOUNTS
is \fB1\fR or \fByes\fR,
bind mounts is not scanned by
.BR updatedb (8).
All file systems mounted up in tha subtree of a funky-ass bind mount is skipped as well,
even if they is not bind mounts.
As a exception, bind mountz of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory on itself is not skipped.

By default, bind mounts is not skipped.

.SH NOTES
When a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is matched by \fBPRUNEFS\fR, \fBPRUNENAMES\fR or
\fBPRUNEPATHS\fR,
.BR updatedb (8)
does not scan tha contentz of tha directory.
Da path of tha directory itself is, however, entered up in tha pimped database.
For example, if
.I /tmp
is up in \fBPRUNEPATHS\fR,
.BR locate (1)
will not show any filez stored up in \fI/tmp\fR,
but it can show the
.I /tmp
directory.
This behavior differs from traditional
.B locate
implementations.

In some
.BR updatedb (8)
implementations \fBPRUNEPATHS\fR can be used ta exclude non-directory files.
This aint tha case up in dis implementation.

.B /etc/updatedb.conf
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script up in some implementations,
which allows much mo' flexibilitizzle up in definin tha variables.
Equivalent functionalitizzle can be  bigged up  by rockin tha command-line options
to
.BR updatedb (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locate (1),
.BR updatedb (8)
