.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Portionz of dis file is subject ta tha followin copyright.  See
.\" tha Net-SNMP COPYING file fo' mo' details n' other copyrights
.\" dat may apply:
.\" /***********************************************************
.\" 	Copyright 1988, 1989 by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\"                       All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software n' its 
.\" documentation fo' any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, 
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' that
.\" both dat copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in 
.\" supportin documentation, n' dat tha name of CMU not be
.\" used up in advertisin or publicitizzle pertainin ta distribution of the
.\" software without specific, freestyled prior permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.\" 
.\" CMU DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
.\" ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" CMU BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" ******************************************************************/
.TH VARIABLES 5 "01 Oct 2010" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
    variablez - Format of specifyin variable names ta SNMP tools.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da syntax n' semantics of pimpment shiznit up in SNMP is
given by tha definitionz of MIB objects, loaded from one or more
MIB filez (or "MIB modules").  These definitions is not strictly
required fo' tha SNMP protocol ta operate erectly yo, but is typically
needed by SNMP client applications ta display shiznit up in a
meaningful manner.

Da MIB file also serves as a thugged-out design document when pimpin a SNMP
agent (or sub-agent) dat serves up dis shiznit, n' ensures that
client n' server share a cold-ass lil common understandin bout what tha fuck pimpment
information represents.

.SH OIDs
MIB objects is specified rockin Object Identifiers (OIDs), which can
take a fuckin shitload of forms.   Note dat all of tha examplez up in dis section
refer ta tha same MIB object.
.SS Numeric OIDs
Da fundamenstrual format of a OID be a sequence of integer joints
(or "subidentifiers"), typically freestyled rockin dots ta separate
the individual subidentifiers.
.RS
 .1.3.6.1.2.1.1.1
.RE
This is tha format dat is used within tha SNMP protocol itself,
in tha packets dat is busted over tha network.
.PP
This form of representin a OID do not require MIB filez or MIB
object definitions ta be available.  However it do rely on the
client application and/or network administrator knowin what tha fuck a
given numeric OID refers to.  As such, it aint a particularly
helpful representation ta mah playas just startin up wit SNMP.
.PP
This format can be obtained by givin tha command-line option
-On
to most Net-SNMP commands.

.SS Full OID path
A similar (but somewhat mo' informative) format uses tha same
dotted list representation yo, but wit tha numeric subidentifiers
replaced by names, taken from tha relevant MIB file(s).
.RS
 .iso.org.dod.internet.mgmt.mib-2.system.sysDescr
.RE
This uniquely identifies a particular MIB object (as wit tha numeric
OID) yo, but tha list of names should hopefully give some indication as
to what tha fuck shiznit dis object represents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  However it do rely on
the relevant MIB filez bein available (as do all formats other than
the purely numeric OID).  Such OIDs also tend ta be fairly long!
.PP
This format can be obtained by givin tha command-line option
-Of
to most Net-SNMP commands.
.PP
A variant of dis (typically used when freestylin OIDs up in descriptive
text, rather than hustlin programs), is ta combine tha name and
numeric subidentifier:
.RS
 .iso(1).org(3).dod(6).internet(1).mgmt(2).mib-2(1).system(1).sysDescr(1)
.RE

.SS Module-qualified OIDs
An alternatizzle way ta (more-or-less) uniquely specify a OID,
is ta give tha name of tha MIB object, together wit tha MIB
module where it is defined.
.RS
SNMPv2-MIB::sysDescr
.RE
MIB object names is unique within a given module, so as long
as there be not two MIB modulez wit tha same name (which is
unusual, though not unheard of), dis format specifies the
desired object up in a reasonably compact form.  It also makes
it relatively easy as fuck  ta find tha definizzle of tha MIB object.
.PP
This is tha default format fo' displayin OIDs up in Net-SNMP applications.
It can also be specified explicitly by givin tha command-line option
-OS
to most Net-SNMP commands.

.SS Object name
Possibly da most thugged-out common form fo' specifyin MIB objects is
usin tha name of tha object ridin' solo - without tha full path or
the name of tha module dat defines dat shit.
.RS
sysDescr
.RE
This is by far tha shortest n' most convenient way ta refer to
a MIB object.  However tha dark shiznit is dat if two MIB modulez each
define a MIB object wit tha same name (which is perfectly legal
in some circumstances), then it aint necessarily clear which MIB
object is straight-up meant.
For day-to-dizzle use, particularly when rockin standard MIB objects,
this is \fIprobaby\fP safe.
But itz blingin ta be aware of tha potential ambiguities.
.PP
This format can be obtained by givin tha command-line option
-Os
to most Net-SNMP commands.

.SS UCD-format
Previous versionz of tha code (UCD v4.x n' earlier) used a
simple approach ta shortenin tha way OIDs was specified.
If tha full path of tha OID fuckin started with
\fC.iso.org.dod.internet.mgmt.mib-2\fP
then dis prefix was removed from tha OID before displayin dat shit.
All other OIDs was displayed up in full.
.PP
Similarly, if a OID was passed ta tha UCD library dat did
not begin wit a thugged-out dot (and wasn't up in tha module::name format),
then tha same prefix was prepended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   Da example OID from the
formats listed above would therefore be given or displayed as
.RS
system.sysDescr
.RE
Da inconsistent handlin of OIDs, dependin on they location
within tha OID tree, proved ta be mo' shiznit than dat shiznit was worth,
and dis format is no longer recommended.
.PP
Da previous behaviour can be obtained by givin tha command-line
option
-Ou
(for displayin output), or
-Iu
(for interpretin input OIDs without a leadin dot)
to most Net-SNMP commands.
.\"
.\" ====================================
.\"
.\" ToDo:
.\"   Instances:
.\"      Scalars
.\"      Tablez & indexing
.\"         strang indexes - 'abc' vs "abc"
'\"      Internal objects
.\"
.\"  ? Syntax types
.\"
.\" ====================================
.\".PP
.\"Da description of tha variablez up in tha MIB is given up in tha set of MIB
.\"filez defined by tha MIBS environment variable (or tha default list
.\"defined at compilation time) n' tha MIB filez up in the
.\"/usr/share/snmp/mibs directory (or tha MIBDIRS environment variable).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snmpcmd(1)
.SH BUGS
Da parser of tha MIB filez file aint sposed ta fuckin handle bizarre
(although erect) interpretationz of tha ASN.1 notation.


