.\" $Id: vbox.conf.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vbox.conf 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vbox.conf \- config file fo' vbox

.SH Description
This file is used ta configure when n' on what tha fuck conditions calls are
taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it can also be used ta define which CALLERID is used wit which
person.

Everythang afta tha "#" is ignored, as is empty lines fo' realz. All arguments
must be separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs) fo' realz. Arguments may not contain
whitespace.

This file consistz of nuff muthafuckin sections fo' realz. A section begins with
"[" NAME "]". Da section name is case insensitizzle fo' realz. A section endz at the
end of tha file or all up in tha end of a freshly smoked up section.

These sections exist:

.TP
.B [CALLERIDS]
This section maps CALLERID ta peeps n' what tha fuck settings ta use.

On a incomin call tha CALLERID of tha calla is detected n' compared
with dis section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da SECTION of tha straight-up original gangsta match is used.

.B Format : PATTERN SECTION REALNAME

.RS
.TP 4
.B PATTERN
UN*X Pattern of a CALLERID. Yo ass may not use whitespace.

.TP
.B SECTION
Name of a user section ta use. Yo ass nuff not use whitespace. 
With a "-" STANDARD is ghon be used, wit a "*" tha REALNAME is ghon be used.

.TP
.B REALNAME
Full name of tha thug dat should be mapped ta tha CALLERID yo. Here you
may use spaces.
.RE

.TP
\ 
At tha end of tha [CALLERIDS] Section, you should have the
entry "* - *** Unknown ***", so dat also calls wit no or unknown CALLERID
can be processed.

.TP
.B [RINGS]
In dis section you set when n' afta how tha fuck nuff RINGs a cold-ass lil call is taken.

This section is tha straight-up original gangsta ta be examined when a cold-ass lil call is incomin to
determine if tha call should be taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da number of RINGs can be
overruled up in tha user section.

.B Format : TIME DAYS RINGS

.RS
.TP 4
.B TIME
time when tha call should be taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Read tha isdntime(5) playa page for
details. 

.TP
.B DAYS
days when tha call should be takes. Read tha isdntime(5) playa page for
details.

.TP
.B RINGS
Number of rings ta wait before takin tha call. With version 2.0 of the
hisax isdn thang driver tha interval between two rings is longer (now
itz nearly like a telephone; 4 - 5 secondz between rings).
.RE

.TP
.B user defined sections
Here you can make individual settings fo' some people. Da section name
has tha same ol' dirty format as tha other sections. Da names CALLERIDS n' RINGS
are reserved.

.B Format : TIME DAYS MESSAGE RECTIME [FLAG] [...]

.RS
.TP 4
.B TIME
time when tha call should be taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Read tha isdntime(5) playa page for
details. 

.TP
.B DAYS
days when tha call should be taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Read tha isdntime(5) playa page for
details.

.TP
.B MESSAGE
Standard message ta play fo' dis call. Yo ass must either give the
filename wit full path, or a gangbangin' filename relatizzle to
/var/spool/vbox/<user>/lyrics. Default is "standard.msg". Yo ass may
not use spaces or tabs.

.TP
.B RECTIME
Time up in seconds: how tha fuck long should vboxgetty record, biatch? Default is 60
seconds.

.TP
.B FLAGS
Yo ass can additionally give these flags:

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B NOANSWER
Don't answer dis call. Default is ta answer.

.TP
.B NORECORD
Don't record a message. Default is ta record.

.TP
.B NOTIMEOUTMSG
Don't play timeout message. Default is ta play.

.TP
.B NOBEEPMSG
Don't play beep message. Default is ta play.

.TP
.B NOSTDMSG
Don't play std message. Default is ta play.

.TP
.B RINGS=
Number of rings ta wait before takin tha call yo. Here you can override
the [RINGS] section.

.TP
.B TOLLRINGS=
Number of rings ta wait before answerin tha call, if freshly smoked up lyrics are
available. This flag overrides tha section [RINGS] n'  tha flag RINGS=
if there be freshly smoked up lyrics. Da directory ta search fo' freshly smoked up lyrics must
be given wit TOLLCHECK (or you can use tha default).

.TP
.B TOLLCHECK=
Directory ta search fo' freshly smoked up lyrics. Default is
/var/spool/vbox/<user>/incoming. 

.TP
.B SCRIPT=
TCL-Script ta start afta takin tha call. This must be tha full path or
a filename relatizzle ta /var/spool/vbox/<user>. Da default is
standard.tcl.
.RE
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/spool/vbox/<user>/vbox.conf
this configuration file.

.TP
/usr/doc/isdnutils/examples/vbox.conf
an example.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B isdntime(5)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
