.\" $Id: vboxrc.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxrc 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vboxrc \- user config file fo' vbox

.SH Description
Every user can save settings up in ~/.vboxrc.

Everythang afta "#" is ignored, as is empty lines fo' realz. All arguments
must be separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs) fo' realz. Arguments may not contain
whitespace.

These keywordz is allowed:

.RS
.TP
.B USERNAME

.TP
.B PASSWORD
Username n' password fo' vboxd login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These settings is used by vbox
and vboxctrl. If they is missing, you gotta enta dem at runtime.

.TP
.B VOLUME
Default volume fo' vbox. 

.TP
.B C_BACKGROUND
Background color.

.TP
.B C_STATSTDAR
Color fo' aiiight text up in tha status bar.

.TP
.B C_STATSTDAR_HL
Color fo' highlighted text up in tha status bar.

.TP
.B C_POWERLED_ON
Color fo' powerled (on).

.TP
.B C_POWERLED_OFF
Color fo' powerled (off).

.TP
.B C_STATUSLED_ON
Color fo' statusled (on).

.TP
.B C_STATUSLED_OFF
Color fo' statusled (off).

.TP
.B C_LIST
Color fo' list of lyrics.

.TP
.B C_LIST_SELECTED
Color fo' selected entry up in tha list of lyrics.

.TP
.B C_INFOTEXT
Color fo' info texts up in tha message list.
.RE

All color settings have tha format TEXTCOLOR:BACKGROUNDCOLOR. Yo ass may not
use whitespace.

.TP
These flavas is available fo' TEXTCOLOR:
.nf
BLACK RED GREEN BROWN BLUE MAGENTA CYAN GRAY
DARKGREY LIGHTRED LIGHTGREEN YELLOW LIGHTBLUE
LIGHTMAGENTA LIGHTCYAN WHITE
.fi

.TP
These flavas is available fo' BACKGROUNDCOLOR:
BLACK RED GREEN BROWN BLUE MAGENTA CYAN GREY

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.vboxrc
this configuration file
.TP
.B /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples/vboxrc
an example

.SH SEE ALSO
.B vbox(1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
