.\" $Id: vboxd.conf.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxd.conf 5 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vboxd.conf \- config file fo' vboxd (the daemon)

.SH Description
This file is used ta configure whoz ass may access which voice box folders.

Everythang afta "#" is ignored, as is empty lines fo' realz. All arguments
must be separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs) fo' realz. Arguments may not contain
whitespace.

.TP 4
.B Login lines
Da login lines set whoz ass may connect ta tha vbox daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch yo. Hosts dat are
not up in dis list is not allowed ta connect.

.B Format : L:HOSTPATTERN:ACCESS

.RS
.TP 4
.B HOSTPATTERN
UN*X pattern of a hostname or ip address.

.TP
.B ACCESS
"Y" means access is granted, "N" means access is denied.
.RE

.TP
.B Access lines
Da access lines set tha password fo' each user n' what tha fuck muthafuckin rights he or
she has.

.nf
.B Format : A:HOSTPATTERN:MODE:NAME:PASSWORD:SPOOLDIR:INCOMINGDIR
.fi

.RS
.TP 4
.B HOSTPATTERN
UN*X pattern of a hostname or ip address.

.TP
.B MODE
Name ta use wit LOGIN.

.TP
.B PASSWORD
Password fo' LOGIN.

.TP
.B SPOOLDIR
Spool directory fo' dis user n' shit. Yo ass must give tha whole path.

.TP
.B INCOMINGDIR
Directory wit lyrics fo' dis user n' shit. Yo ass may give a gangbangin' full path or a
path relatizzle ta SPOOLDIR. 
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/isdn/vboxd.conf
this configuration file

.TP
.B /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples/vboxd.conf
an example

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
