.TH VIRTUAL 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
virtual
\-
Postfix virtual alias table format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/virtual\fR

\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" /etc/postfix/virtual\fR

\fBpostmap -q - /etc/postfix/virtual <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias table rewrites recipient
addresses fo' all local, all virtual, n' all remote mail
destinations.
This is unlike tha \fBaliases\fR(5) table which is used
only fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery.  Virtual aliasin is
recursive, n' is implemented by tha Postfix \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon before mail is queued.

Da main applicationz of virtual aliasin are:
.IP \(bu
To redirect mail fo' one address ta one or mo' addresses.
.IP \(bu
To implement virtual alias domains where all addresses is aliased
to addresses up in other domains.
.sp
Virtual alias domains is not ta be trippin wit tha virtual mailbox
domains dat is implemented wit tha Postfix \fBvirtual\fR(8) mail
delivery agent. With virtual mailbox domains, each recipient address
can have its own mailbox.
.PP
Virtual aliasin be applied only ta recipient
envelope addresses, n' do not affect message headers.
Use \fBcanonical\fR(5)
mappin ta rewrite header n' envelope addresses up in general.

Normally, tha \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias table is specified as a text file
that serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command.
Da result, a indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format,
is used fo' fast searchin by tha mail system. Execute tha command
"\fBpostmap /etc/postfix/virtual\fR" ta rebuild a indexed
file afta changin tha correspondin text file.

When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, tha table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions, or lookups
can be pimped up ta TCP-based server n' shit. In dem case, tha lookups
are done up in a slightly different way as busted lyrics bout below under
"REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES" or "TCP-BASED TABLES".
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da search strang is folded ta lowercase before database
lookup fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3, tha search strang aint case
folded wit database types like fuckin regexp: or pcre: whose
lookup fieldz can match both upper n' lower case.
.SH "TABLE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da input format fo' tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command be as bigs up:
.IP "\fIpattern result\fR"
When \fIpattern\fR matches a mail address, replace it by the
correspondin \fIresult\fR.
.IP "blank lines n' comments"
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP "multi-line text"
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With lookups from indexed filez like fuckin DB or DBM, or from networked
tablez like fuckin NIS, LDAP or SQL, patterns is tried up in tha order as
listed below:
.IP "\fIuser\fR@\fIdomain address, address, ...\fR"
Redirect mail fo' \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR ta \fIaddress\fR.
This form has tha highest precedence.
.IP "\fIuser address, address, ...\fR"
Redirect mail fo' \fIuser\fR@\fIsite\fR ta \fIaddress\fR when
\fIsite\fR is equal ta $\fBmyorigin\fR, when \fIsite\fR is listed in
$\fBmydestination\fR, or when it is listed up in $\fBinet_interfaces\fR
or $\fBproxy_interfaces\fR.
.sp
This functionalitizzle overlaps wit functionalitizzle of tha local
\fIaliases\fR(5) database. Da difference is dat \fBvirtual\fR(5)
mappin can be applied ta non-local addresses.
.IP "@\fIdomain address, address, ...\fR"
Redirect mail fo' other playas up in \fIdomain\fR ta \fIaddress\fR.
This form has tha lowest precedence.
.sp
Note: @\fIdomain\fR be a wild-card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With dis form, the
Postfix SMTP server accepts
mail fo' any recipient up in \fIdomain\fR, regardless of whether
that recipient exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This may turn yo' mail system into
a backscatta source: Postfix first accepts mail for
non-existent recipients n' then tries ta return dat mail
as "undeliverable" ta tha often forged sender address.
.SH "RESULT ADDRESS REWRITING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da lookup result is subject ta address rewriting:
.IP \(bu
When tha result has tha form @\fIotherdomain\fR, the
result becomes tha same ol' dirty \fIuser\fR up in \fIotherdomain\fR.
This works only fo' tha straight-up original gangsta address up in a multi-address
lookup result.
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_at_myorigin=yes\fR", append "\fB@$myorigin\fR"
to addresses without "@domain".
.IP \(bu
When "\fBappend_dot_mydomain=yes\fR", append
"\fB.$mydomain\fR" ta addresses without ".domain".
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
When a mail address localpart gotz nuff tha optionizzle recipient delimiter
(e.g., \fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR), tha lookup order becomes:
\fIuser+foo\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR, \fIuser+foo\fR,
\fIuser\fR, n' @\fIdomain\fR.

Da \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR parameta controls whether
an unmatched address extension (\fI+foo\fR) is propagated ta the
result of table lookup.
.SH "VIRTUAL ALIAS DOMAINS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Besides virtual aliases, tha virtual alias table can also be used
to implement virtual alias domains. With a virtual alias domain, all
recipient addresses is aliased ta addresses up in other domains.

Virtual alias domains is not ta be trippin wit tha virtual mailbox
domains dat is implemented wit tha Postfix \fBvirtual\fR(8) mail
delivery agent. With virtual mailbox domains, each recipient address
can have its own mailbox.

With a virtual alias domain, tha virtual domain has its
own user name space. Local (i.e. non-virtual) usernames is not
visible up in a virtual alias domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In particular, local
\fBaliases\fR(5) n' local mailin lists is not visible as
\fIlocalname@virtual-alias.domain\fR.

Support fo' a virtual alias domain looks like:

.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    virtual_alias_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual
.fi

Note: some systems use \fBdbm\fR databases instead of \fBhash\fR.
See tha output from "\fBpostconf -m\fR" fo' available database types.

.nf
/etc/postfix/virtual:
    \fIvirtual-alias.domain     anything\fR (right-hand content do not matter)
    \fIpostmaster@virtual-alias.domain  postmaster\fR
    \fIuser1@virtual-alias.domain       address1\fR
    \fIuser2@virtual-alias.domain       address2, address3\fR
.fi
.sp
Da \fIvirtual-alias.domain anything\fR entry is required fo' a
virtual alias domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fBWithout dis entry, mail is rejected
with "relay access denied", or bounces with
"mail loops back ta mah dirty ass".\fR

Do not specify virtual alias domain names up in tha \fBmain.cf
mydestination\fR or \fBrelay_domains\fR configuration parameters.

With a virtual alias domain, tha Postfix SMTP server
accepts mail fo' \fIknown-user@virtual-alias.domain\fR, n' rejects
mail fo' \fIunknown-user\fR@\fIvirtual-alias.domain\fR as undeliverable.

Instead of specifyin tha virtual alias domain name via
the \fBvirtual_alias_maps\fR table, you may also specify it via
the \fBmain.cf virtual_alias_domains\fR configuration parameter.
This latta parameta uses tha same ol' dirty syntax as tha \fBmain.cf
mydestination\fR configuration parameter.
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSION TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when tha table
is given up in tha form of regular expressions. For a thugged-out description of
regular expression lookup table syntax, peep \fBregexp_table\fR(5)
or \fBpcre_table\fR(5).

Each pattern be a regular expression dat be applied ta tha entire
address bein looked up. Thus, \fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not
broken up tha fuck into they \fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts,
nor is \fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Patterns is applied up in tha order as specified up in tha table, until a
pattern is found dat matches tha search string.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups, with
the additionizzle feature dat parenthesized substrings from the
pattern can be interpolated as \fB$1\fR, \fB$2\fR n' so on.
.SH "TCP-BASED TABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section raps bout how tha fuck tha table lookups chizzle when lookups
are pimped up ta a TCP-based server n' shit. For a thugged-out description of tha TCP
client/server lookup protocol, peep \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
This feature aint available up ta n' includin Postfix version 2.4.

Each lookup operation uses tha entire address once.  Thus,
\fIuser@domain\fR mail addresses is not fucked up tha fuck into their
\fIuser\fR n' \fI@domain\fR constituent parts, nor is
\fIuser+foo\fR fucked up tha fuck into \fIuser\fR n' \fIfoo\fR.

Results is tha same as wit indexed file lookups.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da table format do not KNOW quotin conventions.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this topic. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Postfix \fBmain.cf\fR file fo' syntax details
and fo' default joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Use tha "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command after
a configuration chizzle.
.IP \fBvirtual_alias_maps\fR
List of virtual aliasin tables.
.IP \fBvirtual_alias_domains\fR
List of virtual alias domains. This uses tha same ol' dirty syntax
as tha \fBmydestination\fR parameter.
.IP \fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions\fR
A list of address rewritin or forwardin mechanizzlez dat propagate
an address extension from tha original gangsta address ta tha result.
Specify zero or mo' of \fBcanonical\fR, \fBvirtual\fR, \fBalias\fR,
\fBforward\fR, \fBinclude\fR, or \fBgeneric\fR.
.PP
Other parametaz of interest:
.IP \fBinet_interfaces\fR
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis system receives mail on.
Yo ass need ta stop n' start Postfix when dis parameta chizzles.
.IP \fBmydestination\fR
List of domains dat dis mail system considaz local.
.IP \fBmyorigin\fR
Da domain dat be appended ta any address dat aint gots a thugged-out domain.
.IP \fBballer_request_special\fR
Give special treatment ta \fBballer-\fIxxx\fR n' \fIxxx\fB-request\fR
addresses.
.IP \fBproxy_interfaces\fR
Other intercourses dat dis machine receives mail on by way of a
proxy agent or network address translator.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
cleanup(8), canonicalize n' enqueue mail
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
canonical(5), canonical address mapping
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, address rewritin guide
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
VIRTUAL_README, domain hostin guide
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
