.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH westsideon.ini 5 "2013-01-17" "Weston 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
weston.ini \- configuration file for
.B Weston
\- tha reference Wayland
compositor
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B Weston
obtains configuration from its command line parametas n' tha configuration
file busted lyrics bout here.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Weston
uses a cold-ass lil configuration file called
.I westsideon.ini
for its setup.
The
.I westsideon.ini
configuration file is searched fo' up in one of tha followin places when the
server is started:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BR "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/weston.ini   " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_HOME is set)"
.BR "$HOME/.config/weston.ini      " "(if $HOME is set)"
.B  "weston/weston.ini up in each"
.BR "\ \ \ \ $XDG_CONFIG_DIR           " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS is set)"
.BR "/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini    " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS aint set)"
.BR "<current dir>/weston.ini      " "(if no variablez was set)"
.fi
.RE
.PP
where environment variable
.B $HOME
is tha userz home directory, and
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is tha user specific configuration directory, and
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS
is a cold-ass lil colon
.B ':'
delimited listed of configuration base directories, such as
.BR /etc/xdg-foo:/etc/xdg .
.PP
The
.I westsideon.ini
file is composed of a fuckin shitload of sections which may be present up in any order, or
omitted ta use default configuration joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Each section has tha form:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BI [ SectionHeader ]
.RI Key1=Value1
.RI Key2=Value2
    ...
.fi
.RE
.PP
Da spaces is significant.
Comment lines is ignored:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.IR "#comment"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Da section headaz are:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BR "core           " "Da core modules"
.BR "shell          " "Desktop customization"
.BR "launcher       " "Add launcher ta tha panel"
.BR "screensaver    " "Screensaver selection"
.BR "output         " "Output configuration"
.BR "input-method   " "Onscreen keyboard input"
.BR "keyboard       " "Keyboard layouts"
.BR "terminal       " "Terminal application options"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Possible value types is string, signed n' unsigned 32-bit
integer, n' boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Strings must not be quoted, do not support any
escape sequences, n' run till tha end of tha line. Integers can
be given up in decimal (e.g. 123), octal (e.g. 0173), n' hexadecimal
(e.g. 0x7b) form. Boolean joints can be only 'true' or 'false'.
.RE
.SH "CORE SECTION"
The
.B core
section is used ta select tha startup compositor modules.
.TP 7
.BI "modules=" desktop-shell.so,xwayland.so
specifies tha modulez ta load (string) fo' realz. Available modulez up in the
.IR "/usr/lib64/weston"
directory are:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR desktop-shell.so
.BR tablet-shell.so
.BR xwayland.so
.fi
.RE
.RS
.PP

.SH "SHELL SECTION"
The
.B shell
section is used ta customize tha compositor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some keys may not be handled by
different shell plugins.
.PP
Da entries dat can step tha fuck up in dis section are:
.TP 7
.BI "background-image=" file
sets tha path fo' tha background image file (string).
.TP 7
.BI "background-type=" tile
determines how tha fuck tha background image is drawn (string). Can be
.BR scale ", " scale-crop " or " tile " (default)."
Scale means scaled ta fit tha output precisely, not preservin aspect ratio.
Scale-crop preserves aspect ratio, scalez tha background image just big
enough ta cover tha output, n' centas dat shit. Da image endz up cropped from
left n' right, or top n' bottom, if tha aspect ratio do not match the
output. Tile repeats tha background image ta fill tha output.
.TP 7
.BI "background-color=" 0xAARRGGBB
sets tha color of tha background (unsigned integer). Da hexadecimal
digit pairs is up in order alpha, red, green, n' blue.
.TP 7
.BI "panel-color=" 0xAARRGGBB
sets tha color of tha panel (unsigned integer). Da hexadecimal
digit pairs is up in order transparency, red, green, n' blue. Examples:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "0xffff0000    " "Red"
.BR "0xff00ff00    " "Green"
.BR "0xff0000ff    " "Blue"
.BR "0x00ffffff    " "Fully transparent"
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "locking=" true
enablez screen lockin (boolean).
.TP 7
.BI "animation=" zoom
sets tha effect used fo' openin freshly smoked up windows (string). Can be
.B zoom,
.B fade.
Otherwise, no animation is used.
.TP 7
.BI "binding-modifier=" ctrl
sets tha modifier key used fo' common bindings (string), like fuckin moving
surfaces, resizing, rotating, switching, closin n' settin tha transparency
for windows, controllin tha backlight n' zoomin tha desktop. Possible joints:
ctrl, alt, supa (default)
.TP 7
.BI "num-workspaces=" 6
defines tha number of workspaces (unsigned integer). Da user can switch
workspaces by rockin the
binding+F1, F2 keys. If dis key aint set, fall back ta one workspace.
.TP 7
.BI "cursor-theme=" theme
sets tha cursor theme (string).
.TP 7
.BI "cursor-size=" 24
sets tha cursor size (unsigned integer).
.TP 7
.BI "lockscreen-icon=" path
sets tha path ta lock screen icon image (string). (tablet shell only)
.TP 7
.BI "lockscreen=" path
sets tha path ta lock screen background image (string). (tablet shell only)
.TP 7
.BI "homescreen=" path
sets tha path ta home screen background image (string). (tablet shell only)
.RE
.SH "LAUNCHER SECTION"
There can be multiple launcher sections, one fo' each launcher.
.TP 7
.BI "icon=" icon
sets tha path ta icon image (string). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Svg images is not currently supported.
.TP 7
.BI "path=" program
sets tha path ta tha program dat is run by clickin on dis launcher (string).
It be possible ta pass arguments n' environment variablez ta tha program. For
example:
.nf
.in +4n

path=GDK_BACKEND=wayland gnome-terminal --full-screen
.in
.fi
.PP
.RE
.SH "SCREENSAVER SECTION"
The
.B screensaver
section is used ta select n' schedule a screensaver.
The
.B screensaver
section is optional, as is all of tha entries dat may be specified in
it.
.TP 7
.BI "path=" /usr/libexec/weston-screensaver
This instructs tha compositor ta use tha selected screensaver client on a given
path (string). If dis line is missin or commented out, tha screensaver in
.B "weston(1)"
is disabled.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "duration=" 600
Da idle time up in secondz until tha screensaver disappears up in order ta save power
(unsigned integer).
.SH "OUTPUT SECTION"
There can be multiple output sections, each correspondin ta one output. Well shiiiit, it is
currently only recognized by tha drm n' x11 backends.
.TP 7
.BI "name=" name
sets a name fo' tha output (string). Da backend uses tha name to
identify tha output fo' realz. All X11 output names start wit a letta X. Da available
output names fo' DRM backend is listed up in the
.B "weston-launch(1)"
output.
Examplez of usage:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "LVDS1    " "DRM backend, Laptop internal panel no.1"
.BR "VGA1     " "DRM backend, VGA connector no.1"
.BR "X1       " "X11 backend, X window no.1"
.fi
.RE
.RS
.PP
See
.B "weston-drm(7)"
for mo' details.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "mode=" mode
sets tha output mode (string). Da mode parameta is handled differently
dependin on tha backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. On tha X11 backend, it just sets tha WIDTHxHEIGHT of
the westsideon window.
Da DRM backend accepts different modes:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "WIDTHxHEIGHT    " "Resolution size width n' height up in pixels"
.BR "preferred       " "Uses tha preferred mode"
.BR "current         " "Uses tha current crt controlla mode"
.BR "off             " "Disablez tha output"
.fi
.RE
.RS
.PP
Optionally, a user may specify a modeline, such as:
.PP
.nf
.in +4n
.nf
173.00  1920 2048 2248 2576  1080 1083 1088 1120 -hsync +vsync
.fi
.in
.PP
It consistz of tha refresh rate up in Hz, horizontal n' vertical resolution,
options fo' horizontal n' vertical synchronisation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da program
.B "cvt(1)"
can provide suitable modeline string.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "transform=" normal
Da transformation applied ta screen output (string). Da transform key can
be one of tha followin 8 strings:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR  "normal        " "Normal output."
.BR  "90            " "90 degrees clockwise."
.BR  "180           " "Upside down."
.BR  "270           " "90 degrees counta clockwise."
.BR  "flipped       " "Horizontally flipped"
.BR  "flipped-90    " "Flipped n' 90 degrees clockwise"
.BR  "flipped-180   " "Flipped upside down"
.BR  "flipped-270   " "Flipped n' 90 degrees counta clockwise"
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "seat=" name
Da logical seat name dat that dis output should be associated with. If this
is set then tha seatz input is ghon be confined ta tha output dat has tha seat
set on dat shit. Da expectation is dat dis functionalitizzle is ghon be used up in a
multiheaded environment wit a single compositor fo' multiple output n' input
configurations. Da default seat is called "default" n' will always be
present. This seat can be constrained like any other.
.RE
.SH "INPUT-METHOD SECTION"
.TP 7
.BI "path=" "/usr/libexec/weston-keyboard"
sets tha path of tha on screen keyboard input method (string).
.RE
.RE
.SH "KEYBOARD SECTION"
This section gotz nuff tha followin keys:
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_rules=" "evdev"
sets tha keymap rulez file (string). Used ta map layout n' model ta input
device.
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_model=" "pc105"
sets tha keymap model (string). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Models section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_layout=" "us,de,gb"
sets tha comma separated list of keyboard layout codes (string). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
Layouts section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_variant=" "euro,,intl"
sets tha comma separated list of keyboard layout variants (string). Da number
of variants must be tha same as tha number of layouts above. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Layouts
section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_options=" "grp:alt_shift_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
sets tha keymap options (string). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Options section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.SH "TERMINAL SECTION"
Gotz Nuff settings fo' tha westsideon terminal application (weston-terminal). It
allows ta customize tha font n' shell of tha command line intercourse.
.TP 7
.BI "font=" "DejaVu Sans Mono"
sets tha font of tha terminal (string). For a phat experience it is recommend
to use monospace fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. In case tha font aint found, tha default one is used.
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "font-size=" "14"
sets tha size of tha terminal font (unsigned integer).
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "term=" "xterm-256color"
Da terminal shell (string). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sets tha $TERM variable.
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR westsideon (1),
.BR westsideon-launch (1),
.BR westsideon-drm (7),
.BR xkeyboard-config (7)
