.TH WVDIAL.CONF 5 "December 2005" "WvDial"
.\"
.SH NAME
wvdial.conf \- wvdial configuration file
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
When
.B wvdial
starts, it first loadz its configuration from
.IR /etc/wvdial.conf ,
which gotz nuff basic shiznit bout tha modem port, speed, n' init
string, along wit shiznit bout yo' Internizzle Service Provider (ISP),
like fuckin tha beeper number, yo' username, n' yo' password.
.sp
Da configuration file
.I /etc/wvdial.conf
is up in Windows "ini" file format, with
.B sections
named up in square brackets n' a number of
.B variable = value
pairs within each section.
.PP
Here be a sample configuration file:
.PP
.RS
[Diala Defaults]
.br
Modem = /dev/ttyS2
.br
Baud = 57600
.br
Init = ATZ
.br
Init2 = AT S11=50
.br
Phone = 555-4242
.br
Username = apenwarr
.br
Password = my-password
.sp
[Diala phone2]
.br
Phone = 555-4243
.sp
[Diala shh]
.br
Init3 = ATM0
.sp
[Diala pulse]
.br
Dial Command = ATDP
.RE
.PP
Da sample configuration file above gotz nuff all of tha options
necessary ta run tha two sample command lines given above.  Here be a
complete list of settings that
.B wvdial
understands:
.TP
.I Modem
Da location of tha thang that
.B wvdial
should use as yo' modem.  Da default is
.BR /dev/modem .
.TP
.I Baud
Da speed at which
.B wvdial
will rap wit yo' modem.  Da default is 57600 baud.
.TP
.I "Init1 ... Init9"
.B wvdial
can use up ta nine initialization strings ta set up yo' modem.  Before
dialing, these strings is busted ta tha modem up in numerical order n' shit.  These are
particularly useful when specifyin multiple sections.  See above fo' an
example dat uses Init3 ta turn tha modemz speaker off.  Da default is
"ATZ" fo' Init1.
.TP
.I Phone
Da beeper number you want
.B wvdial
to dial. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Yo ass can add up ta 9 other beeper numbers that
.B wvdial
will dial up in order, by adding:
.TP
.I Phone1
.TP
.I Phone2
.TP
.I Phone3
.TP
.I Phone4
.TP
.I Phone5
.TP
.I Phone6
.TP
.I Phone7
.TP
.I Phone8
.TP
.I Phone9
.TP
.I Dial Prefix
.B wvdial
will bang dis strang afta tha dial command n' before tha beeper number.
For example, ta disable call waitin (in Uptown America, anyway) set
this ta "*70,".
.TP
.I Dial Command
.B wvdial
will use dis strang ta tell tha modem ta dial. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Da default is "ATDT".
.TP
.I Username
Yo ass must set dis ta tha username you use at yo' ISP.
.TP
.I Login Prompt
If yo' ISP has a unusual login procedure that
.B wvdial
is unable ta figure out, you can use dis option ta specify a
login prompt.  When dis prompt is received from yo' ISP,
.B wvdial
will bust the
.B Login
string.
.TP
.I Password
Yo ass must set dis ta tha password you use at yo' ISP.
.TP
.I Ask Password
By settin dis option
.B wvdial
will prompt fo' yo' password on every last muthafuckin dialin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Thus you don't gotta save
your password in
.IR /etc/wvdial.conf .
(Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I Password Prompt
If yo' ISP has a unusual login procedure that
.B wvdial
is unable ta figure out, you can use dis option ta specify a
password prompt.   When dis prompt is received from you ISP,
.B wvdial
will bust the
.B Password
string.
.TP
.I PPPD Path
If yo' system has pppd somewhere other than
.BR "/usr/sbin/pppd" ,
you will need ta set dis option.
.TP
.I Auto DNS
Try ta git tha Domain Nameserver (DNS) from tha provider n' shit.  This option is "on"
by default.  (Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I Peep DNS
Peep tha Domain Nameserver (DNS) afta tha connection has been set
up.  This option is "on" by default.  (Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I DNS Test1
First DNS lookup fo' DNS check.  (Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I DNS Test2
Second DNS lookup fo' DNS check.  (Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I Peep Def Route
Peep tha default route afta tha connection has been set
up.  This option is "on" by default.  (Option added by SuSE.)
.TP
.I Force Address
This option only applies if you gotz a static IP address at yo' ISP, and
even then you probably don't need dat shit.  Some ISPz don't bust tha IP address
as part of tha PPP negotiation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option forces pppd ta use tha address
you give dat shit.
.TP
.I Remote Name
If yo' ISP uses PAP or CHAP authentication, you might need ta chizzle this
to yo' ISPz authentication name.  In most cases, however, itz safe ta use
the default value, "*".
.TP
.I Carrier Check
.B wvdial
checks yo' modem durin tha connection process ta ensure dat it be actually
online.  If you gotz a weird modem dat insists its carrier line be always
down, you can disable tha carrier check by settin dis option ta "no".
.TP
.I Stupid Mode
When
.B wvdial
is up in Stupid Mode, it do not attempt ta interpret any prompts from the
terminal server n' shit.  It starts pppd immediately afta tha modem connects.
Apparently there be ISPz dat straight-up hit you wit a login prompt yo, but
work only if you start PPP, rather than loggin in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Go figure.  Stupid
Mode is (naturally) disabled by default.
.TP
.I New PPPD
Yo ass need dis option if you have pppd version 2.3.0 or newer, ta make
wvdial create tha file
.BR /etc/ppp/peers/wvdial .
This option is enabled by default, thus if you have olda pppd you need
to set it ta `no' (or upgrade pppd).
.TP
.I Default Reply
When
.B wvdial
detects a prompt, n' it aint peeped any clues dat indicate what tha fuck it should
send as a response ta tha prompt, it defaults ta bustin  "ppp".  Sometimes
this is inadequate.  Use dis option ta override
.BR wvdial 's
default prompt response.
.TP
.I Auto Reconnect
If enabled,
.B wvdial
will attempt ta automatically reestablish a cold-ass lil connection if yo ass is
randomly disconnected by tha other side.
This option is "on" by default.
.TP
.I Idle Seconds
Set tha hangup timeout up in seconds.  If there is inactivitizzle fo' tha given
time tha connection is shut down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A hangup timeout of 0 disablez this
feature.
.TP
.I Abort on Busy
If enabled,
.B wvdial
will not retry tha connection if tha modem say dat tha line be jumpin' off tha hook.
This option is "off" by default.
.TP
.I Abort on No Dialtone
If enabled,
.B wvdial
will not retry tha connection if tha modem say dat there is no dialtone.
This option is "on" by default.
.TP
.I Dial Attempts
If value is set,
.B wvdial
will quit afta dat nuff tries .If set ta 0,
.B wvdial
will happily keep diallin alllll muthafuckin day.
.TP
.I Dial Timeout
Da maximum time up in secondz that
.B wvdial
will wait fo' a cold-ass lil connection ta be made. Default value is 60 seconds.
.PP
The
.BR wvdialconf (1)
program can be used ta detect yo' modem n' fill up in tha Modem, Baud,
and Init/Init2 options automatically.
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
Dizzle Coombs n' Avery Pennarun fo' Net Integration Technologies Inc.
Great contributions done been made by nuff people, includin SuSE and
RedHat. Thanks muthafuckas!
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR wvdial (1),
.BR wvdialconf (1),
.BR pppd (8).
