.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-22 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1993-08-10 by Alan Cox <iiitac@pyramid.swansea.ac.uk>
.\" Modified 1998-11-04 by Tigran Aivazian <tigran@sco.com>
.\" Modified 2004-05-27, 2004-06-17, 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.TH ACCT 2 2008-06-16 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
acct \- switch process accountin on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int acct(const char *" filename );
.fi
.ad b
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR acct ():
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR acct ()
system call enablez or disablez process accounting.
If called wit tha name of a existin file as its argument,
accountin is turned on,
and recordz fo' each terminatin process is appended to
.I filename
as it terminates.
An argument of NULL causes accountin ta be turned off.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Write permission is denied fo' tha specified file,
or search permission is denied fo' one of tha directories
in tha path prefix of
.I filename
(see also
.BR path_resolution (7)),
or
.I filename
is not a regular file.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I filename
points outside yo' accessible address space.
.TP
.B EIO
Error freestylin ta tha file
.IR filename .
.TP
.B EISDIR
.I filename
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too nuff symbolic links was encountered up in resolving
.IR filename .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I filename
was too long.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system limit on tha total number of open filez has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Da specified filename do not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
BSD process accountin has not been enabled when tha operatin system
kernel was compiled.
Da kernel configuration parameta controllin dis feature is
.BR CONFIG_BSD_PROCESS_ACCT .
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component used as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory in
.I filename
is not up in fact a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process has insufficient privilege ta enable process accounting.
On Linux the
.B CAP_SYS_PACCT
capabilitizzle is required.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I filename
refers ta a gangbangin' file on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EUSERS
There is no mo' free file structures or we ran outta memory.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD (but not POSIX).
.\" SVr4 documents a EBUSY error condizzle yo, but no EISDIR or ENOSYS.
.\" Also AIX n' HP-UX document EBUSY (attempt is made
.\" ta enable accountin when it be already enabled), as do Solaris
.\" (attempt is made ta enable accountin rockin tha same file dat is
.\" currently bein used).
.SH NOTES
No accountin is produced fo' programs hustlin when a system crash occurs.
In particular, nonterminatin processes is never accounted for.

Da structure of tha recordz freestyled ta tha accountin file is busted lyrics bout in
.BR acct (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acct (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
