.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"             n' Copyright (C) 1993 Mike Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 03:46:05 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH ALARM 2 2013-04-18 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
alarm \- set a alarm clock fo' delivery of a signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int alarm(unsigned int " secondz );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR alarm ()
arranges fo' a
.B SIGALRM
signal ta be served up ta tha callin process in
.I seconds
seconds.

If
.I seconds
is zero, any pendin alarm is canceled.

In any event any previously set
.BR alarm ()
is canceled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR alarm ()
returns tha number of secondz remainin until any previously scheduled
alarm was cuz of be delivered, or zero if there was no previously
scheduled alarm.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
.BR alarm ()
and
.BR setitimer (2)
share tha same timer; calls ta one will interfere wit use of the
other.
.PP
.BR chill (3)
may be implemented using
.BR SIGALRM ;
mixin calls to
.BR alarm ()
and
.BR chill (3)
is a wack idea.

Schedulin delays can, as ever, cause tha execution of tha process to
be delayed by a arbitrary amount of time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gettimeofdizzle (2),
.BR pause (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR chill (3),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
