.\" Written by Ralf Baechle (ralf@waldorf-gmbh.de),
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, 1995 Waldorf GMBH
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CACHEFLUSH 2 2007-05-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
cacheflush \- flush contentz of instruction and/or data cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <asm/cachectl.h>
.sp
.BI "int cacheflush(char *" addr ", int "nbytes ", int "cache );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR cacheflush ()
flushes tha contentz of tha indicated cache(s) fo' the
user addresses up in tha range
.I addr
to
.IR (addr+nbytes-1) .
.I cache
may be one of:
.TP
.B ICACHE
Flush tha instruction cache.
.TP
.B DCACHE
Write back ta memory n' invalidate tha affected valid cache lines.
.TP
.B BCACHE
Same as
.BR (ICACHE|DCACHE) .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR cacheflush ()
returns 0 on success or \-1 on error.
If errors is detected,
.I errno
will indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Some or all of tha address range
.I addr
to
.I (addr+nbytes-1)
is not accessible.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I cache
is not one of
.BR ICACHE ,
.BR DCACHE ,
or
.BR BCACHE .
.SH CONFORMING TO
This Linux-specific system call be available only on MIPS-based systems.
.\" FIXME This system call was only on MIPS back up in 1.2 days yo, but
.\" by now it is on a fuckin shitload of other architectures (but not i386).
.\" Investigate tha details n' update dis page.
It should not be used up in programs intended ta be portable.
.\" Irix 6.5 appears ta git a cold-ass lil cacheflush() syscall -- mtk
.SH BUGS
Da current implementation ignores the
.I addr
and
.I nbytes
arguments.
Therefore, tha whole cache be always flushed.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
