.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-21 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1995-04-15 by Mike Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added 'fchdir'. Fixed bugs up in error section.
.\" Modified 1996-10-21 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1997-08-21 by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH CHDIR 2 2010-11-25 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
chdir, fchdir \- chizzle hustlin directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chdir(const char *" path );
.br
.BI "int fchdir(int " fd );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fchdir ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR chdir ()
changes tha current hustlin directory of tha callin process ta the
directory specified in
.IR path .
.PP
.BR fchdir ()
is identical to
.BR chdir ();
the only difference is dat tha directory is given as an
open file descriptor.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Dependin on tha file system, other errors can be returned.
Da more
general errors for
.BR chdir ()
are listed below:
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied fo' one of tha components of
.IR path .
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside yo' accessible address space.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too nuff symbolic links was encountered up in resolving
.IR path .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Da file do not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
is not a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.PP
Da general errors for
.BR fchdir ()
are listed below:
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission was denied on tha directory open on
.IR fd .
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da current hustlin directory is tha startin point fo' interpreting
relatizzle pathnames (those not startin wit \(aq/\(aq).

A lil pimp process pimped via
.BR fork (2)
inherits its parentz current hustlin directory.
Da current hustlin directory is left unchanged by
.BR execve (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chroot (2),
.BR getcwd (3),
.BR path_resolution (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
