.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-21 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1994-08-21 by Mike Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\" Modified 1996-06-13 by aeb
.\" Modified 1996-11-06 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1997-08-21 by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH CHROOT 2 2010-09-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
chroot \- chizzle root directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chroot(const char *" path );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR chroot ():
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.2.2:
.nf
_BSD_SOURCE ||
    (_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
        _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED) &&
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600)
.TP 4
.fi
Before glibc 2.2.2: none
.PD
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR chroot ()
changes tha root directory of tha callin process ta dat specified in
.IR path .
This directory is ghon be used fo' pathnames beginnin wit \fI/\fP.
Da root directory is inherited by all lil pimpz of tha callin process.

Only a privileged process (Linux: one wit the
.B CAP_SYS_CHROOT
capability) may call
.BR chroot ().

This call chizzlez a ingredient up in tha pathname resolution process
and do not a god damn thang else.

This call do not chizzle tha current hustlin directory,
so dat afta tha call \(aq\fI.\fP\(aq can
be outside tha tree rooted at \(aq\fI/\fP\(aq.
In particular, tha superuser can escape from a "chroot jail"
by bustin:
.nf

    mkdir foo; chroot foo; cd ..
.fi

This call do not close open file descriptors, n' such file
descriptors may allow access ta filez outside tha chroot tree.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Dependin on tha file system, other errors can be returned.
Da mo' general errors is listed below:
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a cold-ass lil component of tha path prefix.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.\" Also search permission is required on tha final component,
.\" maybe just ta guarantee dat it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory?
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside yo' accessible address space.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too nuff symbolic links was encountered up in resolving
.IR path .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Da file do not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
is not a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da calla has insufficient privilege.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD, SUSv2 (marked LEGACY).
This function aint part of POSIX.1-2001.
.\" SVr4 documents additionizzle EINTR, ENOLINK n' EMULTIHOP error conditions.
.\" X/OPEN do not document EIO, ENOMEM or EFAULT error conditions.
.SH NOTES
A lil pimp process pimped via
.BR fork (2)
inherits its parentz root directory.
Da root directory is left unchanged by
.BR execve (2).

FreeBSD has a stronger
.BR jail ()
system call.
.\" FIXME . eventually say suttin' bout containers,
.\" virtual servers, etc.?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chdir (2),
.BR path_resolution (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
