.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"             n' Copyright (C) 1993 Mike Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:40:25 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sat Feb 18 15:27:48 1995 by Mike Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Apr 14 11:40:50 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   erected description of effect on locks (thanks to
.\"   Tigran Aivazian <tigran@sco.com>).
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:21:46 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"   added note bout close(2) not guaranteein dat data is safe on close.
.\"
.TH CLOSE 2 2007-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
close \- close a gangbangin' file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int close(int " fd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR close ()
closes a gangbangin' file descriptor, so dat it no longer refers ta any file and
may be reused.
Any record locks (see
.BR fcntl (2))
held on tha file dat shiznit was associated with,
and owned by tha process, is removed (regardless of tha file
descriptor dat was used ta obtain tha lock).
.PP
If
.I fd
is tha last file descriptor referrin ta tha underlying
open file description (see
.BR open (2)),
the resources associated wit tha open file description is freed;
if tha descriptor was tha last reference ta a gangbangin' file which has been
removed using
.BR unlink (2)
the file is deleted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR close ()
returns zero on success.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
aint a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINTR
The
.BR close ()
call was interrupted by a signal; see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.\" SVr4 documents a additionizzle ENOLINK error condition.
.SH NOTES
Not checkin tha return value of
.BR close ()
is a cold-ass lil common but nevertheless
serious programmin error.
It be like possible dat errors on a
previous
.BR write (2)
operation is first reported all up in tha final
.BR close ().
Not checkin tha return value when closin tha file may lead to
silent loss of data.
This can especially be observed wit NFS
and wit disk quota.
.PP
A successful close do not guarantee dat tha data has been successfully
saved ta disk, as tha kernel defers writes.
It aint common fo' a gangbangin' file system
to flush tha buffers when tha stream is closed.
If you need ta be shizzle that
the data is physically stored use
.BR fsync (2).
(It will depend on tha disk hardware at dis point.)
.PP
It be probably unwise ta close file descriptors while
they may be up in use by system calls in
other threadz up in tha same process.
Since a gangbangin' file descriptor may be reused,
there is some obscure race conditions
that may cause unintended side effects.
.PP
When dealin wit sockets, you gotta be shizzle dat there is no
.BR recv (2)
still blockin on it on another thread, otherwise it might block forever,
since no mo' lyrics is ghon be bust via tha socket. Be shizzle ta use
.BR shutdown (2)
to shut down all parts tha connection before closin tha socket.
.\" Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2007 13:57:35 +0200
.\" From: Fredrik Norin <noring@nocrew.org>
.\" One such race involves signals n' ERESTARTSYS. If a gangbangin' file descriptor
.\" up in use by a system call is closed n' then reused by e.g. an
.\" independent open() up in some unrelated thread, before tha original gangsta system
.\" call has restared afta ERESTARTSYS, tha original gangsta system call will
.\" lata restart wit tha reused file descriptor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This is most likely a
.\" straight-up programmin error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR fclose (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
