.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which do not have
.\" any authorshizzle shiznit up in dat shit.  It be probably available under tha GPL.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions is from tha 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 playa page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"     This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"     California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998, 1999 by Andi Kleen
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH CONNECT 2 2008-12-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
connect \- initiate a cold-ass lil connection on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <sys/types.h>" "          /* See NOTES */"
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int connect(int " sockfd ", const struct sockaddr *" addr ,
.BI "            socklen_t " addrlen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR connect ()
system call connects tha socket referred ta by tha file descriptor
.I sockfd
to tha address specified by
.IR addr .
The
.I addrlen
argument specifies tha size of
.IR addr .
Da format of tha address in
.I addr
is determined by tha address space of tha socket
.IR sockfd ;
see
.BR socket (2)
for further details.

If tha socket
.I sockfd
iz of type
.B SOCK_DGRAM
then
.I addr
is tha address ta which datagrams is busted by default, n' tha only
address from which datagrams is received.
If tha socket iz of type
.B SOCK_STREAM
or
.BR SOCK_SEQPACKET ,
this call attempts ta cook up a cold-ass lil connection ta tha socket dat is bound
to tha address specified by
.IR addr .
.PP
Generally, connection-based protocol sockets may successfully
.BR connect ()
only once; connectionless protocol sockets may use
.BR connect ()
multiple times ta chizzle they association.
Connectionless sockets may
dissolve tha association by connectin ta a address wit the
.I sa_family
gangmember of
.I sockaddr
set to
.BR AF_UNSPEC
(supported on Linux since kernel 2.2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha connection or bindin succeeds, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Da followin is general socket errors only.
There may be other domain-specific error codes.
.TP
.B EACCES
For UNIX domain sockets, which is identified by pathname:
Write permission is denied on tha socket file,
or search permission is denied fo' one of tha directories
in tha path prefix.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.BR EACCES ", " EPERM
Da user tried ta connect ta a funky-ass broadcast address without havin tha socket
broadcast flag enabled or tha connection request failed cuz of a local
firewall rule.
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Local address be already up in use.
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
Da passed address didn't have tha erect address crew up in its
.I sa_family
field.
.TP
.B EADDRNOTAVAIL
Non-existent intercourse was axed or tha axed address was not local.
.TP
.B EALREADY
Da socket is nonblockin n' a previous connection attempt has not yet
been completed.
.TP
.B EBADF
Da file descriptor aint a valid index up in tha descriptor table.
.TP
.B ECONNREFUSED
No-one listenin on tha remote address.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Da socket structure address is outside tha userz address space.
.TP
.B EINPROGRESS
Da socket is nonblockin n' tha connection cannot be completed
immediately.
It be possible to
.BR select (2)
or
.BR poll (2)
for completion by selectin tha socket fo' writing.
After
.BR select (2)
indicates writability, use
.BR getsockopt (2)
to read the
.B SO_ERROR
option at level
.B SOL_SOCKET
to determine whether
.BR connect ()
completed successfully
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is zero) or unsuccessfully
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is one of tha usual error codes listed here,
explainin tha reason fo' tha failure).
.TP
.B EINTR
Da system call was interrupted by a signal dat was caught; see
.BR signal (7).
.\" For TCP, tha connection will complete asynchronously.
.\" See http://lkml.org/lkml/2005/7/12/254
.TP
.B EISCONN
Da socket be already connected.
.TP
.B ENETUNREACH
Network is unreachable.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Da file descriptor aint associated wit a socket.
.TP
.B ETIMEDOUT
Timeout while attemptin connection.
Da server may be too
busy ta accept freshly smoked up connections.
Note dat fo' IP sockets tha timeout may
be straight-up long when syncookies is enabled on tha server.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD, (the
.BR connect ()
function first rocked up in 4.2BSD), POSIX.1-2001.
.\" SVr4 documents tha additional
.\" general error codes
.\" .BR EADDRNOTAVAIL ,
.\" .BR EINVAL ,
.\" .BR EAFNOSUPPORT ,
.\" .BR EALREADY ,
.\" .BR EINTR ,
.\" .BR EPROTOTYPE ,
.\" and
.\" .BR ENOSR .
.\" It also
.\" documents nuff additionizzle error conditions not busted lyrics bout here.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1-2001 do not require tha inclusion of
.IR <sys/types.h> ,
and dis header file aint required on Linux.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat some oldschool (BSD) implementations required dis header
file, n' portable applications is probably wise ta include dat shit.

Da third argument of
.BR connect ()
is up in realitizzle an
.I int
(and dis is what tha fuck 4.x BSD n' libc4 n' libc5 have).
Some POSIX mad drama resulted up in tha present
.IR socklen_t ,
also used by glibc.
See also
.BR accept (2).
.SH EXAMPLE
An example of tha use of
.BR connect ()
is shown in
.BR getaddrinfo (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR path_resolution (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
