.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2006-02-09, some reformattin by Luc Van Oostenryck; some
.\" reformattin n' rewordings by mtk
.\"
.TH CREATE_MODULE 2 2012-10-18 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
create_module \- create a loadable module entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/module.h>
.sp
.BI "caddr_t create_module(const char *" name ", size_t " size );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Note :
This system call is present only up in kernels before Linux 2.6.

.BR create_module ()
attempts ta create a loadable module entry n' reserve tha kernel memory
that is ghon be needed ta hold tha module.
This system call requires privilege.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, returns tha kernel address at which tha module will reside.
On error \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EEXIST
A module by dat name already exists.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
is outside tha programz accessible address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da axed size is too lil' small-ass even fo' tha module header shiznit.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Da kernel could not allocate a cold-ass lil contiguous block of memory large
enough fo' tha module.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR create_module ()
is not supported up in dis version of tha kernel
(e.g., tha kernel is version 2.6 or later).
.TP
.B EPERM
Da calla was not privileged
(did not have the
.B CAP_SYS_MODULE
capability).
.SH VERSIONS
This system call is present on Linux only up until kernel 2.4;
it was removed up in Linux 2.6.
.\" Removed up in Linux 2.5.48
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR create_module ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR delete_module (2),
.BR init_module (2),
.BR query_module (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
