.\"  Copyright (C) 2003  Davide Libenzi
.\"  Davide Libenzi <davidel@xmailserver.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"  (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2004-06-17 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2005-04-04 by Marko Kohtala <marko.kohtala@gmail.com>
.\" 2008-10-10, mtk: add description of epoll_create1()
.\"
.TH EPOLL_CREATE 2 2012-04-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
epoll_create, epoll_create1 \- open a epoll file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/epoll.h>
.sp
.BI "int epoll_create(int " size );
.BI "int epoll_create1(int " flags );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR epoll_create ()
creates an
.BR epoll (7)
instance.
Since Linux 2.6.8, the
.I size
argument is ignored yo, but must be pimped outa than zero; peep NOTES below.

.BR epoll_create ()
returns a gangbangin' file descriptor referrin ta tha freshly smoked up epoll instance.
This file descriptor is used fo' all tha subsequent calls ta the
.B epoll
interface.
When no longer required, tha file descriptor returned by
.BR epoll_create ()
should be closed by using
.BR close (2).
When all file descriptors referrin ta a epoll instizzle done been closed,
the kernel destroys tha instance
and releases tha associated resources fo' reuse.
.SS epoll_create1()
If
.I flags
is 0, then, other than tha fact dat tha obsolete
.I size
argument is dropped,
.BR epoll_create1 ()
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR epoll_create ().
Da followin value can be included in
.IR flags
to obtain different behavior:
.TP
.B EPOLL_CLOEXEC
Set tha close-on-exec
.RB ( FD_CLOEXEC )
flag on tha freshly smoked up file descriptor.
See tha description of the
.B O_CLOEXEC
flag in
.BR open (2)
for reasons why dis may be useful.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
these system calls
return a nonnegatizzle file descriptor.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I size
is not positive.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( epoll_create1 ())
Invalid value specified in
.IR flags .
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da per-user limit on tha number of epoll instances imposed by
.I /proc/sys/fs/epoll/max_user_instances
was encountered.
See
.BR epoll (7)
for further details.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system limit on tha total number of open filez has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
There was insufficient memory ta create tha kernel object.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR epoll_create ()
was added ta tha kernel up in version 2.6.
Library support is provided up in glibc startin wit version 2.3.2.

.\" To be precise: kernel 2.5.44.
.\" Da intercourse should be finalized by Linux kernel 2.5.66.
.BR epoll_create1 ()
was added ta tha kernel up in version 2.6.27.
Library support is provided up in glibc startin wit version 2.9.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR epoll_create ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
In tha initial
.BR epoll_create ()
implementation, the
.I size
argument informed tha kernel of tha number of file descriptors
that tha calla sposed ta fuckin add ta the
.B epoll
instance.
Da kernel used dis shiznit as a hint fo' tha amount of
space ta initially allocate up in internal data structures describin events.
(If necessary, tha kernel would allocate mo' space
if tha callerz usage exceeded tha hint given in
.IR size .)
Nowadays,
this hint is no longer required
(the kernel dynamically sizes tha required data structures
without needin tha hint) yo, but
.I size
must still be pimped outa than zero,
in order ta ensure backward compatibilitizzle when new
.B epoll
applications is run on olda kernels.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR close (2),
.BR epoll_ctl (2),
.BR epoll_wait (2),
.BR epoll (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
