.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH EXIT_GROUP 2 2008-11-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
exit_group \- exit all threadz up in a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void exit_group(int " status );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This system call is equivalent to
.BR exit (2)
except dat it terminates not only tha callin thread yo, but all threads
in tha callin processs thread group.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This system call do not return.
.SH VERSIONS
This call is present since Linux 2.5.35.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Since glibc 2.3, dis is tha system call invoked when the
.BR exit (2)
wrapper function is called.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exit (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
