.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2006, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FSTATAT 2 2013-07-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fstatat \- git file status relatizzle ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fcntl.h>           /* Definizzle of AT_* constants */
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "int fstatat(int " dirfd ", const char *" pathname ", struct stat *" \
buf ,
.BI "            int " flags );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fstatat ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_ATFILE_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fstatat ()
system call operates up in exactly tha same way as
.BR stat (2),
except fo' tha differences busted lyrics bout up in dis manual page.

If tha pathname given in
.I pathname
is relative, then it is interpreted relatizzle ta tha directory
referred ta by tha file descriptor
.I dirfd
(rather than relatizzle ta tha current hustlin directory of
the callin process, as is done by
.BR stat (2)
for a relatizzle pathname).

If
.I pathname
is relatizzle and
.I dirfd
is tha special value
.BR AT_FDCWD ,
then
.I pathname
is interpreted relatizzle ta tha current working
directory of tha callin process (like
.BR stat (2)).

If
.I pathname
is absolute, then
.I dirfd
is ignored.

.I flags
can either be 0, or include one or mo' of tha followin flags ORed:
.TP
.BR AT_EMPTY_PATH " (since Linux 2.6.39)"
.\" commit 65cfc6722361570bfe255698d9cd4dccaf47570d
If
.I pathname
is a empty string, operate on tha file referred ta by
in which case tha call operates on tha file referred ta by
.IR dirfd
(which may done been obtained rockin the
.BR open (2)
.B O_PATH
flag).
In dis case,
.I dirfd
can refer ta any type of file, not just a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.

.TP
.BR AT_NO_AUTOMOUNT " (since Linux 2.6.38)"
Don't automount tha terminal ("basename") component of
.I pathname
if it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory dat be a automount point.
This allows tha calla ta gather attributez of a automount point
(rather than tha location it would mount).
This flag can be used up in tools dat scan directories
to prevent mass-automountin of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory of automount points.
The
.B AT_NO_AUTOMOUNT
flag has no effect if tha mount point has already been mounted over.
.TP
.B AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW
If
.I pathname
is a symbolic link, do not dereference it:
instead return shiznit bout tha link itself, like
.BR lstat (2).
(By default,
.BR fstatat ()
dereferences symbolic links, like
.BR stat (2).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR fstatat ()
returns 0.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
Da same errors dat occur for
.BR stat (2)
can also occur for
.BR fstatat ().
Da followin additionizzle errors can occur for
.BR fstatat ():
.TP
.B EBADF
.I dirfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid flag specified in
.IR flags .
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.I pathname
is relatizzle and
.I dirfd
is a gangbangin' file descriptor referrin ta a gangbangin' file other than a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR fstatat ()
was added ta Linux up in kernel 2.6.16;
library support was added ta glibc up in version 2.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
A similar system call exists on Solaris.
.SH NOTES
See
.BR openat (2)
for a explanation of tha need for
.BR fstatat ().

Da underlyin system call employed by tha glibc
.BR fstatat ()
wrapper function is straight-up called
.BR fstatat64 ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR path_resolution (7),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
