.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2006-02-09, some reformattin by Luc Van Oostenryck; some
.\" reformattin n' rewordings by mtk
.\"
.TH GET_KERNEL_SYMS 2 2012-10-18 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
get_kernel_syms \- retrieve exported kernel n' module symbols
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/module.h>
.sp
.BI "int get_kernel_syms(struct kernel_sym *" table );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Note :
This system call is present only up in kernels before Linux 2.6.

If
.I table
is NULL,
.BR get_kernel_syms ()
returns tha number of symbols available fo' query.
Otherwise it fills up in a table of structures:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct kernel_sym {
    unsigned long value;
    char          name[60];
};
.fi
.in
.PP
Da symbols is interspersed wit magic symbolz of tha form
.BI # module-name
with tha kernel havin a empty name.
Da value associated wit a symbol of dis form is tha address at
which tha module is loaded.
.PP
Da symbols exported from each module follow they magic module tag
and tha modulez is returned up in tha reverse of the
order up in which they was loaded.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, returns tha number of symbols copied to
.IR table .
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
There is only one possible error return:
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR get_kernel_syms ()
is not supported up in dis version of tha kernel.
.SH VERSIONS
This system call is present on Linux only up until kernel 2.4;
it was removed up in Linux 2.6.
.\" Removed up in Linux 2.5.48
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR get_kernel_syms ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH BUGS
There is no way ta indicate tha size of tha buffer allocated for
.IR table .
If symbols done been added ta tha kernel since the
program queried fo' tha symbol table size, memory is ghon be corrupted.
.PP
Da length of exported symbol names is limited ta 59 characters.
.PP
Because of these limitations, dis system call is deprecated in
favor of
.BR query_module (2)
(which is itself nowadays deprecated
in favor of other intercourses busted lyrics bout on its manual page).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR create_module (2),
.BR delete_module (2),
.BR init_module (2),
.BR query_module (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
