.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" Written by Kent Yoder.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GET_THREAD_AREA 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
get_thread_area \- git a thread-local storage (TLS) area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <asm/ldt.h>
.sp
.BI "int get_thread_area(struct user_desc *" u_info );

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR get_thread_area ()
returns a entry up in tha current threadz thread-local storage (TLS) array.
Da index of tha entry correspondz ta tha value
of \fIu_info\->entry_number\fP, passed up in by tha user.
If tha value is up in bounds,
.BR get_thread_area ()
copies tha corresponding
TLS entry tha fuck into tha area pointed ta by \fIu_info\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR get_thread_area ()
returns 0 on success.
Otherwise, it returns \-1 n' sets
.I errno
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
\fIu_info\fP be a invalid pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIu_info\->entry_number\fP is outta bounds.
.SH VERSIONS
A version of
.BR get_thread_area ()
first rocked up in Linux 2.5.32.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR get_thread_area ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs
that is intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call,
since it is generally intended fo' use only by threadin libraries.
In tha unlikely event dat you wanna call it directly, use
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR modify_ldt (2),
.BR set_thread_area (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
