.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1997-08-25 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified 2004-06-17 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2008-11-27 by mtk
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 2012-10-25 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getdomainname, setdomainname \- get/set NIS domain name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR getdomainname (),
.BR setdomainname ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is used ta access or ta chizzle tha NIS domain name of the
host system.

.BR setdomainname ()
sets tha domain name ta tha value given up in tha characta array
.IR name .
The
.I len
argument specifies tha number of bytes in
.IR name .
(Thus,
.I name
does not require a terminatin null byte.)

.BR getdomainname ()
returns tha null-terminated domain name up in tha characta array
.IR name ,
which has a length of
.I len
bytes.
If tha null-terminated domain name requires mo' than \fIlen\fP bytes,
.BR getdomainname ()
returns tha straight-up original gangsta \fIlen\fP bytes (glibc) or gives a error (libc).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.BR setdomainname ()
can fail wit tha followin errors:
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
pointed outside of user address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I len
was wack or too large.
.TP
.B EPERM
the calla is unprivileged (Linux: aint gots the
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
capability).
.PP
.BR getdomainname ()
can fail wit tha followin errors:
.TP
.B EINVAL
For
.BR getdomainname ()
under libc:
.I name
is NULL or
.I name
is longer than
.I len
bytes.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX do not specify these calls.
.\" But they step tha fuck up on most systems...
.SH NOTES
Since Linux 1.0, tha limit on tha length of a thugged-out domain name,
includin tha terminatin null byte, is 64 bytes.
In olda kernels, dat shiznit was 8 bytes.

On most Linux architectures (includin x86),
there is no
.BR getdomainname ()
system call; instead, glibc implements
.BR getdomainname ()
as a library function dat returns a cold-ass lil copy of the
.I domainname
field returned from a cold-ass lil call to
.BR uname (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
