.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETGID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getgid, getegid \- git crew identity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B gid_t getgid(void);
.br
.B gid_t getegid(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getgid ()
returns tha real crew ID of tha callin process.

.BR getegid ()
returns tha effectizzle crew ID of tha callin process.
.SH ERRORS
These functions is always successful.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
Da original gangsta Linux
.BR getgid ()
and
.BR getegid ()
system calls supported only 16-bit crew IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR getgid32 ()
and
.BR getegid32 (),
supportin 32-bit IDs.
Da glibc
.BR getgid ()
and
.BR getegid ()
wrapper functions transparently deal wit tha variations across kernel versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getresgid (2),
.BR setgid (2),
.BR setregid (2),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
