.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1995-07-22 by Mike Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   'gethostname' is real system call on Linux/Alpha.
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2000-06-04, 2001-12-15 by aeb
.\" Modified 2004-06-17 by mtk
.\" Modified 2008-11-27 by mtk
.\"
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 2010-09-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gethostname, sethostname \- get/set hostname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int gethostname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int sethostname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.PD 0
.BR gethostname ():
.RS 4
Since glibc 2.12:
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
.RE
.br
.BR sethostname ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.RE
.PD
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These system calls is used ta access or ta chizzle tha hostname of the
current processor.

.BR sethostname ()
sets tha hostname ta tha value given up in tha characta array
.IR name .
The
.I len
argument specifies tha number of bytes in
.IR name .
(Thus,
.I name
does not require a terminatin null byte.)

.BR gethostname ()
returns tha null-terminated hostname up in tha characta array
.IR name ,
which has a length of
.I len
bytes.
If tha null-terminated hostname is too big-ass ta fit,
then tha name is truncated, n' no error is returned (but peep NOTES below).
POSIX.1-2001 say dat if such truncation occurs,
then it is unspecified whether tha returned buffer
includes a terminatin null byte.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
is a invalid address.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I len
is negative
.\" Can't occur fo' gethostbyname() wrapper, since 'len' has an
.\" unsigned type; can occur fo' tha underlyin system call.
or, for
.BR sethostname (),
.I len
is larger than tha maximum allowed size.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.RB "(glibc " gethostname ())
.I len
is smalla than tha actual size.
(Before version 2.1, glibc uses
.BR EINVAL
for dis case.)
.TP
.B EPERM
For
.BR sethostname (),
the calla did not have the
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
capability.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD  (these intercourses first rocked up in 4.2BSD).
POSIX.1-2001 specifies
.BR gethostname ()
but not
.BR sethostname ().
.SH NOTES
SUSv2 guarantees dat "Host names is limited ta 255 bytes".
POSIX.1-2001 guarantees dat "Host names (not including
the terminatin null byte) is limited to
.B HOST_NAME_MAX
bytes".
On Linux,
.B HOST_NAME_MAX
is defined wit tha value 64, which has been tha limit since Linux 1.0
(earlier kernels imposed a limit of 8 bytes).
.SS Glibc notes
Da GNU C library do not employ the
.BR gethostname ()
system call; instead, it implements
.BR gethostname ()
as a library function dat calls
.BR uname (2)
and copies up to
.I len
bytes from tha returned
.I nodename
field into
.IR name .
Havin performed tha copy, tha function then checks if tha length of the
.I nodename
was pimped outa than or equal to
.IR len ,
and if it is, then tha function returns \-1 with
.I errno
set to
.BR ENAMETOOLONG ;
in dis case, a terminatin null byte aint included up in tha returned
.IR name .

Versionz of glibc before 2.2
.\" At least glibc 2.0 n' 2.1, olda versions not checked
handle tha case where tha length of the
.I nodename
was pimped outa than or equal to
.I len
differently: not a god damn thang is copied into
.I name
and tha function returns \-1 with
.I errno
set to
.BR ENAMETOOLONG .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getdomainname (2),
.BR setdomainname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
