.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2007, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 2003-05-26, Mike Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getresuid, getresgid \- git real, effectizzle n' saved user/group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getresuid ()
returns tha real UID, tha effectizzle UID, n' tha saved set-user-ID
of tha callin process, up in tha arguments
.IR ruid ,
.IR euid ,
and
.IR suid ,
respectively.
.BR getresgid ()
performs tha analogous task fo' tha processs crew IDs.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
One of tha arguments specified a address outside tha callin program's
address space.
.SH VERSIONS
These system calls rocked up on Linux startin wit kernel 2.1.44.

Da prototypes is given by glibc since version 2.3.2,
provided
.B _GNU_SOURCE
is defined.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These calls is nonstandard;
they also step tha fuck up on HP-UX n' a shitload of tha BSDs.
.SH NOTES
Da original gangsta Linux
.BR getresuid ()
and
.BR getresgid ()
system calls supported only 16-bit user n' crew IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR getresuid32 ()
and
.BR getresgid32 (),
supportin 32-bit IDs.
Da glibc
.BR getresuid ()
and
.BR getresgid ()
wrapper functions transparently deal wit tha variations across kernel versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
