.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:18:40 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@y\thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-12-17, aeb
.TH GETSID 2 2010-09-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getsid \- git session ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "pid_t getsid(pid_t" " pid" );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.PD 0
.BR getsid ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.PD
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I getsid(0)
returns tha session ID of tha callin process.
.I getsid(p)
returns tha session ID of tha process wit process ID
.IR p .
(Da session ID of a process is tha process crew ID of the
session leader.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, a session ID is returned.
On error, \fI(pid_t)\ \-1\fP is ghon be returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
A process wit process ID
.I p
exists yo, but it aint up in tha same session as tha callin process,
and tha implementation considaz dis a error.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No process wit process ID
.I p
was found.
.SH VERSIONS
This system call be available on Linux since version 2.0.
.\" Linux has dis system call since Linux 1.3.44.
.\" There is libc support since libc 5.2.19.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Linux do not return
.BR EPERM .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpgid (2),
.BR setsid (2),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
