.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 2008-12-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getsockname \- git socket name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockname(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" addr \
", socklen_t *" addrlen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getsockname ()
returns tha current address ta which tha socket
.I sockfd
is bound, up in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR addr .
The
.I addrlen
argument should be initialized ta indicate
the amount of space (in bytes) pointed ta by
.IR addr .
On return it gotz nuff tha actual size of tha socket address.

Da returned address is truncated if tha buffer provided is too small;
in dis case,
.I addrlen
will return a value pimped outa than was supplied ta tha call.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
Da argument
.I sockfd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The
.I addr
argument points ta memory not up in a valid part of the
process address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I addrlen
is invalid (e.g., is negative).
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Insufficient resources was available up in tha system
to big-ass up tha operation.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Da argument
.I sockfd
is a gangbangin' file, not a socket.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD (the
.BR getsockname ()
function call rocked up in 4.2BSD), POSIX.1-2001.
.\" SVr4 documents additionizzle ENOMEM
.\" n' ENOSR error codes.
.SH NOTES
Da third argument of
.BR getsockname ()
is up in realitizzle an
.I "int\ *"
(and dis is what tha fuck 4.x BSD n' libc4 n' libc5 have).
Some POSIX mad drama resulted up in tha present
.IR socklen_t ,
also used by glibc.
See also
.BR accept (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bind (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getifaddrs (3),
.BR ip (7),
.BR socket (7),
.BR unix (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
