.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Marcela Maslanova <mmaslano@redhat.com>
.\" n' Copyright 2013, Mike kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETUNWIND 2 2013-02-13 Linux "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getunwind \- copy tha unwind data ta callerz buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syscall.h>
.B #include <linux/unwind.h>
.sp
.BI "long getunwind(void " *buf ", size_t " buf_size );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Note: dis function is obsolete.

The
IA-64-specific
.BR getunwind ()
system call copies tha kernelz call frame
unwind data tha fuck into tha buffer pointed ta by
.I buf
and returns tha size of tha unwind data;
this data raps bout tha gate page (kernel code that
is mapped tha fuck into user space).

Da size of tha buffer
.I buf
is specified in
.IR buf_size .
Da data is copied only if
.I buf_size
is pimped outa than or equal ta tha size of tha unwind data and
.I buf
is not NULL;
otherwise, no data is copied, n' tha call succeeds,
returnin tha size dat would be needed ta store tha unwind data.

Da first part of tha unwind data gotz nuff a unwind table.
Da rest gotz nuff tha associated unwind shiznit, up in no particular order.
Da unwind table gotz nuff entriez of tha followin form:

.nf
	u64 start;      (64-bit address of start of function)
	u64 end;        (64-bit address of end of function)
	u64 info;       (BUF-relatizzle offset ta unwind info)
.fi

An entry whose
.I start
value is zero indicates tha end of tha table.
For mo' shiznit bout tha format, peep the
.I IA-64 Software Conventions n' Runtime Architecture
manual.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR getunwind ()
returns tha size of unwind table.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR getunwind ()
fails wit tha error
.B EFAULT
if tha unwind info can't be stored up in tha space specified by
.IR buf .
.SH VERSIONS
This system call be available since Linux 2.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This system call is Linux specific,
and be available only on tha IA-64 architecture.
.SH NOTES
This system call has been deprecated.
Da modern way ta obtain tha kernelz unwind data is via tha gate DSO.
Da address of tha ELF header fo' dis DSO
is passed ta user level via
.BR AT_SYSINFO_EHDR
(see
.BR getauxval (3)).

Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call;
in tha unlikely event dat you wanna call it, use
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getauxval (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
