.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/mm/swap.c:
.\"                Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Mike Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added text bout callin restriction (new up in kernel 1.1.20 I believe).
.\"   N.B. callin "idle" from user process used ta hang process!
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:41:15 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" "
.TH IDLE 2 2012-12-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
idle \- make process 0 idle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int idle(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR idle ()
is a internal system call used durin bootstrap.
It marks tha processs pages as swappable, lowers its priority,
and entas tha main schedulin loop.
.BR idle ()
never returns.
.PP
Only process 0 may call
.BR idle ().
Any user process, even a process wit superuser permission,
will receive
.BR EPERM .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR idle ()
never returns fo' process 0, n' always returns \-1 fo' a user process.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Always, fo' a user process.
.SH VERSIONS
Since Linux 2.3.13, dis system call do not exist no mo'.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
