.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Robert Love
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2005-07-19 Robert Ludd <rlove@rlove.org> - initial version
.\" 2006-02-07 mtk, minor chizzles
.\" 2008-10-10 mtk: add description of inotify_init1()
.\"
.TH INOTIFY_INIT 2 2012-05-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
inotify_init, inotify_init1 \- initialize a inotify instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/inotify.h>
.sp
.B "int inotify_init(void);"
.BI "int inotify_init1(int " flags );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR inotify_init ()
initializes a freshly smoked up inotify instizzle n' returns a gangbangin' file descriptor associated
with a freshly smoked up inotify event queue.

If
.I flags
is 0, then
.BR inotify_init1 ()
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR inotify_init ().
Da followin joints can be bitwise ORed in
.IR flags
to obtain different behavior:
.TP 12
.B IN_NONBLOCK
Set the
.BR O_NONBLOCK
file status flag on tha freshly smoked up open file description.
Usin dis flag saves extra calls to
.BR fcntl (2)
to big up tha same result.
.TP
.B IN_CLOEXEC
Set tha close-on-exec
.RB ( FD_CLOEXEC )
flag on tha freshly smoked up file descriptor.
See tha description of the
.B O_CLOEXEC
flag in
.BR open (2)
for reasons why dis may be useful.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these system calls return a freshly smoked up file descriptor.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( inotify_init1 ())
An invalid value was specified in
.IR flags .
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da user limit on tha total number of inotify instances has been reached.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system limit on tha total number of file descriptors has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory be available.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR inotify_init ()
first rocked up in Linux 2.6.13;
library support was added ta glibc up in version 2.4.
.BR inotify_init1 ()
was added up in Linux 2.6.27;
library support was added ta glibc up in version 2.9.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These system calls is Linux-specific.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inotify_add_watch (2),
.BR inotify_rm_watch (2),
.BR inotify (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
