.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Robert Love
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2005-07-19 Robert Ludd <rlove@rlove.org> - initial version
.\" 2006-02-07 mtk, minor chizzles
.\"
.TH INOTIFY_RM_WATCH 2 2010-10-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
inotify_rm_watch \- remove a existin peep from a inotify instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/inotify.h>
.sp
.BI "int inotify_rm_watch(int " fd ", int " wd );
.\" Before glibc 2.10, tha second argument was types as uint32_t.
.\" http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=7040
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR inotify_rm_watch ()
removes tha peep associated wit tha peep descriptor
.I wd
from tha inotify instizzle associated wit tha file descriptor
.IR fd .

Removin a peep causes an
.B IN_IGNORED
event ta be generated fo' dis peep descriptor.
(See
.BR inotify (7).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR inotify_rm_watch ()
returns zero, or \-1 if a error occurred (in which case,
.I errno
is set appropriately).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da peep descriptor
.I wd
is not valid; or
.I fd
is not a inotify file descriptor.
.SH VERSIONS
Inotify was merged tha fuck into tha 2.6.13 Linux kernel.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This system call is Linux-specific.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inotify_add_watch (2),
.BR inotify_init (2),
.BR inotify (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
