
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2007-10-23 mtk: moved tha _syscallN specific material ta the
.\"     freshly smoked up _syscall(2) page, n' substantially enhanced n' rewrote
.\"     tha remainin material on dis page.
.\"
.TH INTRO 2 2010-11-11 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction ta system calls
.SH DESCRIPTION
Section 2 of tha manual raps bout tha Linux system calls.
A system call be a entry point tha fuck into tha Linux kernel.
Usually, system calls is not invoked directly:
instead, most system calls have correspondin C library
wrapper functions which big-ass up tha steps required
(e.g., trappin ta kernel mode) up in order ta invoke
the system call.
Thus, bustin a system call looks tha same ol' dirty as invokin a normal
library function.

For a list of tha Linux system calls, see
.BR syscalls (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On error, most system calls return a wack error number
(i.e., tha negated value of one of tha constants busted lyrics bout in
.BR errno (3)).
Da C library wrapper hides dis detail from tha caller: when a
system call returns a wack value, tha wrapper copies the
absolute value tha fuck into the
.I errno
variable, n' returns \-1 as tha return value of tha wrapper.

Da value returned by a successful system call dependz on tha call.
Many system calls return 0 on success yo, but some can return nonzero
values from a successful call.
Da details is busted lyrics bout up in tha individual manual pages.

In some cases,
the programmer must define a gangbangin' feature test macro up in order ta obtain
the declaration of a system call from tha header file specified
in tha playa page SYNOPSIS section.
(Where required, these feature test macros must be defined before including
.I any
header files.)
In such cases, tha required macro is busted lyrics bout up in tha playa page.
For further shiznit on feature test macros, see
.BR feature_test_macros (7).
.SH CONFORMING TO
Certain terms n' abbreviations is used ta indicate UNIX variants
and standardz ta which calls up in dis section conform.
See
.BR standardz (7).
.SH NOTES
.SS Callin directly
In most cases, it is unnecessary ta invoke a system call directly,
but there be times when tha Standard C library do not implement
a sick wrapper function fo' yo thugged-out ass.
In dis case, tha programmer must manually invoke tha system call using
.BR syscall (2).
Historically, dis was also possible rockin one of tha _syscall macros
busted lyrics bout in
.BR _syscall (2).
.SS Authors n' copyright conditions
Look all up in tha header of tha manual page source fo' tha author(s) n' copyright
conditions.
Note dat these can be different from page ta page!
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR _syscall (2),
.BR syscall (2),
.BR syscalls (2),
.BR errno (3),
.BR intro (3),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR feature_test_macros (7),
.BR mq_overview (7),
.BR path_resolution (7),
.BR pipe (7),
.BR pty (7),
.BR sem_overview (7),
.BR shm_overview (7),
.BR signal (7),
.BR socket (7),
.BR standardz (7),
.BR svipc (7),
.BR symlink (7),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
