.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH IO_SUBMIT 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
io_submit \- submit asynchronous I/O blocks fo' processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <linux/aio_abi.h>" "          /* Defines needed types */"

.BI "int io_submit(aio_context_t " ctx_id ", long " nr \
", struct iocb **" iocbpp );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR io_submit ()
system call
queues \fInr\fP I/O request blocks fo' processin in
the AIO context \fIctx_id\fP.
The
.I iocbpp
argument should be a array of \fInr\fP AIO control blocks,
which is ghon be submitted ta context \fIctx_id\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR io_submit ()
returns tha number of \fIiocb\fPs submitted (which may be
0 if \fInr\fP is zero).
For tha failure return, peep NOTES.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Insufficient resources is available ta queue any \fIiocb\fPs.
.TP
.B EBADF
Da file descriptor specified up in tha straight-up original gangsta \fIiocb\fP is invalid.
.TP
.B EFAULT
One of tha data structures points ta invalid data.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da AIO context specified by \fIctx_id\fP is invalid.
\fInr\fP is less than 0.
Da \fIiocb\fP at
.I *iocbpp[0]
is not properly initialized,
or tha operation specified is invalid fo' tha file descriptor
in tha \fIiocb\fP.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR io_submit ()
is not implemented on dis architecture.
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
Da asynchronous I/O system calls first rocked up in Linux 2.5.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.PP
.BR io_submit ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used in
programs dat is intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper function fo' dis system call.
Yo ass could invoke it using
.BR syscall (2).
But instead, you probably wanna use the
.BR io_submit ()
wrapper function provided by
.\" http://git.fedorahosted.org/git/?p=libaio.git
.IR libaio .

Note dat the
.I libaio
wrapper function uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different type
.RI ( io_context_t )
.\" But glibc is confused, since <libaio.h> uses 'io_context_t' ta declare
.\" tha system call.
for the
.I ctx_id
argument.
Note also dat the
.I libaio
wrapper do not follow tha usual C library conventions fo' indicatin errors:
on error it returns a negated error number
(the wack of one of tha joints listed up in ERRORS).
If tha system call is invoked via
.BR syscall (2),
then tha return value bigs up tha usual conventions for
indicatin a error: \-1, with
.I errno
set ta a (positive) value dat indicates tha error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR io_cancel (2),
.BR io_destroy (2),
.BR io_getevents (2),
.BR io_setup (2),
.BR aio (7)
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Kent Yoder.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
