.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH IO_SETUP 2 2013-06-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
io_setup \- create a asynchronous I/O context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <linux/aio_abi.h>" "          /* Defines needed types */"

.BI "int io_setup(unsigned " nr_events ", aio_context_t *" ctx_idp );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR io_setup ()
system call
creates a asynchronous I/O context suitable fo' concurrently processing
\fInr_events\fP operations.
The
.I ctx_idp
argument must not point ta a AIO context dat already exists, n' must
be initialized ta 0 prior ta tha call.
On successful creation of tha AIO context, \fI*ctx_idp\fP is filled in
with tha resultin handle.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR io_setup ()
returns 0.
For tha failure return, peep NOTES.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Da specified \fInr_events\fP exceedz tha userz limit of available events,
as defined in
.IR /proc/sys/fs/aio-max-nr .
.TP
.B EFAULT
An invalid pointa is passed fo' \fIctx_idp\fP.
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIctx_idp\fP aint initialized, or tha specified \fInr_events\fP
exceedz internal limits.
\fInr_events\fP should be pimped outa than 0.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel resources is available.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR io_setup ()
is not implemented on dis architecture.
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
Da asynchronous I/O system calls first rocked up in Linux 2.5.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.PP
.BR io_setup ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs
that is intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper function fo' dis system call.
Yo ass could invoke it using
.BR syscall (2).
But instead, you probably wanna use the
.BR io_setup ()
wrapper function provided by
.\" http://git.fedorahosted.org/git/?p=libaio.git
.IR libaio .

Note dat the
.I libaio
wrapper function uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different type
.RI ( "io_context_t\ *" )
.\" But glibc is confused, since <libaio.h> uses 'io_context_t' ta declare
.\" tha system call.
for the
.I ctx_idp
argument.
Note also dat the
.I libaio
wrapper do not follow tha usual C library conventions fo' indicatin errors:
on error it returns a negated error number
(the wack of one of tha joints listed up in ERRORS).
If tha system call is invoked via
.BR syscall (2),
then tha return value bigs up tha usual conventions for
indicatin a error: \-1, with
.I errno
set ta a (positive) value dat indicates tha error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR io_cancel (2),
.BR io_destroy (2),
.BR io_getevents (2),
.BR io_submit (2),
.BR aio (7)
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Kent Yoder.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
