.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)ioctl.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-23 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-10-22 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1999-06-25 by Rachael Munns <vashti@dream.org.uk>
.\" Modified 2000-09-21 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 2000-09-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioctl(int " d ", int " request ", ...);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ioctl ()
function manipulates tha underlyin thang parametaz of special files.
In particular, nuff operatin characteristics of characta special files
(e.g., terminals) may be controlled with
.BR ioctl ()
requests.
Da argument
.I d
must be a open file descriptor.
.PP
Da second argument be a thugged-out device-dependent request code.
Da third argument be a untyped pointa ta memory.
It aint nuthin but traditionally
.BI "char *" argp
(from tha minutes before
.B "void *"
was valid C), n' is ghon be all kindsa named fo' dis rap.
.PP
An
.BR ioctl ()
.I request
has encoded up in it whether tha argument be an
.I in
parameta or
.I out
parameter, n' tha size of tha argument
.I argp
in bytes.
Macros n' defines used up in specifyin an
.BR ioctl ()
.I request
are located up in tha file
.IR <sys/ioctl.h> .
.SH RETURN VALUE
Usually, on success zero is returned.
A few
.BR ioctl ()
requests use tha return value as a output parameter
and return a nonnegatizzle value on success.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.7i
.B EBADF
.I d
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I argp
references a inaccessible memory area.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Request
or
.I argp
is not valid.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I d
is not associated wit a cold-ass lil characta special device.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
Da specified request do not apply ta tha kind of object dat the
descriptor
.I d
references.
.SH CONFORMING TO
No single standard.
Arguments, returns, n' semantics of
.BR ioctl ()
vary accordin ta tha thang driver up in question (the call is used as a
catch-all fo' operations dat don't cleanly fit tha UNIX stream I/O
model).
See
.BR ioctl_list (2)
for a list of nuff of tha known
.BR ioctl ()
calls.
The
.BR ioctl ()
function call rocked up in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.SH NOTES
In order ta use dis call, one needz a open file descriptor.
Often the
.BR open (2)
call has unwanted side effects, dat can be avoided under Linux
by givin it the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR ioctl_list (2),
.BR open (2),
.\" .BR mt (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR tty (4)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
