.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 15:12:05 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Aug  1 16:27    1995 by Jochen Karrer
.\"                              <cip307@cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Mon Feb 15 17:28:41 CET 1999 by Andries E. Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.\"
.TH IOPERM 2 2013-03-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ioperm \- set port input/output permissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
/* fo' libc5 */
.br
.B #include <sys/io.h>
/* fo' glibc */
.sp
.BI "int ioperm(unsigned long " from ", unsigned long " num ", int " turn_on );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ioperm ()
sets tha port access permission bits fo' tha callin thread for
.I num
bits startin from port address
.IR from .
If
.I turn_on
is nonzero, then permission fo' tha specified bits is enabled;
otherwise it is disabled.
If
.I turn_on
is nonzero, tha callin thread must be privileged
.RB ( CAP_SYS_RAWIO ).

Before Linux 2.6.8,
only tha straight-up original gangsta 0x3ff I/O ports could be specified up in dis manner.
For mo' ports, the
.BR iopl (2)
system call had ta be used (with a
.I level
argument of 3).
Since Linux 2.6.8, 65,536 I/O ports can be specified.

Permissions is not inherited by tha lil pimp pimped by
.BR fork (2);
followin a
.BR fork (2)
the lil pimp must turn on dem permissions dat it needs.
Permissions is preserved across
.BR execve (2);
this is useful fo' givin port access permissions ta unprivileged
programs.

This call is mostly fo' tha i386 architecture.
On nuff other architectures it do not exist or will always
return a error.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid joints for
.I from
or
.IR num .
.TP
.B EIO
(on PowerPC) This call aint supported.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.\" Could not allocate I/O bitmap.
Out of memory.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin thread has insufficient privilege.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR ioperm ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
The
.I /proc/ioports
file shows tha I/O ports dat is currently allocated on tha system.

Libc5 treats it as a system call n' has a prototype in
.IR <unistd.h> .
Glibc1 aint gots a prototype.
Glibc2 has a prototype both in
.I <sys/io.h>
and in
.IR <sys/perm.h> .
Avoid tha latter, it be available on i386 only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iopl (2),
.BR outb (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
