.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2006, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH LINKAT 2 2013-07-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
linkat \- create a gangbangin' file link relatizzle ta directory file descriptors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fcntl.h>           /* Definizzle of AT_* constants */
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int linkat(int " olddirfd ", const char *" oldpath ,
.BI "           int " newdirfd ", const char *" newpath ", int " flags );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR linkat ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_ATFILE_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR linkat ()
system call operates up in exactly tha same way as
.BR link (2),
except fo' tha differences busted lyrics bout up in dis manual page.

If tha pathname given in
.I oldpath
is relative, then it is interpreted relatizzle ta tha directory
referred ta by tha file descriptor
.I olddirfd
(rather than relatizzle ta tha current hustlin directory of
the callin process, as is done by
.BR link (2)
for a relatizzle pathname).

If
.I oldpath
is relatizzle and
.I olddirfd
is tha special value
.BR AT_FDCWD ,
then
.I oldpath
is interpreted relatizzle ta tha current working
directory of tha callin process (like
.BR link (2)).

If
.I oldpath
is absolute, then
.I olddirfd
is ignored.

Da interpretation of
.I newpath
is as for
.IR oldpath ,
except dat a relatizzle pathname is interpreted relative
to tha directory referred ta by tha file descriptor
.IR newdirfd .

Da followin joints can be biwise ORed in
.IR flags :
.TP
.BR AT_EMPTY_PATH " (since Linux 2.6.39)"
.\" commit 11a7b371b64ef39fc5fb1b6f2218eef7c4d035e3
If
.I oldpath
is a empty string, create a link ta tha file referenced by
.IR olddirfd
(which may done been obtained rockin the
.BR open (2)
.B O_PATH
flag).
In dis case,
.I olddirfd
can refer ta any type of file, not just a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
Da calla must have the
.BR CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH
capabilitizzle up in order ta use dis flag;
this prevents arbitrary playas from bustin hard links
usin file descriptors received via a UNIX domain socket
(see tha rap of
.BR SCM_RIGHTS
in
.BR unix (7)).
.TP
.BR AT_SYMLINK_FOLLOW " (since Linux 2.6.18)"
By default,
.BR linkat (),
does not dereference
.I oldpath
if it aint nuthin but a symbolic link (like
.BR link (2)).
Da flag
.B AT_SYMLINK_FOLLOW
can be specified in
.I flags
to cause
.I oldpath
to be dereferenced if it aint nuthin but a symbolic link.
.PP
Before kernel 2.6.18, the
.I flags
argument was unused, n' had ta be specified as 0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR linkat ()
returns 0.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
Da same errors dat occur for
.BR link (2)
can also occur for
.BR linkat ().
Da followin additionizzle errors can occur for
.BR linkat ():
.TP
.B EBADF
.I olddirfd
or
.I newdirfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.B AT_EMPTY_PATH
was specified in
.IR flags ,
but tha calla did not have the
.B CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH
capability.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.I oldpath
is relatizzle and
.I olddirfd
is a gangbangin' file descriptor referrin ta a gangbangin' file other than a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory;
or similar for
.I newpath
and
.I newdirfd
.SH VERSIONS
.BR linkat ()
was added ta Linux up in kernel 2.6.16;
library support was added ta glibc up in version 2.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
See
.BR openat (2)
for a explanation of tha need for
.BR linkat ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR link (2),
.BR openat (2),
.BR path_resolution (7),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
