.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2007, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     $Id: listen.2,v 1.6 1999/05/18 14:10:32 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:07:54 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 950727 by aeb, followin a suggestion by Urs Thuermann
.\" <urs@isnogud.escape.de>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\" Modified 11 May 2001 by Sam Varshavchik <mrsam@courier-mta.com>
.\"
.\"
.TH LISTEN 2 2008-11-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
listen \- listen fo' connections on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <sys/types.h>" "          /* See NOTES */"
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int listen(int " sockfd ", int " backlog );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR listen ()
marks tha socket referred ta by
.I sockfd
as a passive socket, dat is, as a socket dat will
be used ta accept incomin connection requests using
.BR accept (2).

The
.I sockfd
argument be a gangbangin' file descriptor dat refers ta a socket of type
.B SOCK_STREAM
or
.BR SOCK_SEQPACKET .

The
.I backlog
argument defines tha maximum length
to which tha queue of pendin connections for
.I sockfd
may grow.
If a cold-ass lil connection request arrives when tha queue is full, tha client
may receive a error wit a indication of
.B ECONNREFUSED
or, if tha underlyin protocol supports retransmission, tha request may be
ignored so dat a lata reattempt at connection succeeds.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Another socket be already listenin on tha same port.
.TP
.B EBADF
Da argument
.I sockfd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Da argument
.I sockfd
is not a socket.
.TP
.B EOPNOTSUPP
Da socket aint of a type dat supports the
.BR listen ()
operation.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.4BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
The
.BR listen ()
function call first rocked up in 4.2BSD.
.SH NOTES
To accept connections, tha followin steps is performed:
.RS 4
.IP 1. 4
A socket is pimped with
.BR socket (2).
.IP 2.
Da socket is bound ta a local address using
.BR bind (2),
so dat other sockets may be
.BR connect (2)ed
to dat shit.
.IP 3.
A willingnizz ta accept incomin connections n' a queue limit fo' incoming
connections is specified with
.BR listen ().
.IP 4.
Connections is accepted with
.BR accept (2).
.RE
.PP
POSIX.1-2001 do not require tha inclusion of
.IR <sys/types.h> ,
and dis header file aint required on Linux.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat some oldschool (BSD) implementations required dis header
file, n' portable applications is probably wise ta include dat shit.

Da behavior of the
.I backlog
argument on TCP sockets chizzled wit Linux 2.2.
Now it specifies tha queue length for
.I straight-up
established sockets waitin ta be accepted,
instead of tha number of incomplete connection requests.
Da maximum length of tha queue fo' incomplete sockets
can be set using
.IR /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_max_syn_backlog .
When syncookies is enabled there is no logical maximum
length n' dis settin is ignored.
See
.BR tcp (7)
for mo' shiznit.

If the
.I backlog
argument is pimped outa than tha value in
.IR /proc/sys/net/core/somaxconn ,
then it is silently truncated ta dat value;
the default value up in dis file is 128.
In kernels before 2.4.25, dis limit was a hard coded value,
.BR SOMAXCONN ,
with tha value 128.
.\" Da followin is now rather phat shiznit (MTK, Jun 05)
.\" Don't rely on dis value up in portable applications since BSD
.\" (and some BSD-derived systems) limit tha backlog ta 5.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR bind (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socket (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
