.\" Copyright (C) 1995 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Written 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 15:16:23 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH LLSEEK 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
_llseek \- reposizzle read/write file offset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int _llseek(unsigned int " fd ", unsigned long " offset_high ,
.BI "            unsigned long " offset_low ", loff_t *" result ,
.BI "            unsigned int " whence );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR _llseek ()
function repositions tha offset of tha open file associated
with tha file descriptor
.I fd
to
.I (offset_high<<32) | offset_low
bytes relatizzle ta tha beginnin of tha file, tha current posizzle up in tha file,
or tha end of tha file, dependin on whether
.I  whence
is
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
or
.BR SEEK_END ,
respectively.
It returns tha resultin file posizzle up in tha argument
.IR result .
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR _llseek ()
returns 0.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Problem wit copyin thangs up in dis biatch ta user space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I whence
is invalid.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call; call it using
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR lseek64 (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
