
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2004-06-17 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH LOOKUP_DCOOKIE 2 2004-06-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
lookup_dcookie \- return a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory entryz path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int lookup_dcookie(u64 " cookie ", char *" buffer ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Look up tha full path of tha directory entry specified by tha value
.IR cookie .
Da cookie be a opaque identifier uniquely identifyin a particular
directory entry.
Da buffer given is filled up in wit tha full path of tha directory entry.

For
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
to return successfully,
the kernel must still hold a cold-ass lil cookie reference ta tha directory entry.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
returns tha length of tha path strang copied tha fuck into tha buffer.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Da buffer was not valid.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da kernel has no registered cookie/directory entry mappings at the
time of lookup, or tha cookie do not refer ta a valid directory entry.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
Da name could not fit up in tha buffer.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Da kernel could not allocate memory fo' tha temporary buffer holding
the path.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da process aint gots tha capability
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
required ta look up cookie joints.
.TP
.B ERANGE
Da buffer was not big-ass enough ta hold tha path of tha directory entry.
.SH VERSIONS
Available since Linux 2.5.43.
The
.B ENAMETOOLONG
error return was added up in 2.5.70.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
is a special-purpose system call, currently used only by tha oprofile profiler.
It relies on a kernel driver ta regista dem scooby snacks fo' directory entries.

Da path returned may be suffixed by tha strang " (deleted)" if tha directory
entry has been removed.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
