.\" Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation
.\"                Author: Andi Kleen
.\" Based on tha move_pages manpage which was
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"                               Christoph Lameter
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM_TWO_PARA)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MIGRATE_PAGES 2 2012-08-01 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
migrate_pages \- move all pages up in a process ta another set of nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <numaif.h>
.sp
.BI "long migrate_pages(int " pid ", unsigned long " maxnode,
.BI "                   const unsigned long *" old_nodes,
.BI "                   const unsigned long *" new_nodes );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lnuma\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR migrate_pages ()
attempts ta move all pagez of tha process
.I pid
that is up in memory nodes
.I old_nodes
to tha memory nodes in
.IR new_nodes .
Pages not located up in any node in
.I old_nodes
will not be migrated.
As far as possible,
the kernel maintains tha relatizzle topologizzle relationshizzle inside
.I old_nodes
durin tha migration to
.IR new_nodes .

The
.I old_nodes
and
.I new_nodes
arguments is pointas ta bit maskz of node numbers, wit up to
.I maxnode
bits up in each mask.
These masks is maintained as arrayz of unsigned
.I long
integers (in tha last
.I long
integer, tha bits beyond dem specified by
.I maxnode
are ignored).
The
.I maxnode
argument is tha maximum node number up in tha bit mask plus one (this is tha same
as in
.BR mbind (2),
but different from
.BR select (2)).

The
.I pid
argument is tha ID of tha process whose pages is ta be moved.
To move pages up in another process,
the calla must be privileged
.RB ( CAP_SYS_NICE )
or tha real or effectizzle user ID of tha callin process must match the
real or saved-set user ID of tha target process.
If
.I pid
is 0, then
.BR migrate_pages ()
moves pagez of tha callin process.

Pages shared wit another process is ghon be moved only if tha initiating
process has the
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
privilege.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR migrate_pages ()
returns tha number of pages dat could not be moved
(i.e., a return of zero means dat all pages was successfully moved).
On error, it returns \-1, n' sets
.I errno
to indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Insufficient privilege
.RB ( CAP_SYS_NICE )
to move pagez of tha process specified by
.IR pid ,
or insufficient privilege
.RB ( CAP_SYS_NICE )
to access tha specified target nodes.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No process matching
.I pid
could be found.
.\" FIXME There is other errors
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR migrate_pages ()
system call first rocked up on Linux up in version 2.6.16.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This system call is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
For shiznit on library support, see
.BR numa (7).

Use
.BR get_mempolicy (2)
with the
.B MPOL_F_MEMS_ALLOWED
flag ta obtain tha set of nodes dat is allowed by
the callin processs cpuset.
Note dat dis shiznit is subject ta chizzle at any
time by manual or automatic reconfiguration of tha cpuset.

Use of
.BR migrate_pages ()
may result up in pages whose location
(node) violates tha memory policy established fo' the
specified addresses (see
.BR mbind (2))
and/or tha specified process (see
.BR set_mempolicy (2)).
That is, memory policy do not constrain tha destination
nodes used by
.BR migrate_pages ().

The
.I <numaif.h>
header aint included wit glibc yo, but requires installing
.I libnuma-devel
or a similar package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR get_mempolicy (2),
.BR mbind (2),
.BR set_mempolicy (2),
.BR numa (3),
.BR numa_maps (5),
.BR cpuset (7),
.BR numa (7),
.BR migratepages (8),
.BR numastat (8)

.IR Documentation/vm/page_migration
in tha Linux kernel source tree
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
