.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 31 Jan 2002, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Added description of mmap2
.\" Modified, 2004-11-25, mtk -- removed stray #endif up in prototype
.\"
.TH MMAP2 2 2012-04-16 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mmap2 \- map filez or devices tha fuck into memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.BI "void *mmap2(void *" addr ", size_t " length ", int " prot ,
.BI "             int " flags ", int " fd ", off_t " pgoffset );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is probably not tha system call yo ass is interested; instead, see
.BR mmap (2),
which raps bout tha glibc wrapper function dat invokes dis system call.

The
.BR mmap2 ()
system call serves up tha same intercourse as
.BR mmap (2),
except dat tha final argument specifies tha offset tha fuck into the
file up in 4096-byte units (instead of bytes, as is done by
.BR mmap (2)).
This enablez applications dat bust a 32-bit
.I off_t
to map big-ass filez (up ta 2^44 bytes).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR mmap2 ()
returns a pointa ta tha mapped area.
On error \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Problem wit gettin tha data from user space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
(Various platforms where tha page size aint 4096 bytes.)
.I "offset\ *\ 4096"
is not a multiple of tha system page size.
.PP
.BR mmap2 ()
can also return any of tha errors busted lyrics bout in
.BR mmap (2).
.SH VERSIONS
.BR mmap2 ()
is available since Linux 2.3.31.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This system call is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Nowadays, tha glibc
.BR mmap ()
wrapper function invokes dis system call rather than the
.BR mmap (2)
system call.

On ia64, tha unit for
.I offset
is straight-up tha system page size, rather than 4096 bytes.
.\" ia64 can have page sizes rangin from 4kB ta 64kB.
.\" On cris, it be lookin like tha unit might also be tha page size,
.\" which is 8192 bytes. -- mtk, June 2007
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpagesize (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mremap (2),
.BR msync (2),
.BR shm_open (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
