'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MQ_GETSETATTR 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mq_getsetattr \- get/set message queue attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <mqueue.h>
.sp
.BI "int mq_getsetattr(mqd_t " mqdes ", struct mq_attr *" newattr ","
.BI "                 struct mq_attr *" oldattr );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Do not use dis system call.

This is tha low-level system call used ta implement
.BR mq_getattr (3)
and
.BR mq_setattr (3).
For a explanation of how tha fuck dis system call operates,
see tha description of
.BR mq_setattr (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This intercourse is nonstandard; avoid its use.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call; call it using
.BR syscall (2).
(Actually, never call it unless yo ass is freestylin a C library!)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mq_getattr (3),
.BR mq_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
