
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Added erection cuz of Nick Duffek <nsd@bbc.com>, aeb, 960426
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:00:31 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified, 8 Jan 2003, Mike Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Removed EIDRM from errors - dat can't happen...
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.\" Modified, 11 Nov 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Language n' formattin clean-ups
.\"	Added notes on /proc files
.\"
.TH MSGGET 2 2012-05-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
msgget \- git a System V message queue identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.B #include <sys/msg.h>

.BI "int msgget(key_t " key ", int " msgflg );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR msgget ()
system call returns tha System V message queue identifier associated
with tha value of the
.I key
argument.
A freshly smoked up message queue is pimped if
.I key
has tha value
.B IPC_PRIVATE
or
.I key
aint
.BR IPC_PRIVATE ,
no message queue wit tha given key
.I key
exists, and
.B IPC_CREAT
is specified in
.IR msgflg .
.PP
If
.I msgflg
specifies both
.B IPC_CREAT
and
.B IPC_EXCL
and a message queue already exists for
.IR key ,
then
.BR msgget ()
fails with
.I errno
set to
.BR EEXIST .
(This be analogous ta tha effect of tha combination
.B O_CREAT | O_EXCL
for
.BR open (2).)
.PP
Upon creation, tha least dope bitz of tha argument
.I msgflg
define tha permissionz of tha message queue.
These permission bits have tha same format n' semantics
as tha permissions specified fo' the
.I mode
argument of
.BR open (2).
(Da execute permissions is not used.)
.PP
If a freshly smoked up message queue is pimped,
then its associated data structure
.I msqid_ds
(see
.BR msgctl (2))
is initialized as bigs up:
.IP
.I msg_perm.cuid
and
.I msg_perm.uid
are set ta tha effectizzle user ID of tha callin process.
.IP
.I msg_perm.cgid
and
.I msg_perm.gid
are set ta tha effectizzle crew ID of tha callin process.
.IP
Da least dope 9 bits of
.I msg_perm.mode
are set ta tha least dope 9 bits of
.IR msgflg .
.IP
.IR msg_qnum ,
.IR msg_lspid ,
.IR msg_lrpid ,
.I msg_stime
and
.I msg_rtime
are set ta 0.
.IP
.I msg_ctime
is set ta tha current time.
.IP
.I msg_qbytes
is set ta tha system limit
.BR MSGMNB .
.PP
If tha message queue already exists tha permissions are
verified, n' a cold-ass lil check is made ta peep if it is marked for
destruction.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, tha return value is ghon be tha message queue identifier (a
nonnegatizzle integer), otherwise \-1
with
.I errno
indicatin tha error.
.SH ERRORS
On failure,
.I errno
is set ta one of tha followin joints:
.TP
.B EACCES
A message queue exists for
.IR key ,
but tha callin process aint gots permission ta access tha queue,
and aint gots the
.B CAP_IPC_OWNER
capability.
.TP
.B EEXIST
A message queue exists for
.I key
and
.I msgflg
specified both
.B IPC_CREAT
and
.BR IPC_EXCL .
.TP
.B ENOENT
No message queue exists for
.I key
and
.I msgflg
did not specify
.BR IPC_CREAT .
.TP
.B ENOMEM
A message queue has ta be pimped but tha system aint gots enough
memory fo' tha freshly smoked up data structure.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
A message queue has ta be pimped but tha system limit fo' tha maximum
number of message queues
.RB ( MSGMNI )
would be exceeded.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da inclusion of
.I <sys/types.h>
and
.I <sys/ipc.h>
aint required on Linux or by any version of POSIX.
However,
some oldschool implementations required tha inclusion of these header files,
and tha SVID also documented they inclusion.
Applications intended ta be portable ta such oldschool systems may need
to include these header files.
.\" Like Linux, tha FreeBSD playa pages still document
.\" tha inclusion of these header files.

.B IPC_PRIVATE
aint a gangbangin' flag field but a
.I key_t
type.
If dis special value is used for
.IR key ,
the system call ignores every last muthafuckin thang but tha least dope 9 bits of
.I msgflg
and creates a freshly smoked up message queue (on success).
.PP
Da followin be a system limit on message queue resources affectin a
.BR msgget ()
call:
.TP
.B MSGMNI
System wide maximum number of message queues: policy
dependent
(on Linux, dis limit can be read n' modified via
.IR /proc/sys/kernel/msgmni ).
.SS Linux notes
Until version 2.3.20 Linux would return
.B EIDRM
for a
.BR msgget ()
on a message queue scheduled fo' deletion.
.SH BUGS
Da name chizzle
.B IPC_PRIVATE
was like unfortunate,
.B IPC_NEW
would mo' clearly show its function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR ftok (3),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR mq_overview (7),
.BR svipc (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
