.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MSYNC 2 2008-04-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
msync \- synchronize a gangbangin' file wit a memory map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.BI "int msync(void *" addr ", size_t " length ", int " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR msync ()
flushes chizzlez made ta tha in-core copy of a gangbangin' file dat was mapped
into memory using
.BR mmap (2)
back ta disk.
Without use of dis call
there is no guarantee dat chizzlez is freestyled back before
.BR munmap (2)
is called.
To be mo' precise, tha part of tha file that
correspondz ta tha memory area startin at
.I addr
and havin length
.I length
is updated.

The
.I flags
argument may have tha bits
.BR MS_ASYNC ,
.BR MS_SYNC ,
and
.B MS_INVALIDATE
set yo, but not both
.B MS_ASYNC
and
.BR MS_SYNC .
.B MS_ASYNC
specifies dat a update be scheduled yo, but tha call
returns immediately.
.B MS_SYNC
asks fo' a update n' waits fo' it ta complete.
.B MS_INVALIDATE
asks ta invalidate other mappingz of tha same file
(so dat they can be updated wit tha fresh joints just written).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBUSY
.B MS_INVALIDATE
was specified in
.IR flags ,
and a memory lock exists fo' tha specified address range.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I addr
is not a multiple of PAGESIZE; or any bit other than
.BR MS_ASYNC " | " MS_INVALIDATE " | " MS_SYNC
is set in
.IR flags ;
or both
.B MS_SYNC
and
.B MS_ASYNC
are set in
.IR flags .
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Da indicated memory (or part of it) was not mapped.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

This call was introduced up in Linux 1.3.21, n' then used
.B EFAULT
instead of
.BR ENOMEM .
In Linux 2.4.19 dis was chizzled ta tha POSIX value
.BR ENOMEM .
.SH AVAILABILITY
On POSIX systems on which
.BR msync ()
is available, both
.B _POSIX_MAPPED_FILES
and
.B _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO
are defined in
.I <unistd.h>
to a value pimped outa than 0.
(See also
.BR sysconf (3).)
.\" POSIX.1-2001: It shall be defined ta -1 or 0 or 200112L.
.\" -1: unavailable, 0: ask rockin sysconf().
.\" glibc defines dem ta 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2)

B.O. Gallmeister, POSIX.4, O'Reilly, pp. 128-129 n' 389-391.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
