.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This text is up in tha hood domain.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" FIXME Da description of nfsservctl() on dis page
.\" is woefully thin.
.\"
.TH NFSSERVCTL 2 2012-03-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nfsservctl \- syscall intercourse ta kernel nfs daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/nfsd/syscall.h>
.sp
.BI "long nfsservctl(int " cmd ", struct nfsctl_arg *" argp ,
.BI "                union nfsctl_res *" resp );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Note :
Since Linux 3.1, dis system call no longer exists.

.nf
/*
 * These is tha commandz understood by nfsctl().
 */
#define NFSCTL_SVC          0    /* This be a server process. */
#define NFSCTL_ADDCLIENT    1    /* Add a NFS client. */
#define NFSCTL_DELCLIENT    2    /* Remove a NFS client. */
#define NFSCTL_EXPORT       3    /* export a gangbangin' file system. */
#define NFSCTL_UNEXPORT     4    /* unexport a gangbangin' file system. */
#define NFSCTL_UGIDUPDATE   5    /* update a cold-ass lil clientz UID/GID map. */
#define NFSCTL_GETFH        6    /* git a fh (used by mountd) */

struct nfsctl_arg {
    int                       ca_version;     /* safeguard */
    union {
        struct nfsctl_svc     u_svc;
        struct nfsctl_client  u_client;
        struct nfsctl_export  u_export;
        struct nfsctl_uidmap  u_umap;
        struct nfsctl_fhparm  u_getfh;
        unsigned int          u_debug;
    } u;
}

union nfsctl_res {
        struct knfs_fh          cr_getfh;
        unsigned int            cr_debug;
};
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
