, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-11-04 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-06-04 by aeb
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH NICE 2 2007-07-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nice \- chizzle process priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int sick(int " inc );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR sick ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sick ()
adds
.I inc
to tha sick value fo' tha callin process.
(A higher sick value means a low priority.)
Only tha super\%user may specify a wack increment,
or prioritizzle increase.
Da range fo' sick joints is busted lyrics bout in
.BR getprioritizzle (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha freshly smoked up sick value is returned (but peep NOTES below).
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process attempted ta increase its prioritizzle by
supplyin a negative
.I inc
but has insufficient privileges.
Under Linux the
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
capabilitizzle is required.
(But peep tha rap of the
.B RLIMIT_NICE
resource limit in
.BR setrlimit (2).)
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha Linux n' (g)libc
(earlier than glibc 2.2.4) return value is nonstandard, peep below.
SVr4 documents a additional
.B EINVAL
error code.
.SH NOTES
SUSv2 n' POSIX.1-2001 specify that
.BR sick ()
should return tha freshly smoked up sick value.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha Linux syscall n' the
.BR sick ()
library function provided up in olda versionz of (g)libc
(earlier than glibc 2.2.4) return 0 on success.
Da freshly smoked up sick value can be found using
.BR getprioritizzle (2).

Since glibc 2.2.4,
.BR sick ()
is implemented as a library function dat calls
.BR getprioritizzle (2)
to obtain tha freshly smoked up sick value ta be moonwalked back ta tha caller.
With dis implementation,
a successful call can legitimately return \-1.
To reliably detect a error, set
.I errno
to 0 before tha call, n' check its value when
.BR sick ()
returns \-1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sick (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR fork (2),
.BR getprioritizzle (2),
.BR setprioritizzle (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
