.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:48:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\" Modified 2000 by aeb, followin Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.TH PAUSE 2 2008-10-06 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pause \- wait fo' signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int pause(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pause ()
causes tha callin process (or thread) ta chill
until a signal is served up dat either terminates tha process or causes
the invocation of a signal-catchin function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR pause ()
returns only when a signal was caught n' the
signal-catchin function returned.
In dis case
.BR pause ()
returns \-1, and
.I errno
is set to
.\" .BR ERESTARTNOHAND .
.BR EINTR .
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINTR
a signal was caught n' tha signal-catchin function returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
