
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" typo erected, aeb, 950825
.\" added layout chizzle from joey, 960722
.\" chizzled prototype, documented 0xffffffff, aeb, 030101
.\" Modified 2004-11-03 patch from Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.TH PERSONALITY 2 2003-01-01 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
personalitizzle \- set tha process execution domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/personality.h>
.sp
.BI "int personality(unsigned long " persona );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux supports different execution domains, or personalities, fo' each
process.
Among other thangs, execution domains tell Linux how tha fuck ta map
signal numbers tha fuck into signal actions.
Da execution domain system allows
Linux ta provide limited support fo' binaries compiled under other
UNIX-like operatin systems.

This function will return tha current
.BR personalitizzle ()
when
.I persona
equals 0xffffffff.
Otherwise, it will make tha execution domain
referenced by
.I persona
the freshly smoked up execution domain of tha callin process.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha previous
.I persona
is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da kernel was unable ta chizzle tha personality.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR personalitizzle ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs intended to
be portable.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
