.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Joseph Samuel Myers.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PREAD 2 2013-06-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pread, pwrite \- read from or write ta a gangbangin' file descriptor at a given offset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t pread(int " fd ", void *" buf ", size_t " count \
", off_t " offset );
.sp
.BI "ssize_t pwrite(int " fd ", const void *" buf ", size_t " count \
", off_t " offset );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.PD 0
.ad l
.sp
.BR pread (),
.BR pwrite ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pread ()
readz up to
.I count
bytes from file descriptor
.I fd
at offset
.I offset
(from tha start of tha file) tha fuck into tha buffer startin at
.IR buf .
Da file offset aint chizzled.
.PP
.BR pwrite ()
writes up to
.I count
bytes from tha buffer startin at
.I buf
to tha file descriptor
.I fd
at offset
.IR offset .
Da file offset aint chizzled.
.PP
Da file referenced by
.I fd
must be capable of seeking.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha number of bytes read or freestyled is returned (zero
indicates dat not a god damn thang was written, up in tha case of
.BR pwrite (),
or
end of file, up in tha case of
.BR pread ()),
or \-1 on error, up in which case
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR pread ()
can fail n' set
.I errno
to any error specified for
.BR read (2)
or
.BR lseek (2).
.BR pwrite ()
can fail n' set
.I errno
to any error specified for
.BR write (2)
or
.BR lseek (2).
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR pread ()
and
.BR pwrite ()
system calls was added ta Linux in
version 2.1.60; tha entries up in tha i386 system call table was added
in 2.1.69.
C library support (includin emulation using
.BR lseek (2)
on olda kernels without tha system calls) was added up in glibc 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR pread ()
and
.BR pwrite ()
system calls is especially useful up in multithreaded applications.
They allow multiple threadz ta big-ass up I/O on tha same file descriptor
without bein affected by chizzlez ta tha file offset by other threads.

On Linux, tha underlyin system calls was renamed
in kernel 2.6:
.BR pread ()
became
.BR pread64 (),
and
.BR pwrite ()
became
.BR pwrite64 ().
Da system call numbers remained tha same.
Da glibc
.BR pread ()
and
.BR pwrite ()
wrapper functions transparently deal wit tha chizzle.

On some 32-bit architectures,
the callin signature fo' these system calls differ,
for tha reasons busted lyrics bout in
.BR syscall (2).
.SH BUGS
POSIX requires dat openin a gangbangin' file wit the
.BR O_APPEND
flag should have no affect on tha location at which
.BR pwrite ()
writes data.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat on Linux, if a gangbangin' file is opened with
.\" FIXME https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=43178
.BR O_APPEND ,
.BR pwrite ()
appendz data ta tha end of tha file, regardless of tha value of
.IR offset .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR readv (2),
.BR write (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
