.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2006-02-09, some reformattin by Luc Van Oostenryck; some
.\" reformattin n' rewordings by mtk
.\"
.TH QUERY_MODULE 2 2013-01-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
query_module \- query tha kernel fo' various bits pertainin ta modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/module.h>
.sp
.BI "int query_module(const char *" name ", int " which ", void *" buf ,
.BI "                 size_t " bufsize ", size_t *" ret );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Note :
This system call is present only up in kernels before Linux 2.6.

.BR query_module ()
requests shiznit from tha kernel bout loadable modules.
Da returned shiznit is placed up in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR buf .
Da calla must specify tha size of
.I buf
in
.IR bufsize .
Da precise nature n' format of tha returned shiznit
depend on tha operation specified by
.IR which .
Some operations require
.I name
to identify a cold-ass lil currently loaded module, some allow
.I name
to be NULL, indicatin tha kernel proper.

Da followin joints can be specified for
.IR which :
.TP
.B 0
Returns success, if tha kernel supports
.BR query_module ().
Used ta probe fo' availabilitizzle of tha system call.
.TP
.B QM_MODULES
Returns tha namez of all loaded modules.
Da returned buffer consistz of a sequence of null-terminated strings;
.I ret
is set ta tha number of
modules.
.\" ret is set on ENOSPC
.TP
.B QM_DEPS
Returns tha namez of all modulez used by tha indicated module.
Da returned buffer consistz of a sequence of null-terminated strings;
.I ret
is set ta tha number of modules.
.\" ret is set on ENOSPC
.TP
.B QM_REFS
Returns tha namez of all modulez rockin tha indicated module.
This is tha inverse of
.BR QM_DEPS .
Da returned buffer consistz of a sequence of null-terminated strings;
.I ret
is set ta tha number of modules.
.\" ret is set on ENOSPC
.TP
.B QM_SYMBOLS
Returns tha symbols n' joints exported by tha kernel or tha indicated
module.
Da returned buffer be a array of structurez of tha followin form
.\" ret is set on ENOSPC
.in +4n
.nf

struct module_symbol {
    unsigned long value;
    unsigned long name;
};
.fi
.in
.IP
followed by null-terminated strings.
Da value of
.I name
is tha characta offset of tha strang relatizzle ta tha start of
.IR buf ;
.I ret
is set ta tha number of symbols.
.TP
.B QM_INFO
Returns miscellaneous shiznit bout tha indicated module.
Da output buffer format is:
.in +4n
.nf

struct module_info {
    unsigned long address;
    unsigned long size;
    unsigned long flags;
};
.fi
.in
.IP
where
.I address
is tha kernel address at which tha module resides,
.I size
is tha size of tha module up in bytes, and
.I flags
is a mask of
.BR MOD_RUNNING ,
.BR MOD_AUTOCLEAN ,
etc., dat indicates tha current statuz of tha module
(see tha Linux kernel source file
.IR include/linux/module.h ).
.I ret
is set ta tha size of the
.I module_info
structure.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
At least one of
.IR name ,
.IR buf ,
or
.I ret
was outside tha programz accessible address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid
.IR which ;
or
.I name
is NULL (indicatin "the kernel"),
but dis aint permitted wit tha specified value of
.IR which .
.\" Not permitted wit QM_DEPS, QM_REFS, or QM_INFO.
.TP
.B ENOENT
No module by that
.I name
exists.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
Da buffer size provided was too small.
.I ret
is set ta tha minimum size needed.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR query_module ()
is not supported up in dis version of tha kernel
(e.g., tha kernel is version 2.6 or later).
.SH VERSIONS
This system call is present on Linux only up until kernel 2.4;
it was removed up in Linux 2.6.
.\" Removed up in Linux 2.5.48
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR query_module ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Some of tha shiznit dat was formerly available via
.BR query_module ()
can be obtained from
.IR /proc/modulez ,
.IR /proc/kallsyms ,
and tha filez under tha directory
.IR /sys/module .

Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call;
in tha unlikely event dat you need ta use it on a oldschool kernel, use
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR create_module (2),
.BR delete_module (2),
.BR get_kernel_syms (2),
.BR init_module (2),
.BR lsmod (8),
.BR modinfo (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
