.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2004, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2004-05-40 Created by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" 2004-10-05 aeb, minor erection
.\"
.TH READAHEAD 2 2013-04-01 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
readahead \- big-ass up file readahead tha fuck into page cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t readahead(int " fd ", off64_t " offset ", size_t " count );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR readahead ()
populates tha page cache wit data from a gangbangin' file so dat subsequent
readz from dat file aint gonna block on disk I/O.
The
.I fd
argument be a gangbangin' file descriptor identifyin tha file which is
to be read.
The
.I offset
argument specifies tha startin point from which data is ta be read
and
.I count
specifies tha number of bytes ta be read.
I/O is performed up in whole pages, so that
.I offset
is effectively rounded down ta a page boundary
and bytes is read up ta tha next page boundary pimped outa than or
equal to
.IR "(offset+count)" .
.BR readahead ()
does not read beyond tha end of tha file.
.BR readahead ()
blocks until tha specified data has been read.
Da current file offset of tha open file referred ta by
.I fd
is left unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR readahead ()
returns 0; on failure, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or aint open fo' reading.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
does not refer ta a gangbangin' file type ta which
.BR readahead ()
can be applied.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR readahead ()
system call rocked up in Linux 2.4.13;
glibc support has been provided since version 2.3.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.BR readahead ()
system call is Linux-specific, n' its use should be avoided
in portable applications.
.SH NOTES
On some 32-bit architectures,
the callin signature fo' dis system call differs,
for tha reasons busted lyrics bout in
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR madvise (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR posix_fadvise (2),
.BR read (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
