.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), 24 September 1998
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.\"
.TH REBOOT 2 2010-10-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot or enable/disable Ctrl-Alt-Del
.SH SYNOPSIS
/* For libc4 n' libc5 tha library call n' tha system call
   is identical, n' since kernel version 2.1.30 there are
   symbolic names LINUX_REBOOT_* fo' tha constants n' a
   fourth argument ta tha call: */
.sp
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/reboot.h>
.sp
.BI "int reboot(int " magic ", int " magic2 ", int " cmd ", void *" arg );
.sp
/* Under glibc a shitload of tha constants involved have gotten
   symbolic names RB_*, n' tha library call be a 1-argument
   wrapper round tha 3-argument system call: */
.sp
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/reboot.h>
.sp
.BI "int reboot(int " cmd );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR reboot ()
call reboots tha system, or enables/disablez tha reboot keystroke
(abbreviated CAD, since tha default is Ctrl-Alt-Delete;
it can be chizzled using
.BR loadkeys (1)).
.PP
This system call will fail (with
.BR EINVAL )
unless
.I magic
equals
.B LINUX_REBOOT_MAGIC1
(that is, 0xfee1dead) and
.I magic2
equals
.B LINUX_REBOOT_MAGIC2
(that is, 672274793).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat since 2.1.17 also
.B LINUX_REBOOT_MAGIC2A
(that is, 85072278)
and since 2.1.97 also
.B LINUX_REBOOT_MAGIC2B
(that is, 369367448)
and since 2.5.71 also
.B LINUX_REBOOT_MAGIC2C
(that is, 537993216)
are permitted as value for
.IR magic2 .
(Da hexadecimal jointz of these constants is meaningful.)
The
.I cmd
argument can have tha followin joints:
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_CAD_OFF
(RB_DISABLE_CAD, 0).
CAD is disabled.
This means dat tha CAD keystroke will cause a
.B SIGINT
signal ta be
sent ta init (process 1), whereupon dis process may decizzle upon a
proper action (maybe: bust a cap up in all processes, sync, reboot).
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_CAD_ON
(RB_ENABLE_CAD, 0x89abcdef).
CAD is enabled.
This means dat tha CAD keystroke will immediately cause
the action associated with
.BR LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_RESTART .
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_HALT
(RB_HALT_SYSTEM, 0xcdef0123; since 1.1.76).
Da message "System halted." is printed, n' tha system is halted.
Control is given ta tha ROM monitor, if there is one.
If not preceded by a
.BR sync (2),
data is ghon be lost.
.TP
.BR LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_KEXEC " (since Linux 2.6.13)"
Execute a kernel dat has been loaded earlier with
.BR kexec_load (2).
This option be available only if tha kernel was configured with
.BR CONFIG_KEXEC .
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_POWER_OFF
(0x4321fedc; since 2.1.30).
Da message "Juice down." is printed, tha system is stopped,
and all juice is removed from tha system, if possible.
If not preceded by a
.BR sync (2),
data is ghon be lost.
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_RESTART
(RB_AUTOBOOT, 0x1234567).
Da message "Restartin system." is printed, n' a thugged-out default
restart is performed immediately.
If not preceded by a
.BR sync (2),
data is ghon be lost.
.TP
.B LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_RESTART2
(0xa1b2c3d4; since 2.1.30).
Da message "Restartin system wit command \(aq%s\(aq" is printed,
and a restart (usin tha command strang given in
.IR arg )
is performed immediately.
If not preceded by a
.BR sync (2),
data is ghon be lost.
.LP
Only tha superuser may call
.BR reboot ().
.LP
Da precise effect of tha above actions dependz on tha architecture.
For tha i386 architecture, tha additionizzle argument do not do
anythang at present (2.1.122) yo, but tha type of reboot can be
determined by kernel command-line arguments ("reboot=...") ta be
either warm or cold, n' either hard or all up in tha BIOS.
.SH RETURN VALUE
For tha joints of
.I cmd
that stop or restart tha system,
a successful call to
.BR reboot ()
does not return.
For tha other
.I cmd
values, zero is returned on success.
In all cases, \-1 is returned on failure, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Problem wit gettin user-space data under
.BR LINUX_REBOOT_CMD_RESTART2 .
.TP
.B EINVAL
Wack magic numbers or \fIcmd\fP.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process has insufficient privilege ta call
.BR reboot ();
the
.B CAP_SYS_BOOT
capabilitizzle is required.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR reboot ()
is Linux-specific,
and should not be used up in programs intended ta be portable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sync (2),
.BR bootparam (7),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR ctrlaltdel (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
