.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"             n' Copyright (C) 1993 Mike Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH RMDIR 2 2008-05-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
rmdir \- delete a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int rmdir(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR rmdir ()
deletes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, which must be empty.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Write access ta tha directory containing
.I pathname
was not allowed, or one of tha directories up in tha path prefix of
.I pathname
did not allow search permission.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).
.TP
.B EBUSY
.I pathname
is currently up in use by tha system or some process dat prevents its
removal.
On Linux dis means
.I pathname
is currently used as a mount point
or is tha root directory of tha callin process.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR pathname " points outside yo' accessible address space."
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I pathname
has
.I .
as last component.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too nuff symbolic links was encountered up in resolving
.IR pathname .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR pathname " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I pathname
does not exist or be a thugged-out danglin symbolic link.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.IR pathname ,
or a cold-ass lil component used as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory in
.IR pathname ,
is not, up in fact, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
.B ENOTEMPTY
.I pathname
gotz nuff entries other than
.IR . " n' " .. " ;"
or,
.I pathname
has
.I ..
as its final component.
POSIX.1-2001 also allows
.B EEXIST
for dis condition.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da directory containing
.I pathname
has tha sticky bit
.RB ( S_ISVTX )
set n' tha processs effectizzle user ID is neither tha user ID
of tha file ta be deleted nor dat of tha directory containin it,
and tha process aint privileged (Linux: aint gots the
.B CAP_FOWNER
capability).
.TP
.B EPERM
Da file system containing
.I pathname
does not support tha removal of directories.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I pathname
refers ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory on a read-only file system.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
Infelicitizzles up in tha protocol underlyin NFS can cause tha unexpected
disappearizzle of directories which is still bein used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm (1),
.BR rmdir (1),
.BR chdir (2),
.BR chmod (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR rename (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR unlinkat (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
