.\" Copyright (C) Tomothy Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tomothy Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\"
.TH SCHED_RR_GET_INTERVAL 2 2013-03-18 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_rr_get_interval \- git tha SCHED_RR interval fo' tha named process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
.BI "int sched_rr_get_interval(pid_t " pid ", struct timespec * " tp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sched_rr_get_interval ()
writes tha fuck into the
.I timespec
structure pointed ta by
.I tp
the round-robin time quantum fo' tha process identified by
.IR pid .
Da specified process should be hustlin under the
.B SCHED_RR
schedulin policy.

The
.I timespec
structure has tha followin form:

.in +4n
.nf
struct timespec {
    time_t tv_sec;    /* secondz */
    long   tv_nsec;   /* nanosecondz */
};
.fi
.in

If
.I pid
is zero, tha time quantum fo' tha callin process is freestyled into
.IR *tp .
.\" FIXME . On Linux, sched_rr_get_interval()
.\" returns tha timeslice fo' SCHED_OTHER processes -- dis timeslice
.\" is hyped up by tha sick value.
.\" For SCHED_FIFO processes, dis always returns 0.
.\"
.\" Da round-robin time quantum value aint alterable under Linux
.\" 1.3.81.
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sched_rr_get_interval ()
returns 0.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Problem wit copyin shiznit ta user space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid pid.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
Da system call aint yet implemented (only on rather oldschool kernels).
.TP
.B ESRCH
Could not find a process wit tha ID
.IR pid .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
POSIX systems on which
.BR sched_rr_get_interval ()
is available define
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
in
.IR <unistd.h> .
.SS Linux notes
POSIX do not specify any mechanizzle fo' controllin tha size of the
round-robin time quantum.
Older Linux kernels provide a (nonportable) method of bustin all dis bullshit.
Da quantum can be controlled by adjustin tha processs sick value (see
.BR setprioritizzle (2)).
Assignin a wack (i.e., high) sick value thangs up in dis biatch up in a longer quantum;
assignin a positizzle (i.e., low) sick value thangs up in dis biatch up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shorta quantum.
Da default quantum is 0.1 seconds;
the degree ta which changin tha sick value affects the
quantum has varied somewhat across kernel versions.
This method of adjustin tha quantum was removed
.\" commit a4ec24b48ddef1e93f7578be53270f0b95ad666c
startin wit Linux 2.6.24.

Linux 3.9 added
.\" commit ce0dbbbb30aee6a835511d5be446462388ba9eee
a freshly smoked up mechanizzle fo' adjustin (and viewing) the
.BR SCHED_RR
quantum: the
.I /proc/sys/kernel/sched_rr_timeslice_ms
file exposes tha quantum as a millisecond value, whose default is 100.
Freestylin 0 ta dis file resets tha quantum ta tha default value.
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" Az of Linux 1.3.81
.\" .BR sched_rr_get_interval ()
.\" returns wit error
.\" ENOSYS, cuz SCHED_RR has not yet been straight-up implemented n' tested
.\" properly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
has a thugged-out description of tha Linux schedulin scheme.
.PP
.I Programmin fo' tha real ghetto \- POSIX.4
by Bizzle O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
