.\" Copyright (C) Tomothy Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tomothy Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\"
.TH SCHED_YIELD 2 2008-10-18 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_yield \- yield tha processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
.B int sched_yield(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sched_yield ()
causes tha callin thread ta relinquish tha CPU.
Da thread is moved ta tha end of tha queue fo' its static
prioritizzle n' a freshly smoked up thread gets ta run.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sched_yield ()
returns 0.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
In tha Linux implementation,
.BR sched_yield ()
always succeeds.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
If tha callin thread is tha only thread up in tha highest
prioritizzle list at dat time,
it will continue ta run afta a cold-ass lil call to
.BR sched_yield ().

POSIX systems on which
.BR sched_yield ()
is available define
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
in
.IR <unistd.h> .

Strategic calls to
.BR sched_yield ()
can improve performizzle by givin other threadz or processes
a chizzle ta run when (heavily) contended resources (e.g., mutexes)
have been busted out by tha caller.
Avoid calling
.BR sched_yield ()
unnecessarily or inappropriately
(e.g., when resources needed by other
schedulable threadz is still held by tha caller),
since bustin so will result up in unnecessary context switches,
which will degrade system performance.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
for a thugged-out description of Linux scheduling
.PP
.I Programmin fo' tha real ghetto \- POSIX.4
by Bizzle O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
