.\" Copyright (C) Tomothy Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tomothy Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\"
.TH SCHED_GET_PRIORITY_MAX 2 2006-03-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_get_priority_max, sched_get_priority_min  \- git static prioritizzle range
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
.BI "int sched_get_priority_max(int " policy );
.sp
.BI "int sched_get_priority_min(int " policy );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sched_get_priority_max ()
returns tha maximum prioritizzle value dat can be used wit the
schedulin algorithm identified by
.IR policy .
.BR sched_get_priority_min ()
returns tha minimum prioritizzle value dat can be used wit the
schedulin algorithm identified by
.IR policy .
Supported
.I policy
values are
.BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.BR SCHED_RR ,
.BR SCHED_OTHER ,
and
.BR SCHED_BATCH .
Further details bout these policies can be found in
.BR sched_setschedula (2).

Processes wit numerically higher prioritizzle joints is scheduled before
processes wit numerically lower prioritizzle joints.
Thus, tha value
returned by
.BR sched_get_priority_max ()
will be pimped outa than the
value returned by
.BR sched_get_priority_min ().

Linux allows tha static prioritizzle value range 1 ta 99 for
.B SCHED_FIFO
and
.B SCHED_RR
and tha prioritizzle 0 for
.B SCHED_OTHER
and
.BR SCHED_BATCH .
Schedulin prioritizzle ranges fo' tha various policies
are not alterable.

Da range of schedulin prioritizzles may vary on other POSIX systems,
thus it aint nuthin but a phat scam fo' portable applications ta bust a virtual
prioritizzle range n' map it ta tha interval given by
.BR sched_get_priority_max ()
and
.BR sched_get_priority_min ().
POSIX.1-2001 requires a spread of at least 32 between tha maximum n' the
minimum joints for
.B SCHED_FIFO
and
.BR SCHED_RR .

POSIX systems on which
.BR sched_get_priority_max ()
and
.BR sched_get_priority_min ()
are available define
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
in
.IR <unistd.h> .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sched_get_priority_max ()
and
.BR sched_get_priority_min ()
return tha maximum/minimum prioritizzle value fo' tha named scheduling
policy.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da argument
.I policy
does not identify a thugged-out defined schedulin policy.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR sched_getaffinitizzle (2),
.BR sched_getparam (2),
.BR sched_getschedula (2),
.BR sched_setaffinitizzle (2),
.BR sched_setparam (2),
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
.PP
.I Programmin fo' tha real ghetto \- POSIX.4
by Bizzle O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
