.\" Copyright (C) Tomothy Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tomothy Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH SCHED_SETPARAM 2 2013-02-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_setparam, sched_getparam \- set n' git schedulin parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
.BI "int sched_setparam(pid_t " pid ", const struct sched_param *" param );
.sp
.BI "int sched_getparam(pid_t " pid ", struct sched_param *" param );
.sp
\fBstruct sched_param {
    ...
    int \fIsched_priority\fB;
    ...
};
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sched_setparam ()
sets tha schedulin parametas associated wit tha schedulin policy
for tha process identified by \fIpid\fP.
If \fIpid\fP is zero, then
the parametaz of tha callin process is set.
Da interpretation of
the argument \fIparam\fP dependz on tha scheduling
policy of tha process identified by
.IR pid .
See
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
for a thugged-out description of tha schedulin policies supported under Linux.

.BR sched_getparam ()
retrieves tha schedulin parametas fo' the
process identified by \fIpid\fP.
If \fIpid\fP is zero, then tha parameters
of tha callin process is retrieved.

.BR sched_setparam ()
checks tha validitizzle of \fIparam\fP fo' tha schedulin policy of the
process.
Da value \fIparam\->sched_priority\fP must lie within the
range given by
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2)
and
.BR sched_get_priority_max (2).

For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of tha privileges n' resource limits related to
schedulin prioritizzle n' policy, see
.BR sched_setschedula (2).

POSIX systems on which
.BR sched_setparam ()
and
.BR sched_getparam ()
are available define
.B _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
in \fI<unistd.h>\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sched_setparam ()
and
.BR sched_getparam ()
return 0.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da argument \fIparam\fP do not make sense fo' tha current
schedulin policy.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process aint gots appropriate privileges
(Linux: aint gots the
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
capability).
.TP
.B ESRCH
Da process whose ID is \fIpid\fP could not be found.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Schedulin parametas is up in fact per-thread
attributes on Linux;
see
.BR sched_setschedula (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR getprioritizzle (2),
.BR sick (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_max (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2),
.BR sched_getaffinitizzle (2),
.BR sched_getschedula (2),
.BR sched_setaffinitizzle (2),
.BR sched_setschedula (2),
.BR setprioritizzle (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7)
.PP
.I Programmin fo' tha real ghetto \- POSIX.4
by Bizzle O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
