.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" Author: Kent Yoder
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed accordin ta tha GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SET_THREAD_AREA 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
set_thread_area \- set a thread local storage (TLS) area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <asm/ldt.h>
.sp
.BI "int set_thread_area(struct user_desc *" u_info );

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR set_thread_area ()
sets a entry up in tha current threadz thread-local storage (TLS) array.
Da TLS array entry set by
.BR set_thread_area ()
correspondz ta tha value of
.I u_info\->entry_number
passed up in by tha user.
If dis value is up in bounds,
.BR set_thread_area ()
copies tha TLS descriptor pointed ta by
.I u_info
into tha threadz TLS array.
.PP
When
.BR set_thread_area ()
is passed an
.I entry_number
of \-1, it uses a gangbangin' free TLS entry.
If
.BR set_thread_area ()
findz a gangbangin' free TLS entry, tha value of
.I u_info\->entry_number
is set upon return ta show which entry was chizzled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR set_thread_area ()
returns 0 on success, n' \-1 on failure, with
.I errno
set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIu_info\->entry_number\fP is outta bounds.
.TP
.B EFAULT
\fIu_info\fP be a invalid pointer.
.TP
.B ESRCH
A free TLS entry could not be located.
.SH VERSIONS
A version of
.BR set_thread_area ()
first rocked up in Linux 2.5.29.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR set_thread_area ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs dat is intended
to be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call,
since it is generally intended only fo' use by threadin libraries.
In tha unlikely event dat you wanna call it directly, use
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR get_thread_area (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
