
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created   1995-08-06 Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified  2000-07-01 aeb
.\" Modified  2002-07-23 aeb
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.\"
.TH SETFSGID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setfsgid \- set crew identitizzle used fo' file system checks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
/* glibc uses <sys/fsuid.h> */
.sp
.BI "int setfsgid(uid_t " fsgid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da system call
.BR setfsgid ()
sets tha crew ID dat tha Linux kernel uses ta check fo' all accesses
to tha file system.
Normally, tha value of
.I fsgid
will shadow tha value of tha effectizzle crew ID.
In fact, whenever the
effectizzle crew ID is chizzled,
.I fsgid
will also be chizzled ta tha freshly smoked up value of tha effectizzle crew ID.

Explicit calls to
.BR setfsuid (2)
and
.BR setfsgid ()
are probably used only by programs like fuckin tha Linux NFS server that
need ta chizzle what tha fuck user n' crew ID is used fo' file access without a
correspondin chizzle up in tha real n' effectizzle user n' crew IDs.
A chizzle up in tha aiiight user IDs fo' a program like fuckin tha NFS server
is a securitizzle hole dat can expose it ta unwanted signals.
(But peep below.)

.BR setfsgid ()
will succeed only if tha calla is tha superuser or if
.I fsgid
matches either tha real crew ID, effectizzle crew ID,
saved set-group-ID, or tha current value of
.IR fsgid .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha previous value of
.I fsgid
is returned.
On error, tha current value of
.I fsgid
is returned.
.SH VERSIONS
This system call is present up in Linux since version 1.2.
.\" This system call is present since Linux 1.1.44
.\" n' up in libc since libc 4.7.6.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR setfsgid ()
is Linux-specific n' should not be used up in programs intended
to be portable.
.SH NOTES
When glibc determines dat tha argument aint a valid crew ID,
it will return \-1 n' set \fIerrno\fP to
.B EINVAL
without attempting
the system call.
.LP
Note dat all up in tha time dis system call was introduced, a process
could bust a signal ta a process wit tha same effectizzle user ID.
Todizzle signal permission handlin is slightly different.

Da original gangsta Linux
.BR setfsgid ()
system call supported only 16-bit crew IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR setfsgid32 ()
supportin 32-bit IDs.
Da glibc
.BR setfsgid ()
wrapper function transparently deals wit tha variation across kernel versions.
.SH BUGS
No error lyrics of any kind is moonwalked back ta tha caller.
At tha hella
least,
.B EPERM
should be returned when tha call fails (because tha calla lacks the
.B CAP_SETGID
capability).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR setfsuid (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
