.\" Copyright (C), 1994, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Fri Jul 29th 12:56:44 BST 1994  Wilf. <G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk>
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2002-03-09 by aeb
.\"
.TH SETGID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setgid \- set crew identity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setgid(gid_t " gid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR setgid ()
sets tha effectizzle crew ID of tha callin process.
If tha calla is the
superuser, tha real GID n' saved set-group-ID is also set.

Under Linux,
.BR setgid ()
is implemented like tha POSIX version wit the
.B _POSIX_SAVED_IDS
feature.
This allows a set-group-ID program dat aint set-user-ID-root
to drop all of its group
privileges, do some un-privileged work, n' then reengage tha original
effectizzle crew ID up in a secure manner.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process aint privileged (does not have the
\fBCAP_SETGID\fP capability), and
.I gid
does not match tha real crew ID or saved set-group-ID of
the callin process.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da original gangsta Linux
.BR setgid ()
system call supported only 16-bit crew IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR setgid32 ()
supportin 32-bit IDs.
Da glibc
.BR setgid ()
wrapper function transparently deals wit tha variation across kernel versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getgid (2),
.BR setegid (2),
.BR setregid (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
