.\" Copyright Mike Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\"     Sat Aug 27 20:43:50 MET DST 1994
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Sep 11 19:19:05 1994 <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Mar 25 10:19:00 1996 <aeb@cwi.nl> (merged a gangbangin' few
.\"	tiny chizzlez from a playa page by Charlez Livingston).
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 14:45:46 1996 <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH SETSID 2 2013-02-11 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setsid \- creates a session n' sets tha process crew ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B pid_t setsid(void);
.br
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR setsid ()
creates a freshly smoked up session if tha callin process aint a
process crew leader.
Da callin process is tha leader of tha new
session, tha process crew leader of tha freshly smoked up process group, n' has no
controllin terminal.
Da process crew ID n' session ID of tha calling
process is set ta tha PID of tha callin process.
Da callin process is ghon be tha only process in
this freshly smoked up process crew n' up in dis freshly smoked up session.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha (new) session ID of tha callin process is returned.
On error,
.I "(pid_t)\ \-1"
is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Da process crew ID of any process equals tha PID of tha callin process.
Thus, up in particular,
.BR setsid ()
fails if tha callin process be already a process crew leader.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
A lil pimp pimped via
.BR fork (2)
inherits its parentz session ID.
Da session ID is preserved across an
.BR execve (2).

A process crew leader be a process wit process crew ID equal
to its PID.
In order ta be shizzle that
.BR setsid ()
will succeed,
.BR fork (2)
and
.BR _exit (2),
and have tha lil pimp do
.BR setsid ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setsid (1),
.BR getsid (2),
.BR setpgid (2),
.BR setpgrp (2),
.BR tcgetsid (3),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
