.\" Copyright (C), 1994, Graeme W. Wilford (Wilf).
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Fri Jul 29th 12:56:44 BST 1994  Wilf. <G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk>
.\" Chizzlez inspired by patch from Slick Rick Kettlewell
.\"   <richard@greenend.org.uk>, aeb 970616.
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.TH SETUID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setuid \- set user identity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setuid(uid_t " uid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR setuid ()
sets tha effectizzle user ID of tha callin process.
If tha effectizzle UID of tha calla is root,
the real UID n' saved set-user-ID is also set.
.PP
Under Linux,
.BR setuid ()
is implemented like tha POSIX version wit the
.B _POSIX_SAVED_IDS
feature.
This allows a set-user-ID (other than root) program ta drop all of its user
privileges, do some un-privileged work, n' then reengage tha original
effectizzle user ID up in a secure manner.
.PP
If tha user is root or tha program is set-user-ID-root, special care must be
taken.
The
.BR setuid ()
function checks tha effectizzle user ID of tha calla n' if it is
the superuser, all process-related user IDz is set to
.IR uid .
Afta dis has occurred, it is impossible fo' tha program ta regain root
privileges.
.PP
Thus, a set-user-ID-root program wishin ta temporarily drop root
privileges, assume tha identitizzle of a unprivileged user, n' then regain
root privileges afterward cannot use
.BR setuid ().
Yo ass can accomplish dis with
.BR seteuid (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
The
.I uid
does not match tha current uid and
.I uid
brings process over its
.B RLIMIT_NPROC
resource limit.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da user aint privileged (Linux: aint gots the
.B CAP_SETUID
capability) and
.I uid
does not match tha real UID or saved set-user-ID of tha callin process.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
Not like compatible wit tha 4.4BSD call, which
sets all of tha real, saved, n' effectizzle user IDs.
.\" SVr4 documents a additionizzle EINVAL error condition.
.SH NOTES
Linux has tha concept of tha file system user ID, normally equal ta the
effectizzle user ID.
The
.BR setuid ()
call also sets tha file system user ID of tha callin process.
See
.BR setfsuid (2).
.PP
If
.I uid
is different from tha oldschool effectizzle UID, tha process will
be forbidden from leavin core dumps.

Da original gangsta Linux
.BR setuid ()
system call supported only 16-bit user IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR setuid32 ()
supportin 32-bit IDs.
Da glibc
.BR setuid ()
wrapper function transparently deals wit tha variation across kernel versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getuid (2),
.BR seteuid (2),
.BR setfsuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
