.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Mike Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\"   Update callin parametas ta Linux 1.2.4 joints.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:05:28 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sat Jan 29 01:08:23 2000 by aeb
.\"
.TH SETUP 2 2008-12-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setup \- setup devices n' file systems, mount root file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int setup(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR setup ()
is called once from within
.IR linux/init/main.c .
It calls initialization functions fo' devices n' file systems
configured tha fuck into tha kernel n' then mounts tha root file system.
.PP
No user process may call
.BR setup ().
Any user process, even a process wit superuser permission,
will receive
.BR EPERM .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR setup ()
always returns \-1 fo' a user process.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Always, fo' a user process.
.SH VERSIONS
Since Linux 2.1.121, no such function exists no mo'.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable, or indeed up in any programs at all.
.SH NOTES
Da callin sequence varied: at some times
.I setup ()
has had a single argument
.I "void\ *BIOS"
and at other times a single argument
.IR "int magic" .
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
