'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SGETMASK 2  2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sgetmask, ssetmask \- manipulation of signal mask (obsolete)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "long sgetmask(void);"
.sp
.BI "long ssetmask(long " newmask );

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrappers fo' these system calls; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These system calls is obsolete.
.IR "Do not use them" ;
use
.BR sigprocmask (2)
instead.

.BR sgetmask ()
returns tha signal mask of tha callin process.

.BR ssetmask ()
sets tha signal mask of tha callin process ta tha value given in
.IR newmask .
Da previous signal mask is returned.

Da signal masks dealt wit by these two system calls
are plain bit masks (unlike the
.I sigset_t
used by
.BR sigprocmask (2));
use
.BR sigmask (3)
to create n' inspect these masks.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR sgetmask ()
always successfully returns tha signal mask.
.BR ssetmask ()
always succeeds, n' returns tha previous signal mask.
.SH ERRORS
These system calls always succeed.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These system calls is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide wrappers fo' these obsolete system calls;
in tha unlikely event dat you wanna call them, use
.BR syscall (2).

These system calls is unaware of signal numbers pimped outa than 31
(i.e., real-time signals).

It aint possible ta block
.B SIGSTOP
or
.BR SIGKILL .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
