.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 1999/03/21 22:52:23 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 2012-09-06 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- shut down part of a gangbangin' full-duplex connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " sockfd ", int " how tha fuck );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shutdown ()
call causes all or part of a gangbangin' full-duplex connection on tha socket
associated with
.I sockfd
to be shut down.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_RD ,
further receptions is ghon be disallowed.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_WR ,
further transmissions is ghon be disallowed.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_RDWR ,
further receptions n' transmissions is ghon be disallowed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid value was specified in
.IR how
(but peep BUGS).
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
Da specified socket aint connected.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I sockfd
is a gangbangin' file, not a socket.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, 4.4BSD (the
.BR shutdown ()
function call first rocked up in 4.2BSD).
.SH NOTES
Da constants
.BR SHUT_RD ,
.BR SHUT_WR ,
.B SHUT_RDWR
have tha value 0, 1, 2,
respectively, n' is defined in
.I <sys/socket.h>
since glibc-2.1.91.
.SH BUGS
As currently implemented,
checks fo' tha validitizzle of
.I how
are done up in domain-specific code, n' not all domains big-ass up these checks.
.\" FIXME
.\" https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=47111
Most notably, UNIX domain sockets simply ignore invalid joints;
this may chizzle up in tha future.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socket (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
