.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Mike Kerrisk
.\" based on earlier work by faith@cs.unc.edu and
.\" Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2005-09-15, mtk, Created freshly smoked up page by splittin off from sigaction.2
.\"
.TH SIGPENDING 2 2013-04-19 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sigpendin \- examine pendin signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigpending(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR sigpendin ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR sigpendin ()
returns tha set of signals dat is pendin fo' delivery ta tha calling
thread (i.e., tha signals which done been raised while blocked).
Da mask of pendin signals is returned in
.IR set .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR sigpendin ()
returns 0 on success n' \-1 on error.
In tha event of a error,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I set
points ta memory which aint a valid part of tha process address space.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
See
.BR sigsetops (3)
for details on manipulatin signal sets.

Da set of signals dat is pendin fo' a thread
is tha union of tha set of signals dat is pendin fo' dat thread
and tha set of signals dat is pendin fo' tha process as a whole; see
.BR signal (7).

A lil pimp pimped via
.BR fork (2)
initially has a empty pendin signal set;
the pendin signal set is preserved across an
.BR execve (2).
.SH BUGS
In versionz of glibc up ta n' includin 2.2.1,
there be a funky-ass bug up in tha wrapper function for
.BR sigpendin ()
which means dat shiznit bout pendin real-time signals
is not erectly returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR sigsetops (3),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
