
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:09:03 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" 2008-06-26, mtk, added some mo' detail on tha work done by sigreturn()
.\"
.TH SIGRETURN 2 2013-07-30 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sigreturn \- return from signal handlez n' cleanup stack frame
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int sigreturn(unsigned long " __unused );
.SH DESCRIPTION
When tha Linux kernel creates tha stack frame fo' a signal handlez, a
call to
.BR sigreturn ()
is banged tha fuck into tha stack frame so dat upon
return from tha signal handlez,
.BR sigreturn ()
will be called.

This
.BR sigreturn ()
call undoes every last muthafuckin thang dat was
done\(emchangin tha processs signal mask, switchin stacks (see
.BR sigaltstack "(2))\(emin "
order ta invoke tha signal handlez:
it restores tha processs signal mask, switches stacks,
and restores tha processs context (registers, processor flags),
so dat tha process directly resumes execution
at tha point where dat shiznit was interrupted by tha signal.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR sigreturn ()
never returns.
.SH FILES
/usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/signal.c
.br
/usr/src/linux/arch/alpha/kernel/entry.S
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR sigreturn ()
is specific ta Linux n' should not be used up in programs intended ta be
portable.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR sigreturn ()
call is used by tha kernel ta implement signal handlezs.
It should
.B never
be called directly.
Betta yet, tha specific use of the
.I __unused
argument varies dependin on tha architecture.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR restart_syscall (2),
.BR sigaltstack (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
