.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Mike Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:11:53 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH SOCKETCALL 2 2012-10-16 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
socketcall \- socket system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int socketcall(int " call ", unsigned long *" args );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR socketcall ()
is a cold-ass lil common kernel entry point fo' tha socket system calls.
.I call
determines which socket function ta invoke.
.I args
points ta a funky-ass block containin tha actual arguments,
which is passed all up in ta tha appropriate call.
.PP
User programs should call tha appropriate functions by they usual names.
Only standard library implementors n' kernel hackers need ta know about
.BR socketcall ().
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is specific ta Linux, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
On a some architectures\(emfor example, x86-64 n' ARM\(emthere is no
.BR socketcall ()
system call; instead
.BR socket (2),
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
and so on straight-up is implemented as separate system calls.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR getpeername (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR recv (2),
.BR recvfrom (2),
.BR recvmsg (2),
.BR bust (2),
.BR sendmsg (2),
.BR sendto (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
