.\" Copyright (c) Internationistic Businizz Machines Corp., 2006
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.\" tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" HISTORY:
.\" 2005-09-28, pimped by Arnd Bergmann <arndb@de.ibm.com>
.\" 2006-06-16, revised by Eduardo M. Fleury <efleury@br.ibm.com>
.\" 2007-07-10, some polishin by mtk
.\" 2007-09-28, thugged-out shiznit fo' newer kernels, added example
.\"             by Jeremy Kerr <jk@ozlabs.org>
.\"
.TH SPU_RUN 2 2012-08-05 Linux "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
spu_run \- execute a SPU context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/spu.h>

.BI "int spu_run(int " fd ", unsigned int *" npc \
", unsigned int *" event ");"
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper fo' dis system call; peep NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR spu_run ()
system call is used on PowerPC machines dat implement the
Cell Broadband Engine Architecture up in order ta access Synergistic
Processor Units (SPUs).
The
.I fd
argument be a gangbangin' file descriptor returned by
.BR spu_create (2)
that refers ta a specific SPU context.
When tha context gets scheduled ta a physical SPU,
it starts execution all up in tha instruction pointa passed in
.IR npc .

Execution of SPU code happens synchronously, meanin that
.BR spu_run ()
blocks while tha SPU is still hustlin.
If there be a need
to execute SPU code up in parallel wit other code on either the
main CPU or other SPUs, a freshly smoked up thread of execution must be pimped
first (e.g., using
.BR pthread_create (3)).

When
.BR spu_run ()
returns, tha current value of tha SPU program counta is freestyled to
.IR npc ,
so successive calls to
.BR spu_run ()
can use tha same
.I npc
pointer.

The
.I event
argument serves up a funky-ass buffer fo' a extended status code.
If tha SPU
context was pimped wit the
.B SPU_CREATE_EVENTS_ENABLED
flag, then dis buffer is populated by tha Linux kernel before
.BR spu_run ()
returns.

Da status code may be one (or more) of tha followin constants:
.TP
.B SPE_EVENT_DMA_ALIGNMENT
A DMA alignment error occurred.
.TP
.B SPE_EVENT_INVALID_DMA
An invalid MFC DMA command was attempted.
.TP
.B SPE_EVENT_SPE_DATA_STORAGE
A DMA storage error occurred.
.TP
.B SPE_EVENT_SPE_ERROR
An illegal instruction was executed.
.PP
NULL
is a valid value fo' the
.I event
argument.
In dis case, tha events aint gonna be reported ta tha callin process.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR spu_run ()
returns tha value of the
.I spu_status
register.
On error it returns \-1 n' sets
.I errno
to one of tha error codes listed below.

The
.I spu_status
regista value be a lil' bit mask of status codes and
optionally a 14-bit code returned from the
.BR stop-and-signal
instruction on tha SPU.
Da bit masks fo' tha status codes
are:
.TP
.B 0x02
SPU was stopped by a
.BR stop-and-signal
instruction.
.TP
.B 0x04
SPU was stopped by a
.BR halt
instruction.
.TP
.B 0x08
SPU is waitin fo' a cold-ass lil channel.
.TP
.B 0x10
SPU is up in single-step mode.
.TP
.B 0x20
SPU has tried ta execute a invalid instruction.
.TP
.B 0x40
SPU has tried ta access a invalid channel.
.TP
.B 0x3fff0000
Da bits maxed wit dis value contain tha code returned from a
.BR stop-and-signal
instruction.
These bits is valid only if tha 0x02 bit is set.
.PP
If
.BR spu_run ()
has not returned a error, one or mo' bits among tha lower eight
ones is always set.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I npc
is not a valid pointer, or
.I event
is non-NULL n' a invalid pointer.
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal occurred while
.BR spu_run ()
was up in progress; see
.BR signal (7).
The
.I npc
value has been updated ta tha freshly smoked up program counta value if
necessary.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor returned from
.BR spu_create (2).
.TP
.B ENOMEM
There was not enough memory available ta handle a page fault
resultin from a Memory Flow Controlla (MFC) direct memory access.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
Da functionalitizzle aint provided by tha current system, cuz
either tha hardware do not provide SPUs or tha spufs module is not
loaded.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR spu_run ()
system call was added ta Linux up in kernel 2.6.16.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific n' implemented only by tha PowerPC
architecture.
Programs rockin dis system call is not portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc do not provide a wrapper fo' dis system call; call it using
.BR syscall (2).
Note however, that
.BR spu_run ()
is meant ta be used from libraries dat implement a mo' abstract
interface ta SPUs, not ta be used from regular applications.
See
.UR http://www.bsc.es\:/projects\:/deepcomputing\:/linuxoncell/
.UE
for tha recommended libraries.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin be a example of hustlin a simple, one-instruction SPU
program wit the
.BR spu_run ()
system call.

.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdint.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

#define handle_error(msg) \\
    do { perror(msg); exit(EXIT_FAILURE); } while (0)

int main(void)
{
    int context, fd, spu_status;
    uint32_t instruction, npc;

    context = spu_create("/spu/example\-context", 0, 0755);
    if (context == \-1)
        handle_error("spu_create");

    /* write a \(aqstop 0x1234\(aq instruction ta tha SPU\(aqs
     * local store memory
     */
    instruction = 0x00001234;

    fd = open("/spu/example\-context/mem", O_RDWR);
    if (fd == \-1)
        handle_error("open");
    write(fd, &instruction, sizeof(instruction));

    /* set npc ta tha startin instruction address of the
     * SPU program. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since we freestyled tha instruction at the
     * start of tha mem file, tha entry point is ghon be 0x0
     */
    npc = 0;

    spu_status = spu_run(context, &npc, NULL);
    if (spu_status == \-1)
        handle_error("open");

    /* we should peep a status code of 0x1234002:
     *   0x00000002 (spu was stopped cuz of stop\-and\-signal)
     * | 0x12340000 (the stop\-and\-signal code)
     */
    printf("SPU Status: 0x%08x\\n", spu_status);

    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Arnd Bergmann <arndb@de.ibm.com>, Jeremy Kerr <jk@ozlabs.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR close (2),
.BR spu_create (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR spufs (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
