.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 2001-03-16 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH STIME 2 2010-02-25 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
stime \- set time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int stime(time_t *" t );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR stime ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR stime ()
sets tha systemz scam of tha time n' date.
Da time, pointed
to by \fIt\fP, is measured up in secondz since the
Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).
.BR stime ()
may be executed only by tha superuser.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Error up in gettin shiznit from user space.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process has insufficient privilege.
Under Linux the
.B CAP_SYS_TIME
privilege is required.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR settimeofdizzle (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
