.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2011 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:02:47 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Mike Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added reference ta `bdflush(2)'.
.\" Modified 960414 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   Added tha fact dat since 1.3.20 sync straight-up waits.
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:27:07 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-10-10 by aeb, followin Mike Kerrisk.
.\" 2011-09-07, mtk, Added syncfs() documentation,
.\"
.TH SYNC 2 2012-05-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sync, syncfs \- commit buffer cache ta disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B void sync(void);
.sp
.BI "int syncfs(int " fd );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR sync ():
.ad l
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.ad
.sp
.BR syncfs ():
.ad l
.RS 4
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sync ()
causes all buffered modifications ta file metadata n' data ta be
written ta tha underlyin file systems.

.BR syncfs ()
is like
.BR sync (),
but synchronizes just tha file system containin file
referred ta by tha open file descriptor
.IR fd .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR syncfs ()
returns 0 on success;
on error, it returns \-1 n' sets
.I errno
to indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR sync ()
is always successful.

.BR syncfs ()
can fail fo' at least tha followin reason:
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR syncfs ()
first rocked up in Linux 2.6.39;
library support was added ta glibc up in version 2.14.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR sync ():
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

.BR syncfs ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Since glibc 2.2.2 tha Linux prototype for
.BR sync ()
is as listed above,
followin tha various standards.
In libc4, libc5, n' glibc up ta 2.2.1
it was "int sync(void)", and
.BR sync ()
always returned 0.
.SH BUGS
Accordin ta tha standard justification (e.g., POSIX.1-2001),
.BR sync ()
schedulez tha writes yo, but may return before tha actual
writin is done.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat since version 1.3.20 Linux do straight-up wait.
(This still do not guarantee data integrity: modern disks have
pimpin' caches.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR sync (8),
.BR update (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
