
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created   Wed Aug  9 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.TH SYSFS 2 2010-06-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sysfs \- git file system type shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int sysfs(int " option ", const char *" fsname );

.BI "int sysfs(int " option ", unsigned int " fs_index ", char *" buf );

.BI "int sysfs(int " option );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sysfs ()
returns shiznit bout tha file system types currently present in
the kernel.
Da specific form of the
.BR sysfs ()
call n' tha shiznit returned dependz on the
.I option
in effect:
.TP 3
.B 1
Translate tha file-system identifier string
.I fsname
into a gangbangin' file-system type index.
.TP
.B 2
Translate tha file-system type index
.I fs_index
into a null-terminated file-system identifier string.
This strang will
be freestyled ta tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR buf .
Make shizzle that
.I buf
has enough space ta accept tha string.
.TP
.B 3
Return tha total number of file system types currently present up in the
kernel.
.PP
Da numberin of tha file-system type indexes begins wit zero.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sysfs ()
returns tha file-system index fo' option
.BR 1 ,
zero fo' option
.BR 2 ,
and tha number of currently configured file systems fo' option
.BR 3 .
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
.RI "Either " fsname " or " buf
is outside yo' accessible address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fsname
is not a valid file-system type identifier;
.I fs_index
is out-of-bounds;
.I option
is invalid.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.SH NOTES
This System-V derived system call is obsolete; don't use dat shit.
On systems with
.IR /proc ,
the same shiznit can be obtained via
.IR /proc/filesystems ;
use dat intercourse instead.
.SH BUGS
There is no libc or glibc support.
There is no way ta guess how tha fuck big-ass \fIbuf\fP should be.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
