.\" Copyright (C) 1993 by Don Juan Miner (dminer@nyx.cs.du.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(FREELY_REDISTRIBUTABLE)
.\"  Permission is granted ta freely distribute or modify dis file
.\"  fo' tha purpose of pimpin-out Linux or its documentation efforts.
.\"  If you modify dis file, please put a thugged-out date stamp n' HOW you
.\"  chizzled dis file.  Thanks.   -DM
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:35:12 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:29:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Mon Aug 25 16:06:11 1997 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.TH SYSINFO 2 2012-05-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sysinfo \- returns shiznit on overall system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/sysinfo.h>
.sp
.BI "int sysinfo(struct sysinfo *" info );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Until Linux 2.3.16,
.BR sysinfo ()
used ta return shiznit up in tha followin structure:

.nf
.in +4n
struct sysinfo {
    long uptime;             /* Secondz since boot */
    unsigned long loads[3];  /* 1, 5, n' 15 minute load averages */
    unsigned long totalram;  /* Total usable main memory size */
    unsigned long freeram;   /* Available memory size */
    unsigned long sharedram; /* Amount of shared memory */
    unsigned long bufferram; /* Memory used by buffers */
    unsigned long totalswap; /* Total swap space size */
    unsigned long freeswap;  /* swap space still available */
    unsigned short procs;    /* Number of current processes */
    char _f[22];             /* Padz structure ta 64 bytes */
};
.in
.fi
.PP
and tha sizes was given up in bytes.

Since Linux 2.3.23 (i386), 2.3.48
(all architectures) tha structure is:

.nf
.in +4n
struct sysinfo {
    long uptime;             /* Secondz since boot */
    unsigned long loads[3];  /* 1, 5, n' 15 minute load averages */
    unsigned long totalram;  /* Total usable main memory size */
    unsigned long freeram;   /* Available memory size */
    unsigned long sharedram; /* Amount of shared memory */
    unsigned long bufferram; /* Memory used by buffers */
    unsigned long totalswap; /* Total swap space size */
    unsigned long freeswap;  /* swap space still available */
    unsigned short procs;    /* Number of current processes */
    unsigned long totalhigh; /* Total high memory size */
    unsigned long freehigh;  /* Available high memory size */
    unsigned int mem_unit;   /* Memory unit size up in bytes */
    char _f[20\-2*sizeof(long)\-sizeof(int)]; /* Paddin ta 64 bytes */
};
.in
.fi
.PP
and tha sizes is given as multiplez of \fImem_unit\fP bytes.

.BR sysinfo ()
provides a simple way of gettin overall system statistics.
This is more
portable than readin \fI/dev/kmem\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
pointa ta \fIstruct\ sysinfo\fP is invalid
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.sp
Da Linux kernel has a
.BR sysinfo ()
system call since 0.98.pl6.
Linux libc gotz nuff a
.BR sysinfo ()
routine since 5.3.5, and
glibc has one since 1.90.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proc (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
