.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TIMER_DELETE 2 2009-02-20 Linux "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
timer_delete \- delete a POSIX per-process timer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B  #include <time.h>

.BI "int timer_delete(timer_t " timerid );
.fi

Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR timer_delete ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 199309L
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR timer_delete ()
deletes tha timer whose ID is given in
.IR timerid .
If tha timer was armed all up in tha time of dis call,
it is disarmed before bein deleted.
Da treatment of any pendin signal generated by tha deleted timer
is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR timer_delete ()
returns 0.
On failure, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I timerid
is not a valid timer ID.
.SH VERSIONS
This system call be available since Linux 2.6.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clock_gettime (2),
.BR timer_create (2),
.BR timer_getoverrun (2),
.BR timer_settime (2),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
