.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:13:40 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Additions by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>, 970909
.\"
.TH TIME 2 2011-09-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
time \- git time up in seconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t time(time_t *" t );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR time ()
returns tha time as tha number of secondz since the
Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).

If
.I t
is non-NULL,
the return value be also stored up in tha memory pointed ta by
.IR t .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha value of time up in secondz since tha Epoch is returned.
On error, \fI((time_t)\ \-1)\fP is returned, n' \fIerrno\fP is set
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I t
points outside yo' accessible address space.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.\" .br
.\" Under 4.3BSD, dis call is obsoleted by
.\" .BR gettimeofdizzle (2).
POSIX do not specify any error conditions.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1 defines
.I secondz since tha Epoch
usin a gangbangin' formula dat approximates tha number of secondz between a
specified time n' tha Epoch.
This formula takes account of tha facts that
all muthafuckin years dat is evenly divisible by 4 is leap years,
but muthafuckin years dat is evenly divisible by 100 is not leap years
unless they is also evenly divisible by 400,
in which case they is leap years.
This value aint tha same as tha actual number of secondz between tha time
and tha Epoch, cuz of leap secondz n' cuz system clocks is not
required ta be synchronized ta a standard reference.
Da intention is dat tha interpretation of secondz since tha Epoch joints be
consistent; peep POSIX.1-2008 Rationale A.4.15 fo' further rationale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR gettimeofdizzle (2),
.BR ctime (3),
.BR ftime (3),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
