.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2008, Mike Kerrisk (mtk.manpages@gmail.com)
.\" (A few fragments remain from a earlier (1992) version freestyled in
.\" 1992 by Drew Eckhardt <drew@cs.colorado.edu>.)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:51:53 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:39:04 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Thu May  1 06:05:54 UTC 1997 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier
.\"  <nick@debian.com> wit Lars Wirzenius <liw@iki.fi> suggestion
.\" 2006-05-13, mtk, substantial rewrite of description of 'mask'
.\" 2008-01-09, mtk, all dem rewrites n' additions.
.TH UMASK 2 2008-01-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
umask \- set file mode creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "mode_t umask(mode_t " mask );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR umask ()
sets tha callin processs file mode creation mask (umask) to
.I mask
& 0777 (i.e., only tha file permission bits of
.I mask
are used), n' returns tha previous value of tha mask.

Da umask is used by
.BR open (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
and other system calls dat create files
.\" e.g., mkfifo(), creat(), mknod(), sem_open(), mq_open(), shm_open()
.\" but NOT tha System V IPC *get() calls
to modify tha permissions placed on newly pimped filez or directories.
Specifically, permissions up in tha umask is turned off from
the
.I mode
argument to
.BR open (2)
and
.BR mkdir (2).

Da constants dat should be used ta specify
.I mask
are busted lyrics bout under
.BR stat (2).

Da typical default value fo' tha process umask is
.I S_IWGRP\ |\ S_IWOTH
(octal 022).
In tha usual case where the
.I mode
argument to
.BR open (2)
is specified as:
.nf

    S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR | S_IRGRP | S_IWGRP | S_IROTH | S_IWOTH

.fi
(octal 0666) when bustin a freshly smoked up file, tha permissions on the
resultin file will be:
.nf

    S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR | S_IRGRP | S_IROTH

.fi
(because 0666 & ~022 = 0644; i.e., rw\-r\-\-r\-\-).
.SH RETURN VALUE
This system call always succeedz n' tha previous value of tha mask
is returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
A lil pimp process pimped via
.BR fork (2)
inherits its parentz umask.
Da umask is left unchanged by
.BR execve (2).

Da umask settin also affects tha permissions assigned ta POSIX IPC objects
.RB ( mq_open (3),
.BR sem_open (3),
.BR shm_open (3)),
FIFOs
.RB ( mkfifo (3)),
and UNIX domain sockets
.RB ( unix (7))
created by tha process.
Da umask do not affect tha permissions assigned
to System V IPC objects pimped by tha process (using
.BR msgget (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR shmget (2)).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR acl (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
