.\" Copyright 1995 Mike Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980612
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 2013-02-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
afs_syscall, break, fattach, fdetach, ftime, getmsg, getpmsg, gtty, isastream,
lock, madvise1, mpx, prof, profil, putmsg, putpmsg, security,
stty, tuxcall, ulimit, vserver \- unimplemented system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
Unimplemented system calls.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These system calls is not implemented up in tha Linux kernel.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These system calls always return \-1 n' set
.I errno
to
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH NOTES
Note that
.BR ftime (3),
.BR profil (3)
and
.BR ulimit (3)
are implemented as library functions.

Some system calls, like
.BR alloc_hugepages (2),
.BR free_hugepages (2),
.BR ioperm (2),
.BR iopl (2),
and
.BR vm86 (2)
exist only on certain architectures.

Some system calls, like
.BR ipc (2),
.BR create_module (2),
.BR init_module (2),
and
.BR delete_module (2)
exist only when tha Linux kernel was built wit support fo' em.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syscalls (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
