.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-10-22 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk16@ext.canterbury.ac.nz>
.\" Modified 2005-01-09 by aeb
.\"
.TH USELIB 2 2005-01-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
uselib \- load shared library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" library );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da system call
.BR uselib ()
serves ta load
a shared library ta be used by tha callin process.
It be given a pathname.
Da address where ta load is found
in tha library itself.
Da library can have any recognized
binary format.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
In addizzle ta all of tha error codes returned by
.BR open (2)
and
.BR mmap (2),
the followin may also be returned:
.TP
.B EACCES
Da library specified by
.I library
does not have read or execute permission, or tha calla do not have
search permission fo' one of tha directories up in tha path prefix.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system limit on tha total number of open filez has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOEXEC
Da file specified by
.I library
is not a executable of known type,
e.g., aint gots tha erect magic numbers.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR uselib ()
is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
.BR uselib ()
was used by early libc startup code ta load
the shared libraries wit names found up in a array of names
in tha binary.
.LP
.\" libc 4.3.1f - chizzlelog 1993-03-02
Since libc 4.3.2, startup code tries ta prefix these names
with "/usr/lib", "/lib" n' "" before givin up.
.\" libc 4.3.4 - chizzlelog 1993-04-21
In libc 4.3.4 n' lata these names is looked fo' up in tha directories
found in
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH ,
and if not found there,
prefixes "/usr/lib", "/lib" n' "/" is tried.
.LP
From libc 4.4.4 on only tha library "/lib/ld.so" is loaded,
so dat dis dynamic library can load tha remainin libraries needed
(again rockin dis call).
This be also tha state of affairs up in libc5.
.LP
glibc2 do not use dis call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ar (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR dlopen (3),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR ld.so (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
