
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created  1995-08-09 Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-03-22 by aeb
.\" Modified 2003-08-04 by aeb
.\"
.TH USTAT 2 2003-08-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ustat \- git file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.BR "#include <unistd.h>" "    /* libc[45] */"
.br
.BR "#include <ustat.h>" "     /* glibc2 */"
.sp
.BI "int ustat(dev_t " dev ", struct ustat *" ubuf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ustat ()
returns shiznit on some mounted file system.
.I dev
is a thang number identifyin a thang containing
a mounted file system.
.I ubuf
is a pointa ta a
.I ustat
structure dat gotz nuff tha following
members:
.in +4n
.nf

daddr_t f_tfree;      /* Total free blocks */
ino_t   f_tinode;     /* Number of free inodes */
char    f_fname[6];   /* Filsys name */
char    f_fpack[6];   /* Filsys pack name */
.fi
.in
.PP
Da last two fields,
.I f_fname
and
.IR f_fpack ,
are not implemented n' will
always be filled wit null bytes (\(aq\\0\(aq).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned n' the
.I ustat
structure pointed ta by
.I ubuf
will be filled in.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I ubuf
points outside of yo' accessible address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I dev
does not refer ta a thang containin a mounted file system.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
Da mounted file system referenced by
.I dev
does not support dis operation, or any version of Linux before
1.3.16.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.\" SVr4 documents additionizzle error conditions ENOLINK, ECOMM, n' EINTR
.\" but has no ENOSYS condition.
.SH NOTES
.BR ustat ()
is deprecated n' has been provided only fo' compatibility.
All freshly smoked up programs should use
.BR statfs (2)
instead.
.SS HP-UX notes
Da HP-UX version of the
.I ustat
structure has a additionizzle field,
.IR f_blksize ,
that is unknown elsewhere.
HP-UX warns:
For some file systems, tha number of free inodes do not chizzle.
Such file systems will return \-1 up in tha field
.IR f_tinode .
.\" Some software tries ta use dis up in order ta test whether the
.\" underlyin file system is NFS.
For some file systems, inodes is dynamically allocated.
Such file systems will return tha current number of free inodes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stat (2),
.BR statfs (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
