.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Mike Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1995-06-10 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2004-10-10 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 2008-08-06 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
utime, utimes \- chizzle file last access n' modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", const struct utimbuf *" times );
.sp
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(const char *" filename ", const struct timeval " times [2]);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR utime ()
system call
changes tha access n' modification timez of tha inode specified by
.I filename
to the
.IR actime " n' " modtime
fieldz of
.I times
respectively.

If
.I times
is NULL, then tha access n' modification timez of tha file is set
to tha current time.

Changin timestamps is permitted when: either
the process has appropriate privileges,
or tha effectizzle user ID equals tha user ID
of tha file, or
.I times
is NULL n' tha process has write permission fo' tha file.

The
.I utimbuf
structure is:

.in +4n
.nf
struct utimbuf {
    time_t actime;       /* access time */
    time_t modtime;      /* modification time */
};
.fi
.in

The
.BR utime ()
system call
allows justification of timestamps wit a resolution of 1 second.

The
.BR utimes ()
system call
is similar yo, but the
.I times
argument refers ta a array rather than a structure.
Da elementz of dis array are
.I timeval
structures, which allow a precision of 1 microsecond fo' specifyin timestamps.
The
.I timeval
structure is:

.in +4n
.nf
struct timeval {
    long tv_sec;        /* secondz */
    long tv_usec;       /* microsecondz */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
.IR times [0]
specifies tha freshly smoked up access time, and
.IR times [1]
specifies tha freshly smoked up modification time.
If
.I times
is NULL, then analogously to
.BR utime (),
the access n' modification timez of tha file are
set ta tha current time.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied fo' one of tha directories in
the path prefix of
.I path
(see also
.BR path_resolution (7)).
.TP
.B EACCES
.I times
is NULL,
the callerz effectizzle user ID do not match tha balla of tha file,
the calla aint gots write access ta tha file,
and tha calla aint privileged
(Linux: aint gots either the
.B CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE
or the
.B CAP_FOWNER
capability).
.TP
.B ENOENT
.I filename
does not exist.
.TP
.B EPERM
.I times
is not NULL,
the callerz effectizzle UID do not match tha balla of tha file,
and tha calla aint privileged
(Linux: aint gots the
.B CAP_FOWNER
capability).
.TP
.B EROFS
.I path
resides on a read-only file system.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR utime ():
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR utime ()
as obsolete.
.br
.BR utimes ():
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Linux do not allow changin tha timestamps on a immutable file,
or settin tha timestamps ta suttin' other than tha current time
on a append-only file.

In libc4 n' libc5,
.BR utimes ()
is just a wrapper for
.BR utime ()
and hence do not allow a subsecond resolution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chattr (1),
.BR futimesat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR utimensat (2),
.BR futimens (3),
.BR futimes (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
