.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capabilitizzle requirements
.\"
.TH VHANGUP 2 2007-07-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
vhangup \- virtually hangup tha current terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int vhangup(void);
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR vhangup ():
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR vhangup ()
simulates a hangup on tha current terminal.
This call arranges fo' other
users ta git a \*(lqclean\*(rq terminal at login time.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process has insufficient privilege ta call
.BR vhangup ();
the
.B CAP_SYS_TTY_CONFIG
capabilitizzle is required.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific, n' should not be used up in programs
intended ta be portable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR init (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
