.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH VM86 2 2009-02-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
vm86old, vm86 \- enta virtual 8086 mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/vm86.h>
.sp
.BI "int vm86old(struct vm86_struct *" info );
.sp
.BI "int vm86(unsigned long " fn ", struct vm86plus_struct *" v86 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da system call
.BR vm86 ()
was introduced up in Linux 0.97p2.
In Linux 2.1.15 n' 2.0.28 dat shiznit was renamed to
.BR vm86old (),
and a new
.BR vm86 ()
was introduced.
Da definizzle of
.IR "struct vm86_struct"
was chizzled
in 1.1.8 n' 1.1.9.
.LP
These calls cause tha process ta enta VM86 mode (virtual-8086 up in Intel
literature), n' is used by
.BR dosemu .
.PP
VM86 mode be a emulation of real mode within a protected mode task.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
This return value is specific ta i386 n' indicates a problem wit getting
user-space data.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
This return value indicates tha call aint implemented on tha present
architecture.
.TP
.B EPERM
Saved kernel stack exists.
(This be a kernel sanitizzle check; tha saved
stack should exist only within vm86 mode itself.)
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is specific ta Linux on 32-bit Intel processors,
and should not be used up in programs intended ta be portable.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
