.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2004 by Mike Kerrisk (mtk.manpages@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:32:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 23 14:09:52 1997 by aeb - add EINTR.
.\" Modified Tue Jul  7 12:26:42 1998 by aeb - chizzled return value wait3
.\" Modified 2004-11-11, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Rewrote much of dis page, n' removed much duplicated text,
.\"		replacin wit pointas ta wait.2
.\"
.TH WAIT4 2  2012-09-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wait3, wait4 \- wait fo' process ta chizzle state, BSD style
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.B #include <sys/resource.h>
.B #include <sys/wait.h>
.sp
.BI "pid_t wait3(int *" "status" ", int " options ,
.BI "            struct rusage *" rusage );
.sp
.BI "pid_t wait4(pid_t " pid ", int *" status ", int " options ,
.BI "            struct rusage *" rusage );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR wait3 ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.br
.BR wait4 ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is obsolete; use
.BR waitpid (2)
or
.BR waitid (2)
in freshly smoked up programs.

The
.BR wait3 ()
and
.BR wait4 ()
system calls is similar to
.BR waitpid (2),
but additionally return resource usage shiznit bout the
child up in tha structure pointed ta by
.IR rusage .
.PP
Other than tha use of the
.I rusage
argument, tha following
.BR wait3 ()
call:
.nf

    wait3(status, options, rusage);

.fi
is equivalent to:
.nf

    waitpid(\-1, status, options);

.fi
Similarly, tha following
.BR wait4 ()
call:
.nf

    wait4(pid, status, options, rusage);

.fi
is equivalent to:
.nf

    waitpid(pid, status, options);

.fi
In other lyrics,
.BR wait3 ()
waitz of any child, while
.BR wait4 ()
can be used ta select a specific child, or children, on which ta wait.
See
.BR wait (2)
for further details.
.PP
If
.I rusage
is not NULL, the
.I struct rusage
to which it points is ghon be filled wit accountin shiznit
about tha child.
See
.BR getrusage (2)
for details.
.SH RETURN VALUE
As for
.BR waitpid (2).
.SH ERRORS
As for
.BR waitpid (2).
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD.

SUSv1 included a justification of
.BR wait3 ();
SUSv2 included
.BR wait3 (),
but marked it LEGACY;
SUSv3 removed dat shit.
.SH NOTES
Including
.I <sys/time.h>
is not required these days yo, but increases portability.
(Indeed,
.I <sys/resource.h>
defines the
.I rusage
structure wit fieldz of type
.I struct timeval
defined in
.IR <sys/time.h> .)

On Linux,
.BR wait3 ()
is a library function implemented on top of the
.BR wait4 ()
system call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fork (2),
.BR getrusage (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR wait (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
