.TH ABOOK 1 2006-09-06
.nh
.SH NAME
abook \- text-based address book program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B abook
[ \fIOPTION\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B abook
program.
This manual page was freestyled fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because tha original gangsta program aint gots a manual page.
.PP
.B abook 
is a text-based address book program. Well shiiiit, it gotz nuff Name, Email, Address 
and various Phone fields. Well shiiiit, it is designed fo' use wit mutt yo, but can be
equally useful on its own.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h \-\-help\fP
Show usage.
.TP
\fB\-C \-\-config\fP \fI<filename>\fR
Use a alternatizzle configuration file (default is \fI$HOME/.abook/abookrc\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-datafile\fP \fI<filename>\fR
Use a alternatizzle addressbook file (default is \fI$HOME/.abook/addressbook\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-mutt\-query\fP \fI<string>\fR
Make a query fo' mutt (search tha addressbook fo' \fI<string>\fR).
.br
Da \fB\-\-datafile\fP option, as documented above, may be used
.BI BEFORE
this option ta search a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different addressbook file.
.TP
\fB\-\-convert\fP [ \fB\-\-informat\fP \fI<inputformat>\fR ] [ \fB\-\-infile\fP \fI<inputfile>\fR ] [ \fB\-\-outformat\fP \fI<outputformat>\fR ] [ \fB\-\-outfile\fP \fI<outputfile>\fR ]
Converts \fI<inputfile>\fR up in \fI<inputformat>\fR ta \fI<outputfile>\fR up in \fI<outputformat>\fR
(defaults is \fBabook\fP, \fBstdin\fP, \fBtext\fP n' \fBstdout\fP).

.br
Da followin \fIinputformats\fR is supported:
.br
- \fBabook\fP abook natizzle format
.br
- \fBldif\fP ldif / Netscape addressbook
.br
- \fBmutt\fP mutt alias
.br
- \fBpine\fP pine addressbook
.br
- \fBcsv\fP comma separated joints
.br
- \fBpalmcsv\fP Palm comma separated joints

.br
Da followin \fIoutputformats\fR is supported:
.br
- \fBabook\fP abook natizzle format
.br
- \fBldif\fP ldif / Netscape addressbook (.4ld)
.br
- \fBmutt\fP mutt alias
.br
- \fBhtml\fP html document
.br
- \fBpine\fP pine addressbook
.br
- \fBgcrd\fP GnomeCard (VCard) addressbook
.br
- \fBcsv\fP comma separated joints
.br
- \fBpalmcsv\fP Palm comma separated joints
.br
- \fBelm\fP elm alias
.br
- \fBtext\fP plain text
.br
- \fBspruce\fP Spruce address book
.br
- \fBwl\fP Wanderlust address book
.br
- \fBbsdcal\fP BSD calendar
.TP
\fB\-\-add-email\fP
Read a e-mail message from stdin n' add tha sender ta tha addressbook.
.TP
\fB\-\-add-email-quiet\fP
Same as --add-email but don't confirm adding.
.TP
\fB\-\-formats\fP
List available formats.

.SH COMMANDS DURING USE
Press '\fB?\fP' durin use ta git a list of commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mutt (1),
.BR abookrc (5)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Alan Ford <alan@whirlnet.co.uk>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

.br
.B abook
was freestyled by Jaakko Heinonen <jheinonen@users.sourceforge.net>
