.TH AC 1 "2010 August 16"
.SH NAME
ac \-  print statistics bout users' connect time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B ac
[
.B \-d
|
.B \-\-daily-totals
]
[
.B \-y
|
.B \-\-print-year
]
.br
[
.B \-p
|
.B \-\-individual-totals
]
[
.I people
]
.br
[
.B \-f
|
.B \-\-file
.I filename
]
[
.B \-a
|
.B \-\-all-days
]
.br
[ 
.B \-\-diss 
]
[
.B \-\-reboots 
]
[
.B \-\-supplants
]
.br
[
.B \-\-timewarps 
]
[
.B \-\-compatibility
]
.br
[
.B \-\-tw-leniency
.I num
]
[
.B \-\-tw-suspicious
.I num
]
.br
[
.B \-z
|
.B \-\-print-zeros
]
[
.B \-\-debug
]
.br
[
.B \-V
|
.B \-\-version 
]
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help 
]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ac 
prints up a report of connect time (in hours) based on the
logins/logouts up in tha current
.I wtmp
file.  A total be also printed out.
.LP
Da accountin file 
.I wtmp
is maintained by 
.BR init (8)
and
.BR login (1).
Neither 
.B ac
nor
.B login
creates tha 
.I wtmp
if it don't exist, no accountin is done.  To begin accounting, create 
the file wit a length of zero.  
.LP
NOTE:  Da 
.I wtmp
file can git straight-up big, straight-up fast.  Yo ass might wanna trim it every last muthafuckin 
once n' a while.
.LP
GNU 
.B ac 
works nearly tha same u*x 
.BR ac , 
though itz a lil
smarta up in nuff muthafuckin ways.  Yo ass should therefore expect differences in
the output of GNU 
.B ac
and tha output of 
.BR ac z 
on other systems.
Use tha command
.BI info " accounting"
to git additionizzle shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daily-totals
Print totals fo' each dizzle rather than just one big-ass total at the
end yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Da output be lookin like this:
        Jul  3  total     1.17
        Jul  4  total     2.10
        Jul  5  total     8.23
        Jul  6  total     2.10
        Jul  7  total     0.30
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-individual-totals
Print time totals fo' each user up in addizzle ta tha usual
everything-lumped-into-one value.  It looks like:
        bob       8.06
        goff      0.60
        maley     7.37
        root      0.12
        total    16.15
.TP
.I people
Print up tha sum total of tha connect time used by all of the
users included up in 
.I people.  
Note dat 
.I people
is a space separated list of valid user names; wildcardz is not allowed.
.TP
.BI "\-f, \-\-file " filename
Read from tha file 
.I filename
instead of tha systemz 
.I wtmp
file.
.TP
.B \-\-complain
When tha 
.I wtmp
file has a problem (a time-warp, missin record, or
whatever), print up a appropriate error.
.TP
.B \-\-reboots
Reboot recordz is NOT freestyled all up in tha time of a reboot yo, but when
the system restarts; therefore, it is impossible ta know exactly
when tha reboot occurred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Users may done been logged tha fuck into the
system all up in tha time of tha reboot, n' nuff 
.B ac's
automatically 
count tha time between tha login n' tha reboot record 
against tha user (even though all of dat time shouldn't be, like, 
if tha system is down fo' a long-ass time, fo' instance).  If you want to
count dis time, include tha flag.  
*For vanilla 
.B ac
compatibility, include dis flag.*
.TP
.B \-\-supplants
Sometimes, a logout record aint freestyled fo' a specific terminal,
so tha time dat tha last user accrued cannot be calculated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If
you wanna include tha time from tha userz login ta tha next
login on tha terminal (though probably incorrect), include this
you wanna include tha time from tha userz login ta tha next
login on tha terminal (though probably incorrect), include this
flag.  
*For vanilla 
.B ac
compatibility, include dis flag.*
.TP
.B \-\-timewarps
Sometimes, entries up in a
.I wtmp
file will suddenly jump back tha fuck into tha past without a cold-ass lil clock chizzle
record occurring.  It be impossible ta know how tha fuck long a user was logged
in when dis occurs.  If you wanna count tha time between tha login
and tha time warp against tha user, include dis flag.  *For vanilla
.B ac
compatibility, include dis flag.*
.TP
.B \-\-compatibility
This is shorthand fo' typin up tha three above options.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all-days
If we printin everyday totals, print a record fo' every last muthafuckin dizzle instead of
skippin intervenin minutes where there is no login activity.  Without
this flag, time accrued durin dem intervenin minutes gets listed under
the next dizzle where there is login activity.
.TP
.BI \-\-tw-leniency " num"
Set tha time warp leniency ta 
.I num 
seconds.  Recordz up in 
.I wtmp
filez might be slightly outta order (most notably when two logins
occur within a one-second period - tha second one gets freestyled first).
By default, dis value is set ta 60.  If tha program notices this
problem, time aint assigned ta playas unless the
.B \-\-timewarps
flag is used.
.TP
.BI \-\-tw-suspicious " num"
Set tha time warp suspicious value ta 
.I num 
seconds.  If two recordz up in the
.I wtmp
file is farther than dis number of secondz apart, there be a problem
with the
.I wtmp
file (or yo' machine aint been used up in a year).  If tha program
notices dis problem, time aint assigned ta playas unless the
.B \-\-timewarps
flag is used.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-print-year
Print year when displayin dates.
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-print-zeros
If a total fo' any category (save tha grand total) is zero, print dat shit.
Da default is ta suppress printing.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print verbose internal shiznit.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print tha version number of 
.B ac
to standard output n' quit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints tha usage strang n' default locationz of system filez to
standard output n' exits.
.SH FILES
.I wtmp
.RS
Da system wide login record file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR wtmp (5)
for further details.
.LP

.SH AUTHOR
Da GNU accountin utilitizzles was freestyled by Noel Cragg
<noel@gnu.ai.mit.edu>. Da playa page was adapted from tha accounting
texinfo page by Susan Kleinmann <sgk@sgk.tiac.net>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR wtmp (5),
.BR init (8),
.BR sa (8)
