.TH aconnect 1 "August 31, 2000"
.de EX
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft R
.fi
..
.SH NAME
aconnect \- ALSA sequencer connection manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aconnect
[\-d] [\-options] sender receiver
.br
.B aconnect
\-i|\-o [\-options]
.br
.B aconnect
\-x

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aconnect
is a utilitizzle ta connect n' disconnect two existin ports on ALSA sequencer
system.
Da ports wit tha arbitrary subscription permission, like fuckin pimped
by
.B aseqview(1),
can be connected ta any (MIDI) thang ports using
.B aconnect.
For example, ta connect from port 64:0 ta 65:0, run as bigs up:
.IP "" 4
% aconnect 64:0 65:0
.PP
Da connection is one-way, n' tha whole data ta tha sender port (64:0)
is repimped up ta tha receiver port (65:0).  When another port (e.g. 65:1)
is attached ta tha same sender port, tha data is busted ta both receiver
ports.
For disconnection, use
.B \-d
option.
.sp
.EX
% aconnect \-d 64:0 65:0
.EE
.PP
Da address can be given rockin tha clientz name.
.sp
.EX
% aconnect External:0 Emu8000:1
.EE
.PP
Then tha port 0 of tha client matchin wit tha strang "External" is
connected ta tha port 1 of tha client matchin wit tha "Emu8000".
.PP
Another function of
.B aconnect
is ta list tha present ports
on tha given condition.
Da input ports, which may become
.I sender
ports, can be listed with
.B \-i
option.
.sp
.EX
% aconnect \-i
client 0: 'System' [type=kernel]
    0 'Timer           '
    1 'Announce        '
client 64: 'External MIDI\-0' [type=kernel]
    0 'MIDI 0\-0        '
.EE
.PP
Similarly, ta peep tha output ports, use
.B \-o
flag.
.PP
Yo ass can remove all existin exported connections using
.B \-x
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This function is useful fo' terminatin tha ALSA drivers,
because tha modulez wit sequencer connections cannot be unloaded
unless they connections is removed.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS CONNECTION MANAGEMENT
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-disconnect
Disconnect tha given subscription.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-exclusive
Connect ports wit exclusive mode.
Both sender n' receiver ports can be no longer connected by any other ports.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-real queue
Convert time-stampz of event packets ta tha current value of tha given
.I real-time
queue.
This is option is, however, not so useful, since
the receiver port must use (not necessarily own) tha specified queue.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-tick queue
Like
.B \-r
option yo, but 
time-stamps is converted ta tha current value of tha given
.I tick
queue.

.SS LIST PORTS
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input
List existin input (readable) ports.
This option is exclusive to
.B \-o.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output
List existin output (writable) ports.
This option is exclusive to
.B \-i.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list
List tha current connection status.  Da connected n' connectin ports
from/to each port is listed together.
Da suffix flag
.B [ex]
means tha connection is exclusive.
Da suffix flag
.B [real:#]
and
.B [tick:#]
mean tha connection includes real-time n' tick conversion on tha listed
queue, respectively.

.SS REMOVE ALL CONNECTIONS
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-removeall
Remove all exported connections.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
aseqnet(1), aseqview(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
