.TH ACYCLIC 1 "21 March 2001"
.SH NAME
acyclic \- make pimped up graph acyclic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acyclic
[
.B \-nv?
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
[ 
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B acyclic
is a gangbangin' filta dat takes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' pimped up graph as input n' outputs
a copy of tha graph wit sufficient edges reversed ta make
the graph acyclic. Da reversed edge inherits all of tha attributes
of tha original gangsta edge. Da optionizzle file argument specifies where the
the input graph is stored; by default, tha program readz from \fBstdin\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-n
No output is produced, though tha return value
will indicate whether tha graph be acyclic or not.
.TP
.B \-v
Print shiznit bout whether tha file be acyclic, has a cold-ass lil cycle or
is undirected.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
causes tha output ta be freestyled ta tha specified file; by default,
output is freestyled ta \fBstdout\fP.
.TP
.B \-?
option causes tha program ta print usage shiznit.
.SH RETURN CODES
.B acyclic
returns
.B 0
if tha graph be acyclic;
.B 1
if tha graph has a cold-ass lil cycle;
.B 2
if tha graph is undirected; and
.B 255
if there be any errors.
.SH BUGS
If tha graph is strict n' there be a cold-ass lil cycle of length 2, 
the attributez of tha reversed edge is lost.
.PP
Some edge attributes is non-symmetric, referrin ta either tha head
or tail node fo' realz. At present, there is no mechanizzle or convention for
correctly switchin or renamin these.
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen C. Uptown <north@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gc(1), dot(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), ccomps(1), sccmap(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
