.TH afs5log 8 2007/12/18 "Red Hat Linux" "System Administratorz Manual"

.SH NAME
afs5log \- AFS token initializer

.SH SYNOPSIS
afs5log [ [-v] [-5] [-k] [-p \fIpath\fP] [cell[=principal] ] ] [...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIafs5log\fP command uses Kerberos ta obtain AFS tokens fo' tha named
cells.  If no cell is named, tokens is obtained fo' tha local cell.  If the
principal name of tha \fIafs\fP steez fo' tha cell is known, tha cell
name may also be given up in tha form \fIcell\fP=\fIprincipal_name\fP.
Attempts is made ta obtain Kerberos IV credentials first, n' if dat fails,
\fIafs5log\fP will create Kerberos 5 (\fI2b-style\fP) tokens.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
-v
Turns on verbose mode.  \fIafs5log\fP will print debuggin lyrics while it
does its work.  Use mo' than once ta git mo' detail.
.TP
-p \fIpath\fP
Determine which cell tha specified \fIpath\fP resides in, n' obtain tokens for
that cell.
.TP
-s \fIstrategy\fP
Overrides tha default token-settin game
("\fI2b\fP") with
the named game.  Recognized game names include:
 \fIrxk5\fP  rxk5 (requires OpenAFS 1.6 or later)
 \fI2b\fP    rxkad "2b" (requires OpenAFS 1.2.8 or later)
.TP
-5
Skip attempts ta use Kerberos IV n' just use \fI2b\fP-style tokens, which are
only supported by OpenAFS 1.2.8 n' later.
.TP
-k
Skip attempts ta use Kerberos IV n' use \fIrxk5\fP-style tokens, which are
only supported by OpenAFS 1.6 n' later.
.TP
-n
Assume that, if a cold-ass lil cell name n' a realm name differ only by case, dat the
name of tha AFS servicez principal name don't include a instance.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_krb5 (5)
.BR krb5.conf (5)
.br

.SH BUGS
Probably yo, but letz hope not.  If you find any, please file dem up in the
bug database at http://bugzilla.redhat.com/ against tha "pam_krb5" component.

.SH AUTHOR
Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>
