.TH AGENTXTRAP 1 "20 Dec 2009" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
agentxtrap - bust a AgentX NotifyPDU ta a AgentX masta agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agentxtrap
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " trap-oid " [ "OID TYPE VALUE" ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agentxtrap
issues a AgentX NotifyPDU ta a masta agent. One or mo' object
identifiers (OIDs) can be given as arguments on tha command line.
A type n' a value must accompany each object identifier.
Each variable name is given up in tha format specified in
.IR variables(5) .
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP 6
.BI \-c "\| contextName\^"
if the
.B \-c
option is present then tha notification is busted up in tha nondefault name context.
.TP
.BI \-U "\| uptime\^"
if the
.B \-U
option is present then dat value, parsed as centiseconds, is taken ta be the
sysUpTime field of tha application.
.TP
.BI \-x "\| ADDRESS\^"
if the
.B \-x
option is present then contact tha AgentX masta at ADDRESS n' not tha default
one.
.PD
.PP
Additionally all tha options busted lyrics bout in
.IR snmpcmd(1)
under the
.BR "MIB PARSING OPTIONS" ", " "LOGGING OPTIONS" " n' " "INPUT OPTIONS"
headaz as well as the
.BR -d ", " -D ", " -m " n' " -M
options is supported.
.PP
In
.I OID TYPE VALUE
the parsin of the
.I VALUE
field is controlled by the
.I TYPE
field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da possible joints fo' the
.I TYPE
field is one of tha followin characters:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
.B =
Let
.I OID
decizzle how
.I VALUE
should be interpreted
.TP
.B i
INTEGER
.TP
.B u
Unsigned
.TP
.B c
Counter32
.TP
.B s
OCTET STRING of chaacters
.TP
.B x
OCTET STRING, entered as a sequence of optionally space separated hexadecimal
digit pairs
.TP
.B d
OCTET STRING, entered as a sequence of space separated decimal digits up in the
range 0 - 255
.TP
.B n
NULL
.TP
.B o
OBJECT IDENTIFIER
.TP
.B t
TimeTicks
.TP
.B a
IpAddress
.TP
.B b
BITS
.PD
.RE
which is handled up in tha same way as the
.B snmpset
command.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
To bust a generic linkUp trap ta tha manager fo' intercourse 1 tha following
command can be used:
.PP
agentxtrap netSnmp.0.3 ifindex.1 i 1
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
snmpcmd(1), snmpset(1), variables(5), RFC 2741
