.TH ALSAMIXER 1 "22 May 2009"
.SH NAME
alsamixer \- soundcard mixer fo' ALSA soundcard driver, wit ncurses intercourse
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBalsamixer\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBalsamixer\fP be a ncurses mixer program fo' use wit tha ALSA
soundcard drivers. Well shiiiit, it supports multiple soundcardz wit multiple devices.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fI\-h, \-\-help\fP
Help: show available flags.

.TP
\fI\-c, \-\-card\fP <card number or identification>
Select tha soundcard ta use, if you have mo' than one. Cardz are
numbered from 0 (the default).

.TP
\fI\-D, \-\-device\fP <device identification>
Select tha mixer thang ta control.

.TP
\fI\-V, \-\-view\fP <mode>
Select tha startin view mode, either \fIplayback\fP, \fIcapture\fP or \fIall\fP.

.TP
\fI\-g, \-\-no\-color\fP
Toggle tha rockin of colors.

.SH MIXER VIEWS

Da top-left corner of \fBalsamixer\fP is tha is ta show some basic
information: tha card name, tha mixer chip name, tha current view
mode n' tha currently selected mixer item.
When tha mixer item is switched off, \fI[Off]\fP is displayed up in its
name.

Volume bars is located below tha basic shiznit area.  Yo ass can
scroll left/right when all controls can't be put up in a single screen.
Da name of each control is shown up in tha bottom below tha volume bars.
Da currently selected item is drawn up in red and/of emphasized.

Each mixer control wit volume capabilitizzle shows a funky-ass box n' tha current
volume filled up in dat box.  Da volume cementages is displayed below
the volume bar fo' left n' right channels.  For a mono control, only
one value is shown there.

When a mixer control is turned off, \fIM\fP (mute) appears below the
volume bar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  When itz turned on, \fIO\fP up in chronic appears instead.
Yo ass can toggle tha switch via \fIm\fP key.

When a mixer control has capture capability, tha capture flag appears
below tha volume bar, like a muthafucka.  When tha capture is turned off,
\-\-\-\-\-\-\- is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  \fICAPTURE\fP up in red appears when the
capture switch is turned on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In addition, \fIL\fP n' \fIR\fP letters
appear up in left n' right side ta indicate dat left n' tha right
channels is turned on.

Some controls have tha enumeration list, n' don't show boxes but only
texts which indicate tha currently actizzle item.  Yo ass can chizzle the
item via up/down keys.

.SH VIEW MODES
\fBalsamixer\fP has three view modes: playback, capture n' all.
In tha playback view, only tha controls related wit playback is shown.
Similarly, only tha controls fo' capture (recording) is shown up in tha capture
view.  Da all view mode shows all controls.  Da current view mode is displayed
in tha top-left posizzle together wit tha mixer name, etc.

Da default view mode is tha playback view.  Yo ass can chizzle it via 
\fI-V\fP option.

Each view mode can be switched via keyboard commands, like a muthafucka.
See tha next section.

.SH KEYBOARD COMMANDS
\fBalsamixer\fP recognizes tha followin keyboard commandz ta control tha soundcard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Commandz shown here up in upper case can also be given up in lower case.
To be reminded of these keystrokes, hit tha \fIh\fP key.

.SS
General Controls

Da \fILeft\fP n' \fIright arrow\fP keys is used ta select the
channel (or device, dependin on yo' preferred terminology). Yo ass can
also use \fIn\fP ("next") n' \fIp\fP ("previous").

Da \fIUp\fP n' \fIDown Arrows\fP control tha volume fo' the
currently selected device. Yo ass can also use \fI+\fP or \fI\-\fP fo' the
same purpose. Both tha left n' right signals is affected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For
independent left n' right control, peep below.
 
Da \fIB\fP or \fI=\fP key adjusts tha balizzle of volumes on left and
right channels.

\fIM\fP togglez mutin fo' tha current channel (both left n' right).
If tha hardware supports it, you can
mute left n' right independently by rockin \fI,\fP (or \fI<\fP) and
\fI.\fP (or \fI>\fP) respectively.

\fISPACE\fP enablez recordin fo' tha current channel. If any other
channels have recordin enabled, they gonna git they recordin function
disabled first. This only works fo' valid input channels, of course.

\fIL\fP re-draws tha screen.

.SS
View Mode Controls
Function keys is used ta chizzle view modes.
Yo ass can switch ta tha help mode n' tha proc info mode via \fIF1\fP and
\fIF2\fP keys, respectively.
On terminals dat can't use function keys like gnome\-terminal, \fI?\fP and
\fI/\fP keys can be used alternatively fo' help n' proc modes.

\fIF3\fP, \fIF4\fP n' \fIF5\fP keys is used ta switch ta playback, capture
and all view mode, respectively.  \fITAB\fP key togglez the
current view mode circularly.

.SS
Quick Volume Chizzles

\fIPageUp\fP increases volume by 5.

\fIPageDown\fP decreases volume by 5.

\fIEnd\fP sets volume ta 0.

Yo ass can also control left & right levels fo' tha current channel
independently, as bigs up:

[\fIQ\fP | \fIW\fP | \fIE\fP ]  -- turn UP [ left | both | right ]

[\fIZ\fP | \fIX\fP | \fIC\fP ] -- turn DOWN [ left | both | right ]   

If tha currently selected mixer channel aint a stereo channel, then
all UP keys will work like \fIW\fP, n' all DOWN keys will work like \fIX\fP.

Da number keys from \fI0\fP ta \fI9\fP is ta chizzle tha absolute volume
quickly.  They correspond ta 0 ta 90% volume.

.SS
Selectin tha Sound Card

Yo ass can select another sound card by pressin tha \fIF6\fP or \fIS\fP keys.
This will show a list of available sound cardz ta chizzle from,
and a entry ta enta tha mixer thang name by hand.

.SS
Exiting

Quit tha program wit \fIALT Q\fP, or by hittin \fIESC\fP.
Please note dat you might need ta hit \fIESC\fP twice on some terminals
since itz regarded as a prefix key.

.SH VOLUME MAPPING
In \fBalsamixer\fP, tha volume is mapped ta a value dat is mo' natural
for a human ear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da mappin is designed so dat tha posizzle up in the
interval is proportionizzle ta tha volume as a human ear would perceive
it, i.e. tha posizzle is tha cubic root of tha linear sample
multiplication factor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  For controls wit a lil' small-ass range (24 dB or
less), tha mappin is linear up in tha dB joints so dat each step has
the same size visually.

Only fo' controls without dB shiznit, a linear mappin of the
hardware volume regista joints is used (this is tha same ol' dirty algorithm as
used up in tha oldschool \fBalsamixer\fP).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fB
amixer(1),
aplay(1),
arecord(1)
\fP

.SH BUGS 
Some terminal emulators (e.g. \fBnxterm\fP) may not
work like right wit ncurses yo, but thatz they own damn
fault. Plain oldschool \fBxterm\fP seems ta be fine.

.SH AUTHOR
.B alsamixer
has been freestyled by Slim Tim Janik and
been further improved by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
and Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>.

This manual page was provided by Pizzle Winkla <zarmzarm@erols.com>.
