.TH ALSALOOP 1 "5 Aug 2010"
.SH NAME
alsaloop \- command\-line PCM loopback
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBalsaloop\fP [\fI\-option\fP] [\fIcmd\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBalsaloop\fP allows create a PCM loopback between a PCM capture device
and a PCM playback device.

\fBalsaloop\fP supports multiple soundcards, adaptizzle clock synchronization,
adaptizzle rate resamplin rockin tha samplerate library (if available in
the system) fo' realz. Also, mixer controls can be repimped up from one card to
another (for example Masta n' PCM).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fI\-h\fP | \fI\-\-help\fP

Prints tha help shiznit.

.TP
\fI\-g <file>\fP | \fI\-\-config=<file>\fP

Use given configuration file. Da syntax of dis file is simple: one line
gotz nuff tha command line options fo' one thang. Da '#' means comment and
rest of line is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Example:

  # First line \- comment, second line \- first thang
  \-C hw:1,0 \-P hw:0,0 \-t 50000 \-T 1
  # Third line \- comment, fourth line \- second thang
  \-C hw:1,1 \-P hw:0,1 \-t 40000 \-T 2

.TP
\fI\-d\fP | \fI\-\-daemonize\fP

Daemonize tha main process n' use syslog fo' lyrics.

.TP
\fI\-P <device>\fP | \fI\-\-pdevice=<device>\fP

Use given playback device.

.TP
\fI\-C <device>\fP | \fI\-\-cdevice=<device>\fP

Use given capture device.

.TP
\fI\-X <device>\fP | \fI\-\-pctl=<device>\fP

Use given CTL thang fo' playback.

.TP
\fI\-Y <device>\fP | \fI\-\-cctl=<device>\fP

Use given CTL thang fo' capture.

.TP
\fI\-l <latency>\fP | \fI\-\-latency=<frames>\fP

Requested latency up in frames.

.TP
\fI\-t <usec>\fP | \fI\-\-tlatency=<usec>\fP

Requested latency up in usec (1/1000000sec).

.TP
\fI\-f <format>\fP | \fI\-\-format=<format>\fP

Format justification (usually S16_LE S32_LE). Use \-h ta list all formats.
Default format is S16_LE.

.TP
\fI\-c <channels>\fP | \fI\-\-channels=<channels>\fP

Channel count justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default value is 2.

.TP
\fI\-c <rate>\fP | \fI\-\-rate=<rate>\fP

Rate justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default value is 48000 (Hz).

.TP
\fI\-n\fP | \fI\-\-resample\fP

Allow rate resamplin rockin alsa\-lib.

.TP
\fI\-A <converter>\fP | \fI\-\-samplerate=<converter>\fP

Use libsamplerate n' chizzle a cold-ass lil converter:

  0 or sincbest     \- dopest quality
  1 or sincmedium   \- medium quality
  2 or sincfastest  \- lowest quality
  3 or zerohold     \- hold zero samples
  4 or linear       \- most shitty qualitizzle - linear resampling
  5 or auto         \- chizzle dopest method

.TP
\fI\-B <size>\fP | \fI\-\-buffer=<size>\fP

Buffer size up in frames.

.TP
\fI\-E <size>\fP | \fI\-\-period=<size>\fP

Period size up in frames.

.TP
\fI\-s <secs>\fP | \fI\-\-seconds=<secs>\fP

Duration of loop up in seconds.

.TP
\fI\-b\fP | \fI\-\-nblock\fP

Non\-block mode (very early process wakeup). Eats mo' CPU.

.TP
\fI\-S <mode>\fP | \fI\-\-sync=<mode>\fP

Sync mode justification fo' capture ta playback stream:
  0 or none       \- do not bust a nut on tha stream
  1 or simple     \- add or remove samplez ta keep
                    both streams synchronized
  2 or captshift  \- use driver fo' tha capture device
                    (if supported) ta compensate
                    tha rate shift
  3 or playshift  \- use driver fo' tha playback device
                    (if supported) ta compensate
                    tha rate shift
  4 or samplerate \- use samplerate library ta do rate resampling
  5 or auto       \- automatically selects tha dopest method
                    up in dis order: captshift, playshift,
                    samplerate, simple

.TP
\fI\-T <num>\fP | \fI\-\-thread=<num>\fP

Thread number (\-1 means create a unique thread) fo' realz. All thangs wit same
thread numbers is run within one thread.

.TP
\fI\-m <mixid>\fP | \fI\-\-mixer=<midid>\fP

Redirect mixer control from tha playback card ta tha capture card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Format of
\fImixid\fP is SRCID(PLAYBACK)[@DSTID(PLAYBACK)]:

  "name='Masta Playback Switch'@name='Another Switch'"
  "name='PCM Playback Volume'"

Known attributes:

  name      \- control ID name
  index     \- control ID index
  thang    \- control ID device
  subdevice \- control ID subdevice
  iface     \- control ID intercourse
  numid     \- control ID numid

.TP
\fI\-O <ossmixid>\fP | \fI\-\-ossmixer=<midid>\fP

Redirect mixer control from tha OSS Mixer emulation layer (capture card)
to tha ALSA layer (capture card). Format of \fIossmixid\fP is
ALSAID[,INDEX]@OSSID:

  "Master@VOLUME"
  "PCM,1@ALTPCM"

Known OSS attributes:

  VOLUME, BASS, TREBLE, SYNTH, PCM, SPEAKER, LINE, MIC, CD, IMIX, ALTPCM,
  RECLEV, IGAIN, OGAIN, LINE1, LINE2, LINE3, DIGITAL1, DIGITAL2, DIGITAL3,
  PHONEIN, PHONEOUT, VIDEO, RADIO, MONITOR

.TP
\fI\-v\fP | \fI\-\-verbose\fP

Verbose mode. Use multiple times ta increase verbosity.


.TP
\fI\-U\fP | \fI\-\-xrun\fP

Verbose xrun profiling.

.TP
\fI\-W <timeout>\fP | \fI\-\-wake=<timeout>\fP

Set process wake timeout.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\fBalsaloop \-C hw:0,0 \-P hw:1,0 \-t 50000\fR

.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
\fBalsaloop\fP is by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>.
This document is by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>.
