.TH AMIDI 1 "26 Jun 2006"

.SH NAME
amidi \- read from n' write ta ALSA RawMIDI ports

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamidi\fP [\fI\-p port\fP] [\fI\-s file\fP | \fI\-S data\fP]
[\fI\-r file\fP] [\fI\-d\fP] [\fI\-t seconds\fP] [\fI\-a\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amidi
is a cold-ass lil command-line utilitizzle which allows one ta receive n' send
SysEx (system exclusive) data from/to external MIDI devices.
It can also bust any other MIDI commands.

.B amidi
handlez only filez containin raw MIDI commands, without timing
information.
.B amidi
does not support Standard MIDI (.mid) filez yo, but
.B aplaymidi(1)
and
.B arecordmidi(1)
do.

.SH OPTIONS

Use the
.I \-h,
.I \-V,
.I \-l,
or
.I \-L
options ta display shiznit;
or use at least one of the
.I \-s,
.I \-r,
.I \-S,
or
.I \-d
options ta specify what tha fuck data ta bust or receive.

.TP
.I \-h, \-\-help
Help: prints a list of options.

.TP
.I \-V, \-\-version
Prints tha current version.

.TP
.I \-l, \-\-list\-devices
Prints a list of all hardware MIDI ports.

.TP
.I \-L, \-\-list\-rawmidis
Prints all RawMIDI definitions.
(used when debuggin configuration files)

.TP
.I \-p, \-\-port=name
Sets tha name of tha ALSA RawMIDI port ta use.
If dis aint specified,
.B amidi
uses tha default port defined up in tha configuration file
(the default fo' dis is port 0 on card 0, which may not exist).

.TP
.I \-s, \-\-send=filename
Sendz tha contentz of tha specified file ta tha MIDI port.
Da file must contain raw MIDI commandz (e.g. a .syx file);
for Standard MIDI (.mid) files, use
.B aplaymidi(1).

.TP
.I \-r, \-\-receive=filename
Writes data received from tha MIDI port tha fuck into tha specified file.
Da file will contain raw MIDI commandz (like fuckin up in a .syx file);
to record a Standard MIDI (.mid) file, use
.B arecordmidi(1).

.B amidi
will filta up any Actizzle Sensin bytes (FEh), unless the
.I \-a
option has been given.

.TP
.I \-S, \-\-send\-hex="..."
Sendz tha bytes specified as hexadecimal numbers ta tha MIDI port.

.TP
.I \-d, \-\-dump
Prints data received from tha MIDI port as hexadecimal bytes.
Actizzle Sensin bytes (FEh) aint gonna be shown, unless the
.I \-a
option has been given.

This option is useful fo' debugging.

.TP
.I \-t, \-\-timeout=seconds
Stops receivin data when no data has been received fo' tha specified
amount of time.

If dis option has not been given, you must press Ctrl+C (or kill
.B amidi\fR)
to stop receivin data.

.TP
.I \-a, \-\-active\-sensing
Do not ignore Actizzle Sensin bytes (FEh) when savin or printing
received MIDI commands.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B amidi \-p hw:0 \-s my_settings.syx
will bust tha MIDI commandz in
.I my_settings.syx
to port
.I hw:0.

.TP
.B amidi \-S 'F0 43 10 4C 00 00 7E 00 F7'
sendz a XG Reset ta tha default port.

.TP
.B amidi \-p hw:1,2 \-S F0411042110C000000000074F7 \-r dump.syx \-t 1
sendz a \(lqParameta Dump Request\(rq ta a GS device, saves tha received
parameta data ta tha file
.I dump.syx,
and stops afta tha thang has finished bustin  data
(when no data has been received fo' one second).

.TP
.B amidi \-p virtual \-d
creates a virtual RawMIDI port n' prints all data busted ta dis port.

.SH FILES
.I /usr/share/alsa/alsa.conf
default rawmidi definitions
.br
.I /etc/asound.conf
system\-wide rawmidi definitions
.br
.I ~/.asoundrc
user specific rawmidi definitions

.SH SEE ALSO
aplaymidi(1)
.br
arecordmidi(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>
