.TH AMIXER 1 "11 Aug 2000"
.SH NAME
amixer \- command-line mixer fo' ALSA soundcard driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBamixer\fP [\fI\-option\fP] [\fIcmd\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamixer\fP allows command\-line control of tha mixer fo' tha ALSA
soundcard driver.
\fBamixer\fP supports multiple soundcards.

\fBamixer\fR wit no arguments will display tha current mixer settings
for tha default soundcard n' device. This be a phat way ta peep a list
of tha simple mixer controls you can use.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fIhelp\fP
Shows syntax.

.TP
\fIinfo\fP
Shows tha shiznit on some mixer device.

.TP
\fIscontrols\fP
Shows a cold-ass lil complete list of simple mixer controls.

.TP
\fIscontents\fP
Shows a cold-ass lil complete list of simple mixer controls wit they contents.

.TP
\fIset\fP or \fIsset\fP <\fISCONTROL\fP> <\fIPARAMETER\fP> ...
Sets tha simple mixer control contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da parameta can be tha volume
either as a cementage from 0% ta 100% wit \fI%\fP suffix,
a dB bust wit \fIdB\fP suffix (like \-12.5dB), or a exact hardware value.
Da dB bust can be used only fo' tha mixer elements wit available
dB shiznit.
When plus(+) or minus(\-) letta be appended after
volume value, tha volume is incremented or decremented from tha current
value, respectively.

Da parametas \fIcap, nocap, mute, unmute, toggle\fP is used to
change capture (recording) n' mutin fo' tha crew specified.

Da optionizzle modifiers can be put as extra parametas ta specify
the stream direction or channels ta apply.
Da modifiers \fIplayback\fP n' \fIcapture\fP specify tha stream,
and tha modifiers \fIfront, rear, center, woofer\fP is used ta specify
channels ta be chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

A simple mixer control must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only one thang can be controlled
at a time.

.TP
\fIget\fP or \fIsget\fP <\fISCONTROL\fP>
Shows tha simple mixer control contents.

A simple mixer control must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only one thang can be controlled
at a time.

.TP
\fIcontrols\fP
Shows a cold-ass lil complete list of card controls.

.TP
\fIcontents\fP
Shows a cold-ass lil complete list of card controls wit they contents.

.TP
\fIcset\fP <\fICONTROL\fP> <\fIPARAMETER\fP> ...
Sets tha card control contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da identifier has these components: iface,
name, index, device, subdevice, numid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da next argument specifies tha value
of control.

.TP
\fIcget\fP <\fICONTROL\fP>
Shows tha card control contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da identifier has same syntax as for
the \fIcset\fP command.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fI\-c\fP card

Select tha card number ta control. Da thang name pimped from this
parameta has syntax 'hw:N' where N is specified card number.

.TP
\fI\-D\fP device

Select tha thang name ta control. Da default control name is 'default'.

.TP
\fI\-s\fP | \fI\-\-stdin\fP

Read from stdin n' execute tha command on each line sequentially.
When dis option is given, tha command up in command\-line arguments is ignored.

Only sset n' cset is accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Other commandz is ignored.
Da commandz ta unmatched idz is ignored without errors like a muthafucka.

.TP
\fI\-h\fP 
Help: show syntax.

.TP
\fI\-q\fP
Quiet mode. Do not show thangs up in dis biatch of chizzles.

.TP
\fI\-R\fP 
Use tha raw value fo' evaluatin tha cementage representation.
This is tha default mode.

.TP
\fI\-M\fP 
Use tha mapped volume fo' evaluatin tha cementage representation
like \fBalsamixer\fR, ta be mo' natural fo' human ear.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\fBamixer \-c 1 sset Line,0 80%,40% unmute cap\fR
will set tha second soundcardz left line input volume ta 80% and
right line input ta 40%, unmute it, n' select it as a source for
capture (recording).\fR

.TP
\fBamixer \-c 1 \-\- sset Masta playback \-20dB\fR
will set tha masta volume of tha second card ta \-20dB.  If tha master
has multiple channels, all channels is set ta tha same value.

.TP
\fBamixer \-c 1 set PCM 2dB+\fR
will increase tha PCM volume of tha second card wit 2dB.  When both
playback n' capture volumes exist, dis be applied ta both volumes.

.TP
\fBamixer \-c 2 cset iface=MIXER,name='Line Playback Volume",index=1 40%\fR
will set tha third soundcardz second line playback volume(s) ta 40%

.TP
\fBamixer \-c 2 cset numid=34 40%\fR
will set tha 34th soundcard element ta 40%

.SH SEE ALSO
\fB
alsamixer(1)
\fP

.SH BUGS 
None known.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBamixer\fP is by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>.
This document is by Pizzle Winkla <zarmzarm@erols.com> n' Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>.
