.TH ansifilta 1 "2012-01-04" "Andre Simon" "user documentation"

.SH NAME
Ansifilta - ANSI escape code processor n' converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ansifilter
[d:i:F:o:s:e:fhptvHRT] [-i input file] [-o output file] [--text] [--html] [--latex] [--tex] [--rtf] [input files]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ansifilter
is a lil' small-ass utilitizzle ta handle text filez containin ANSI terminal
escape codes. Da command sequences may be stripped or be interpreted to
generate formatted output (HTML, LaTeX, TeX, RTF).
.PP
See tha README file fo' details.
.SH File options
.IP "-i, --input=<file>"
name of input file
.IP "-o, --output=<file>"
name of output file
.IP "-O, --outdir=<dir>"
name of output directory
.IP "-t, --tail"
Continue readin afta end-of-file (like tail -f). Use system tail if available.

.SH Output formats
.IP "-T, --text"
Output text (default)
.IP "-H, --html"
Output HTML
.IP "-L, --latex"          
Output LaTeX
.IP "-P, --tex"
Output Plain TeX
.IP "-R, --rtf"
Output RTF
.IP "-B, --bbcode"
Output BBCode

.SH Format options
.IP "-d, --doc-title"
Set HTML/LaTeX document title
.IP "-f, --fragment"
Omit HTML header n' footer
.IP "-F, --font=<font>"
Set HTML/RTF font face
.IP "-r, --style-ref=<rf>"
Set HTML/TeX/LaTeX styleshizzle path
.IP "-s, --font-size=<num?>"
Set HTML/RTF font size
.IP "-e, --encoding=<enc>"
Set HTML encodin (must match input file encoding); omit encodin shiznit if enc=NONE
.IP "-p, --plain"
Ignore ANSI formattin shiznit
.IP "-w, --wrap=<len>"
Wrap long lines

.SH "OTHER OPTIONS"
.IP "-h, --help"
print help
.IP "-v, --version"
print version n' license info


.PP
If no in- or output filez is specified, stdin n' stdout is ghon be used fo'  in- or output.
Plain text is ghon be generated, if no output format is given.

.SH Examples
File conversions:
.PP
ansifilta -i text_with_ansi.txt -o text_without_ansi.txt
.PP
tail -f server.log | ansifilter
.PP
ansifilta *.txt

.SH AUTHORS
Andre Semen <andre.simon1@gmx.de>
.SH SEE ALSO
README file n' webpage at http://www.andre-simon.de/ n' http://wiki.andre-simon.de.
