.TH APLAY 1 "1 January 2010"
.SH NAME
arecord, aplay \- command\-line sound recorder n' playa fo' ALSA 
soundcard driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBarecord\fP [\fIflags\fP] [filename]
.br
\fBaplay\fP [\fIflags\fP] [filename [filename]] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBarecord\fP be a cold-ass lil command\-line soundfile recorder fo' tha ALSA soundcard
driver n' shit. Well shiiiit, it supports nuff muthafuckin file formats n' multiple soundcardz with
multiple devices. If recordin wit interleaved mode samplez tha file is
automatically split before tha 2GB filesize.

\fBaplay\fP is much tha same, only it skits instead of recording. For
supported soundfile formats, tha samplin rate, bit depth, n' so
forth can be automatically determined from tha soundfile header.

If filename aint specified, tha standard output or input is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fBaplay\fP utilitizzle accepts multiple filenames.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fI\-h, \-\-help\fP
Help: show syntax.
.TP
\fI\-\-version\fP
Print current version.
.TP
\fI\-l, \-\-list\-devices\fP
List all soundcardz n' digital audio devices
.TP
\fI\-L, \-\-list\-pcms\fP
List all PCMs defined
.TP
\fI\-D, \-\-device=NAME\fP
Select PCM by name
.TP
\fI\-q \-\-quiet\fP
Quiet mode. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Suppress lyrics (not sound :))
.TP
\fI\-t, \-\-file\-type TYPE\fP
File type (voc, wav, raw or au).
If dis parameta is omitted tha WAVE format is used.
.TP
\fI\-c, \-\-channels=#\fP
Da number of channels.
Da default is one channel.
Valid joints is 1 all up in 32.
.TP
\fI\-f \-\-format=FORMAT\fP
Sample format
.br
Recognized sample formats are: S8 U8 S16_LE S16_BE U16_LE U16_BE S24_LE
S24_BE U24_LE U24_BE S32_LE S32_BE U32_LE U32_BE FLOAT_LE FLOAT_BE
FLOAT64_LE FLOAT64_BE IEC958_SUBFRAME_LE IEC958_SUBFRAME_BE MU_LAW
A_LAW IMA_ADPCM MPEG GSM SPECIAL S24_3LE S24_3BE U24_3LE U24_3BE S20_3LE
S20_3BE U20_3LE U20_3BE S18_3LE S18_3BE U18_3LE
.br
Some of these may not be available on selected hardware
.br
Da available format shortcuts are:
.nf
\-f cd (16 bit lil endian, 44100, stereo) [\-f S16_LE \-c2 \-r44100]
\-f cdr (16 bit big-ass endian, 44100, stereo) [\-f S16_BE \-c2 \-f44100]
\-f dat (16 bit lil endian, 48000, stereo) [\-f S16_LE \-c2 \-r48000]
.fi
If no format is given U8 is used.
.TP
\fI\-r, \-\-rate=#<Hz>\fP
Samplin rate up in Hertz. Da default rate is 8000 Hertz.
If tha value specified is less than 300, it is taken as tha rate up in kilohertz.
Valid joints is 2000 all up in 192000 Hertz.
.TP
\fI\-d, \-\-duration=#\fP
Interrupt afta # seconds.
A value of zero means infinity.
Da default is zero, so if dis option is omitted then tha arecord process will run until it is capped.
.TP
\fI\-s, \-\-sleep\-min=#\fP
Min ticks ta chill. Da default aint ta chill.
.TP
\fI\-M, \-\-mmap\fP            
Use memory\-mapped (mmap) I/O mode fo' tha audio stream.
If dis option aint set, tha read/write I/O mode is ghon be used.
.TP
\fI\-N, \-\-nonblock\fP          
Open tha audio thang up in non\-blockin mode. If tha thang be jumpin' off tha hook tha program will exit immediately.
If dis option aint set tha program will block until tha audio thang be available again.
.TP
\fI\-F, \-\-period\-time=#\fP     
Distizzle between interrupts is # microseconds.
If no period time n' no period size is given then a quarta of tha buffer time is set.
.TP
\fI\-B, \-\-buffer\-time=#\fP     
Buffer duration is # microseconds
If no buffer time n' no buffer size is given then tha maximal allowed buffer time but not mo' than 500ms is set.
.TP
\fI\-\-period\-size=#\fP     
Distizzle between interrupts is # frames
If no period size n' no period time is given then a quarta of tha buffer size is set.
.TP
\fI\-\-buffer\-size=#\fP     
Buffer duration is # frames
If no buffer time n' no buffer size is given then tha maximal allowed buffer time but not mo' than 500ms is set.
.TP
\fI\-A, \-\-avail\-min=#\fP       
Min available space fo' wakeup is # microseconds
.TP
\fI\-R, \-\-start\-delay=#\fP     
Delay fo' automatic PCM start is # microsecondz 
(relatizzle ta buffer size if <= 0)
.TP
\fI\-T, \-\-stop\-delay=#\fP      
Delay fo' automatic PCM stop is # microsecondz from xrun
.TP
\fI\-v, \-\-verbose\fP           
Show PCM structure n' setup.
This option be accumulative.  Da VU meta is displayed when this
is given twice or three times.
.TP
\fI\-V, \-\-vumeter=TYPE\fP
Specifies tha VU\-meta type, either \fIstereo\fP or \fImono\fP.
Da stereo VU\-meta be available only fo' 2\-channel stereo samples
with interleaved format.
.TP
\fI\-I, \-\-separate\-channels\fP 
One file fo' each channel.  This option disablez max\-file\-time
and use\-strftime, n' ignores SIGUSR1.  Da stereo VU meta is
not available wit separate channels.
.TP
\fI\-P\fP
Playback.  This is tha default if tha program is invoked
by typin aplay.
.TP
\fI\-C\fP
Record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is tha default if tha program is invoked
by typin arecord.
.TP
\fI\-i, \-\-interactive\fP
Allow interactizzle operation via stdin.
Currently only pause/resume via space or enta key is implemented.
.TP
\fI-m, \-\-chmap=ch1,ch2,...\fP
Give tha channel map ta override or follow.  Pass channel position
strings like \fIFL\fP, \fIFR\fP, etc.

If a thang supports tha override of tha channel map, \fBaplay\fP
tries ta pass tha given channel map.
If it don't support tha channel map override but still it provides
the channel map shiznit, \fBaplay\fP tries ta rearrange the
channel order up in tha buffer ta match wit tha returned channel map
from tha device.
.TP
\fI\-\-disable\-resample\fP
Disable automatic rate resample.
.TP
\fI\-\-disable\-channels\fP
Disable automatic channel conversions.
.TP
\fI\-\-disable\-format\fP
Disable automatic format conversions.
.TP
\fI\-\-disable\-softvol\fP
Disable software volume control (softvol).
.TP
\fI\-\-test\-position\fP
Test rang buffer position.
.TP
\fI\-\-test\-coef=<coef>\fP
Test coefficient fo' rang buffer position; default is 8.
Expression fo' validation is: coef * (buffer_size / 2).
Minimum value is 1.
.TP
\fI\-\-test\-nowait\fP
Do not wait fo' tha rang buffer \(hy smokes tha whole CPU.
.TP
\fI\-\-max\-file\-time\fP
While recording, when tha output file has been accumulating
sound fo' dis long,
close it n' open a freshly smoked up output file.  Default is tha maximum
size supported by tha file format: 2 GiB fo' WAV files.
This option has no effect if  \-\-separate\-channels is
specified.
.TP
\fI\-\-process\-id\-file <file name>\fP
aplay writes its process ID here, so other programs can
send signals ta dat shit.
.TP
\fI\-\-use\-strftime\fP
When recording, interpret %\-codes up in tha file name parameta using
the strftime facilitizzle whenever tha output file is opened. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
important strftime codes are: %Y is tha year, %m month, %d dizzle of
the month, %H hour, %M minute n' %S second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  In addition, %v is
the file number, startin at 1.  When dis option is specified,
intermediate directories fo' tha output file is pimped automatically.
This option has no effect if \-\-separate\-channels is specified.
.TP
\fI\-\-dump\-hw\-params\fP
Dump hw_paramz of tha thang preconfigured status ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da dump
lists capabilitizzlez of tha selected thang like fuckin supported formats,
samplin rates, numberz of channels, period n' buffer bytes/sizes/times.
For raw thang hw:X dis option basically lists hardware capabilitizzles of
the soundcard.
.TP
\fI\-\-fatal\-errors\fP
Disablez recovery attempts when errors (e.g. xrun) is encountered; the
aplay process instead aborts immediately.

.SH SIGNALS
When recording, SIGINT, SIGTERM n' SIGABRT will close tha output 
file n' exit.  SIGUSR1 will close tha output file, open a freshly smoked up one,
and continue recording.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat SIGUSR1 do not work with
\-\-separate\-channels.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\fBaplay \-c 1 \-t raw \-r 22050 \-f mu_law foobar\fR
will play tha raw file "foobar" as a
22050\-Hz, mono, 8\-bit, Mu\-Law .au file. 

.TP
\fBarecord \-d 10 \-f cd \-t wav \-D copy foobar.wav\fP
will record foobar.wav as a 10\-second, CD\-qualitizzle wave file, rockin the
PCM "copy" (which might be defined up in tha userz .asoundrc file as:
.nf
pcm.copy {
  type plug
  slave {
    pcm hw
  }
  route_policy copy
}
.fi

.TP
\fBarecord \-t wav \-\-max\-file\-time 30 mon.wav\fP
Record from tha default audio source up in monaural, 8,000 samples
per second, 8 bits per sample.  Start a freshly smoked up file every
30 seconds.  File names is mon\-nn.wav, where nn increases
from 01.  Da file afta mon\-99.wav is mon\-100.wav.

.TP
\fBarecord \-f cd \-t wav \-\-max\-file\-time 3600 \-\-use-strftime %Y/%m/%d/listen-%H-%M-%v.wav\fP
Record up in stereo from tha default audio source.  Smoke a freshly smoked up file
every hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da filez is placed up in directories based on they start dates
and have names which include they start times n' file numbers.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fB
alsamixer(1),
amixer(1)
\fP

.SH BUGS 
Note dat .aiff filez is not currently supported.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBarecord\fP n' \fBaplay\fP is by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
This document is by Pizzle Winkla <zarmzarm@erols.com>.
Updated fo' Alsa 0.9 by Jizzy Tappin <james@xena.uklinux.net>

