." Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH appletviewer 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
appletviewer \- Da Java Applet Viewer.
.LP
.LP
Da \f3appletviewer\fP command allows you ta run applets outside of a wizzy browser.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
\f4appletviewer\fP \f2[\fP \f2options\fP \f2] \fP\f2urls\fP ...
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3appletviewer\fP command connects ta tha documents or resources designated by \f2urls\fP n' displays each applet referenced by tha documents up in its own window. Note: if tha documents referred ta by \f2urls\fP do not reference any applets wit tha \f2OBJECT\fP, \f2EMBED\fP, or \f2APPLET\fP tag, then \f3appletviewer\fP do nothing. For details on tha HTML tags dat \f3appletviewer\fP supports, peep 
.na
\f2AppletViewer Tags\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/appletviewertags.html.
.LP
.LP
\f3Note:\fP Da \f3appletviewer\fP is intended fo' pimpment purposes only. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See Bout Sample / Test Applications n' Code fo' mo' shiznit.
.LP
.LP
\f3Note:\fP Da \f3appletviewer\fP requires encoded URLs accordin ta tha escapin mechanizzle defined up in RFC2396. Only encoded URLs is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat file names must be unencoded, as specified up in RFC2396.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-debug 
Starts tha applet viewer up in tha Java debugger, jdb(1), thus allowin you ta debug tha applets up in tha document. 
.TP 3
\-encodin \  \ encodin name 
Specify tha input HTML file encodin name. 
.TP 3
\-Jjavaoption 
Passes all up in tha strang \f2javaoption\fP as a single argument ta tha Java interpreta which runs tha appletviewer n' shit. Da argument should not contain spaces. Multiple argument lyrics must all begin wit tha prefix \f3\-J\fP, which is stripped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is useful fo' adjustin tha compilerz execution environment or memory usage. 
.RE

.LP
.LP

.LP
 
