.\" Man page fo' %apropos%
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit tha 
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) 
.\" 
.pc
.TH %thapropos% 1 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%apropos% \- search tha manual page names n' descriptions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %apropos% 
.RB [\| \-dalv?V  \|] 
.RB [\| \-e \||\| \-w \||\| \-r\c
\|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.I keyword
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each manual page has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description available within dat shit. 
.B %apropos%
searches tha descriptions fo' instances of
.IR keyword .

.I keyword
is probably a regular expression, as if 
.RB ( \-r )
was used, or
may contain wildcards
.RB ( \-w ),
or match tha exact keyword
.RB ( \-e ).
Usin these options, it may be necessary ta quote the
.I keyword
or escape (\\) tha special charactas ta stop tha shell from interpreting
them.

Da standard matchin rulez allow matches ta be made against tha page name
and word boundaries up in tha description.

Da database searched by
.B %apropos%
is updated by the
.B %mandb%
program.
Dependin on yo' installation, dis may be run by a periodic cron thang, or
may need ta be run manually afta freshly smoked up manual pages done been installed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print verbose warnin lyrics.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-r ", " \-\-regex
Interpret each keyword as a regular expression.
This is tha default behaviour.
Each keyword is ghon be matched against tha page names n' tha descriptions
independently.
It can match any part of either.
Da match aint limited ta word boundaries.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-w ", " \-\-wildcard
Interpret each keyword as a pattern containin shell steez wildcards.
Each keyword is ghon be matched against tha page names n' tha descriptions
independently.
If
.B \-\-exact
is also used,
a match will only be found if a expanded keyword matches a entire
description or page name.
Otherwise tha keyword be also allowed ta match on word boundaries up in the
description.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-e ", " \-\-exact
Each keyword is ghon be exactly matched against tha page names n' the
descriptions.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-a ", " \-\-and
Only display shit dat match all tha supplied keywords.
Da default is ta display shit dat match any keyword.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Do not trim output ta tha terminal width.
Normally, output is ghon be truncated ta tha terminal width ta avoid skanky
results from skankyly-written
.B NAME
sections.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIlist\fP, \fB\-\-sections\fP \fIlist\fP, \fB\-\-section\fP \fIlist\fP
Search only tha given manual sections.
.I list
is a cold-ass lil colon- or comma-separated list of sections.
If a entry in
.I list
is a simple section, fo' example "3", then tha displayed list of
descriptions will include pages up in sections "3", "3perl", "3x", n' so on;
while if a entry in
.I list
has a extension, fo' example "3perl", then tha list will only include
pages up in dat exact part of tha manual section.
.\"
.\" Cuz of tha rather wack-ass limit of 6 args per request up in some `native'
.\" *roff compilers, our crazy asses have do tha followin ta git tha two-line
.\" hangin tag on one line. .PP ta begin a freshly smoked up paragraph, then the
.\" tag, then .RS (start relatizzle indent), tha text, finally .RE
.\" (end relatizzle indent).
.\"
.PP
.B \-m 
.I system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|,
.BI \-\-systems= system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.RS
If dis system has access ta other operatin systemz manual page
descriptions, they can be searched rockin dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
To search NewOSz manual page descriptions, use tha option
.B \-m
.BR NewOS .

Da 
.I system
specified can be a cold-ass lil combination of comma-delimited operatin system names.
To include a search of tha natizzle operatin systemz 
.B whatis
descriptions, include tha system name
.B playa 
in tha argument string.
This option will override the
.RB $ SYSTEM
environment variable.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
Specify a alternate set of colon-delimited manual page hierarchies to
search.
By default, 
.B apropos
uses tha 
.RB $ MANPATH
environment variable, unless it is empty or unset, up in which case it will 
determine a appropriate manpath based on yo' 
.RB $ PATH
environment variable.
This option overrides tha contents of
.RB $ MANPATH .
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.B apropos
will normally determine yo' current locale by a cold-ass lil call ta tha C function
.BR setlocale (3)
which invigorates various environment variables, possibly including
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
and
.RB $ LANG .
To temporarily override tha determined value, use dis option ta supply a
.I locale
strin directly to
.BR apropos .
Note dat it aint gonna take effect until tha search fo' pages actually
begins.
Output like fuckin tha help message will always be displayed up in tha initially
determined locale.
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 1
Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 2
Operationizzle error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 16
Nothang was found dat matched tha criteria specified.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B SYSTEM
If
.RB $ SYSTEM
is set, it gonna git tha same effect as if it had been specified as the
argument ta tha 
.B \-m
option.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANPATH
If
.RB $ MANPATH
is set, its value is interpreted as tha colon-delimited manual page
hierarchy search path ta use.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANWIDTH
If
.RB $ MANWIDTH
is set, its value is used as tha terminal width (see the
.B \-\-long
option).
If it aint set, tha terminal width is ghon be calculated rockin an
.BR ioctl (2)
if available, tha value of
.RB $ COLUMNS ,
or fallin back ta 80 charactas if all else fails.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B POSIXLY_CORRECT
If 
.RB $ POSIXLY_CORRECT
is set, even ta a null value, tha default 
.B %apropos% 
search is ghon be as a extended regex 
.RB ( \-r ).
Nowadays, dis is tha default behaviour anyway.
.SH FILES
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/share/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
A traditionizzle global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An FHS
compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/share/man/\|.\|.\|.\|/whatis
A traditionizzle 
.B whatis
text database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %man% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %whatis% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %mandb% (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
