." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH apt 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "NAME"
.LP
.LP
\f2apt\fP \- annotation processin tool
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
\f2apt [\-classpath \fP\f2classpath\fP] [\-sourcepath \f2sourcepath\fP] [\-d \f2directory\fP] [\-s \f2directory\fP] [\-factorypath \f2path\fP] [\-factory \f2class\fP] [\-print] [\-nocompile] [\-A\f2key\fP[\f2=val\fP] ...] [\f2javac option\fP] sourcefilez [@files]
.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.LP
Options may be up in any order n' shit. For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of parametas which apply ta a specific option, peep OPTIONS below.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
sourcefilez 
Zero or mo' source filez ta be processed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
@filez 
One or mo' filez dat list source filez or other options 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3Note\fP: Da \f2apt\fP tool n' its associated API contained up in tha package \f2com.sun.mirror\fP done been deprecated since JDK 7 n' is planned ta be removed up in tha next major JDK release. Use tha options available up in tha \f2javac(1)\fP tool n' tha APIs contained up in tha packages \f2javax.annotation.processing\fP n' \f2javax.lang.model\fP ta process annotations.
.LP
.LP
Da tool \f2apt\fP, annotation processin tool, includes reflectizzle APIs n' supportin infrastructure ta process program annotations. Da \f2apt\fP reflectizzle APIs provide a funky-ass build\-time, source\-based, read\-only view of program structure. These reflectizzle APIs is designed ta cleanly model tha Java(TM) programmin languagez type system afta tha addizzle of generics. First, \f2apt\fP runs annotation processors dat can produce freshly smoked up source code n' other files. Next, \f2apt\fP can cause compilation of both original gangsta n' generated source files, easin pimpment. Da reflectizzle APIs n' other APIs used ta interact wit tha tool is subpackagez of \f2com.sun.mirror\fP.
.LP
.LP
A fulla rap of how tha fuck tha tool operates as well as instructions fo' pimpin wit \f2apt\fP is up in 
.na
\f4Gettin Started wit \fP\f4apt\fP. @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/apt/GettingStarted.html
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.SS 
apt specific options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-s dir 
Specify tha directory root under which processor\-generated source filez is ghon be placed; filez is placed up in subdirectories based on package namespace. 
.TP 3
\-nocompile 
Do not compile source filez ta class files. 
.TP 3
\-print 
Print up textual representation of specified types; big-ass up no annotation processin or compilation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-A[key[=val]] 
Options ta pass ta annotation processors \-\- these is not interpreted by \f2apt\fP directly yo, but is made available fo' use by individual processors 
.TP 3
\-factorypath path 
Specify where ta find annotation processor factories; if dis option is used, tha classpath is \f2not\fP searched fo' factories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
.TP 3
\-factory classname 
Name of annotation processor factory ta use; bypasses default discovery process 
.TP 3
\-version 
Print version shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-X 
Display shiznit bout non\-standard options. 
.RE

.LP
.SS 
Options shared wit javac
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-d dir 
Specify where ta place processor n' javac generated class filez 
.TP 3
\-cp path or \-classpath path 
Specify where ta find user class filez n' annotation processor factories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! If \f2\-factorypath\fP is given, tha classpath aint searched fo' factories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
.RE

.LP
.LP
Consult tha javac(1) playa page fo' shiznit on \f2javac\fP options.
.LP
.SS 
Non\-Standard Options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-XListAnnotationTypes 
List found annotation types. 
.TP 3
\-XListDeclarations 
List specified n' included declarations. 
.TP 3
\-XPrintAptRoundz 
Print shiznit bout initial n' recursive \f2apt\fP rounds. 
.TP 3
\-XPrintFactoryInfo 
Print shiznit bout which annotations a gangbangin' factory be axed ta process. 
.TP 3
\-XclassesAsDecls 
Treat both class n' source filez as declarations ta process. 
.RE

.LP
.LP
\f3Note\fP: Because these options is non\-standard, they is subject ta chizzle without notice.
.LP
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
.LP
Da \f2apt\fP tool n' its associated API contained up in tha package \f2com.sun.mirror\fP done been deprecated since JDK 7 n' is planned ta be removed up in tha next major JDK release. Use tha options available up in tha \f2javac(1)\fP tool n' tha APIs contained up in tha packages \f2javax.annotation.processing\fP n' \f2javax.lang.model\fP ta process annotations.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
javac(1), java(1) 
.RE

.LP
 
