.TH ARECORDMIDI 1 "17 Sep 2007"

.SH NAME
arecordmidi \- record Standard MIDI Files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arecordmidi
\-p client:port[,...] [options] midifile

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B arecordmidi
is a cold-ass lil command-line utilitizzle dat recordz a Standard MIDI File from one or
more ALSA sequencer ports.

To stop recording, press Ctrl+C.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.I \-h,\-\-help
Prints a list of options.

.TP
.I \-V,\-\-version
Prints tha current version.

.TP
.I \-l,\-\-list
Prints a list of possible input ports.

.TP
.I \-p,\-\-port=client:port,...
Sets tha sequencer port(s) from which events is recorded.

A client can be specified by its number, its name, or a prefix of its
name fo' realz. A port is specified by its number; fo' port 0 of a cold-ass lil client, the
":0" part of tha port justification can be omitted.

.TP
.I \-b,\-\-bpm=beats
Sets tha musical tempo of tha MIDI file, up in beats per minute.
Da default value is 120 BPM.

.TP
.I \-f,\-\-fps=frames
Sets tha SMPTE resolution, up in frames per second.
Possible joints is 24, 25, 29.97 (for 30 drop-frame), n' 30.

.TP
.I \-t,\-\-ticks=ticks
Sets tha resolution of timestamps (ticks) up in tha MIDI file,
in ticks per beat (when rockin musical tempo) or ticks per frame
(when rockin SMPTE timing).
Da default value is 384 ticks/beat or 40 ticks/frame, respectively.

.TP
.I \-s,\-\-split\-channels
Specifies dat tha data fo' each MIDI channel should be freestyled ta a
separate track up in tha MIDI file.
This will result up in a "format 1" file.
Otherwise, when there is only one track,
.B arecordmidi
will generate a "format 0" file.

.TP
.I \-m,\-\-metronome=client:port
Plays a metronome signal on tha specified sequencer port.

Metronome soundz is played on channel 10, MIDI notes 33 & 34 (GM2/GS/XG 
metronome standard notes), wit velocitizzle 100 n' duration 1.

.TP
.I \-i,\-\-timesig=numerator:denominator
Sets tha time signature fo' tha MIDI file n' metronome.

Da time signature is specified as usual wit two numbers, representing
the numerator n' denominator of tha time signature as it would be 
notated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da denominator must be a juice of two. Both numbers should be
separated by a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da time signature is 4:4 by default.

.SH AUTHOR
Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>
