.TH ARIA_CHK "1" "May 2014" "aria_chk Ver 1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aria_chk \- Aria table\-maintenizzle utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aria_chk
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fItables\fR[\fI.MAI\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Describe, check n' repair of Aria tables.
Used without options all tablez on tha command is ghon be checked fo' errors
.SS "Global options"
.TP
\fB\-#\fR, \fB\-\-debug=\fR...
Output debug log. Often dis is 'd:t:o,filename'.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-HELP\fR
Print all argument options sorted alphabetically.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print all options by groups
.TP
\fB\-\-datadir\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path fo' control file (and logs if \fB\-\-logdir\fR not used)
.TP
\fB\-\-logdir\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path fo' log files
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-control\-file\fR
Don't open tha control file. Only use dis if you
are shizzle tha tablez is not up in use by another
program!
.TP
\fB\-\-require\-control\-file\fR
Abort if we can't find/read tha maria_log_control
file
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Only print errors.  One can use two \fB\-s\fR ta make
maria_chk straight-up silent.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tmpdir\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path fo' temporary files. Multiple paths can be
specified, separated by colon (:), they is ghon be used
in a round\-robin fashion.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be used with
\fB\-\-description\fR n' \fB\-\-check\fR. Use nuff \fB\-v\fR fo' mo' verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR
Wait if table is locked.
.SS "Peep options (check is tha default action fo' aria_chk)"
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
Peep table fo' errors.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-extend\-check\fR
Peep tha table VERY throughly.  Only use dis in
off tha hook cases as aria_chk should normally be able to
smoke up if tha table be aiiight even without dis switch.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fast\fR
Peep only tablez dat aint been closed properly.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-check\-only\-changed\fR
Peep only tablez dat have chizzled since last check.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Restart wit '\-r' if there be any errors up in tha table.
States is ghon be updated as wit '\-\-update\-state'.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-information\fR
Print statistics shiznit bout table dat is checked.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-medium\-check\fR
Fasta than extend\-check yo, but only findz 99.99% of
all errors.  Should be phat enough fo' most cases.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-read\-only\fR
Don't mark table as checked.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-update\-state\fR
Mark tablez as crashed if any errors was found and
clean if check didn't find any errors but table was
marked as 'not clean' before. This allows one ta get
rid of warnings like 'table not properly closed'. If
table was updated, update also tha timestamp fo' when
the check was made. This option is on by default!
Use \fB\-\-skip\-update\-state\fR ta disable.
.HP
\fB\-\-warning\-for\-wrong\-transaction\-id\fR
.IP
Give a warnin if we find a transaction id up in tha table dat is bigger
than what tha fuck exists up in tha control file. Use \fB\-\-skip\-\fR... ta disable warning
.SS "Recover (repair)/ options (When rockin '--recover' or '--safe-recover')"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-backup\fR
Make a funky-ass backup of tha .MAD file as 'filename\-time.BAK'.
.TP
\fB\-\-correct\-checksum\fR
Correct checksum shiznit fo' table.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-data\-file\-length=\fR#
Max length of data file (when rebustin data
file when itz full).
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-extend\-check\fR
Try ta recover every last muthafuckin possible row from tha data file
Normally dis will also find a shitload of garbage rows;
Don't use dis option if yo ass is not straight-up desperate.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite oldschool temporary files.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keys\-used=\fR#
Tell Aria ta update only some specific keys. # be a
bit mask of which keys ta use. This can be used to
get fasta inserts.
.TP
\fB\-\-max\-record\-length=\fR#
Skip rows bigger than dis if aria_chk can't allocate
memory ta hold dat shit.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-recover\fR
Can fix almost anythang except unique keys dat aren't
unique.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-sort\-recover\fR
Forces recoverin wit sortin even if tha temporary
file would be straight-up big.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parallel\-recover\fR
Uses tha same ol' dirty technique as '\-r' n' '\-n' yo, but creates
all tha keys up in parallel, up in different threads.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-safe\-recover\fR
Uses oldschool recovery method; Slower than '\-r' but can
handle a cold-ass lil couple cases where '\-r' reports dat it
can't fix tha data file.
.TP
\fB\-\-transaction\-log\fR
Log repair command ta transaction log. This is needed
if one wants ta use tha aria_read_log ta repeat the
repair
.TP
\fB\-\-character\-sets\-dir=\fR...
Directory where characta sets are.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-collation\fR=\fIname\fR
Change tha collation used by tha index.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quick\fR
Fasta repair by not modifyin tha data file.
One can give a second '\-q' ta force aria_chk to
modify tha original gangsta datafile up in case of duplicate keys.
NOTE: Tablez where tha data file is currupted can't be
fixed wit dis option.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unpack\fR
Unpack file packed wit ariapack.
.SS "Other actions"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-analyze\fR
Analyze distribution of keys. Will cook up some fuckin joins in
MariaDB fasta n' shit.  Yo ass can check tha calculated distribution
by rockin '\-\-description \fB\-\-verbose\fR table_name'.
.TP
\fB\-\-stats_method\fR=\fIname\fR
Specifies how tha fuck index statistics collection code should
treat NULLs. Possible jointz of name is "nulls_unequal"
(default fo' 4.1/5.0), "nulls_equal" (emulate 4.0), and
"nulls_ignored".
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR
Prints some shiznit bout table.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-set\-auto\-increment\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]
Force auto_increment ta start at dis or higher value
If no value is given, then sets tha next auto_increment
value ta tha highest used value fo' tha auto key + 1.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sort\-index\fR
Sort index blocks.  This speedz up 'read\-next' in
applications.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-sort\-records=\fR#
Sort recordz accordin ta a index.  This make your
data much mo' localized n' may speed up thangs
(It may be VERY slow ta do a sort tha last time!).
.TP
\fB\-b\fR,  \fB\-\-block\-search=\fR#
Find a record, a funky-ass block at given offset belongs to.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR,  \fB\-\-zerofill\fR
Fill empty space up in data n' index filez wit zeroes.
This make tha data file movable between different
servers.
.TP
\fB\-\-zerofill\-keep\-lsn\fR
Like \fB\-\-zerofill\fR but do not zero up LSN of
data/index pages.
.PP
.SS "Variables"
.TP
\fB\-\-page_buffer_size=\fR#
Size of page buffer n' shit. Used by \fB\-\-safe\-repair\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-read_buffer_size=\fR#
Read buffer size fo' sequential readz durin scanning
.TP
\fB\-\-sort_buffer_size=\fR#
Size of sort buffer n' shit. Used by \fB\-\-recover\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-sort_key_blocks=\fR#
Internal buffer fo' sortin keys; Don't touch.
.TP
\fB\-\-write_buffer_size=\fR#
Write buffer size fo' sequential writes durin repair
.PP
Default options is read from tha followin filez up in tha given order:
\fB/etc/my.cnf /etc/mysql/my.cnf ~/.my.cnf\fR
.PP
Da followin crews is read: \fBaria_chk\fR
.PP
Da followin options may be given as tha straight-up original gangsta argument:
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-defaults\fR
Print tha program argument list n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-defaults\fR
Don't read default options from any option file.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-file=\fR#
Only read default options from tha given file #.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-extra\-file=\fR#
Read dis file afta tha global filez is read.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBmyisamchk(1)\fR
.PP
For mo' shiznit, please refer ta tha MariaDB Knowledge Base,
which be available online at http://mariadb.com/kb/
