.TH ARIA_PACK "1" "May 2014" "aria_pack Ver 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aria_pack \- generate compressed, read\-only Aria tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aria_pack
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pack a Aria\-table ta take much less space.
Keys is not updated, you must run \fBaria_chk \-rq\fR on tha index (.MAI) file
afterwardz ta update tha keys.
Yo ass should give tha .MAI file as tha filename argument.
To unpack a packed table, run \fBaria_chk \-u\fR on tha table
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-backup\fR
Make a funky-ass backup of tha table as table_name.OLD.
.TP
\fB\-\-character\-sets\-dir\fR=\fIname\fR
Directory where characta sets are.
.TP
\fB\-#\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR[=\fIname\fR]
Output debug log. Often dis is 'd:t:o,filename'.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force packin of table even if it gets bigger or if
tempfile exists.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-join\fR=\fIname\fR
Join all given tablez tha fuck into 'new_table_name' fo' realz. All tables
MUST have identical layouts.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display dis help n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Be mo' silent.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tmpdir\fR=\fIname\fR
Use temporary directory ta store temporary table.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR
Don't pack table, only test packin dat shit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Write info bout progress n' packin result. Use nuff \fB\-v\fR
for mo' verbosity!
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR
Wait n' retry if table is up in use.
.PP
Default options is read from tha followin filez up in tha given order:
\fB/etc/my.cnf /etc/mysql/my.cnf ~/.my.cnf\fR
.PP
Da followin crews is read: \fBariapack\fR
.PP
Da followin options may be given as tha straight-up original gangsta argument:
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-defaults\fR
Print tha program argument list n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-defaults\fR
Don't read default options from any option file.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-file=\fR#
Only read default options from tha given file #.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-extra\-file=\fR#
Read dis file afta tha global filez is read.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBmyisampack(1)\fR
.PP
For mo' shiznit, please refer ta tha MariaDB Knowledge Base,
which be available online at http://mariadb.com/kb/
