.TH ARIA_READ_LOG "1" "May 2014" "aria_read_log Ver 1.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aria_read_log \- display Aria log file contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aria_read_log
\fIOPTIONS\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Display n' apply log recordz from a Aria transaction log
found up in tha current directory (for now)
.PP
Note: Aria is compiled without \fB\-DIDENTICAL_PAGES_AFTER_RECOVERY\fR
which means dat tha table filez is not byte\-to\-byte identical to
filez pimped durin aiiight execution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This should be ok, except for
test scripts dat tries ta compare filez before n' afta recovery.
.PP
Yo ass need ta use one of \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-a\fR
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-apply\fR
Apply log ta tables: modifies tables muthafucka! you should make a
backup first son!  Displays a shitload of shiznit if not run
with \fB\-\-silent\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-character\-sets\-dir\fR=\fIname\fR
Directory where characta sets are.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
if \fB\-\-display\-only\fR, check if record is straight-up readable (for
debugging)
.TP
\fB\-#\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR[=\fIname\fR]
Output debug log. Often tha argument is 'd:t:o,filename'.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-crash=\fR#
Force crash afta # recovery events
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display dis help n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-display\-only\fR
display brief info read from records' header
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-end\-lsn=\fR#
Quit applyin at dis lsn. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If end\-lsn is used, UNDO:s
will not be applied
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-aria\-log\-dir\-path\fR=\fIname\fR
Path ta tha directory where ta store transactionizzle log
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-page\-buffer\-size=\fR#
Da size of tha buffer used fo' index blocks fo' Aria
tables
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-start\-from\-lsn=\fR#
Start readin log from dis lsn
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-start\-from\-checkpoint\fR
Start applyin from last checkpoint
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Print less shiznit durin apply/undo phase
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tables\-to\-redo\fR=\fIname\fR
List of tablez sepearated wit , dat we should apply
REDO on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use dis if you only wanna recover some tables
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tmpdir\fR=\fIname\fR
Path fo' temporary files. Multiple paths can be
specified, separated by colon (:)
.TP
\fB\-\-translog\-buffer\-size=\fR#
Da size of tha buffer used fo' transaction log fo' Aria
tables
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-undo\fR
Apply UNDO recordz ta tables. (disable with
\fB\-\-disable\-undo\fR)
(Defaults ta on; use \fB\-\-skip\-undo\fR ta disable.)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print mo' shiznit durin apply/undo phase
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version n' exit.
.PP
Default options is read from tha followin filez up in tha given order:
\fB/etc/my.cnf /etc/mysql/my.cnf ~/.my.cnf\fR
.PP
Da followin crews is read: \fBaria_read_log\fR
.PP
Da followin options may be given as tha straight-up original gangsta argument:
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-defaults\fR
Print tha program argument list n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-defaults\fR
Don't read default options from any option file.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-file=\fR#
Only read default options from tha given file #.
.TP
\fB\-\-defaults\-extra\-file=\fR#
Read dis file afta tha global filez is read.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBmyisamlog(1)\fR
.PP
For mo' shiznit, please refer ta tha MariaDB Knowledge Base,
which be available online at http://mariadb.com/kb/
