.TH ASCII-XFR 1 "$Date: 2006-10-28 14:35:59 $" "" "Linux Users Manual"
.SH NAME
ascii\-xfr \- upload/downlizzle filez rockin tha ASCII protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ascii\-xfr
.B \-s|\-r
.RB [ \-ednv ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR linedelay ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR characterdelay ]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ascii-xfr
Transfers filez up in ASCII mode. This means no flow control, no
checksummin n' no file-name negotiation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it should \fIonly\fP
be used if tha remote system don't KNOW anythang else.
.PP
Da ASCII protocol transfers filez line-by-line. Da EOL
(End-Of-Line) characta is transmitted as CRLF. When
receiving, tha CR characta is stripped from tha incomin file.
Da Control-Z (ASCII 26) characta signals End-Of-File, if option \-e
is specified (unless you chizzle it ta Control-D (ASCII 4) wit \-d).
.PP
\fBAscii-xfr\fP readz from \fIstdin\fP when receiving, and
sendz data on \fIstdout\fP when sending. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some form of
input or output redirection ta tha modem thang is
thus needed when downloadin or uploading, respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-s\fP
Send a gangbangin' file.
.IP \fB\-r\fP
Receive a gangbangin' file. One of \fB\-s\fP or \fB\-r\fP \fImust\fP
be present.
.IP \fB\-e\fP
Send tha End-Of-File characta (Control-Z, ASCII 26 by default) when
uploadin has finished.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Use tha Control-D (ASCII 4) as End-Of-File character.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Do not translate CR ta CRLF n' vice versa.
.IP \fB\-v\fP
Verbose: show transfer statistics on tha stderr output.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP \fImilliseconds\fP"
When transmitting, pause fo' dis delay afta each line.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP \fImilliseconds\fP"
When transmitting, pause fo' dis delay afta each character.
.IP \fIfile\fP
Name of tha file ta bust or receive. When receiving, any existing
file by dis name is ghon be truncated.
.SH USAGE WITH MINICOM
If you wanna call dis program from \fBminicom(1)\fP, start minicom
and git all up in tha \fBO\fPptions menu fo'sho. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Select \fIFile transfer protocols\fP.
Add tha followin lines, fo' example as protocols \fBI\fP n' \fBJ\fP.
.sp 1
.nf
I  Ascii    /usr/bin/ascii\-xfr \-sv   Y   U   N   Y
J  Ascii    /usr/bin/ascii\-xfr \-rv   Y   D   N   Y
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
.br
Jukka Lahtinen, strutter@netsonic.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
minicom(1)
