.TH aseqnet 1 "January 1, 2000"
.SH NAME
aseqnet \- ALSA sequencer connectors over network

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aseqnet
[remotehost]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aseqnet
is a ALSA sequencer client which sendz n' receives event packets
over network.
Suppose two hosts connected by network,
.I hostA
as a server
and
.I hostB
as a cold-ass lil client.
Da ALSA sequencer system must be hustlin on both hosts.
For bustin tha server port, run tha followin on hostA:
.IP "" 4
hostA% aseqnet
.br
sequencer opened: 128:0
.PP
Then a user client 128 wit port 0 was opened on hostA.
(Da client number may vary.)
For bustin tha (network-)client port, run
.B aseqnet
with tha hostname of tha server:
.IP "" 4
hostB% aseqnet hostA
.br
sequencer opened: 132:0
.PP
Now all events busted ta hostA:128:0 is transferred ta hostB:132:0, n' vice
versa.
.PP
Da ports pimped by
.B aseqnet
can be connected arbitrary ta other sequencer ports via
.B aconnect(1).
For example, ta connect hostB:132:0 ta a MIDI output thang 65:0:
.IP "" 4
hostB% aconnect 132:0 65:0
.PP
Then events ta hostA:128:0 is ghon be served up ta hostB:65:0.
Da followin command skits MIDI on
.I hostB.
.IP "" 4
hostA% pmidi \-p 128:0 foo.mid
.PP
Da multiple clients may exist simultaneously.  If
.I hostC
is connected as a cold-ass lil client ta hostA, events from from hostA is sent
to all connected network clients, i.e. hostB n' hostC.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat only one connection be allowed from a cold-ass lil client ta a server.
.PP
To disconnect network, stop all clients before server by ctrl-C or
sendin signal ta em.  Da server will automatically quit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p port
Specify tha TCP port number or TCP steez name.
.TP
.B \-s addr
Subscribe ta tha given address fo' read automatically.
.TP
.B \-d addr
Subscribe ta tha given address fo' write automatically.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
aconnect(1), pmidi(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>.
