.TH ASPELL 1 "2006-12-10" "GNU" "Aspell Abbreviated Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
aspell \- interactizzle spell checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aspell
.I "[options] <command>"
.br
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B aspell
is a utilitizzle program dat connects ta tha Aspell library so dat it can
function as an
.B "ispell -a"
replacement, as a independent spell checker, as a test utilitizzle ta test
out Aspell library features, n' as a utilitizzle fo' managin dictionaries
used by tha library.
.PP
Da Aspell library gotz nuff a intercourse allowin other programs direct
access ta itz functions n' therefore reducin tha complex task of
spell checkin ta simple library calls.  Da default library do not
contain doggtionary word lists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  To add language dictionaries, please
check yo' distro first fo' modified dictionaries, otherwise look here
for base language dictionaries <http://aspell.net>.
.PP
Da followin shiznit raps bout tha commandz n' options used by the
Aspell Utility.  
.PP
This manual page is maintained separately from tha 
straight-up legit documentation so it may be outta date or incomplete.  The
straight-up legit documentation is maintained as a Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  See the
.RB "`\|" aspell "\|'"
entry in
.B info
for mo' complete documentation.
.SH COMMANDS
.I "<command>"
is one of:
.TP
\fBusage\fR, \fB\-?\fR
Send a funky-ass brief Aspell Utilitizzle usage message ta standard output.  This is
a short summary listin mo' common spell\-check commandz n' options.
.TP
.B help
Send a thugged-out detailed Aspell Utilitizzle help message ta standard output.  This is
a complete list showin all commands, options, filtas n' dictionaries.
.TP
\fBversion\fR, \fB\-v\fR
Print version number of Aspell Library n' Utilitizzle ta standard output.
.TP
\fBcheck\fR \fI<file>\fR, \fB\-c\fR \fI<file>\fR
Spell\-check a single file.
.TP
\fBpipe\fR, \fB\-a\fR
Run Aspell in
.I "ispell -a"
compatibilitizzle mode.
.TP
.B list
Produce a list of misspelled lyrics from standard input.
.TP
[\fBdump\fR] \fBconfig\fR
Dump all current configuration options ta standard output.
.TP
.BI "config " <key>
Send tha current value of
.I <key>
to standard output.
.TP
.B soundslike
Output tha soundslike equivalent of each word entered.
.TP
.B munch
Generate possible root lyrics n' affixes from a input list of lyrics.
.TP
\fBexpand\fR [\fB1\-4\fR]
Expandz tha affix flagz of each affix compressed word entered.
.TP
\fBclean\fR [\fBstrict\fR]
Cleans a input word list so dat every last muthafuckin line be a valid word.
.TP
\fBmunch\-list\fR [\fBsimple\fR] [\fBsingle\fR|\fBmulti\fR] [\fBkeep\fR]
Reduce tha size of a word list via affix compression.
.TP
\fBconv\fR \fI<from> <to>\fR [\fI<norm-form>\fR]
Converts
.I <from>
one encoding
.I <to>
another.
.TP
\fBnorm\fR (\fI<norm\-map>\fR|\fI<from> <norm\-map> <to>\fR) [\fI<norm-form>\fR]
Perform Unicode normalization.
.TP
[\fBdump\fR] \fBdicts\fR|\fBfilters\fR|\fBmodes\fR
Lists available dictionaries, filters, or modes.
.TP
\fBdump\fR|\fBcreate\fR|\fBmerge master\fR|\fBpersonal\fR|\fBrepl\fR \fI<wordlist>\fR
dump, create, or merge a master, personal, or replacement word list.
.SH DICTIONARY OPTIONS
Da followin options may be used ta control which dictionaries ta use
and how tha fuck they behave.
.TP
\fB\-\-master=\fR\fI<name>\fR, \fB\-d\fR \fI<name>\fR
Base name of tha doggtionary ta use.  If dis option is specified then
Aspell will either use dis doggtionary or take a thugged-out dirt nap.
.TP
\fB\-\-dict\-dir=\fR\fI<directory>\fR
Location of tha main doggtionary word list.
.TP
\fB\-\-lang=\fR\fI<string>\fR, \fB\-l\fR \fI<string>\fR
Language ta use.  It bigs up tha same ol' dirty format of tha LANG environmental
variable on most systems. Well shiiiit, it consistz of tha two letta ISO 639 language
code n' a optionizzle two letta ISO 3166 ghetto code afta a thugged-out dash or
underscore. Da default value is based on tha value of tha LC_MESSAGES
locale.
.TP
\fB\-\-size=\fR\fI<string>\fR
Da preferred size of tha doggtionary word list.  This consistz of a two
char digit code describin tha size of tha list, wit typical joints of:
10=tiny, 20=really small, 30=small, 40=med-small, 50=med, 60=med-large,
70=large, 80=huge, 90=insane.
.TP
\fB\-\-variety=\fR\fI<string>\fR
Any extra shiznit ta distinguish dis variety of doggtionary from
other dictionaries which may have tha same \fIlang\fR n' \fIsize\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-jargon=\fR\fI<string>\fR
Please use tha \fIvariety\fR option since it replaces \fIjargon\fR as a
betta chizzle.  \fIjargon\fR is ghon be removed up in tha future.
.TP
\fB\-\-word\-list\-path=\fR\fI<list of directories>\fR
Search path fo' word list shiznit files.
.TP
\fB\-\-personal=\fR\fI<file>\fR, \fB\-p\fR \fI<file>\fR
Personal word list file name.
.TP
\fB\-\-repl=\fR\fI<file>\fR
Replacements list file name.
.TP
\fB\-\-extra\-dicts=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Extra dictionaries ta use.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-accents\fR
This option aint yet implemented.
.SH CHECKER OPTIONS
These options control tha behavior of Aspell when checkin documents.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore=\fR\fI<integer>\fR, \fB\-W\fR \fI<integer>\fR
Ignore lyrics <=
.I <integer>
charactas up in length.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-case\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-ignore\-case\fR
Ignore case when checkin lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-repl\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-ignore\-repl\fR
Ignore commandz ta store replacement pairs.
.TP
\fB\-\-save\-repl\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-save\-repl\fR
Save tha replacement word list on save all.
.TP
\fB\-\-sug\-mode=\fR\fI<mode>\fR
Suggestion
.I <mode>
\= \fBultra\fR|\fBfast\fR|\fBnormal\fR|\fBbad-spellers\fR
.SH FILTER OPTIONS
These options modify tha behavior of tha various filters.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-filter=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-filter=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or remove a gangbangin' filter.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-filter\-path=\fR\fI<paths>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-filter\-path=\fR\fI<paths>\fR
Add or remove paths searched fo' filters.
.TP
\fB\-\-mode=\fR\fI<string>\fR, \fB\-e\fR, \fB\-H\fR, \fB\-t\fR, \fB\-n\fR
Sets tha filta mode.  \fIMode\fR is one of none, url, email, html, tex
or nroff.  Da alternatizzle shortcut options is '-e' fo' email, '-H'
for Html/Sgml, '-t' fo' Tex or '-n' fo' Nroff.
.TP
\fB\-\-encoding=\fR\fI<string>\fR
encodin tha document is sposed ta fuckin be in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default dependz on the
current locale.
.TP
\fB\-\-add-email\-quote=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem-email\-quote=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or Remove a list of email quote characters.
.TP
\fB\-\-email\-margin=\fR\fI<integer>\fR
Number of chars dat can step tha fuck up before tha quote char.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-html\-check=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-html\-check=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or remove a list of HTML attributes ta always check.  For example,
look inside alt= tags.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-html\-skip=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-html\-skip=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or remove a list of HTML attributes ta always skip while spell
checking.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-sgml\-check=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-sgml\-check=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or remove a list of SGML attributes ta always check fo' spelling.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-sgml\-skip=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-sgml\-skip=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or remove a list of SGML attributes ta always skip while spell
checking.
.TP
\fB\-\-sgml\-extension=\fR\fI<list>\fR
SGML file extensions.
.TP
\fB\-\-tex\-check\-comments\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-tex\-check\-comments\fR
Peep TeX comments.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-tex\-command=\fR\fI<list>\fR, \fB\-\-rem\-tex\-command=\fR\fI<list>\fR
Add or Remove a list of TeX commands.
.SH RUN\-TOGETHER WORD OPTIONS
These may be used ta control tha behavior of run\-together lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-\-run\-together\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-run\-together\fR, \fB\-C\fR, \fB\-B\fR
Consider run\-together lyrics valid.
.TP
\fB\-\-run\-together\-limit=\fR\fI<integer>\fR
Maximum number of lyrics dat can be strung together.
.TP
\fB\-\-run\-together\-min=\fR\fI<integer>\fR
Minimal length of interior lyrics.
.SH MISC OPTIONS
Miscellaneous options dat don't fall under any other category.
.TP
\fB\-\-conf=\fR\fI<file name>\fR
Main configuration file.  This file overrides Aspellz global defaults.
.TP
\fB\-\-conf\-dir=\fR\fI<directory>\fR
Location of main configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-\-data\-dir=\fR\fI<directory>\fR
Location of language data files.
.TP
\fB\-\-keyboard=\fR\fI<keyboard>\fR
Use dis keyboard layout fo' suggestin possible lyrics.  These spelling
errors happen if a user accidently presses a key next ta tha intended
correct key.
.TP
\fB\-\-local\-data\-dir=\fR\fI<directory>\fR
Alternatizzle location of language data files.  This directory is searched
before data\-dir.
.TP
\fB\-\-home\-dir=\fR\fI<directory>\fR
Directory Location fo' underground wordlist files.
.TP
\fB\-\-per\-conf=\fR\fI<file name>\fR
Personal configuration file.  This file overrides options found up in the
global config file.
.SH ASPELL UTILITY OPTIONS
These options is part of the
.I aspell
Utilitizzle n' work independently of tha library.
.TP
\fB--backup\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-backup\fR, \fB\-b\fR, \fB\-x\fR
Da aspell utilitizzle creates a funky-ass backup file by bustin a cold-ass lil copy n' appending
.I .bak
to file name.  This only applies when tha command is
.I check <file>
and tha backup file is only pimped if any spellin modifications take
place.
.TP
\fB\-\-byte\-offsets\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-byte\-offsets\fR
Use byte offsets instead of characta offsets.
.TP
\fB\-\-guess\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-guess\fR, \fB\-m\fR, \fB\-P\fR
Smoke missin root/affix combinations not up in tha doggtionary in
\fBpipe\fR mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-keymapping=aspell\fR, \fB\-\-keymapping=ispell\fR
Da keymappin ta use, either
.I aspell
for tha default mappin or
.I ispell
to use tha same mappin dat tha Ispell utilitizzle uses.
.TP
\fB\-\-reverse\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-reverse\fR
Reverse tha order of tha suggestions list up in pipe mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-suggest\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-suggest\fR
Suggest possible replacements up in pipe mode. If false, Aspell will simply
report tha misspellin n' make no attempt at suggestions or possible
corrections.
.TP
\fB\-\-time\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-time\fR
Time tha load time n' suggest a time up in pipe mode.
.PP
In addizzle Aspell will try ta make sense outta Ispellz command line
options so dat it can function as a thugged-out drop up in replacement fo' Ispell.  If
Aspell is run without any command line options it will display a funky-ass brief
help screen n' quit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Aspell can accept options via global or underground configuration filez so
that you do not need ta specify dem each time all up in tha command line.  The
default global configuration file is
.I "/etc/aspell.conf"
or another file specified by option \fI\-\-conf\fR n' is checked first.
Da default per user configuration file
.I "~/.aspell.conf"
located up in the
.B "$HOME"
directory (or another file specified by option \fI\-\-per\-conf\fR) is
checked next n' overrides options set up in tha global config file.
Options specified at either tha command line or via a environmental
variable override dem specified by either configuration file.
.PP
Each line of tha configuration file has tha format:
.PP
.RS
\fBoption\fR \fI[value]\fR
.RE
.PP
where 
.B option
is any one of tha standard library options above without tha leading
dashes.  For example tha followin line will set tha default language to
Swiss German:
.PP
.RS
.B lang de_CH
.RE
.PP
There may be any number of spaces between tha option n' tha value,
however it can only be spaces, i.e. there is no '=' between tha option
name n' tha value.  Comments may also be included by precedin them
with a '#' as anythang from a '#' ta a newline is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Blank lines
are also allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da \fI/etc/aspell.conf\fR file be a phat example of
how ta set these options n' tha Aspell Manual has mo' detailed info.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR prezip\-bin (1),
.BR run\-with\-aspell (1),
.BR word\-list\-compress (1)
.PP
Aspell is straight-up documented up in its Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  See the
.RB "`\|" aspell "\|'"
entry in
.B info
for mo' complete documentation.
.SH SUPPORT
Support fo' Aspell can be found on tha Aspell mailin lists.
Instructions fo' joinin tha various mailin lists (and a archive of
them) can be found off tha Aspell home page at <http://aspell.net>.
Bug reports should be submitted via tha Sourceforge Tracker rather
than bein posted ta tha mailin lists.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Brian Nelson <pyro@debian.org> based
on tha Aspell Userz Manual, Copyright \(co 2002 Kevin Atkinson.
Updated Nov 2006 by Jose Da Silva <digital@joescat.com>, n' Dec 2006
by Kevin Atkinston <kevina@gnu.org>.

