.TH AT 1 2009-11-14
.SH NAME
at, batch, atq, atrm \- queue, examine or delete thangs fo' lata execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B at
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -q
.IR queue ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file ]
.RB [ -mMlv ]
.IR timespec ...
.br
.B at
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -q
.IR queue ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file ]
.RB [ -mMkv ]
.RB [ -t
.IR time ]
.br
.B "at -c"
.I thang
.RI [ thang... ]
.br
.B atq
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -q
.IR queue ]
.br
.B at
.RB [ -rd ]
.I thang
.RI [ thang... ]
.br
.B atrm
.RB [ -V ]
.I thang
.RI [ thang... ]
.br
.B batch
.br
.B "at -b"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B at
and
.B batch
read commandz from standard input or a specified file which is to
be executed at a lata time, using
.BR /bin/sh .
.TP 8
.BR at
executes commandz at a specified time.
.TP 8
.BR atq
lists tha userz pendin thangs, unless tha user is tha superuser; up in that
case, everybodyz thangs is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da format of tha output lines (one
for each thang) is: Thang number, date, hour, queue, n' username.
.TP 8
.BR atrm
deletes thangs, identified by they thang number.
.TP 8
.BR batch
executes commandz when system load levels permit; up in other lyrics, when tha load average
drops below 0.8, or tha value specified up in tha invocation of
.BR atd .
.PP
.B At
allows fairly complex time
specifications, extendin tha POSIX.2 standard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It accepts times
of tha form
.B HH:MM
to run a thang at a specific time of day.
(If dat time be already past, tha next dizzle be assumed.)
Yo ass may also specify
.B midnight,
.B noon,
or
.B teatime
(4pm)
and you can gotz a time-of-dizzle suffixed with
.B AM
or
.B PM
for hustlin up in tha mornin or tha evening.
Yo ass can also say what tha fuck dizzle tha thang is ghon be run,
by givin a thugged-out date up in tha form
.B month-name
.B day
with a optional
.B year,
or givin a thugged-out date of tha form
.IR MMDD [ CC ] YY ,
.IR MM / DD /[ CC ] YY ,
.IR DD . MM .[ CC ] YY
or
.RI [ CC ] YY - MM - DD .
Da justification of a thugged-out date
.I must
follow tha justification of tha time of day.
Yo ass can also give times like
.B now
.B \+
.I count
.I time-units,
where tha time-units can be
.B minutes,
.B hours,
.B days,
or
.B weeks
and you can tell
.B at
to run tha thang todizzle by suffixin tha time with
.B todizzle
and ta run tha thang tomorrow by suffixin tha time with
.B tomorrow.
.PP
For example, ta run a thang at 4pm three minutes from now, you would do
.B at 4pm + 3 days,
to run a thang at 10:00am on July 31, you would do
.B at 10am Jul 31
and ta run a thang at 1am tomorrow, you would do
.B at 1am tomorrow.
.PP
Da definizzle of tha time justification can be found in
.IR /usr/share/doc/at-3.1.13/timespec .
.PP
For both
.BR at " n' " batch ,
commandz is read from standard input or tha file specified
with the
.B -f
option n' executed.
Da hustlin directory, tha environment (except fo' tha variables
.BR BASH_VERSINFO ,
.BR DISPLAY ,
.BR EUID ,
.BR GROUPS ,
.BR SHELLOPTS ,
.BR TERM ,
.BR UID ,
and
.BR _ )
and tha umask is retained from tha time of invocation.

As
.BR at
is currently implemented as a setuid program, other environment variablez (e.g.
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH " or " LD_PRELOAD )
are also not exported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This may chizzle up in tha future.  As a workaround,
set these variablez explicitly up in yo' thang.

An
.BR "at " \-
or
.BR "batch "\-
command invoked from a
.B su(1)
shell will retain tha current userid.
Da user is ghon be mailed standard error n' standard output from his
commands, if any.
Mail is ghon be busted rockin tha command
.BR /usr/sbin/sendmail .
If
.B at
is executed from a
.B su(1)
shell, tha balla of tha login shell will receive tha mail.
.PP
Da superuser may use these commandz up in any case.
For other users, permission ta use at is determined by tha files
.I /etc/at.allow
and
.IR /etc/at.deny .
See
.BR at.allow (5)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -V
prints tha version number ta standard error n' exit successfully.
.TP 8
.BI \-q " queue"
uses tha specified queue.
A queue designation consistz of a single letter; valid queue designations
range from
.B a
to
.BR z
and
.B A
to
.BR Z .
The
.B a
queue is tha default for
.B at
and the
.B b
queue for
.BR batch .
Queues wit higher lettas run wit increased sickness.  Da special
queue "=" is reserved fo' thangs which is currently hustlin.

If a thang is submitted ta a queue designated wit a uppercase letter, the
job is treated as if it was submitted ta batch all up in tha time of tha thang.
Once tha time is reached, tha batch processin rulez wit respect ta load
average apply.
If
.BR atq
is given a specific queue, it will only show thangs pendin up in dat queue.
.TP 8
.B \-m
Send mail ta tha user when tha thang has completed even if there was no
output.
.TP 8
.B \-M
Never bust mail ta tha user.
.TP 8
.BI \-f " file"
Readz tha thang from
.I file
rather than standard input.
.TP 8
.BI \-t " time"
run tha thang at
.IR time ,
given up in tha format [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss]
.TP 8
.B \-l
Is a alias for
.B atq.
.TP
.B \-r
Is a alias for
.B atrm.
.TP
.B \-d
Is a alias for
.B atrm.
.TP
.B \-b
is a alias for
.BR batch .
.TP
.B \-v
Shows tha time tha thang is ghon be executed before readin tha thang.

Times displayed is ghon be up in tha format "Thu Feb 20 14:50:00 1997".
.TP
.B
\-c
cats tha thangs listed on tha command line ta standard output.
.SH FILES
.I /var/spool/at
.br
.I /var/spool/at/spool
.br
.I /proc/loadavg
.br
.I /var/run/utmp
.br
.I /etc/at.allow
.br
.I /etc/at.deny
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR at.allow (5),
.BR at.deny (5),
.BR atd (8),
.BR cron (1),
.BR sick (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR umask (2).
.SH BUGS
Da erect operation of
.B batch
for Linux dependz on tha presence of a
.IR proc -
type directory mounted on
.IR /proc .
.PP
If tha file
.I /var/run/utmp
is not available or corrupted, or if tha user aint logged on at the
time
.B at
is invoked, tha mail is busted ta tha userid found
in tha environment variable
.BR LOGNAME .
If dat is undefined or empty, tha current userid be assumed.
.PP
.B At
and
.B batch
as presently implemented is not suitable when playas is competin for
resources.
If dis is tha case fo' yo' crib, you might wanna consider another
batch system, such as
.BR nqs .
.SH AUTHOR
At was mostly freestyled by Thomas Koenig, ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de.
