.TH AUTOTRACE 1 "10 October 2002"
.SH NAME
autotrace \- converts bitmap image data tha fuck into vector graphics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autotrace
.RB [ \-background-color
.IR " hexvalue" ]
.RB [ \-centerline ]
.RB [ \-color-count
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-corner-always-threshold
.IR " angle" ]
.RB [ \-corner-surround
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-corner-threshold
.IR " angle" ]
.RB [ \-despeckle-level
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-despeckle-tightness
.IR " real" ]
.RB [ \-dpi
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-error-threshold
.IR " real" ]
.RB [ \-filter-iterations
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-input-format
.IR " format" ]
.RB [ \-line-reversion-threshold
.IR " real" ]
.RB [ \-line-threshold
.IR " real" ]
.RB [ \-list-input-formats ]
.RB [ \-list-output-formats ]
.RB [ \-log ]
.RB [ \-output-file
.IR " file" ]
.RB [ \-output-format
.IR " format" ]
.RB [ \-preserve-width ]
.RB [ \-remove-adjacent-corners ]
.RB [ \-report-progress ]
.RB [ \-debug-arch ]
.RB [ \-debug-bitmap ]
.RB [ \-tangent-surround
.IR " int" ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-width-factor
.IR " real" ]
.I inputfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I autotrace
program accepts bitmap graphics from tha file
.I inputfile
specified on tha command line,
and as output produces a cold-ass lil collection of splines approximatin tha original gangsta image,
the convertin tha image from bitmap ta vector format.
It behaves up in a manner similar ta tha commercial software known as
*tream*ine or *orel*race.
Da result is busted ta standard output unless the
.B \-output-file
option be active.
.SH OPTIONS
Options can begin wit either
.B \-\-
or
.BR \- .
Any unambiguous abbreviation can be used fo' tha option name.
Option names n' joints can be separated wit either a space or equal sign (=).
.TP
.BI \-background-color " hexvalue"
Employ tha color specified by tha hexadecimal code
.I hexcode
as tha background dat should be ignored, fo' example FFFFFF
(default: no background color).
.TP
.B \-centerline
Trace a objectz centerline
(default: employ its outline).
.TP
.BI \-color-count " int"
Reduce tha bitmap ta rockin tha number of flavas specified by
the unsigned integer
.I int
(range: 1-256).
Da default value of 0 indicates dat no color reduction is ta be done.
Do not work wit grayscale images.
.TP
.BI \-corner-always-threshold " angle"
Consider any angle at a pixel which falls below tha specified
.I angle
(in degrees) as a cold-ass lil corner,
even if it is bordered by other corner pixels (default: 60).
.TP
.BI \-corner-surround " int"
Consider tha specified number of pixels on either side of a
point when determinin if dat point be a cold-ass lil corner (default: 4).
.TP
.BI \-corner-threshold " angle"
Consider any pixel which forms a angle wit its predecessor(s) n' successor(s)
that is smalla than tha specified
.I angle 
(in degrees) as a cold-ass lil corner (default: 100).
.TP
.BI \-despeckle-level " int"
Employ tha specified integer (range: 1-20) as tha value fo' despeckling
(default: no despeckling).
.TP
.BI \-despeckle-tightnizz " real"
Employ tha specified real number (range: 0.0-8.0) as tha value fo' despeckle
tightnizz (default: 2.0).
.TP
.BI \-dpi " int"
Da dots per inch value up in tha input image, affects scaling
of mif output image.
.TP 
.BI \-error-threshold " real"
Subdivide fitted curves dat is offset by a fuckin shitload of pixels exceedin the
specified real number (default: 2.0).
.TP
.BI \-filter-iterations " int"
Smooth tha curve tha specified number of times prior ta fittin (default: 4).
.TP
.B \-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.BI \-input-format " format"
Employ tha specified input format,
where
.I format
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.BR BMP " (Windows bitmap format)"
.TP
.BR PBM " (Portable BitMap format)"
.TP
.BR PGM " (Portable Graymap format)"
.TP
.BR PNM " (Portable Anymap format)"
.TP
.BR PPM " (Portable Pixmap format)"
.TP
.BR TGA " (Targa format)"
.RE
.IP
Da supported input formats is determined when tha application is built
and depend upon tha availabilitizzle of other software (the
.B \-list-input-formats
command can be used ta determine which is supported locally).
.TP
.BI \-line-reversion-threshold " real"
When a spline is closer ta a straight line than tha specified real number
weighted by tha square of tha curve length (default: .01),
maintain it as a straight line,
even if it aint nuthin but a list wit curves.
.TP
.BI \-line-threshold " real"
If a spline do not deviate from tha straight line defined by its endpoints
by mo' than tha specified number of pixels,
then treat it as a straight line (default: 1).
.TP
.B \-list-input-formats
Send a list of tha supported input formats ta stderr.
.TP
.B \-list-output-formats
Send a list of tha supported output formats ta stderr.
.TP
.B \-log
Send a thugged-out detailed progress report ta tha file
.IR inputfile .log.
.TP
.BI \-output-file " file"
Send tha output ta tha specified file.
.TP
.BI \-output-format " format"
Employ tha specified output format,
where
.I format
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.BR ai "(Adobe Illustrator)"
.TP
.BR cgm "(Computa Graphics Metafile)"
.TP
.BR dr2d "(IFF DR2D format, used almost exclusively on Amiga platforms)"
.TP
.BR dxf "(AutoCAD Drawin Exchange format)"
.TP
.BR emf "(Windows Enhanced Metafile format)"
.TP
.BR epd "(Encapsulated Vectorial Graphics format)"
.TP
.BR eps "(Encapsulated \*(Ps)"
.TP
.BR er "(Elastic Realitizzle Shape format)"
.TP
.BR fig "(\fIxfig\fP (1) 3.2)"
.TP
.BR mif "(FrameMaker MIF format)"
.TP
.BR pdf "(Portable Data Format)"
.TP
.BR p2e "(\fIpstoedit\fP (1) frontend)"
.TP
.BR sk "(Sketch)"
.TP
.BR svg "(Scalable Vector Graphics)"
.TP
.BR swf "(Shockwave Flash 3)"
.RE
.IP
Da supported output formats is determined when tha application is built
and depend upon tha availabilitizzle of other software (the
.B \-list-output-formats
command can be used ta determine which is supported locally).
.TP
.B \-preserve-width
Whether ta preserve line width prior ta thinning.
.TP
.B \-remove-adjacent-corners
Remove adjacent corners.
.TP
.B \-report-progress
Report tracin status up in real time.
.TP
.B \-debug-arch
Print tha type of cpu.
.TP
.B \-debug-bitmap
Dump loaded bitmap ta <input_name>.bitmap.
.TP
.BI \-tangent-surround " int"
Consider tha specified number of points ta either side of a point 
when computin tha tangent at dat point (default: 3).
.TP
.B \-version
Print tha version number of tha program n' exit.
.TP
.BI \-width-factor " real"
Weight factor fo' fittin tha linewidth.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
/depot/bin/autotrace
binary
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gimp(1),
ImageMagick(1),
pbm(1),
pgm(1),
pnm(1),
ps2pdf(1),
pstoedit(1),
pstoepd(1),
sketch(1),
xfig(1),
xv(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Weber (martweb@gmx.net)
.LP
Manual page by R. P. C. Rodgers,
Lista Hill Nationizzle Centa fo' Biomedical Communications,
U.S. Nationizzle Library of Medicine
(rodgers@nlm.nih.gov).
.\" end of playa page
