.TH avahi-browse 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-browse \- Browse fo' mDNS/DNS-SD skillz rockin tha Avahi daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-browse [\fIoptions\fB] \fIservice-type\fB

avahi-browse [\fIoptions\fB] --all\fB

avahi-browse [\fIoptions\fB] --browse-domains\fB

avahi-browse [\fIoptions\fB] --dump-db\fB

avahi-browse-domains [\fIoptions\fB]
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Browse fo' mDNS/DNS-SD network skillz n' browsin domains rockin tha Avahi daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
Specify a DNS-SD steez type (e.g. _http._tcp) ta browse fo' on tha command line, or \fB-a\f1 ta browse fo' all available steez types. Items dat step tha fuck up on tha network is prefixed wit "+", shit dat disappear is prefixed wit "-". If \fB--resolve\f1 is passed shit dat is resolved is prefixed wit "=".
.TP
\fB-a | --all\f1
Browse fo' all steez types registered on tha LAN, not just tha one specified on tha command line.
.TP
\fB-D | --browse-domains\f1
Browse fo' browsin domains instead fo' skillz. avahi-browse-domains is equivalent ta avahi-browse --browse-domains
.TP
\fB-d | --domain=\f1 \fIDOMAIN\f1
Browse up in tha specified domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted avahi-browse will browse up in tha default browsin domain (usually .local)
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB-t | --terminate\f1
Terminizzle afta dumpin a mo' or less complete list.
.TP
\fB-c | --cache\f1
Terminizzle afta dumpin all entries available up in tha cache.
.TP
\fB-l | --ignore-local\f1
Ignore local skillz, show only remote skillz.
.TP
\fB-r | --resolve\f1
Automatically resolve skillz found.
.TP
\fB-f | --no-fail\f1
Don't fail if tha daemon aint found hustlin. Instead, wait until it appears. If it disconnects, try ta reconnect.
.TP
\fB-p | --parsable\f1
Make output easily parsable fo' usage up in scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If enabled fieldz is separated by semicolons (;), steez names is escaped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta combine dis wit \fB--no-db-lookup\f1.
.TP
\fB-k | --no-db-lookup\f1
Don't lookup skillz types up in steez type database.
.TP
\fB-b | --dump-db\f1
Dump tha steez type database (may be combined wit -k)
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB-V | --version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-publish(1)\f1, \fBavahi-resolve(1)\f1, \fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
