.TH avahi-resolve 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-resolve \- Resolve one or mo' mDNS/DNS host name(s) ta IP address(es) (and vice versa) rockin tha Avahi daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-resolve --name \fIhost-name ...\fB

avahi-resolve-host-name \fIhost-name ...\fB

avahi-resolve --address \fIaddress ...\fB

avahi-resolve-address \fIaddress ...\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resolve one or mo' mDNS/DNS host name(s) ta IP address(es) (and vice versa) rockin tha Avahi daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
When passin -n, specify one or mo' straight-up qualified mDNS/DNS host name(s) (e.g. "foo.local") ta resolve tha fuck into IP addresses on tha command line. When passin -a, specify one or mo' IP address ta resolve tha fuck into host names.

avahi-resolve-host-name is equivalent ta avahi-resolve --name.

avahi-resolve-address is equivalent ta avahi-resolve --address.
.TP
\fB-n | --name\f1
Translate one or mo' straight-up qualified host names tha fuck into addresses.
.TP
\fB-a | --address\f1
Translate one or mo' addresses tha fuck into straight-up qualified host names.
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB-6\f1
When resolvin a host name, look fo' IPv6 addresses exclusively.
.TP
\fB-4\f1
When resolvin a host name, look fo' IPv4 addresses exclusively.
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB-V | --version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-publish-address(1)\f1, \fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
