.TH avahi-publish-service 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-publish-service \- Regista a mDNS/DNS-SD steez or host name or address mappin rockin tha Avahi daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-publish -s [\fIoptions\fB] \fIname\fB \fIservice-type\fB \fIport\fB [\fITXT data\fB ...]

avahi-publish-service [\fIoptions\fB] \fIname\fB \fIservice-type\fB \fIport\fB [\fITXT data\fB ...]

avahi-publish -a [\fIoptions\fB] \fIhost name\fB \fIaddress\fB

avahi-publish-address [\fIoptions\fB] \fIhost name\fB \fIaddress\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Regista a mDNS/DNS-SD steez or host name/address mappin rockin tha Avahi daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
When callin up in steez registration mode, specify a DNS-SD steez name (e.g. "Lennartz Files"), a steez type (e.g. _http._tcp) n' a IP port number fo' tha service, optionally followed by any number of TXT record strings on tha command line. When callin up in address/host name registration mode specify a gangbangin' straight-up qualified host name n' a address (IPv4 or IPv6).
.TP
\fB-s | --service\f1
Regista a service. avahi-publish-service is equivalent ta avahi-publish -s.
.TP
\fB-a | --address\f1
Regista a address/host name mapping. avahi-publish-address is equivalent ta avahi-publish -a.
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB-H | --host=\f1 \fIHOSTNAME\f1
Specify a host name fo' dis service, up in case it don't reside on tha local host. This host name need ta be straight-up qualified n' resolvable rockin mDNS or unicast DNS.
.TP
\fB-d | --domain=\f1 \fIDOMAIN\f1
Publish tha steez up in tha specified domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted tha Avahi daemon will publish it up in its default domain (usually .local).
.TP
\fB--subtype=\f1 \fISUBTYPE\f1
Regista tha steez wit a additionizzle subtype up in addizzle ta tha main type. DNS-SD subtypes have tha form _anon._sub._ftp._tcp, where _anon is tha identifier of tha subtype n' _ftp._tcp is tha main type. Yo ass may pass dis option multiple times ta regista tha steez wit multiple subtypes.
.TP
\fB-f | --no-fail\f1
Don't fail if tha daemon aint found hustlin. Instead, wait until it appears. If it disconnects, try ta reconnect.
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help
.TP
\fB-V | --version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-resolve(1)\f1, \fBavahi-browse(1)\f1, \fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
