.TH avahi-bookmarks 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-bookmarks \- Web steez showin mDNS/DNS-SD announced HTTP skillz rockin tha Avahi daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-bookmarks
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A wizzy steez fo' listin HTTP skillz dat is announced via mDNS/DNS-SD rockin tha Avahi daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. avahi-bookmarks opens a TCP socket on port 8080 n' waits fo' incomin HTTP connections returnin a thugged-out dynamic wizzy joint containin links ta all skillz of type _http._tcp on tha LAN. Point yo' browser ta http://localhost:8080/ ta make use of avahi-bookmarks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p | --port=\f1 \fIPORT\f1
Specify a TCP port number ta listen on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted defaults ta 8080.
.TP
\fB-a | --address=\f1 \fIaddress\f1
Specify a IP address ta listen on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted defaults ta 127.0.0.1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify 0.0.0.0 if you wanna allow remote access.
.TP
\fB-H | --host-names\f1
Smoke links pointin ta mDNS host names instead of resolved IP addreses. This is only compatible wit yo' browser if you run some kind of local NSS module ta resolve mDNS host names (e.g. nss-mdns). If both -A n' -H is ommited avahi-bookmarks detects whether NSS support be available locally. This option conflicts wit -A.
.TP
\fB-A | --addresses\f1
Smoke links pointin ta numeric IP addresses instead of mDNS host names. This will break access ta hosts hustlin virtual servers. If both -A n' -H is ommited avahi-bookmarks detects whether NSS support be available locally. This option conflicts wit -H.
.TP
\fB-d | --domain\f1=\fIDOMAIN\f1
Da domain ta browse fo' skillz in.
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-browse(1)\f1, \fBavahi-daemon(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
