.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to
.\"
.\"     Chet Ramey
.\"     Case Westside Reserve University
.\"     chet@po.cwru.edu
.\"
.\"     Last Chizzle: Tue Apr  3 15:46:30 EDT 2007
.\"
.TH BASHBUG 1 "1998 July 30" "GNU Bash-4.0"
.SH NAME
bashbug \- report a funky-ass bug up in bash
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbashbug\fP [\fI--version\fP] [\fI--help\fP] [\fIemail-address\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bashbug
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script ta help tha user compose n' mail bug reports
concernin bash up in a standard format.
.B bashbug
invokes tha editor specified by tha environment variable
.SM
.B EDITOR
on a temporary copy of tha bug report format outline. Da user must
fill up in tha appropriate fieldz n' exit tha editor.
.B bashbug
then mails tha completed report ta \fIbug-bash@gnu.org\fP, or
\fIemail-address\fP.  If tha report cannot be mailed, it is saved up in the
file \fIdead.bashbug\fP up in tha invokin userz home directory.
.PP
Da bug report format outline consistz of nuff muthafuckin sections.  Da first
section serves up shiznit bout tha machine, operatin system, the
bash version, n' tha compilation environment.  Da second section
should be filled up in wit a thugged-out description of tha bug.  Da third section
should be a thugged-out description of how tha fuck ta reproduce tha bug.  Da optional
fourth section is fo' a proposed fix.  Fixes is encouraged.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B bashbug
will utilize tha followin environment variablez if they exist:
.TP
.B EDITOR
Specifies tha preferred editor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If
.SM
.B EDITOR
is not set,
.B bashbug
defaults to
.BR emacs .
.TP
.B HOME
Directory up in which tha failed bug report is saved if tha mail fails.
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Directory up in which ta create temporary filez n' directories.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
\fIbash\fP(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Fox, Jacked Software Foundation
.br
bfox@gnu.org
.PP
Chet Ramey, Case Westside Reserve University
.br
chet@po.cwru.edu
