.TH BCCMD 1 "Jun 20 2006" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
bccmd \- Utilitizzle fo' tha CSR BCCMD intercourse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bccmd
.br
.B bccmd [-t <transport>] [-d <device>] <command> [<args>]
.br
.B bccmd [-h --help]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
bccmd
issues BlueCore commandz to
.B
Cambridge Silicon Radio
devices. If run without tha <command> argument, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help page is ghon be displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -t\ <transport>
Specify tha communication transport. Valid options are:
.RS
.TP
.BI HCI
Local thang wit Host Controlla Interface (default).
.TP
.BI STD
Direct STD connection.
.TP
.BI BCSP
Blue Core Serial Protocol.
.TP
.BI H4
H4 serial protocol.
.TP
.BI 3WIRE
3WIRE protocol (not implemented).
.SH
.TP
.BI -d\ <dev>
Specify a particular thang ta operate on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If not specified, default is tha straight-up original gangsta available HCI device
or /dev/ttyS0 fo' serial transports.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI builddef
Git build definitions
.TP
.BI keylen\ <handle>
Git current crypt key length
.TP
.BI clock
Git local Bluetooth clock
.TP
.BI rand
Git random number
.TP
.BI chiprev
Git chip revision
.TP
.BI buildname
Git tha full build name
.TP
.BI panicarg
Git panic code argument
.TP
.BI faultarg
Git fault code argument
.TP
.BI coldreset
Perform cold reset
.TP
.BI warmreset
Perform warm reset
.TP
.BI disabletx
Disable TX on tha device
.TP
.BI enabletx
Enable TX on tha device
.TP
.BI singlechan\ <channel>
Lock radio on specific channel
.TP
.BI hoppingon
Revert ta channel hopping
.TP
.BI rttxdata1\ <decimal\ freq\ MHz>\ <level>
TXData1 radio test
.TP
.BI radiotest\ <decimal\ freq\ MHz>\ <level>\ <id>
Run radio tests, tests 4, 6 n' 7 is transmit tests
.TP
.BI memtypes
Git memory types
.TP
.BI psget\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]\ <key>
Git value fo' PS key.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI psset\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]\ <key>\ <value>
Set value fo' PS key.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI psclr\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]\ <key>
Clear value fo' PS key.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI pslist\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]
List all PS keys.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI psread\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]
Read all PS keys.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI psload\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]\ <file>
Load all PS keys from PSR file.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.TP
.BI pscheck\ [-r]\ [-s\ <stores>]\ <file>
Peep syntax of PSR file.
-r sendz a warm reset afterwards
.SH KEYS
bdaddr ghetto devclass keymin keymax features commandz version
remver hciextn mapsco baudrate hostintf anafreq anaftrim usbvid
usbpid dfupid bootmode
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>,
man page by Adam Laurie <adam@algroup.co.uk>
.PP
