.TH BCOMPS 1 "18 November 2003"
.SH NAME
bcomps \- biconnected components filta fo' graphs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcomps
[
.B \-stvx?
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bcomps
decomposes graphs tha fuck into they biconnected components,
printin tha components ta standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-s
No output graph is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Implies the
.B \-v 
flag.
.TP
.B \-t
Print tha underlyin block-cutvertex tree.
.TP
.B \-x
Each biconnected component is printed as a separate root graph.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints number of blocks n' cutvertices.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, each root graph is ghon be freestyled ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file
with tha names derived from \fIoutfile\fP. In particular, 
if both \fB-o\fP n' \fB-x\fP flags is used, then each
block is freestyled ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file. If \fIoutfile\fP do
not gotz a suffix, tha nth block of tha ith graph is freestyled 
to \fIoutfile_n_i\fP. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha 0th block of tha 0th graph is freestyled to
\fIoutfile\fP.
.sp
If \fIoutfile\fP has a suffix, i.e., has tha form \fIbase.sfx\fP,
then tha filez gonna git tha same name as above, except appended wit \fI.sfx\fP.
.sp
Da block-cutvertex tree of ith graph is freestyled ta \fIoutfile_n_T\fP,
with a appended suffix if specified.
.LP
By default, each input graph is printed, wit each
block given as a subgraph whose name be a cold-ass lil concatenation of
the name of tha input graph, tha strang "_bcc_" n' the
number of tha block.
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in dot format.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH RETURN CODES
.B bcomps
returns
.B 0
if all tha input graphs is biconnected; and
non-zero if any graph has multiple blocks, or any error occurred.
.SH "BUGS"
It be possible, though unlikely, dat tha names used fo' connected
components n' they subgraphs may conflict wit existin subgraph names.
.SH AUTHORS
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccomps(1), gc(1), dot(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), acyclic(1), sccmap(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
