.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH BDFTOPCF 1 "bdftopcf 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
bdftopcf \- convert X font from Bitmap Distribution Format ta Portable
Compiled Format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bdftopcf
[
.BI \-p n
] [
.BI \-u n
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-M
] [
.B \-L
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-o
.I outputfile
] fontfile.bdf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bdftopcf
is a gangbangin' font compila fo' tha X server n' font server.
Fonts up in Portable Compiled Format can be
read by any architecture, although tha file is structured ta allow one
particular architecture ta read dem directly without reformatting.  This
allows fast readin on tha appropriate machine yo, but tha filez is still
portable (but read mo' slowly) on other machines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-p\fIn\fP
Sets tha font glyph padding.  Each glyph up in tha font gonna git each scanline
padded up in ta a multiple of \fIn\fP bytes, where \fIn\fP is 1, 2, 4 or 8.
.TP 8
.B \-u\fIn\fP
Sets tha font scanline unit.  When tha font bit order is different from the
font byte order, tha scanline unit \fIn\fP raps bout what tha fuck unit of data (in
bytes) is ta be swapped; tha unit \fIi\fP can be 1, 2 or 4 bytes.
.TP 8
.B \-m
Sets tha font bit order ta MSB (most dope bit) first.  Bits fo' each
glyph is ghon be placed up in dis order; i.e., tha left most bit on tha screen
will be up in tha highest valued bit up in each unit.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Sets tha font bit order ta LSB (least dope bit) first.  Da left most
bit on tha screen is ghon be up in tha lowest valued bit up in each unit.
.TP 8
.B \-M
Sets tha font byte order ta MSB first.  All multi-byte data up in tha file
(metrics, bitmaps n' every last muthafuckin thang else) is ghon be freestyled most dope byte
first.
.TP 8
.B \-L
Sets tha font byte order ta LSB first.  All multi-byte data up in tha file
(metrics, bitmaps n' every last muthafuckin thang else) is ghon be freestyled least significant
byte first.
.TP 8
.B \-t
When dis option is specified,
.I bdftopcf
will convert fonts tha fuck into "terminal" fonts when possible.  A terminal font has
each glyph image padded ta tha same size; tha X server can probably render
these typez of fonts mo' doggystyle.
.TP 8
.B \-i
This option inhibits tha aiiight computation of ink metrics.  When a gangbangin' font has
glyph images which do not fill tha bitmap image (i.e., tha "on" pixels don't
extend ta tha edgez of tha metrics)
.I bdftopcf
computes tha actual ink metrics n' places dem up in tha .pcf file; tha \-t
option inhibits dis behaviour.
.TP 8
.BI "\-o " output-file-name
By default
.I bdftopcf
writes tha pcf file ta standard output; dis option gives tha name of a gangbangin' file
to be used instead.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
