.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH BIOSDEVNAME 1 "Nov 28, 2010"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
biosdevname \- give BIOS-given name of a thugged-out device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B biosdevname
.RI [options]\ [args]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
biosdevname takes a kernel thang name as an
argument, n' returns tha BIOS-given name it "should" be.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interface
Treat [args] as ethernet devs
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable debugging
.TP
.B \-\-policy \fI[physical|all_ethN]
.TP
.B \-\-prefix \fI[string]
strin use fo' embedded NICs up in tha physical policy (default=em)
.TP
.B \-\-nopirq
Do not use $PIR table fo' mappin PCI thang ta slot. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some BIOS have
incorrect joints.
.TP
.B \-\-smbios \fI[x.y]
Require minimum SMBIOS version x.y
.SH POLICIES
.br
The
.B physical
policy is tha current default.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat when invokin biosdevname in
udev rules, one should always specify tha policy you want, as the
default has chizzled over time.
.br
The
.B physical
policy uses tha followin scheme:
.TP
em<port>[_<virtual instance>]
for embedded NICs
.TP
p<slot>p<port>[_<virtual instance>]
for cardz up in PCI slots
.br
.TP
The
.B all_ethN
policy cook up a funky-ass dopest guess at what tha fuck tha thang order should be, with
embedded devices first, PCI cardz up in ascendin slot order, n' ports
in ascendin PCI bus/device/function order breadth-first.  However,
this policy
.I do not work
if yo' PCI devices is hot-plugged or hot-pluggable, includin the
virtual functions on a SR-IOV device.  In a hot-plug scenario, each separate
udev instizzle is ghon be invoked up in parallel, while tha thang tree is
still bein populated wit freshly smoked up devices.  Each udev instizzle will peep a
different PCI tree, n' thus cannot provide consistent enumeration.
Use of dis policy should be limited ta only scenarios where all PCI
devices is present at boot (cold-plug).

.SH EXIT CODES
Returns 0 on success, wit BIOS-suggested name printed ta stdout.
.br
Returns 1 on provided thang name lookup failure.
.br
Returns 2 if system BIOS do not provide namin shiznit.
biosdevname requires system BIOS ta provide namin shiznit, either
via SMBIOS or sysfs files.
.br
Returns 3 if not run as root but requires root privileges.
.br
Returns 4 if hustlin up in a virtual machine.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Oss/libnetdevname
.br
http://linux.dell.com/files/biosdevname/
.br
git://linux.dell.com/biosdevname.git

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
.br
The
.B dmidecode
package gotz nuff two tools useful fo' debuggin BIOS features that
biosdevname uses, specifically
.B dmidecode
to read tha SMBIOS Type 9 n' Type 41 tables, and
.B biosdecode
to read tha PCI IRQ Routin Table.  Please include tha output of each
of these programs up in any bug reports.
.SH AUTHOR
biosdevname was freestyled by  Mack Domsch <Matt_Domsch@dell.com>
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Rudy Gevaert <Rudy.Gevaert@UGent.be>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
