.TH BLUETOOTH-SENDTO 1 "May 6, 2012" "gnome-bluetooth" "Linux Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
bluetooth-sendto - GTK application fo' transferrin filez over Bluetooth
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bluetooth-sendto
[\--device=XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX [\--name=NAME]] [file...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I bluetooth-sendto
will display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog fo' transferrin filez over Bluetooth.
.I bluetooth-sendto
is part of gnome-bluetooth, peep also http://live.gnome.org/GnomeBluetooth
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\--device
Define tha thang address ta bust tha file(s) to.
If omitted a cold-ass lil chizzla is ghon be displayed.
.TP
\--name
Define tha thang name ta bust tha file(s) to.
If omitted it is ghon be auto detected.
.TP
file
Da file(s) ta bust ta tha device.
If omitted a cold-ass lil chizzla is ghon be displayed.
.SH AUTHOR
Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
.SH LICENSE
bluetooth-sendto is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by tha Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option)
any lata version.

This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License for
more details.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
with dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
