.TH BRASERO 1 "January 11, 2009" "GNOME"
.SH NAME
brasero \- Simple n' easy as fuck  ta use CD/DVD burnin application fo' tha Gnome Desktop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brasero
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ uri ]
.RI [ uri ]
.RI ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B brasero
command.
.PP
\fBBrasero\fP be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disc burnin application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is designed ta be simple n' easy as fuck  ta use.
It allows ta create data CD/DVD, audio CD, ta copy CD/DVD n' ta burn images. Well shiiiit, it has some sicks features, like fuckin a song, image n' vizzle peepshower n' shit. Well shiiiit, it can also search fo' filez (thanks ta beagle) n' display a playlist n' its contents.
.SH OPTIONS
This program bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long options startin wit two dashes (`-') fo' realz. A summary of options is included below.
For a cold-ass lil complete description, peep tha Info files.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-project=PROJECT
Open tha specified project.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-audio
Open a empty audio project.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-data
Open a empty data project.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-copy=PATH
Copy a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disc.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-cover=PATH
Cover ta use.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-video
Open a vizzle project addin tha URIs given on tha command line.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-image=PATH
Uri of a image file or a cold-ass lil cue file ta be burnt (autodetected).
.TP
.B \-e,	\-\-empty
Force brasero ta display tha project selection page.
.TP
.B \-b,	\-\-blank
Open tha blank disc dialog.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-check
Open tha check disc dialog.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-ncb
Open a thugged-out data project wit tha contentz of burn:/// URI.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-burn-and-remove-project=PATH
Burn tha specified project n' REMOVE dat shit.
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
X display ta use.
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.SH AUTHOR
Brasero manual page was freestyled by Philippe Rouquier
<philippero@libertysurf.fr> n' Luis Medinas <lmedinas@gmail.com>.
