.TH bssh/bvnc/bshell 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
bssh/bvnc/bshell \- Browse fo' SSH/VNC servers on tha local network
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbssh

bvnc

bshell
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
bssh/bvnc/bshell browses fo' SSH/VNC servers on tha local network, shows dem up in a GUI fo' tha user ta select one n' finally calls ssh/vncviewer afta a selection was made.

If tha binary is called as bssh only ssh servers is ghon be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha binary is called as bvnc only VNC servers is ghon be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha binary is called as bshell both VNC n' SSH servers is shown.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-s | --ssh\f1
Browse fo' SSH servers (and only SSH servers) regardless under which name tha binary is called.
.TP
\fB-v | --vnc\f1
Browse fo' VNC servers (and only VNC servers) regardless under which name tha binary is called.
.TP
\fB-S | --shell\f1
Browse fo' both VNC n' SSH servers regardless under which name tha binary is called.
.TP
\fB-d | --domain=\f1 \fIDOMAIN\f1
Browse up in tha specified domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted bssh/bvnc/bshell will browse up in tha default browsin domain (usually .local)
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-browse(1)\f1, \fBssh(1)\f1, \fBvncviewer(1)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
