.TH byobu-ulevel 1 "16 Dec 2013" byobu "byobu"
.SH NAME
\fBbyobu\-ulevel \fP \- helper script fo' notification level indicators

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbyobu\-ulevel\fP be a helper script dat can be used ta create history graphs wit UTF8 characters

.SH USAGE
\fBbyobu\-ulevel \fP [options] -c <current_num>

\fBbyobu\-ulevel \fP [options] <current_num>

\fBbyobu\-ulevel \fP <current_num>

.SH OPTIONS
 -a          : Accessibilitizzle mode: only output ASCII.  (Also enabled if variable '$a11y_variable' set).
 -b          : Display current value as space if zero, rather than lowest 'value' of theme.
 -c <num>    : Current value of yo' indicator.
 -d          : Enable debug output.
 -e <int>    : Number of decimal places ta use fo' accessibilitizzle mode (default=$default_decimal_places).
 -h          : Show dis help.
 -i          : Invert colour scheme (ratin themes only).
 -l          : List available themes. If '-t' also specified, show all joints fo' specified theme.
 -m <num>    : Minimum value (default=$min_default).
 -n          : Supress output of newline character.
 -p          : Permissive mode - if current value outta bounds, set it ta tha nearest bound (min or max).
 -q          : Suppress lyrics (requires '-t').
 -r          : Reverse 'direction' of display (ratin theme only).
 -t <theme>  : Name of theme (default=$theme_default).
 -u <chars>  : Specify a user theme (2 or mo' joints).
 -w <int>    : Width of ratin theme (default=$width_default).
 -x <num>    : Maximum value (default=$max_default).

.SH EXAMPLES
Display characta representin 27% rockin default theme.
  byobu-ulevel 27

As above.
  byobu-ulevel -c 27

Example showin floating-point n' wack joints.
  byobu-ulevel -c 1.100001 -m -5.00234 -x 2.71828 -t dice_6

Use accessibilitizzle mode ta display a cementage value (rounded ta nearest cementage)
  byobu-ulevel -m -22.613 -x 5.00212 -c 0.10203 -a -e 0

Display value rockin a "ratin theme" (displayed left-to-right).
  byobu-ulevel -c 83 -t stars_2

Display right-to-left inverted "ratin theme".
  byobu-ulevel -c 60 -t diamonds_2 -ri

Display all glyphs up in 'solid_numbers_a_10' theme.
  byobu-ulevel -l -t solid_numbers_a_10

Display a user-specified ratin theme 10 glyphs wide.
  byobu-ulevel -c 666.321 -m -273.15 -x 1370 -u "Â. â˜¢" -w 10

A multi-element user theme (this prints 'e').
  byobu-ulevel -c 50 -u "a b c d e f g h i j"

.SH NOTES
Argumentz of type "<int>" denote a integer value, whereas argumentz of type "<num>" denotes either a integer or a gangbangin' floating-point number.

Da final '_<number>' up in a theme name denotes tha number of glyphs up in dat shit.

"Ratin themes" is dem wit only 2 joints.

Da <chars> argument ta '-u' must contain space-delimited characters.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBbyobu\fP(1)

.TP
\fIhttp://byobu.co\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This utilitizzle was freestyled by Jizzy Hunt <james.hunt@canonical.com>, n' dis manpage was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@byobu.co> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document n' tha utilitizzle under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

Da complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in \fI/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL\fP on Debian/Ubuntu systems, or up in \fI/usr/share/doc/fedora-release-*/GPL\fP on Fedora systems, or on tha wizzy at \fIhttp://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt\fP.
