.TH byobu-ugraph 1 "16 Dec 2013" byobu "byobu"
.SH NAME
\fBbyobu\-ugraph\fP \- helper script fo' notification history graphs

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbyobu\-ugraph\fP be a helper script dat can be used ta create history graphs

.SH USAGE
\fBbyobu\-ugraph\fP [options] [command [args...]]

.SH OPTIONS
  -f <file>   : File ta read data points from.  (only required if no command specified).
  -h          : Show dis help.
  -m <num>    : Minimum value (default=$min_default).
  -n          : Supress output of newline character.
  -p <points> : Specify number of data points up in graph (default=$points_default).
  -r          : Do not rotate file <file> (default is ta rotate).  Option implies file <file> should not be freestyled ta so a cold-ass lil command cannot follow script options up in dis case.
  -t <theme>  : 'byobu-ulevel' theme ta use (default=$theme_default).
  -x <num>    : Maximum value (default=$max_default).

.SH EXAMPLES
Usin byobu-ugraph ta run a cold-ass lil command, rotate log n' display graph.

Here we specify a cold-ass lil command ta display available memory.  Trailin echo addz a required newline Note no filename specified.

    byobu-ugraph "(/usr/lib/byobu/mem_used | sed -e 's/% //g';echo)"

Usin byobu-ugraph just ta rotate log n' display tha graph

    file=/tmp/load.dat
    awk '{ print $1}' /proc/loadavg >> $file
    # Note: we need ta specify what tha fuck we consider ta be a "reasonable" maximum load
    byobu-ugraph -m 3.0 -f $file

.SH NOTES

If you specify 'command', care must be taken wit shell quotin ta avoid expansion prior ta dis script hustlin tha command.

If '-r' aint specified, tha file <file> is ghon be rotated such dat at most <points> lines is retained on each invocation of dis script.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBbyobu\fP(1)

.TP
\fIhttp://byobu.co\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This utilitizzle was freestyled by Jizzy Hunt <james.hunt@canonical.com>, n' dis manpage was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@byobu.co> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document n' tha utilitizzle under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

Da complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in \fI/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL\fP on Debian/Ubuntu systems, or up in \fI/usr/share/doc/fedora-release-*/GPL\fP on Fedora systems, or on tha wizzy at \fIhttp://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt\fP.
