.TH byobu\-select\-session 1 "12 Jan 2010" byobu "byobu"
.SH NAME
byobu\-select\-session \- select n' connect ta a funky-ass byobu session

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbyobu\-select\-session\fP be a application dat lists tha available screen sessions hustlin on tha system, n' prompts tha user ta select one.  Da user also has tha option ta create a freshly smoked up Byobu session, or launch tha default shell without Byobu.

If a invalid selection is chosen 3 times up in a row, tha user is connected ta tha youngest session.

By default, if only one session exists, tha user is connected ta dat session, n' if no sessions exist, a freshly smoked up session is pimped -- such dat there is no interactizzle prompt up in tha aiiight behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat some playas may chizzle ta always be prompted, by touchin tha file $BYOBU_CONFIG_DIR/.always-select.

Note dat BYOBU_CONFIG_DIR=$HOME/.byobu.

Named sessions dat begin wit a "." is "hidden" from \fBbyobu\-select\-session\fP(1).  This is useful, fo' instance, if you do not want a session ta be automatically selected at login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Example:
  byobu \-S .hidden

.SH "FILES"
\fI$BYOBU_CONFIG_DIR/.always-select\fP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PD 0
.TP
\fBbyobu\fP(1), \fBscreen\fP(1)

.TP
\fIhttp://byobu.co\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage n' tha utilitizzle was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@byobu.co> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document n' tha utilitizzle under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

Da complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in \fI/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL\fP on Debian/Ubuntu systems, or up in \fI/usr/share/doc/fedora-release-*/GPL\fP on Fedora systems, or on tha wizzy at \fIhttp://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt\fP.
