
.\"for Debian GNU/Linux
.TH BZMORE 1
.SH NAME
bzmore, bzless \- file perusal filta fo' crt viewin of bzip2 compressed text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bzmore
[ name ...  ]
.br
.B bzless
[ name ...  ]
.SH NOTE
In tha followin description,
.I bzless
and
.I less
can be used interchangeably with
.I bzmore
and
.I more.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I  Bzmore
is a gangbangin' filta which allows examination of compressed or plain text files
one screenful at a time on a soft-copy terminal.
.I bzmore
works on filez compressed with
.I bzip2
and also on uncompressed files.
If a gangbangin' file do not exist,
.I bzmore
looks fo' a gangbangin' file of tha same name wit tha addizzle of a .bz2 suffix.
.PP
.I Bzmore
normally pauses afta each screenful, printin --Mo'--
at tha bottom of tha screen.
If tha user then types a cold-ass lil carriage return, one mo' line is displayed.
If tha user hits a space,
another screenful is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Other possibilitizzles is enumerated later.
.PP
.I Bzmore
looks up in tha file
.I /etc/termcap
to determine terminal characteristics,
and ta determine tha default window size.
On a terminal capable of displayin 24 lines,
the default window size is 22 lines.
Other sequences which may be typed when
.I bzmore
pauses, n' they effects, is as bigs up (\fIi\fP be a optionizzle integer
argument, defaultin ta 1) :
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fP<space>
display
.I i
more lines, (or another screenful if no argument is given)
.PP
.IP ^D
display 11 mo' lines (a ``scroll'').
If
.I i
is given, then tha scroll size is set ta \fIi\|\fP.
.PP
.IP d
same as ^D (control-D)
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fPz
same as typin a space except dat \fIi\|\fP, if present, becomes tha new
window size.  Note dat tha window size reverts back ta tha default at the
end of tha current file.
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fPs
skip \fIi\|\fP lines n' print a screenful of lines
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fPf
skip \fIi\fP screenfuls n' print a screenful of lines
.PP
.IP "q or Q"
quit readin tha current file; go on ta tha next (if any)
.PP
.IP "e or q"
When tha prompt --Mo'--(Next file: 
.IR file )
is printed, dis command causes bzmore ta exit.
.PP
.IP s
When tha prompt --Mo'--(Next file: 
.IR file )
is printed, dis command causes bzmore ta skip tha next file n' continue.
.PP 
.IP =
Display tha current line number.
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fP/expr
search fo' tha \fIi\|\fP-th occurrence of tha regular expression \fIexpr.\fP
If tha pattern aint found,
.I bzmore
goes on ta tha next file (if any).
Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, startin two lines before tha place
where tha expression was found.
Da userz erase n' bust a cap up in charactas may be used ta edit tha regular
expression.
Erasin back past tha straight-up original gangsta column cancels tha search command.
.PP
.IP \fIi\|\fPn
search fo' tha \fIi\|\fP-th occurrence of tha last regular expression entered.
.PP
.IP !command
invoke a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell wit \fIcommand\|\fP. 
Da characta `!' up in "command" is replaced wit the
previous shell command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da sequence "\\!" is replaced by "!".
.PP
.IP ":q or :Q"
quit readin tha current file; go on ta tha next (if any)
(same as q or Q).
.PP
.IP .
(dot) repeat tha previous command.
.PP
Da commandz take effect immediately, i.e., it aint necessary to
type a cold-ass lil carriage return.
Up ta tha time when tha command characta itself is given,
the user may hit tha line bust a cap up in characta ta quit tha numerical
argument bein formed.
In addition, tha user may hit tha erase characta ta redisplay the
--Mo'-- message.
.PP
At any time when output is bein busted ta tha terminal, tha user can
hit tha quit key (normally control\-\\).
.I Bzmore
will stop bustin  output, n' will display tha usual --Mo'--
prompt.
Da user may then enta one of tha above commandz up in tha aiiight manner.
Unfortunately, some output is lost when dis is done, cuz of the
fact dat any charactas waitin up in tha terminalz output queue
are flushed when tha quit signal occurs.
.PP
Da terminal is set to
.I noecho
mode by dis program so dat tha output can be continuous.
What you type will thus not show on yo' terminal, except fo' tha / n' !
commands.
.PP
If tha standard output aint a teletype, then
.I bzmore
acts just like
.I bzcat,
except dat a header is printed before each file.
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/termcap		Terminal data base
.SH "SEE ALSO"
more(1), less(1), bzip2(1), bzdiff(1), bzgrep(1)
