.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Kim Letkeman.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cal.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.TH CAL 1 "June 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cal \- display a cold-ass lil calendar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cal
[\fIoptions\fR] [[[\fIday\fR] \fImonth\fR] \fIyear\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cal
displays a simple calendar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If no arguments is specified, tha current
month is displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-1\fR, \fB\-\-one\fR
Display single month output.
(This is tha default.)
.TP
\fB\-3\fR, \fB\-\-three\fR
Display three months spannin tha date.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sunday\fR
Display Sundizzle as tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha week.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-monday\fR
Display Mondizzle as tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha week.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-julian\fR
Display Julian dates (days one-based, numbered from January 1).
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-year\fR
Display a cold-ass lil calendar fo' tha whole year.
.TP
\fB\-\-color\fR [\fIwhen\fR]
Colorize output.  The
.I when
can be
.IR never ,
.IR auto ,
or
.IR always .
Never will turn off colorizin up in all thangs.  Auto is default, and
it will make colorizin ta be up in use if output is done ta terminal.
Always will allow flavas ta be outputed when
.B cal
outputs ta pipe, or is called from a script.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH PARAMETERS
A single parameta specifies tha year ta be displayed; note the
year must be straight-up specified:
.B "cal 89"
will not display a cold-ass lil calendar fo' 1989.
.PP
Two parametas denote tha month (1 - 12) n' year.
.PP
Three parametas denote tha dizzle (1-31), month n' year, n' tha dizzle will be
highlighted if tha calendar is displayed on a terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If no parametas are
specified, tha current monthz calendar is displayed.
.PP
A year starts on Jan 1. Da first dizzle of tha week is determined by the
locale.
.PP
Da Gregorian Reformation be assumed ta have occurred up in 1752 on tha 3rd of
September n' shit. By dis time, most ghettos had recognized tha reformation
(although all dem did not recognize it until tha early 1900's). Ten days
followin dat date was eliminated by tha reformation, so tha calendar for
that month be a lil' bit unusual.
.SH HISTORY
A cal command rocked up in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da cal command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
