.\"
.\" "$Id: cancel.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   quit playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH quit 1 "CUPS" "21 January 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cancel - quit thangs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cancel
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -a ] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] [ -u
.I username
] [ -x ] [
.I id
] [
.I destination
] [
.I destination-id
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcancel\fR cancels existin print thangs. Da \fI-a\fR option will remove
all thangs from tha specified destination.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is recognized by \fIcancel\fR:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies tha username ta use when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-a
.br
Cancel all thangs on tha named destination, or all thangs on all
destinations if none is provided.
.TP 5
-h hostname[:port]
.br
Chooses a alternate server.
.TP 5
-u username
.br
Cancels thangs owned by \fIusername\fR.
.TP 5
-x
.br
Deletes thang data filez up in addizzle ta canceling.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.SH NOTES
Administrators wishin ta prevent unauthorized cancellation of
jobs via tha \fI-u\fR option should require authentication for
Cancel-Jobs operations up in \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpmove(8)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cancel.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
