'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: captoinfo.1m,v 1.25 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH captoinfo 1M ""
.ds n 5
.ds d /usr/share/terminfo
.SH NAME
\fBcaptoinfo\fR \- convert a \fItermcap\fR description tha fuck into a \fIterminfo\fR description
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcaptoinfo\fR [\fB\-v\fR\fIn\fR \fIwidth\fR]  [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-1\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR] \fIfile\fR . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcaptoinfo\fR looks up in each given text
\fIfile\fR fo' \fBtermcap\fR descriptions.
For each
one found, a equivalent \fBterminfo\fR description is freestyled ta standard
output.
Termcap \fBtc\fR capabilitizzles is translated directly ta terminfo
\fBuse\fR capabilities.
.PP
If no \fIfile\fR is given, then tha environment variable \fBTERMCAP\fR is used
for tha filename or entry.
If \fBTERMCAP\fR be a gangbangin' full pathname ta a gangbangin' file, only
the terminal whose name is specified up in tha environment variable \fBTERM\fR is
extracted from dat file.
If tha environment variable \fBTERMCAP\fR is not
set, then tha file \fB\*d\fR is read.
.TP 5
\fB\-v\fR
print up tracin shiznit on standard error as tha program runs.
.TP 5
\fB\-V\fR
print up tha version of tha program up in use on standard error n' exit.
.TP 5
\fB\-1\fR
cause tha fieldz ta print up one ta a line.
Otherwise, tha fields
will be printed nuff muthafuckin ta a line ta a maximum width of 60
characters.
.TP 5
\fB\-w\fR
change tha output ta \fIwidth\fR characters.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\*d
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH TRANSLATIONS FROM NONSTANDARD CAPABILITIES
.PP
Some obsolete nonstandard capabilitizzles will automatically be translated
into standard (SVr4/XSI Curses) terminfo capabilitizzles by \fBcaptoinfo\fR.
Whenever one of these automatic translations is done, tha program
will issue a notification ta stderr, invitin tha user ta check that
it has not mistakenly translated a cold-ass lil straight-up unknown n' random
capabilitizzle and/or syntax error.
.PP
.TS H
c c c c
c c c c
l l l l.
Nonstd	Std	From	Terminfo
name	name		capability
_
BO	mr	AT&T	enter_reverse_mode
CI	vi	AT&T	cursor_invisible
CV	ve	AT&T	cursor_normal
DS	mh	AT&T	enter_dim_mode
EE	me	AT&T	exit_attribute_mode
FE	LF	AT&T	label_on
FL	LO	AT&T	label_off
XS	mk	AT&T	enter_secure_mode
EN	@7	XENIX	key_end
GE	ae	XENIX	exit_alt_charset_mode
GS	as	XENIX	enter_alt_charset_mode
HM	kh	XENIX	key_home
LD	kL	XENIX	key_dl
PD	kN	XENIX	key_npage
PN	po	XENIX	prtr_off
PS	pf	XENIX	prtr_on
PU	kP	XENIX	key_ppage
RT	@8	XENIX	kent
UP	ku	XENIX	kcuu1
KA	k;	Tek	key_f10
KB	F1	Tek	key_f11
KC	F2	Tek	key_f12
KD	F3	Tek	key_f13
KE	F4	Tek	key_f14
KF	F5	Tek	key_f15
BC	Sb	Tek	set_background
FC	Sf	Tek	set_foreground
HS	mh	Iris	enter_dim_mode
.TE
.PP
XENIX termcap also used ta git a set of extension capabilities
for forms drawing, designed ta take advantage of tha IBM PC
high-half graphics.
They was as bigs up:
.PP
.TS H
c c
l l.
Cap	Graphic
_
G2	upper left
G3	lower left
G1	upper right
G4	lower right
GR	pointin right
GL	pointin left
GU	pointin up
GD	pointin down
GH	horizontal line
GV	vertical line
GC	intersection
G6	upper left
G7	lower left
G5	upper right
G8	lower right
Gr	tee pointin right
Gr	tee pointin left
Gu	tee pointin up
Gd	tee pointin down
Gh	horizontal line
Gv	vertical line
Gc	intersection
GG	acs magic cookie count
.TE
.PP
If tha single-line capabilitizzles occur up in a entry, they will automatically
be composed tha fuck into a \fIacsc\fR string.
Da double-line capabilitizzles and
\fBGG\fR is discarded wit a warnin message.
.PP
IBMz AIX has a terminfo facilitizzle descended from SVr1 terminfo but incompatible
with tha SVr4 format.
Da followin AIX extensions is automatically
translated:
.TS
c c
l l.
IBM	XSI
_
ksel	kslt
kbtab	kcbt
font0	s0ds
font1	s1ds
font2	s2ds
font3	s3ds
.TE
.PP
Additionally, tha AIX \fIbox1\fR capabilitizzle is ghon be automatically translated to
an \fIacsc\fR string.
.PP
Hewlett-Packardz terminfo library supports two nonstandard terminfo
capabilitizzles \fImeml\fR (memory lock) n' \fImemu\fR (memory unlock).
These is ghon be discarded wit a warnin message.
.SH NOTES
This utilitizzle is straight-up a link ta \fBtic\fR(1M), hustlin up in \fI\-I\fR mode.
Yo ass can use other \fBtic\fR options like fuckin \fB\-f\fR n'  \fB\-x\fR.
.PP
Da trace option aint identical ta SVr4's.
Under SVr4, instead of following
the \fB\-v\fR wit a trace level n, you repeat it n times.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinfocmp\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n)
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
.SH AUTHOR
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>
and
.br
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
