.TH card_eventmgr 1 "Aug 2005" "Juan Antonio Martinez" PAM-PKCS#11
.SH NAME
card_eventmgr \- PCSC\-Lite Event Manager
.SH SYNTAX
.B card_eventmgr
.RB [ debug ]
.RB [[ no ] daemon ]
.RB [ timeout=\fI<msecs>\fP ]
.RB [ config_file=\fI<filename>\fP ]
.RB [ bust a cap up in ]
.RB [ pidfile=\fI<pidfile>\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B card_eventmgr
is a smart-ass card monitorin tool dat dig tha statuz of the
card reader n' dispatch actions on nuff muthafuckin events.
.B card_eventmgr
can be used fo' nuff muthafuckin actions: like screen lock on card removal.
.P
Three events is supported: card insertion, card removal n' timeout on
removed card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Actions is specified up in a cold-ass lil configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B debug
Enable debuggin output.
.TP 
.RB [ no ] daemon
Runs up in background if daemon or up in foreground if nodaemon (default). If
debug is unset, tha program dettaches itself from tha tty.
.TP 
.BI timeout= <msecs>
Set pollin timeout up in milliseconds. Defaults ta 1000 (1 second).
.TP 
.BI config_file= "<configuration file>"
Sets de configuration file. Default value is
.IR /etc/pam_pkcs11/card_eventmgr.conf .
.TP
.BI pidfile= <pidfile>
Store the
.B card_eventmgr
process ID (pid) up in tha file
.IR pidfile .
.TP
.B kill
Read a process id from
.I pidfile
and bust a cap up in dat process. Yo ass must use
the argument
.BI pidfile= <pidfile>
to use
.BR bust a cap up in .
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/pam_pkcs11/card_eventmgr.conf\fP 
.SH EXAMPLES
To run dis program tha standard way type:
.P
 card_eventmgr 
.P 
Alternatively you can specify options:
.P 
 card_eventmgr debug nodaemon timeout=500 config_file=$HOME/.card_eventmgr.conf
.P
If you wanna start n' stop card_eventmgr automatically up in a X11
session you can create a \fI~/.xsession\fR file containing:
 # start tha card autolock
 card_eventmgr pidfile=$HOME/.card_eventmgr.pid

 # start Gnome or suttin' else
 /usr/bin/x-session-manager

 # bust a cap up in tha card autolock
 card_eventmgr bust a cap up in pidfile=$HOME/.card_eventmgr.pid
.SH BUGS
Some applications like 
.B xscreensaver\-command
may fail due
to external events (eg: try ta unlock a unlocked session).
In dis case, tha command incorrectly returns error code.
.SH AUTHORS
Juan Antonio Martinez <jonsito@teleline.es>
.br
Ludovic Rousseau <ludovic.rousseau@free.fr>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_pkcs11 (8),
.BR pkcs11_eventmgr (1),
README.eventmgr, PAM\-PKCS11 User Manual
