.TH CCOMPS 1 "30 April 2011"
.SH NAME
ccomps \- connected components filta fo' graphs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccomps
[
.B \-sxvenzC?
]
[
.BI -X [#%]s[-f]
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ccomps
decomposes graphs tha fuck into they connected components,
printin tha components ta standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-e
Do not induce edges up in tha connected components.
.TP
.B \-s
No output graph is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da return value can be used to
check if tha graph is connected or not.
.TP
.B \-x
Only tha connected components is printed, as separate graphs.
.TP
.B \-v
Countz of nodes, edges n' connected components is printed.
.TP
.B \-z
Sort components by size, wit tha phattest first. This is only
effectizzle if either \fB-x\fP or \fB-X#\fP is present.
Thus, \fB-zX#0\fP will cause tha phattest component ta be printed.
.TP
.B \-C
Use clustas up in computin components up in addizzle ta aiiight edge
connectivity. In essence, dis gives tha connected componentz of the
derived graph up in which nodes top-level clustas n' nodes up in the
original gangsta graph. This maintains all subgraph structure within a
component, even if a subgraph do not contain any nodes.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not project subgraph structure. Normally, if 
.B ccomps
produces components as graphs distinct from tha input graph, it will
define subgraphs which is projectionz of subgraphz of tha input graph
onto tha component. (If tha projection is empty, no subgraph is produced.)
If dis flag is set, tha component gotz nuff only tha relevant nodes and
edges.
.TP
.BI \-X " node_name"
Prints only tha component containin tha node \fInode_name\fP,
if any.
.TP
.BI \-X# " start"
.TP
.BI \-X# " start-"
.TP
.BI \-X# " start-last"
Prints only components up in tha given range of indices. In tha straight-up original gangsta form, only
the component whose index is \fIstart\fP, if any, is printed.
In tha second form, each component whose index be at least \fIstart\fP
is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In tha last form, only dem components whose indices are
in tha range \fB[\fP\fIIstart\fP\fB,\fP\fIlast\fP\fB]\fP is printed.
Thus, tha flag \fB-x\fP is equivalent ta \fB-X#0-\fP.
.TP
.BI \-X# " min"
.TP
.BI \-X# " min-"
.TP
.BI \-X# " min-max"
Prints only components up in tha given range of sizes. In tha straight-up original gangsta form, only
a component whose size is \fImin\fP, if any, is printed.
In tha second form, each component whose size be at least \fImin\fP
is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In tha last form, only dem components whose sizes are
in tha range \fB[\fP\fIImin\fP\fB,\fP\fImax\fP\fB]\fP is printed.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, each graph is ghon be freestyled ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file
with tha names derived from \fIoutfile\fP. In particular, 
if both \fB-o\fP n' \fB-x\fP flags is used, then each connected
component is freestyled ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file. If \fIoutfile\fP do
not gotz a suffix, tha straight-up original gangsta file gonna git tha name \fIoutfile\fP;
then next \fIoutfile_1\fP, then next \fIoutfile_2\fP, n' so on.
If \fIoutfile\fP has a suffix, i.e., has tha form \fIbase.sfx\fP,
then tha filez is ghon be named \fIbase.sfx\fP, \fIbase_1.sfx\fP, 
\fIbase_2.sfx\fP, etc.
.LP
By default, each input graph is printed, wit each connected
component given as a subgraph whose name be a cold-ass lil concatenation of
the name of tha input graph, tha strang "_cc_" n' the
number of tha component.
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in dot format.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH RETURN CODES
Unless used ta extract a single connected component,
.B ccomps
returns
.B 0
if all tha input graphs is connected; and
non-zero if any graph has multiple components, or any error occurred.
If just extractin a single component,
.B ccomps
returns
.B 0
on success n' non-zero if a error occurred.
.SH "BUGS"
It be possible, though unlikely, dat tha names used fo' connected
components n' they subgraphs may conflict wit existin subgraph names.
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen C. Uptown <north@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gc(1), dot(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), acyclic(1), sccmap(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
