.TH cd-paranoia 1 "version Pt III release alpha 9.8 libcdio"
.SH NAME
cd-paranoia \- 9.8 (Paranoia release Pt III via libcdio) - a audio CD readin utilitizzle which includes extra data verification features
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cd-paranoia
.RB [ options ]
.B span 
.RB [ outfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cd-paranoia
retrieves audio tracks from CDDA capable CD-ROM drives.  Da data can
be saved ta a gangbangin' file or pimped up ta standard output up in WAV, AIFF, AIFF-C
or raw format.  Most ATAPI, SCSI n' nuff muthafuckin proprietary CD-ROM drive
makes is supported;
.B cd-paranoia
can determine if tha target drive is CDDA capable.
.P
In addizzle ta simple reading, 
.B cd-paranoia
addz extra-robust data verification, synchronization, error handling
and scratch reconstruction capability.
.P
This version uses tha libcdio library fo' interaction wit a CD-ROM
drive. Da jitta n' error erection however is tha same as used in
Xiphz cdparanoia.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-v --verbose
Be absurdly verbose bout tha autosensin n' readin process. Good
for setup n' debugging.

.TP
.B \-q --quiet
Do not print any progress or error shiznit durin tha readin process.

.TP
.B \-e --stderr-progress
Force output of progress shiznit ta stderr (for wrapper scripts).

.TP
.B \-V --version
Print tha program version n' quit.

.TP
.B \-Q --query
Perform CD-ROM drive autosense, query n' print tha CD-ROM table of
contents, then quit.

.TP
.B \-h --help
Print a funky-ass brief synopsiz of 
.B cd-paranoia 
usage n' options.

.TP
.BI "\-l --log-summary " file 
Save result summary ta file.

.TP
.B \-p --output-raw
Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data wit interleaved samplez up in host byte order n' shit.  To force lil or big-ass endian byte order, use 
.B \-r 
or 
.B \-R
as busted lyrics bout below.

.TP
.B \-r --output-raw-lil-endian
Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data wit interleaved samplez up in LSB first byte order.

.TP
.B \-R --output-raw-big-endian
Output headerless data as raw 16 bit PCM data wit interleaved samplez up in MSB first byte order.

.TP
.B \-w --output-wav
Output data up in Micro$oft RIFF WAV format (note dat WAV data be always
LSB first byte order).

.TP
.B \-f --output-aiff
Output data up in Applez AIFF format (note dat AIFC data is
always up in MSB first byte order).

.TP
.B \-a --output-aifc
Output data up in uncompressed Applez AIFF-C format (note dat AIFF-C data is
always up in MSB first byte order).

.TP
.BI "\-B --batch "

Cdda2wav-style batch output flag; cd-paranoia will split tha output
into multiple filez at track boundaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Output file names are
prepended wit 'track#.'

.TP
.B \-c --force-cdrom-lil-endian
Some CD-ROM drives misreport they endiannizz (or do not report it at
all); itz possible dat cd-paranoia will guess wrong.  Use
.B \-c
to force cd-paranoia ta treat tha drive as a lil endian device.

.TP
.B \-C --force-cdrom-big-endian
As above but force cd-paranoia ta treat tha drive as a funky-ass big-ass endian device.

.TP
.BI "\-n --force-default-sectors " n
Force tha intercourse backend ta do atomic readz of 
.B n
sectors per read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This number can be misleading; tha kernel will often
split read requests tha fuck into multiple atomic readz (the automated Paranoia
code be aware of this) or allow readz only wihin a restricted size
range. 
.B This option should generally not be used.

.TP
.BI "\-d --force-cdrom-device " device
Force tha intercourse backend ta read from
.B device
rather than tha straight-up original gangsta readable CD-ROM drive it findz containin a
CD-DA disc.  This can be used ta specify devicez of any valid
interface type (ATAPI, SCSI or proprietary).

.TP
.BI "\-g --force-generic-device " device
This option be a alias for
.B \-d
and is retained fo' compatibility.

.TP
.BI "\-S --force-read-speed " number
Use dis option explicitly ta set tha read rate of tha CD drive (where
supported).  This can reduce underruns on machines wit slow disks, or
which is low on memory.

.TP
.BI "\-t --toc-offset " number
Use dis option ta force tha entire disc LBA addressin ta shift by
the given amount; tha value be added ta tha beginnin offsets up in the
TOC.  This can be used ta shift track boundaries fo' tha whole disc
manually on sector granularity.  Da next option do something
similar...

.TP
.BI "\-T --toc-bias "
Some drives (usually random Toshibas) report tha actual track
beginnin offset joints up in tha TOC yo, but then treat tha beginnin of
track 1 index 1 as sector 0 fo' all read operations.  This thangs up in dis biatch in
every track seemin ta start too late (losin a lil' bit of tha beginning
and catchin a lil' bit of tha next track).
\-T accounts fo' dis behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Note dat dis option will cause
cd-paranoia ta attempt ta read sectors before or past tha known user
data area of tha disc, resultin up in read errors at disc edges on most
drives n' possibly even hard lockups on some buggy hardware.

.TP
.BI "\-O --sample-offset " number
Some CD-ROM/CD-R drives will add a offset ta tha posizzle on reading
audio data. This is probably round 500-700 audio samplez (ca. 1/75
second) on reading. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So when cd-paranoia queries a specific
sector, it might not receive exactly dat sector yo, but shifted by some
amount.
.P
Use dis option ta force tha entire disc ta shift sample position
output by tha given amount; This can be used ta shift track boundaries
for tha whole disc manually on sample granularity. Note dat if you
are rippin suttin' includin tha endin of tha CD (e.g. tha entire
disk), dis option will cause cd-paranoia ta attempt ta read
partial sectors before or past tha known user data area, probably
causin read errors on most drives n' possibly even hard lockups on
some buggy hardware.

.TP
.B \-Z --disable-paranoia
Disable 
.B all
data verification n' erection features.  When rockin -Z, cd-paranoia
readz data exactly as would cdda2wav wit a overlap settin of zero.
This option implies dat 
.B \-Y
is active.

.TP
.B \-z --never-skip[=max_retries]
Do not accept any skips; retry forever if needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  An optionizzle maximum
number of retries can be specified; fo' comparison, default without -z is
currently 20.

.TP
.B \-Y --disable-extra-paranoia
Disablez intra-read data verification; only overlap checkin at read
boundaries is performed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it can wedge if errors occur up in tha attempted overlap area. Not recommended.

.TP
.B \-X --abort-on-skip
If tha read skips cuz of imslick data, a scratch, whatever, abort readin dis track.  If output is ta a gangbangin' file, delete tha partially completed file.

.TP
.B \-x --test-flags mask
Simulate CD-readin errors. This is used up in regression testin yo, but
other uses might be ta peep how tha fuck well a CD-ROM performs under
(simulated) CD degradation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. mask specifies tha artificial kindz of
errors ta introduced; "or"-in joints from tha selection below will
simulate tha kind of specified failure.
.P
     0x10  - Simulate under-run reading
.TP


.SH OUTPUT SMILIES
.TP
.B
  :-)   
Normal operation, low/no jitter
.TP
.B
  :-|   
Normal operation, considerable jitter
.TP
.B
  :-/   
Read drift
.TP
.B
  :-P   
Unreported loss of streamin up in atomic read operation
.TP
.B
  8-|   
Findin read problems at same point durin reread; hard ta erect
.TP
.B
  :-0   
SCSI/ATAPI transhiznit error
.TP
.B
  :-(   
Scratch detected
.TP
.B
  ;-(   
Gave up tryin ta big-ass up a cold-ass lil erection
.TP
.B
  8-X
Aborted read cuz of known, uncorrectable error
.TP
.B
  :^D   
Finished extracting

.SH PROGRESS BAR SYMBOLS
.TP
.B
<space> 
No erections needed
.TP
.B
   -    
Jitta erection required
.TP
.B
   +    
Unreported loss of streaming/other error up in read
.TP
.B
   !  
Errors found afta stage 1 erection; tha drive is makin the
same error all up in multiple re-reads, n' cd-paranoia is havin shit
detectin em.
.TP
.B
   e    
SCSI/ATAPI transhiznit error (corrected)
.TP
.B
   V    
Uncorrected error/skip

.SH SPAN ARGUMENT

Da span argument specifies which track, tracks or subsections of
tracks ta read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This argument is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.B NOTE:
Unless tha span be a simple number, itz generally a phat scam to
quote tha span argument ta protect it from tha shell.
.P
Da span argument may be a simple track number or a offset/span
specification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da syntax of a offset/span takes tha rough form:
.P
1[ww:xx:yy.zz]-2[aa:bb:cc.dd] 
.P
Here, 1 n' 2 is track numbers; tha numbers up in brackets provide a
finer grained offset within a particular track. [aa:bb:cc.dd] is in
hours/minutes/seconds/sectors format. Zero fieldz need not be
specified: [::20], [:20], [20], [20.], etc, would be interpreted as
twenty seconds, [10:] would be ten minutes, [.30] would be thirty
sectors (75 sectors per second).
.P
When only a single offset is supplied, it is interpreted as a starting
offset n' rippin will continue ta tha end of tha track.  If a single
offset is preceeded or followed by a hyphen, tha implicit missing
offset is taken ta be tha start or end of tha disc, respectively. Thus:

.TP
.B  1:[20.35]    
Specifies rippin from track 1, second 20, sector 35 ta tha end of
track 1.
.TP
.B 1:[20.35]-   
Specifies rippin from 1[20.35] ta tha end of tha disc
.TP
.B \-2           
Specifies rippin from tha beginnin of tha disc up ta (and including) track 2
.TP
.B \-2:[30.35]   
Specifies rippin from tha beginnin of tha disc up ta 2:[30.35]
.TP
.B 2-4          
Specifies rippin from tha beginnin of track 2 ta tha end of track 4.
.P
Again, don't forget ta protect square brackets n' preceedin hyphens from
the shell.

.SH EXAMPLES

A few examples, protected from tha shell:
.TP
Query only wit exhaustizzle search fo' a thugged-out drive n' full reportin of autosense:
.P
       cd-paranoia -vsQ
.TP
Extract a entire disc, puttin each track up in a seperate file:
.P
       cd-paranoia -B 
.TP
Extract from track 1, time 0:30.12 ta 1:10.00:
.P
       cd-paranoia "1[:30.12]-1[1:10]"
.TP
Extract from tha beginnin of tha disc up ta track 3:
.P
       cd-paranoia -- "-3"
.TP
Da "--" above is ta distinguish "-3" from a option flag.
.SH OUTPUT

Da output file argument is optional; if it aint specified,
cd-paranoia will output samplez ta one of
.BR cdda.wav ", " cdda.aifc ", or " cdda.raw
dependin on whether 
.BR \-w ", " \-a ", " \-r " or " \-R " is used (" \-w 
is tha implicit default).  Da output file argument of 
.B \-
specifies standard output; all data formats may be piped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
cd-paranoia sprang from n' once drew heavily from tha intercourse of
Heiko Eissfeldtz (heiko@colossus.escape.de) 'cdda2wav'
package. cd-paranoia would not have happened without dat shit.
.P
Joerg Schillin has also contributed SCSI expertise all up in his
generic SCSI transhiznit library.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Monty <monty@xiph.org>
.P
Cdparanoiaz homepizzy may be found at:
http://www.xiph.org/paranoia/
.P
Revised fo' use wit libcdio by Rocky <rocky@gnu.org>
.P
Da libcdio homepizzy may be found at:
http://www.gnu.org/software/libcdio
