'\"
.TH "cdda2ogg" "1"
.SH "NAME"
cdda2ogg \(em extract audio CD audio tracks n' encode them
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B cdda2ogg
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.B cdda2ogg be a simple script dat uses the
.B icedax <fileprefix>
command ta extract all audio tracks wit the
.B icedax <fileprefix>
command n' encode dem rockin the
.B ogg123
encoder n' shit. Da scripts is not intended ta be full-featured noize archiving
programs yo, but only fo' quick storin of few audio data.
It do not use databases like CDDB or have any extra features. Yo ass may look
at
.B icedax
if you need em.
.PP
.B ogg123
is provided by the
.B vorbis-tools
which need ta be installed separately.
See
.B www.ogg.org
for mo' shiznit.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.PP
.B cdda2ogg
have predefined joints fo' readin n' labelin of tha target files.
Yo ass can overwrite dem wit followin environment variables:

.IP "CDDA_DEVICE" 10
Source thang justification ta git tha data from.

.IP "LIST" 10
List of track numbers ta be read, separated by spaces.

.IP "CDDA2WAV" 10
Defines tha command ta run tha cdda2wav program

.IP "CDDA2WAV_OPTS" 10
Miscellaneous options passed ta 
.IR $CDDA2WAV .

.IP "MP_CODER" 10
Da encoder program.

.IP "MP_OPTIONS" 10
Additionizzle options passed to
.IR $MP_CODER .
 
.IP "FILEPREFIX" 10
Da base part of tha filename of resultin audio files. This can also be specified as tha straight-up original gangsta argument ta tha script.

.PP
See cdda2ogg script file ta git tha default joints
.PP
System administrator can also set default joints by bustin of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell
include file, definin tha variablez fo' tha POSIX shell, n' storin dem as
/etc/default/cdda2ogg.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.B CDDA_DEVICE=/dev/cdrom1 cdda2ogg
.br
just stores every last muthafuckin track up in dis thang up in audiotrackNUMBER.ogg
.PP
.PP
.B LIST="1 5 7" cdda2ogg PartsOfBestOfFoo
.br
stores tha selected tracks from tha default cdrom thang as 01-PartsOfBestOfFoo.ogg, 05-PartsOfBestOfFoo.ogg, 07-PartsOfBestOfFoo.ogg.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR icedax (1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
cdda2ogg
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program distributed by tha cdrtools project. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools pimpers is not involved up in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore shall not be made responsible fo' any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support fo' dis program by contactin tha original gangsta authors.
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Eduard Bloch
(blade@debian.org) fo' the
.B "Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others). Permission is granted
to copy, distribute and/or modify dis document under tha termz of tha GNU
General Public License, Version 2 as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
