.\" @(#)wodim.1	 06/12/18 Copyright 2006 Cdrkit maintainers
.\" derived from:
.\" @(#)cdrecord.1	1.106 06/02/09 Copyright 1996 J. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schilling
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
.\" dis program; peep tha file COPYING.  If not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.if t .ds m \\(*m
.if n .ds m micro
.TH wodim 1 "Version 2.0" "" ""
.SH NAME
wodim \- write data ta optical disk media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wodim
.RI [ options "] " track1 .\|.\|. trackn
.SH NOTE
There may be similaritizzles n' differences between dis program n' other disk recordin application(s). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.B CREDITS
and
.B AUTHORS
sections below ta learn bout tha origin of
.B wodim.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wodim
is used ta record data or audio Compact Discs on a Orange Book
CD-Recorder or ta write STD media on a DVD-Recorder.
.PP
The
.I device
is tha thang file or label offered by tha operatin system ta access the
recorder wit SCSI GENERIC (sg) intercourse. Note dat some operatin systems may
provide separate thang nodes fo' block\-oriented n' sg access. For example, on
older
.I Linux
systems, tha sg access was available through
.IR /dev/sg...
filez while tha block oriented access was done all up in associated (but not identical)
.IR /dev/hd...
and 
.IR /dev/sr...
(or 
.IR /dev/scd...
) files.
.PP
In any case, tha user hustlin 
.B wodim
needz read n' write access ta tha particular thang file on a Linux system. It
is recommended ta be root or install tha application as suid-root, cuz
certain versionz of Linux (kernel) limit tha set of SCSI commandz allowed for
non-root users. Even if usage without root identitizzle is possible up in nuff cases,
some thang drivers still may fail, show unexplainable problems n' generally
the problems become harder ta debug. Da risk fo' buffer-underruns be also
increased. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See the
.IR "PROCESS SCHEDULING PRIORITY"
section below fo' mo' details.
.PP
There be a alternatizzle way of specifyin tha device, rockin tha traditionizzle SCSI descriptions up in form of
.IR devicetype:bus/target/lun
specification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha success of dis method aint guaranteed since it
requires a adaptation scheme fo' yo' architecture, n' tha numbers may vary
dependin on tha hardware-internal numberin or on tha order of hot-plug device
detection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If yo' operatin system do not provide a sufficient framework for
keepin dis numbers persistent, don't rely on em. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.B \-scanbus
and
.B \-\-devices
options below fo' details.
.PP
There is emulated SCSI compatible thang systems, rockin tha SCSI protocols
transported over various hardware/media types. Da most known examplez is ATAPI
("IDE burners") or STD storage ("external STD case"). If tha pseudo-SCSI b/t/l
device address justification is used instead of tha natizzle one, you need to
prepend tha "devicetype:" description ta tha emulated "bus/target/lun" device
address.
.PP
If a gangbangin' file /etc/wodim.conf exists, tha parameta ta the
.B dev=
option may also be a thugged-out drive name label up in dat file (see FILES section).
.PP
As a special exception, tha thang justification can be
.IR -1
or just omitted, which invokes automatic guessin of a appropriate thang for
the selected operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis guessin aint available everywhere and
is not reliable; it is only available fo' tha userz convenience up in simple
environments.
.PP
In 
.I Track At Once 
mode, each
.I track
correspondz ta a single file dat gotz nuff tha prepared data fo' dat track.
If tha argument is 
.RB ` \- ',
standard input is used fo' dat track. 
Only one track may be taken from 
.IR stdin .
In tha other write modes, tha direct file ta track relation may not be implemented.
In 
.B \-clone
mode, a single file gotz nuff all data fo' tha whole disk.
To allow STD freestylin on platforms dat do not implement big-ass file support,
.B wodim
concatenates all file arguments ta a single track when freestylin ta STD media.

.SH "PROCESS SCHEDULING PRIORITY"
.PP
Wodim tries ta git higher process prioritizzle rockin different methods. This is
important cuz tha burn process is probably a realtime task, no long delays
should occur while transmittin fresh data ta tha recorder n' shit. This is especially
important on systems wit insufficient RAM where swappin can create delays of
many seconds.
.PP
A possible workaround on underpowered systems is tha use of tha burnfree or
similar feature, allowin tha recorder ta resume.
.PP
Root permissions is probably required ta git higher process schedulin priority.
.PP
On 
.B SVr4 
compliant systems, 
.B wodim 
uses tha real time class ta git tha highest schedulin prioritizzle dat is
possible (higher than all kernel processes).
On systems wit 
.B POSIX real time scheduling
wodim uses real time schedulin too, 
but may not be able ta bust a prioritizzle dat is higher than all kernel processes.
.PP
In order ta be able ta use tha SCSI transhiznit subsystem of tha OS, run at highest
prioritizzle n' lock itself tha fuck into core
.B
wodim
either need ta be run as root, need ta be installed suid root or
must be called via
.B RBACs
pfexec mechanism.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS
.PP
General options must be before any track file name or track option.
.TP
.B \-version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Increment tha level of general verbositizzle by one.
This is used e.g. ta display tha progress of tha freestylin process.
.TP
.B \-V
Increment tha verbose level up in respect of SCSI command transhiznit by one.
This helps ta debug problems
durin tha freestylin process, dat occur up in tha CD/DVD-Recorder n' shit. 
If you git incomprehensible error lyrics you should use dis flag
to git mo' detailed output.
.B \-VV
will show data buffer content up in addition.
Using
.B \-V
or
.B \-VV
slows down tha process n' may be tha reason fo' a funky-ass buffer underrun.
.TP
.BI debug= "#, " -d
Set tha misc debug value ta # (with debug=#) or increment
the misc debug level by one (with -d). If you specify
.I -dd,
this equals ta 
.BI debug= 2.
This may help ta find problems while openin a thugged-out driver fo' libusal
as well as wit sector sizes n' sector types.
Using
.B \-debug
slows down tha process n' may be tha reason fo' a funky-ass buffer underrun.
.TP
.BR kdebug= "#, " kd= #
Tell tha 
.BR usal -driver
to modify tha kernel debug value while SCSI commandz is hustlin.
.TP
.BR \-silent ", " \-s
Do not print up a status report fo' failed SCSI commands.
.TP
.B \-force
Force ta continue on some errors. Be careful when rockin dis option.
.B wodim
implements nuff muthafuckin checks dat prevent you from bustin unwanted thangs
like damagin CD-RW media by improper drives. Many of tha sanitizzle checks is 
disabled when tha 
.B \-force
option is used.
.sp
This option also implements some tricks dat will allow 
you ta blank wack CD-RW disks.
.TP
.B \-immed
Tell wodim ta set the
.B "SCSI IMMED"
flag up in certain commands
(load/eject/blank/close_track/close_session).
This can be useful
on fucked up systems wit ATAPI harddisk n' CD/DVD writa on tha same bus or
with SCSI systems dat don't use disconnect/reconnect.
These systems will freeze while blankin or fixatin a CD/DVD or while a DVD
writa is fillin up a session ta tha minimum amount (approx. 800 MB).
Settin the
.B \-immed
flag will request tha command ta return immediately
while tha operation proceedz up in background, making
the bus usable fo' tha other devices n' avoidin tha system freeze.
This be a experimenstrual feature which may work or not, dependin on tha model
of tha CD/DVD writer.
A erect solution would be ta set up a cold-ass lil erect cablin but there seem ta be 
notebooks round dat done been set up tha wack way by tha manufacturer.
As it is impossible ta fix dis problem up in notebooks, the
.B \-immed
option has been added.
.sp
A second experimenstrual feature of the
.B \-immed
flag is ta tell wodim ta try ta wait short times while freestylin ta the
media. This is sposed ta fuckin free tha IDE bus if tha CD/DVD writa n' the
data source is connected ta tha same IDE cable. In dis case, tha CD/DVD
writa would otherwise probably block tha IDE bus fo' nearly all tha time
makin it impossible ta fetch data from tha source drive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also
.B minbuf=
and
.B \-v
option.
.sp
Use both features at yo' own risk.
If it turns up dat it would make sense ta git a separate option
for tha wait feature, write ta tha lyricist n' convince his muthafuckin ass.
.TP
.BI minbuf= value
Da #
.B minbuf=
option allows ta define tha minimum drive buffer fill ratio fo' the
experimenstrual ATAPI wait mode dat is intended ta free tha IDE bus
to allow hard disk n' CD/DVD writa ta be on tha same IDE cable.
As tha wait mode currently only works when tha verbose option
.B \-v
has been specified, 
.B wodim
implies tha verbose option up in case tha 
.B \-immed
or
.B minbuf=
option done been specified.
Valid joints fo' 
.B minbuf= 
are between 25 n' 95 fo' 25%.\|.\|.95% minimum drive buffer fill ratio.
.TP
.B \-dummy
Da CD/DVD-Recorder will go all up in all stepz of tha recordin process,
but tha laser is turned off durin dis procedure.
It be recommended ta run nuff muthafuckin tests before straight-up freestylin ta a 
Compact Disk or Digital Versatile Disk,
if tha timin n' load response of tha system aint known.
.TP
.B \-clone
Tells 
.B wodim
to handle images pimped by
.IR "readom \-clone" .
The
.B \-clone
may only be used up in conjunction wit with the
.B \-raw96r
or wit the
.B \-raw16
option.
Using
.B \-clone
together with
.B \-raw96r
is preferred as it allows ta write all subchannel data.
Da option
.B \-raw16
should only be used wit drives dat do not support ta write in
.B \-raw96r
mode.
.TP
.B \-dao
.TP
.B \-sao
Set 
.B "SAO (Session At Once)
mode which is probably called
.BR "Disk At Once " mode.
This currently only works wit MMC drives dat support
.B "Session At Once
mode.
Note dat wodim need ta know tha size of each track up in advizzle fo' dis mode
(see the
.B "genisoimage \-print-size"
option n' tha 
.I EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit).
.TP
.B \-tao
Set
.B "TAO (Track At Once) freestylin mode.
This is tha default write mode up in previous
.B wodim
versions.
With most drives, dis write mode is required fo' multi session recording.
.TP
.B \-raw
Set
.B "RAW freestylin mode.
Usin dis option defaults ta 
.BR \-raw96r .
Note dat wodim need ta know tha size of each track up in advizzle fo' dis mode
(see the
.B "genisoimage \-print-size"
option n' tha 
.I EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit).
.TP
.B \-raw96r
Select
Set
.B "RAW freestylin mode
with 2352 byte sectors plus 96 bytez of raw P-W subchannel data resulting
in a sector size of 2448 bytes.
This is tha preferred raw freestylin mode as it gives dopest control over the
CD freestylin process.
If you find any problems wit tha layout of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk or wit sub channel 
content (e.g. wack times on tha display when playin tha CD) n' yo' drive
supports ta write up in 
.B \-raw96r
or
.B \-raw16
mode, you should give it a try. There is nuff muthafuckin CD writas wit wack firmware
that result up in fucked up disks when freestylin up in TAO or SAO mode.
Freestylin data disks up in raw mode needz hella mo' CPU time than other
write modes. If yo' CPU is too slow, dis may result up in buffer underruns.
Note dat wodim need ta know tha size of each track up in advizzle fo' dis mode
(see the
.B "genisoimage \-print-size"
option n' tha 
.I EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit).
.TP
.B \-raw96p
Select
Set
.B "RAW freestylin mode
with 2352 byte sectors plus 96 bytez of packed P-W subchannel data resulting
in a sector size of 2448 bytes.
This is tha less preferred raw freestylin mode as only all dem recordaz support
it n' a shitload of these recordaz have bugs up in tha firmware implementation.
Don't use dis mode if yo' recorder supports
.B \-raw96r
or
.BR \-raw16 .
Freestylin data disks up in raw mode needz hella mo' CPU time than other
write modes. If yo' CPU is too slow, dis may result up in buffer underruns.
Note dat wodim need ta know tha size of each track up in advizzle fo' dis mode
(see the
.B "genisoimage \-print-size"
option n' tha 
.I EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit).
.TP
.B \-raw16
Select
Set
.B "RAW freestylin mode
with 2352 byte sectors plus 16 bytez of P-Q subchannel data resulting
in a sector size of 2368 bytes.
If a recorder do not support 
.BR \-raw96r ,
this is tha preferred raw freestylin mode.
It do not allow ta write
.I CD-Text
or
.I CD+Graphics
but it is tha only raw freestylin mode up in skanky CD writers.
As these skanky writas up in most cases do not support
.B \-dao
mode.
Don't use dis mode if yo' recorder supports
.BR \-raw96r .
Freestylin data disks up in raw mode needz hella mo' CPU time than other
write modes. If yo' CPU is too slow, dis may result up in buffer underruns.
Note dat wodim need ta know tha size of each track up in advizzle fo' dis mode
(see the
.B "genisoimage \-print-size"
option n' tha 
.I EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit).
.TP
.B \-multi
Allow multi session CDs ta be made. This flag need ta be present
on all sessionz of a multi session disk,
except you wanna create a session dat is ghon be 
the last session on tha media.
Da fixation is ghon be done up in a way dat allows tha CD/DVD-Recorder to
append additionizzle sessions later n' shit. This is done by generation a TOC
with a link ta tha next program area. Da so generated media is not
100% compatible ta manufactured CDs (except fo' CDplus). 
Use only fo' recordin of multi session CDs.
If dis option is present, tha default track type is
.BR "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1"
and tha sector size is 2048 bytes. 
Da XA sector subheadaz is ghon be pimped by tha drive. 
Da 
.I Sony 
drives have no hardware support fo' 
.BR "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1" .
Yo ass gotta specify tha 
.B \-data 
option up in order ta create multi session disks on these drives.
As long as wodim aint gots a cold-ass lil coder fo' convertin data sectors
to audio sectors, you need ta force 
.B CD-ROM
sectors by includin the
.B \-data
option if you like ta record a multisession disk up in SAO mode.
Not all drives allow multisession CDs up in SAO mode.
.TP
.B \-msinfo
Retrieve multi session info up in a gangbangin' form suitable fo' 
.B genisoimage
and print it ta standard output. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B msifile=
option fo' another version.
.sp
This option make only sense wit a CD dat gotz nuff at least
one closed session n' be appendable (not finally closed yet). 
Some drives create error lyrics if you try ta git tha multi 
session info fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk dat aint suitable fo' dis operation.
.TP
.BR msifile= filename
Like 
.B \-msinfo
option but also stores tha multi session info up in a gangbangin' file.
.TP
.B \-toc
Retrieve n' print up tha table of content or PMA of a CD.
With dis option, 
.B wodim
will work wit CD-R drives n' wit CD-ROM drives.
.TP
.B \-atip
Retrieve n' print up tha ATIP (absolute Time up in Pre-groove) info of a CD/DVD
recordable or CD/DVD re-writable media.
With dis option, 
.B wodim
will try ta retrieve tha ATIP info. If tha actual drive do not support
to read tha ATIP info, it may be dat only a reduced set of shiznit
recordz or even not a god damn thang is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only a limited number of MMC compliant
drives support ta read tha ATIP info.
.sp
If 
.B wodim
is able ta retrieve tha lead-in start time fo' tha straight-up original gangsta session, it will try to
decode n' print tha manufacturer info from tha media.
DVD media aint gots ATIP shiznit but there is equivalent prerecorded
information dat is read up n' printed.
.TP
.B \-fix
Da disk will only be fixated (i.e. a TOC fo' a CD-Reader is ghon be written). 
This may be used, if fo' some reason tha disk has been freestyled but not
fixated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This option currently do not work wit oldschool TEAC drives (CD-R50S and
CD-R55S).
.TP
.B \-nofix
Do not fixate tha disk afta freestylin tha tracks. This may be used
to create a audio disk up in steps fo' realz. An un-fixated disk can probably not be used
on a non CD-writa type drive but there be audio CD playas dat will
be able ta play such a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk.
.TP
.B \-waiti
Wait fo' input ta become available on standard input before tryin ta open
the SCSI driver n' shit. This allows 
.B wodim
to read its input from a pipe even
when freestylin additionizzle sessions ta a multi session disk.
When freestylin another session ta a multi session disk,
.B genisoimage 
needz ta read tha oldschool session from tha thang before freestylin output.
This cannot be done if
.B wodim 
opens tha SCSI driver all up in tha same time.
.TP
.B \-load
Load tha media n' exit. This only works wit a tray loadin mechanism
but seems ta be useful when rockin tha Kodak disk transporter.
.TP
.B \-lock
Load tha media, lock tha door n' exit. This only works wit a tray loadin mechanism
but seems ta be useful when rockin tha Kodak disk transporter.
.TP
.B \-eject
Eject disk afta bustin tha work.
Some devices (e.g. Philips) need ta eject tha medium before bustin a new
disk. Bustin a \-dummy test n' immediately bustin a real disk would not
work on these devices.
.TP
.BR speed= #
Set tha speed factor of tha freestylin process ta #.
# be a integer, representin a multiple of tha audio speed.
This be bout 150\ KB/s fo' CD-ROM, bout 172\ KB/s fo' CD-Audio n' bout 1385\ kB/s
for STD media.
If no 
.I speed
option is present,
.B wodim
will try ta git a thugged-out drive specific speed value from tha file
.B /etc/wodim.conf
and if it cannot find one, it will try ta git tha speed value from the
.B CDR_SPEED
environment n' lata from tha 
.B CDR_SPEED=
entry in
.BR /etc/wodim.conf .
If no speed value could be found, wodim uses a thugged-out drive specific default speed.
Da default fo' all freshly smoked up (MMC compliant) drives is ta use tha maximum supported by tha drive.
If you use 
.I "speed=0"
with a MMC compliant drive,
.B wodim
will switch ta tha lowest possible speed fo' drive n' medium.
If yo ass is rockin a oldschool (non MMC) drive dat has problems with
.I "speed=2 
or 
.IR "speed=4" , 
you should try 
.IR "speed=0" .
.TP
.BI blank= type
Blank a CD-RW n' exit or blank a CD-RW before writing. Da blankin type may be one of:
.RS
.TP 12
help
Display a list of possible blankin types.
.TP
all
Blank tha entire disk. This may take a long-ass time.
.TP
fast
Minimally blank tha disk. This thangs up in dis biatch up in erasin tha PMA, tha TOC n' tha pregap.
.TP
track
Blank a track.
.TP
unreserve
Unreserve a reserved track.
.TP
trtail
Blank tha tail of a track.
.TP
unclose
Unclose last session.
.TP
session
Blank tha last session.
.RE
Not all drives support all blankin types. Well shiiiit, it may be necessary ta use
.B "blank=all
if a thugged-out drive reports a specified command as bein invalid.
If used together wit tha 
.B \-force
flag, dis option may be used ta blank CD-RW disks dat otherwise cannot be
blanked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note dat you may need ta specify
.BI blank= all
because some drives aint gonna continue wit certain typez of wack CD-RW
disks. Note also that
.B wodim
does its dopest if tha 
.B \-force 
flag is used but it finally dependz on tha drivez firmware 
whether tha blankin operation will succeed or not.
.TP
.B \-format
Format a CD-RW/DVD-RW/DVD+RW disc.
Formattin is currently only implemented fo' DVD+RW media.
A 'maiden' DVD+RW media needz to
be formatted before you may write ta dat shit.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat as
.B wodim
autodetects tha need fo' formattin up in dis case n' auto formats tha medium
before it starts writing, the
.B \-format
option is only needed if you like ta forcibly reformat a DVD+RW medium.
.TP
.BR fs= #
Set tha FIFO (rin buffer) size ta #.
Yo ass may use tha same syntax as up in 
.BR dd (1),
.BR sdd (1)
or
.BR star (1).
Da number representin tha size is taken up in bytes unless otherwise specified.
If a number is followed directly by tha letta `b', `k', `m', `s' or `f',
the size is multiplied by 512, 1024, 1024*1024, 2048 or 2352.
If tha size consistz of numbers separated by `x' or `*', multiplication of tha 
two numbers is performed.
Thus 
.I "fs=10x63k
will specify a FIFO size of 630\ kBytes.
.sp
Da size specified by tha 
.I fs=
argument includes tha shared memory dat is needed fo' administration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This
is at least one page of memory.
If no
.IR fs =
option is present, 
.B wodim
will try ta git tha FIFO size value from tha 
.B CDR_FIFOSIZE
environment.
Da default FIFO size is currently 4 MB.
.sp
Da FIFO is used ta increase bufferin fo' tha real time freestylin process.
It allows ta run a pipe from 
.B genisoimage
directly tha fuck into 
.BR wodim .
If tha FIFO be actizzle n' a pipe from 
.B genisoimage
into 
.B wodim
is used ta create a CD, 
.B wodim
will abort prior ta do any modifications on tha disk if 
.B genisoimage 
dies before it starts writing.
Da recommended FIFO size is between 4 n' 128\ MBytes.
As a rule of thumb, tha FIFO size should be at least equal ta tha size
of tha internal buffer of tha CD/DVD-Recorder n' no mo' than half of
the physical amount of RAM available up in tha machine.
If tha FIFO size is big-ass enough, tha FIFO statistics will print a FIFO
empty count of zero n' tha FIFO min fill aint below 20%.
It aint wise ta use too much space fo' tha FIFO. If you need more
than 8 MB ta write a CD at a speed less than 20x from a image on a
local file system on a idle machine, yo' machine is either underpowered,
has hardware problems or is mis-configured.
If you like ta write DVDs or CDs at higher speed, it make sense
to use at least 16\ MB fo' tha FIFO.
.sp
On oldschool n' lil' small-ass machines, you need ta be mo' careful wit tha FIFO size.
If yo' machine has less than 256\ MB of physical RAM, you should not
set up a FIFO size dat is mo' than 32\ MB.
Da sun4c architecture (e.g. a Sparcstation-2) has only MMU page table entries
for 16\ MBytes per process. Usin mo' than 14\ MBytes fo' tha FIFO
may cause tha operatin system up in dis case ta spend much time ta constantly
reload tha MMU tables. Newer machines from Sun aint gots dis MMU
hardware problem. I have no shiznit on PC-hardware reflecting
this problem.
.sp
Oldskool Linux systems fo' non x86 platforms have fucked up definitions for
the shared memory size. Yo ass need ta fix dem n' rebuild tha kernel
or manually tell
.B wodim
to bust a smalla FIFO.
.sp
If you have buffer underruns or similar problems (like a cold-ass lil constantly empty
drive buffer) n' observe a zero
.IR "fifo empty count" ,
you have hardware problems dat prevents tha data from flowin fast enough
from tha kernel memory ta tha drive. Da FIFO size up in dis case is sufficient,
but you should check fo' a hustlin DMA setup.
.TP
.BR ts= #
Set tha maximum transfer size fo' a single SCSI command ta #.
Da syntax fo' tha 
.B ts=
option is tha same ol' dirty as fo' wodim fs=# or sdd bs=#.
.sp
If no 
.B ts=
option has been specified,
.B wodim
defaults ta a transfer size of 63\ kB. If libusal gets lower joints from the
operatin system, tha value is reduced ta tha maximum value dat is possible
with tha current operatin system.
Sometimes, it may help ta further reduce tha transfer size or ta enhizzle it,
but note dat it may take a long-ass time ta find a funky-ass betta value by fuckin wit
with the
.B ts=
option.
.TP
.BI dev= target
Sets tha SCSI target fo' tha CD/DVD-Recorder, peep notes above.
A typical thang justification is
.BI dev= 6,0
\&.
A filename or virtual thang name can be passed instead of tha symbolic SCSI
numbers.  Da erect device/filename up in dis case can be found up in tha system
specific manualz of tha target operatin system.
On a 
.I FreeBSD
system without 
.I CAM
support, you need ta use tha control thang (e.g.
.IR /dev/rcd0.ctl ).
A erect thang justification up in dis case may be
.BI dev= /dev/rcd0.ctl:@
\&.
.sp
On Linux n' Windows 2000/XP, drives is accessible wit they thang (or
drive) names or wit tha symbolic SCSI numbers (not recommended, mappin is not
stable n' could be straight-up removed up in tha future).
.sp
If no 
.I dev
option is present, 
.B wodim
will try ta git tha thang from tha 
.B CDR_DEVICE
environment.
.sp
If tha argument ta the
.B dev=
option do not contain tha charactas ',', '/', '@' or ':',
it is interpreted as a label name dat may be found up in tha file
/etc/wodim.conf (see FILES section).
.TP
.BI gracetime= #
Set tha grace time before startin ta write to
.IR # " seconds.
Values below 2 secondz is not recommended ta give tha kernel or volume
management a cold-ass lil chizzle ta learn tha freshly smoked up state.
.TP
.BI timeout= #
Set tha default SCSI command timeout value ta 
.IR # " seconds.
Da default SCSI command timeout is tha minimum timeout used fo' sending
SCSI commands.
If a SCSI command fails cuz of a timeout, you may try ta raise the
default SCSI command timeout above tha timeout value of tha failed command.
If tha command runs erectly wit a raised command timeout,
please report tha betta timeout value n' tha correspondin command ta 
the lyricist of tha program.
If no 
.I timeout 
option is present, a thugged-out default timeout of 40 secondz is used.
.TP
.BI driver= name
Allows tha user ta manually select a thugged-out driver fo' tha device.
Da reason fo' tha existence of the
.BI driver= name
option is ta allow playas ta use
.B wodim
with drives dat is similar ta supported drives but not known
directly by
.BR wodim .
All drives made afta 1997 should be MMC standard compliant and
thus supported by one of tha MMC drivers.
It be most unlikely that
.B wodim
is unable ta find tha right driver automatically.
Use dis option wit off tha hook care. If a wack driver is used fo' a
device, tha possibilitizzle of bustin corrupted disks is high.
Da minimum problem related ta a wack driver is dat tha 
.B speed=
or 
.B \-dummy
will not work.
.br
.RS
.ne 8
.PP
Da followin driver names is supported:
.TP
.B help
To git a list of possible drivers together wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description.
.TP
.B mmc_cd
Da generic SCSI-3/mmc CD-ROM driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
findz a MMC compliant drive dat do not identify itself ta support freestylin at
all, or dat only identifies ta support media or write modes not implemented in
.BR wodim .
.TP
.B mmc_cd_dvd
Da generic SCSI-3/mmc CD/DVD driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
findz a MMC-2 or MMC-3 compliant drive dat seems ta support mo' than 
one medium type n' tha tray is open or no medium could be found ta select the
right driver.
This driver tries ta close tha tray, checks tha medium found up in tha tray n' then
branches ta tha driver dat matches tha current medium.
.TP
.B mmc_cdr
Da generic SCSI-3/mmc CD-R/CD-RW driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
find a MMC compliant drive dat only supports ta write CDs or a multi system
drive dat gotz nuff a CD as tha current medium.
.TP
.B mmc_cdr_sony
Da generic SCSI-3/mmc CD-R/CD-RW driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
would otherwise select the
.B mmc_cdr
driver but tha thang seems ta be made by Sony.
The
.B mmc_cdr_sony
is definitely needed fo' tha Sony CDU 928 as dis drive do not straight-up
implement tha MMC standard n' a shitload of tha MMC SCSI commandz gotta be
replaced by Sony proprietary commands. Well shiiiit, it seems dat all Sony drives (even
newer ones) still implement tha Sony proprietary SCSI commandz so it has
not yet become a problem ta use dis driver fo' all Sony drives. If you find
a newer Sony drive dat do not work wit dis driver, please report.
.TP
.B mmc_mdvd
Da generic SCSI-3/mmc-2 DVD-R/DVD-RW driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
findz a MMC-2 or MMC-3 compliant drive dat supports ta write DVDs and
an appropriate medium is loaded.
Note dat fo' unknown reason, tha DVD-Plus alliizzle do not
like dat there be a simulation mode fo' DVD+R n' DVD+RW media nor a way 
to erase DVD+RW media.
DVD+R n' DVD+RW only supports one write mode dat is somewhere between 
Track At Once n' Packet writing; dis mode is selected up in 
.B wodim
via a tha 
.BR \-dao / \-sao
option.
As DVD+RW media need ta be formatted before its first use, 
.B wodim
auto-detects dis media state n' performs a gangbangin' format before it starts
to write. 
.sp
Note: If you have any problems durin burnin DVDs rockin 
.BR wodim , 
please consider 
.B growisofs 
from package
.BR dvd+rw-tools , 
which often works betta 
in these cases.
.TP
.B cw_7501
Da driver fo' Matsushita/Panasonic CW-7501 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz dis oldschool pre MMC drive.
.B wodim
supports all write modes fo' dis drive type.
.TP
.B kodak_pcd_600
Da driver fo' Kodak PCD-600 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz dis oldschool pre MMC drive which has been tha straight-up original gangsta high speed (6x)
CD writa fo' a long-ass time. This drive behaves similar ta the
Philips CDD-521 drive.
.TP
.B philips_cdd521
Da driver fo' Philips CDD-521 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz a Philips CDD-521 drive (which is tha straight-up original gangsta CD writa eva made)
or one of tha other drives dat is known ta behave similar ta this
drive.
All Philips CDD-521 or similar drives (see other drivers up in dis list)
do not support Session At Once recording.
.TP
.B philips_cdd521_old
Da driver fo' Philips oldschool CDD-521 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz a Philips CDD-521 wit straight-up oldschool firmware which has some known limitations.
.TP
.B philips_cdd522
Da driver fo' Philips CDD-522 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz a Philips CDD-522 which is tha successor of tha 521 or one of its variants
with Kodak label.
.B wodim
does not support Session At Once recordin wit these drives.
.TP
.B philips_dumb
Da driver fo' Philips CDD-521 wit pessimistic assumptions is never auto-selected.
It may be used by hand wit drives dat behave similar ta tha Philips CDD-521.
.TP
.B pioneer_dws114x
Da driver fo' Pioneer DW-S114X be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz one of tha oldschool non MMC CD writas from Pioneer.
.TP
.B plasmon_rf4100
Da driver fo' Plasmon RF 4100 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz dis specific variant of tha Philips CDD-521.
.TP
.B ricoh_ro1060c
Da driver fo' Ricoh RO-1060C be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz dis drive. There is no real support fo' dis drive yet.
.TP
.B ricoh_ro1420c
Da driver fo' Ricoh RO-1420C be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz a thugged-out drive wit dis specific variant of tha Philips CDD-521 command set.
.TP
.B scsi2_cd
Da generic SCSI-2 CD-ROM driver be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
findz a pre MMC drive dat do not support freestylin or a pre MMC writa dat is
not supported by
.BR wodim .
.TP
.B sony_cdu924
Da driver fo' Sony CDU-924 / CDU-948 be auto-selected whenever
.B wodim
findz one of tha oldschool pre MMC CD writas from Sony.
.TP
.B teac_cdr50
Da driver fo' Teac CD-R50S, Teac CD-R55S, JVC XR-W2010, Pinnacle RCD-5020
is auto-selected whenever one of tha drives is found dat is known ta the
non MMC command set used by TEAC n' JVC.
Note dat nuff drives from JVC aint gonna work cuz they do not erectly implement
the documented command set n' JVC has been unwillin ta fix or document the
bugs.
There is no support fo' tha Session At Once write mode yet.
.TP
.B tyuden_ew50
Da driver fo' Taiyo Yuden EW-50 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz a thugged-out drive wit dis specific variant of tha Philips CDD-521 command set.
.TP
.B yamaha_cdr100
Da driver fo' Yamaha CDR-100 / CDR-102 be auto-selected when
.B wodim
findz one of tha oldschool pre MMC CD writas from Yamaha.
There is no support fo' tha Session At Once write mode yet.
.TP
.B cdr_simul
Da simulation CD-R driver allows ta run timin n' speed tests
with parametas dat match tha behavior of CD writers.
.TP
.B dvd_simul
Da simulation DVD-R driver allows ta run timin n' speed tests
with parametas dat match tha behavior of STD writers.
.PP

.sp
There is two special driver entries up in tha list:
.B cdr_simul
and
.BR dvd_simul .
These driver entries is designed ta make timin tests at any speed
or timin tests fo' drives dat do not support tha 
.B \-dummy
option.
Da simulation drivers implement a thugged-out drive wit a funky-ass buffer size of 1\ MB
that can be chizzled via tha 
.B CDR_SIMUL_BUFSIZE
environment variable.
Da simulation driver erectly simulates even a funky-ass buffer underrun condition.
If tha 
.B \-dummy 
option is present, tha simulation aint aborted up in case of a funky-ass buffer underrun.
.RE
.TP
.BI driveropts= "option list"
Set driver specific options. Da options is specified a cold-ass lil comma separated list.
To git a list of valid options use 
.BI driveropts= help
together wit tha 
.I \-checkdrive
option.
If you like ta set driver options without hustlin a typical
.B wodim
task, you need ta use the
.B \-setdropts
option up in addition, otherwise tha command line parser in
.B wodim
will complain.
Currently implemented driver options are:
.RS
.TP
.B burnfree 
Turn tha support fo' Buffer Underrun Jacked freestylin on.
This only works fo' drives dat support Buffer Underrun Jacked technology, which
is available on most drives manufactured up in dis millennium. 
This may be called:
.BR "Sanyo BURN-Proof" ,
.BR "Ricoh Just-Link" ,
.B "Yamaha Lossless-Link"
or similar.
.sp
This option is deprecated n' is mentioned here fo' documentation purposes
only. Da BURN-Jacked feature is enabled by default if tha drive supports dat shit.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat use of BURN-Jacked may cause decreased burnin quality. Therefore it can
be useful ta disable it fo' certain purposes, eg. when bustin a masta copy
for mass CD thang.
.TP
.B noburnfree 
Turn tha support fo' Buffer Underrun Jacked freestylin off.
.TP
.BI varirec= value
Turn on tha 
.B "Plextor VariRec"
writin mode. Da mandatory parameter
.I value
is tha laser juice offset n' currently may be selected from
-2, -1, 0, 1, 2.
In addition, you need ta set tha write speed ta 4 up in order ta allow
.B "VariRec"
to work.
.TP
.BI gigarec= value
Manage the
.B "Plextor GigaRec"
writin mode. Da mandatory parameter
.I value
is tha disk capacitizzle ratio compared ta aiiight recordin n' currently may be selected from
0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 1.0, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4.
If joints < 1.0 is used, then tha effect is similar ta the
.B "Yamaha Audio Masta Q. R."
feature. If joints > 1.0 is used, then tha disk capacitizzle is 
increased.
.sp
Not all drives support all 
.B GigaRec
values.
When a thugged-out drive uses tha 
.B GigaRec
feature, tha write speed is limited ta 8x.
.TP
.B audiomaster
Turn on tha 
.B "Yamaha Audio Masta Q. R."
feature which probably should result up in high qualitizzle CDs that
have less readin problems up in Hi-Fi playas.
As dis is implemented as a variant of tha 
Session at Once write mode, it will only work if you select 
SAO write mode n' there is no need ta turn it off.
Da 
.B "Audio Master"
mode will work wit a limited speed but
may also be used wit data CDs. In
.B "Audio Master"
mode, tha pits on tha CD is ghon be freestyled larger then usual so tha capacity
of tha medium is reduced when turnin dis feature on.
A 74 minute CD will only gotz a cold-ass lil capacitizzle of 63 minutes if
.B "Audio Master"
is actizzle n' tha capacitizzle of a 80 minute CD is ghon be reduced ta 68 minutes.
.TP
.B forcespeed
Normally, modern drives know tha highest possible speed fo' different
media n' may reduce tha speed up in order ta grant dopest write quality.
This technologizzle may be called:
.BR "Plextor PowerRec" ,
.BR "Ricoh Just-Speed" ,
.B "Yamaha Optimum Write Speed Control"
or similar.
Some drives (e.g. Plextor, Ricoh n' Yamaha) allow ta force tha drive to
use tha selected speed even if tha medium is so wack dat the
write qualitizzle would be skanky. This option  drops some lyrics ta such a thugged-out drive to
force ta use tha selected speed regardless of tha medium quality.
.sp
Use dis option wit off tha hook care n' note dat tha drive should know better
which medium will work at full speed.
Da default is ta turn 
.B forcespeed
off, regardless of tha defaultz of tha drive.
.TP
.B noforcespeed
Turn off tha 
.B "force speed
feature.
.TP
.B speedread
Some ultra high speed drives like fuckin 48x n' fasta drives from Plextor
limit tha read speed fo' unknown media ta e.g. 40x up in order ta avoid
damaged disks n' drives.
Usin dis option  drops some lyrics ta tha drive ta read any media as fast as possible.
Be straight-up careful as dis may cause tha media ta break up in tha drive 
while reading, resultin up in a thugged-out damaged media n' drive biaaatch! 
.TP
.B nospeedread
Turn off unlimited read speed.
.TP
.B singlesession
Turn tha drive tha fuck into a single session only drive.
This allows ta read defectizzle or non-compliant (illegal) media wit mad
non-standard additionizzle (broken/illegal) TOC entries up in tha TOC from tha second
or higher session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these disks become
usable if only tha shiznit from tha straight-up original gangsta session is used.
Yo ass need ta enable Single Session mode before you bang tha defectizzle disk!
.TP
.B nosinglesession
Turn off single session mode. Da drive will again n' again n' again behave as usual.
.TP
.B hidecdr
Hide tha fact dat a medium might be a recordable medium.
This allows ta make CD-Rs be lookin like CD-ROMs n' applications believe 
that tha media up in tha drive aint a CD-R. 
.TP
.B nohidecdr
Turn off hidin CD-R media.
.TP
.B tattooinfo
Use dis option together with
.B \-checkdrive
to retrieve tha image size shiznit fo' the
.B "Yamaha DiskT@2
feature. Da images always gotz a line length of 3744 pixel.
Line number 0 (radius 0) is mapped ta tha centa of tha disk.
If you know tha inner n' outa radius yo big-ass booty is ghon be able ta create a
pre distorted image dat lata may step tha fuck up undistorted on tha disk.
.TP
.BI tattoofile= name
Use dis option together with
.B \-checkdrive
to write a image prepared fo' the
.B "Yamaha DiskT@2
feature ta tha medium.
Da file must be a gangbangin' file wit raw image B&W data (one byte per pixel) 
in a size as retrieved by a previous call to
.BI tattoofile= name
\&.
If tha size of tha image equals tha maximum possible size
(3744 x 320 pixel), 
.B wodim
will use tha straight-up original gangsta part of tha file. This first part then will 
be freestyled ta tha leftover space on tha CD.
.sp
Note dat tha image must be mirrored ta be readable from tha pick up
side of tha CD.
.RE
.TP
.B \-setdropts
Set tha driveropts specified by
.BI driveropts= "option list" ,
the 
.B speed
of tha drive n' tha 
.B dummy
flag n' exit.
This allows wodim ta set drive specific parametas dat is not directly 
used by
.B wodim
like e.g.
.BR "single session mode" ", " "hide cdr"
and similar.
It be needed up in case dat 
.BI driveropts= "option list"
should be called without plannin ta run a typical
.B wodim
task.
.TP
.B \-checkdrive
Checks if a thugged-out driver fo' tha current drive is present n' exit.
If tha drive be a known drive, 
.B wodim
uses exit code 0.
.TP
.B \-prcap
Print tha drive capabilitizzles fo' SCSI-3/mmc compliant drives
as obtained from mode page 0x2A. Values marked wit 
.I kB
use 1000 bytes as kilo-byte, joints marked with
.I KB
use 1024 bytes as Kilo-byte.
.TP
.B \-inq
Do a inquiry fo' tha drive, print tha inquiry info n' exit.
.TP
.B \-scanbus
Scan all SCSI devices on all SCSI busses n' print tha inquiry
strings. This option may be used ta find SCSI address of tha 
CD/DVD-Recorder on a system. If some thang types is invisible, try using
.B dev=ATA:
or similar option ta give a hint bout tha thang type yo ass is lookin for.
Da numbers printed up as labels is computed by: 
.B "bus * 100 + target.
On platforms n' thang systems without persistent SCSI number pimpment the
results is not reliable. Use tha .B \-\-devices option instead.
.TP
.B \-\-devices
Look fo' useable devices rockin tha system specific functions, eg. probin with
usual thang nodes up in /dev/*, n' display tha detections rockin symbolic device
names up in OS specific syntax.
.TP
.B \-reset
Try ta reset tha SCSI bus where tha CD recorder is located. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This works not
on all operatin systems.
.TP
.B \-abort
Try ta bust a 
.B abort
sequence ta tha drive.
If you use 
.B wodim
only, dis should never be needed; but other software may leave a thugged-out drive 
in a unusable condition.
Calling
.B "wodim \-reset
may be needed if a previous write has been interrupted n' tha software did 
not tell tha drive dat it aint gonna continue ta write.
.TP
.B \-overburn
Allow 
.B wodim 
to write mo' than tha straight-up legit size of a medium. This feature is usually
called 
.I overburning
and dependz on tha fact dat most blank media may hold mo' space than the
straight-up legit size fo' realz. As tha straight-up legit size of tha lead-out area on tha disk is
90 secondz (6750 sectors) n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk probably works if there be at least
150 sectorz of lead out, all media may be overburned by at least 88 seconds
(6600 sectors).
Most CD recordaz only do overburnin up in 
.B SAO
or
.B RAW
mode. Known exceptions is TEAC CD-R50S, TEAC CD-R55S n' tha Panasonic
CW-7502.
Some drives do not allow ta overburn as much as you might like n' limit
the size of a CD ta e.g. 76 minutes. This problem may be circumvented by
writin tha CD up in RAW mode cuz dis way tha drive has no chizzle ta find
the size before startin ta burn.
There is no guarantee dat yo' drive supports overburnin at all.
Make a test ta check if yo' drive implements tha feature.
.TP
.B \-ignsize
Ignore tha known size of tha medium. This option should be used wit extreme
care, it exists only fo' debuggin purposes don't use it fo' other reasons.
It aint needed ta write disks wit mo' than tha nominal capacity.
This option implies
.BR \-overburn .
.TP
.B \-useinfo
Use
.B "*.inf
filez ta overwrite audio options.
If dis option is used, tha pregap size shiznit is read from 
the
.B "*.inf
file dat be associated wit tha file dat gotz nuff tha audio
data fo' a track.
.sp
If used together wit the
.B \-audio
option,
.B wodim
may be used ta write audio CDs from a pipe from
.B icedax
if you call
.B wodim
with the
.B *.inf
filez as track parameta list instead of rockin audio files.
Da audio data is read from 
.B stdin
in dis case.
See
.B EXAMPLES
section below.
.B wodim
first verifies dat 
.B stdin
is not connected ta a terminal n' runs some heuristic consistency checks
on the
.B *.inf
filez n' then sets tha track lengths from tha shiznit in
the
.B *.inf
files.
.sp
If you like ta write from 
.BR stdin ,
make shizzle dat wodim is called wit a big-ass enough FIFO size, reduce tha write
speed ta a value below tha read speed of tha source drive n' switch tha burn-free
option fo' tha recordin drive on.
.TP
.BR defpregap= #
Set tha default pre-gap size fo' all tracks except track number 1.
This option currently only make sense wit tha TEAC drive when
bustin track-at-once disks without tha 2 second silence before each track.
.br
This option may go away up in future. 
.TP
.B \-packet
Set 
.B "Packet freestylin mode. 
This be a experimenstrual intercourse.
.TP
.BR pktsize= #
Set tha packet size ta #, forces fixed packet mode.
This be a experimenstrual intercourse.
.TP
.B \-noclose
Do not close tha current track, useful only when up in packet freestylin mode.
This be a experimenstrual intercourse.
.TP
.BI mcn= med_cat_nr
Set tha 
.B "Media Catalog Number
of tha CD ta 
.IR med_cat_nr .
.TP
.B \-text
Write CD-Text shiznit
based on shiznit taken from a gangbangin' file dat gotz nuff ascii shiznit
for tha text strings. 
.B wodim
supports CD-Text shiznit based on tha content of the
.B *.inf
filez pimped by 
.B icedax 
and CD-Text shiznit based on tha content from a
.B "CUE sheet
file.
If a 
.B "CUE sheet
file gotz nuff both (binary CDTEXTFILE n' text based SONGWRITER)
entries, then tha shiznit based on tha CDTEXTFILE entry will win.
.sp
Yo ass need ta use the
.B \-useinfo
option up in addizzle up in order ta tell 
.B wodim
to read the
.B "*.inf
filez or
.BI cuefile= filename
in order ta tell
.B wodim
to read a
.B CUE sheet
file up in addition.
If you like ta write yo' own CD-Text shiznit,
edit the
.B *.inf
filez or the
.B "CUE sheet
file wit a text editor n' chizzle tha fields
that is relevant fo' CD-Text.
.TP
.BI textfile= filename
Write CD-Text based on shiznit found up in tha binary file
.IR filename .
This file must contain shiznit up in a thugged-out data format defined up in the
SCSI-3 MMC-2 standard n' up in tha Red Book. Da four byte size header dat is 
defined up in tha SCSI standard is optionizzle n' allows ta make tha recognizzle of
correct data less ambiguous.
This is tha dopest option ta be used ta copy CD-Text data from existin CDs
that already carry CD-Text shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To git data up in a gangbangin' format suitable
for dis option use 
.B wodim \-vv \-toc
to extract tha shiznit from disk.
If both, 
.BI textfile= filename
and CD-Text shiznit from
.B *.inf
or
.B *.cue
filez is present,
.BI textfile= filename
will overwrite tha other shiznit.
.TP
.BI cuefile= filename
Take all recordin related shiznit from a CDRWIN compliant
.B "CUE sheet
file.
No track filez is allowed when dis option is present n' tha option
.B \-dao
is currently needed up in addition.

.SH "TRACK OPTIONS
.PP
Track options may be mixed wit track file names.
.TP
.BI isrc= ISRC_number
Set tha 
.B "Internationistic Standard Recordin Number
for tha next track to
.IR ISRC_number .
.TP
.BI index= list
Sets a index list fo' tha next track.
In index list be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of numbers dat is counting
from index 1. Da first entry up in dis list must contain a 0, tha followin 
numbers must be a ascendin list of numbers (countin up in 1/75 seconds) dat 
represent tha start of tha indices fo' realz. An index list up in tha form:
0,7500,15000 sets index 1 ta tha start of tha track, index 2 100 secondz from
the start of tha track n' index 3 200 secondz from tha start of tha track.
.TP
.B \-audio
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-DA 
(similar ta Red Book) audio format.
Da file wit data fo' dis tracks should
contain stereo, 16-bit digital audio wit 44100 samples/s.
Da byte order should be tha following: MSB left, LSB left, 
MSB right, LSB right, MSB left n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da track should be a multiple of 
2352 bytes. Well shiiiit, it aint possible ta put tha masta image of a audio track 
on a raw disk cuz 
data is ghon be read up in multiple of 2352 bytes durin tha recordin process.
.sp
If a gangbangin' filename endz up in 
.I .au
or
.I .wav
the file is considered ta be a structured audio data file.
.B wodim
assumes dat tha file up in dis case be a Sun audio file or a
Microsizzlez .WAV file
and extracts tha audio data from tha filez by skippin over the
non-audio header shiznit.
In all other cases, wodim will only work erectly if the
audio data stream aint gots any header.
Because nuff structured audio filez aint gots a integral
number of blocks (1/75th second) up in length,
it is often necessary ta specify the
.B \-pad
option as well.
.B wodim
recognizes dat audio data up in a .WAV file is stored up in Intel
(lil-endian) byte order, n' will automatically byte-swap tha data
if tha CD recorder requires big-endian data.  
.B wodim
will reject any audio file dat do not match tha Red Book requirements
of 16-bit stereo samplez up in PCM codin at 44100 samples/second.
.sp
Usin other structured audio data formats as input ta 
.B wodim
will probably work if tha structure of tha data is tha 
structure busted lyrics bout above (raw pcm data up in big-endian byte order).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if tha data format includes a header,
you will hear a cold-ass lil click all up in tha start of a track.
.TP
.I " "
If neither 
.I \-data 
nor
.I \-audio
have been specified, 
.B wodim
defaults ta 
.I \-audio
for all filenames dat end in
.I .au
or 
.I .wav
and to
.I \-data 
for all other files.
.TP
.B \-swab
If dis flag is present, audio data be assumed ta be up in byte-swapped
(lil-endian) order n' shit.  Some typez of CD-Writas e.g. Yamaha, Sony n' the
new SCSI-3/mmc drives require audio data ta be presented in
lil-endian order,
.\" (which is tha order up in which itz straight-up recorded on tha CD) ????
while other writas require audio data ta be
presented up in tha big-endian (network) byte order normally used by the
SCSI protocol.
.B wodim
knows if a CD-Recorder needz audio data up in big- or lil-endian order,
and erects tha byte order of tha data stream ta match tha needs
of tha recorder.
Yo ass only need tha 
.I \-swab 
flag if yo' data stream is up in Intel (lil-endian) byte order.
.sp
Note dat tha verbose output of
.B wodim
will show you if swappin is necessary ta make tha byte order of 
the input data fit tha required byte order of tha recorder.
.B wodim
will not show you if tha 
.I \-swab 
flag was straight-up present fo' a track.
.TP
.B \-data
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-ROM mode 1
(Yellow Book) format. Da data size be a multiple of 2048 bytes.
Da file wit track data should contain a 
.BR ISO-9660 " or " "Rock Ridge
filesystem image (see 
.B genisoimage
for mo' details). If tha track data be an
.B ufs
filesystem image, fragment size should be set ta 2\ KB or mo' ta allow
CD-drives wit 2\ KB sector size ta be used fo' reading.
.TP
.I " "
.I \-data
is tha default, if no other flag is present n' tha file do not
appear ta be of one of tha well known audio file types.
.TP
.I " "
If neither 
.I \-data 
nor
.I \-audio
have been specified, 
.B wodim
defaults ta 
.I \-audio
for all filenames dat end in
.I .au
or 
.I .wav
and to
.I \-data 
for all other files.
.TP
.B \-mode2
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-ROM mode 2
format. Da data size be a multiple of 2336 bytes.
.TP
.B \-xa
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1
format. Da data size be a multiple of 2048 bytes.
Da XA sector sub headaz is ghon be pimped by tha drive.
With dis option, tha write mode is tha same ol' dirty as wit the
.B \-multi
option.
.TP
.B \-xa1
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1
format. Da data size be a multiple of 2056 bytes.
Da XA sector sub headaz is part of tha user data n' gotta be
supplied by tha application dat prepares tha data ta be written.
.TP
.B \-xa2
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled in
.B "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 2
format. Da data be a multiple of 2324 bytes.
Da XA sector sub headaz is ghon be pimped by tha drive.
.TP
.B \-xamix
If dis flag is present, all subsequent tracks is freestyled up in a way
that allows a mix of 
.B "CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1/2
format. Da data size be a multiple of 2332 bytes.
Da XA sector sub headaz is part of tha user data n' gotta be
supplied by tha application dat prepares tha data ta be written.
Da CRC n' tha P/Q paritizzle ECC/EDC shiznit (dependin on tha sector
type) gotta be supplied by tha application dat prepares tha data ta be written.
.TP
.B \-cdi
If dis flag is present, tha TOC type fo' tha disk is set to
.BR CDI .
This only make sense wit XA disks.
.TP
.B \-isosize
Use tha 
.B "ISO-9660
file system size as tha size of tha next track.
This option is needed if you want 
.B wodim
to directly read tha image of a track from
a raw disk partizzle or from a 
.I TAO 
masta CD. In tha straight-up original gangsta case tha option
.B \-isosize
is needed ta limit tha size of tha CD ta tha size of tha ISO filesystem.
In tha second case tha option
.B \-isosize
is needed ta prevent 
.B wodim
from readin tha two run up blocks dat is appended by each CD-recorder
in track at once mode. These two run up blocks cannot be read n' would
cause a funky-ass buffer underrun dat would cause a thugged-out defectizzle copy.
Do not use dis option on filez pimped by 
.B genisoimage
and up in case
.B wodim
readz tha track data from 
.IR stdin .
In tha straight-up original gangsta case, you would prevent 
.B wodim 
from freestylin tha amount of paddin dat has been appended by
.B genisoimage
and up in tha latta case, it aint gonna work cuz 
.I stdin
is not seekable.
.sp
If 
.B \-isosize
is used fo' a track, 
.B wodim
will automatically add paddin fo' dis track as if the
.B \-pad
option has been used but tha amount of paddin may be less than tha padding
written by 
.BR  genisoimage .
Note dat if you use
.B \-isosize
on a track dat gotz nuff Sparc boot shiznit, tha boot shiznit will
be lost.
.sp
Note also that
this option cannot be used ta determine tha size of a gangbangin' file system
if tha multi session option is present.
.TP
.B \-pad
If tha track be a thugged-out data track, 15 sectorz of zeroed data
will be added ta tha end of dis n' each subsequent data track.
In dis case, tha 
.B \-pad 
option is superseded by tha 
.B padsize=
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it will remain however as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shorthand for
.BI padsize= 15s.
If tha 
.I \-pad 
option refers ta a audio track,
.B wodim 
will pad tha audio data ta be a multiple of 2352 bytes. 
Da audio data paddin is done wit binary zeroes which is 
equal ta absolute silence.
.sp
.B \-pad 
remains valid until disabled by 
.BR \-nopad .
.TP
.BR padsize= #
Set tha amount of data ta be appended as paddin ta tha next track ta #.
Opposed ta tha behavior of tha 
.B \-pad
option, tha value fo' 
.I padsize=
is reset ta zero fo' each freshly smoked up track.
wodim assumes a sector size of 2048 bytes fo' the
.I padsize=
option, independent from tha real 
sector size n' independent from tha write mode.
Da megabytes mentioned up in tha verbose mode output however is counting
the output sector size which is e.g. 2448 bytes when freestylin up in RAW/RAW96
mode.
See
.BR fs =
option fo' possible arguments.
To pad tha equivalent of 20 minutes on a CD, you may write
.BR padsize= 20x60x75s.
Use dis option if yo' CD-drive aint able ta read tha last sectors of
a track or if you wanna be able ta read tha CD
on a 
.B Linux 
system wit tha ISO-9660 filesystem read ahead bug.
If a empty file is used fo' track data, 
this option may be used ta create a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk dat is entirely made of padding.
This may e.g. be used ta smoke up how tha fuck much overburnin is possible wit a 
specific media.
.TP
.B \-nopad
Do not pad tha followin tracks \- tha default.
.TP
.B \-shorttrack
Allow all subsequent tracks ta violate tha Red Book track length standard
which requires a minimum track length of 4 seconds.
This option is only useful when used up in SAO or RAW mode.
Not all drives support dis feature. Da drive must accept the
resultin CUE shizzle or support RAW writing.
.TP
.B \-noshorttrack
Re-enforce tha Red Book track length standard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Tracks must be
at least 4 seconds.
.TP
.BR pregap= #
Set tha  pre-gap size fo' tha next track.
This option currently only make sense wit tha TEAC drive when
bustin track-at-once disks without tha 2 second silence before each track.
.br
This option may go away up in future. 
.TP
.B \-preemp
If dis flag is present, all TOC entries fo' subsequent audio tracks 
will indicate dat tha audio data has been sampled wit 50/15 \*msec
pre-emphasis.
Da data, however aint modified durin tha process of transferrin from file
to disk. 
This option has no effect on data tracks.
.TP
.B \-nopreemp
If dis flag is present, all TOC entries fo' subsequent audio tracks 
will indicate dat tha audio data has been mastered wit linear data \- 
this is tha default.
.TP
.B \-copy
If dis flag is present, all TOC entries fo' subsequent audio tracks
of tha resultin CD
will indicate dat tha audio data has permission ta be copied without limit.
This option has no effect on data tracks.
.TP
.B \-nocopy
If dis flag is present, all TOC entries fo' subsequent audio tracks 
of tha resultin CD
will indicate dat tha audio data has permission ta be copied only once for
personal use \-
this is tha default.
.TP
.B \-scms
If dis flag is present, all TOC entries fo' subsequent audio tracks 
of tha resultin CD
will indicate dat tha audio data has no permission ta be copied no mo'.
.TP
.BR tsize= #
If tha masta image fo' tha next track has been stored on a raw disk, 
use dis option
to specify tha valid amount of data on dis disk. If tha image of tha next 
track is stored up in a regular file, tha size of dat file is taken ta determine
the length of dis track.
If tha track gotz nuff a ISO 9660 filesystem image use tha 
.I \-isosize
option ta determine tha length of dat filesystem image.
.br
In Disk at Once mode n' wit some drives dat use
the TEAC programmin intercourse, even up in Track at Once mode,
.B wodim
needz ta know tha size of each track before startin ta write tha disk.
wodim now checks dis n' aborts before startin ta write.
If dis happens yo big-ass booty is ghon need ta run
.B "genisoimage -print-size
before n' use tha output (with `s' appended) as a argument ta tha 
.BR tsize =
option of 
.B wodim
(e.g. tsize=250000s).
.br
See
.BR fs =
option fo' possible arguments.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
For all examplez below, it is ghon be assumed dat tha CD/DVD-Recorder is
connected ta tha primary SCSI buz of tha machine. Da SCSI target id is
set ta 2.
.PP
To record a pure CD-ROM at double speed, rockin data from tha file
.IR cdimage.raw :
.PP
    wodim \-v speed=2 dev=2,0 cdimage.raw
.PP
To create a image fo' a ISO 9660 filesystem wit Rock Ridge extensions:
.PP
    genisoimage \-R \-o cdimage.raw /home/joerg/master/tree
.PP
To check tha resultin file before freestylin ta CD on Solaris:
.PP
    mount \-r \-F fbk \-o type=hsfs /dev/fbk0:cdimage.raw /mnt
.PP
On Linux:
.PP
    mount cdimage.raw \-r \-t iso9660 \-o loop /mnt
.PP
Go on with:
.br
    ls \-lR /mnt
.br
    umount /mnt
.PP
If tha overall speed of tha system is sufficient n' tha structure of
the filesystem aint too complex, wodim will run without bustin an
image of tha ISO 9660 filesystem. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Simply run tha pipeline:
.PP
    genisoimage \-R /master/tree | wodim \-v fs=6m speed=2 dev=2,0 -
.PP
Da recommended minimum FIFO size fo' hustlin dis pipeline is 4 MBytes.
As tha default FIFO size is 4 MB, tha 
.B fs=
option needz only be present if you wanna bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different FIFO size.
If yo' system is loaded, you should run genisoimage up in tha real time class like a muthafucka.
To raise tha prioritizzle of 
.B genisoimage
replace tha command
.PP
    genisoimage \-R /master/tree
.br
by
.br
    priocntl \-e \-c RT \-p 59 genisoimage \-R /master/tree
.sp
on Solaris n' by
.sp
    sick --18 genisoimage \-R /master/tree
.sp
on systems dat don't have
.B "UNIX International
compliant real-time scheduling.
.PP
wodim runs at prioritizzle 59 on Solaris, you should run genisoimage
at no mo' than prioritizzle 58. On other systems, you should run genisoimage
at no less than sick --18.
.PP
Creatin a CD-ROM without file system image on disk has been tested
on a Sparcstation-2 wit a Yamaha CDR-400. Well shiiiit, it did work up ta quad speed
when tha machine was not loaded.
A fasta machine may be able ta handle quad speed also up in tha loaded case.
.PP
To record a pure CD-DA (audio) at single speed, wit each track contained
in a gangbangin' file named
.IR track01.cdaudio ,
.IR track02.cdaudio ,
etc:
.PP
    wodim \-v speed=1 dev=/dev/cdrw -audio track*.cdaudio
.PP
To check if it is ghon be aiiight ta use double speed fo' tha example above. 
Use tha dummy write option:
.PP
    wodim \-v \-dummy speed=2 dev=/dev/cdrw \-audio track*.cdaudio
.PP
To record a mixed-mode CD wit a ISO 9660 filesystem from
.I cdimage.raw
on tha straight-up original gangsta track, tha other tracks bein audio tracks from tha files
.IR track01.cdaudio ,
.IR track02.cdaudio ,
etc:
.PP
    wodim \-v dev=2,0 cdimage.raw \-audio track*.cdaudio
.PP
To handle drives dat need ta know tha size of a track before startin ta write,
first run
.PP
    genisoimage -R -q -print-size /master/tree
.PP
and then run
.PP
    genisoimage -R /master/tree | wodim speed=2 dev=2,0 tsize=XXXs -
.PP
where 
.I XXX
is replaced by tha output of tha previous run of genisoimage.
.PP
To copy a audio CD up in da most thugged-out accurate way, first run
.PP
    icedax dev=/dev/cdrom \-vall cddb=0 -B \-Owav
.PP
and then run
.PP
    wodim dev=/dev/cdrw \-v \-dao \-useinfo \-text  *.wav
.PP
This will try ta copy track indices n' ta read CD-Text shiznit from disk.
If there is no CD-Text shiznit, 
.B icedax
will try ta git tha shiznit from freedb.org instead.
.PP
To copy a audio CD from a pipe (without intermediate files), first run
.PP
    icedax dev=1,0 \-vall cddb=0 \-info-only
.PP
and then run
.PP
    icedax dev=1,0 \-no-infofile \-B \-Oraw \- | \\
.br
    wodim dev=2,0 \-v \-dao \-audio \-useinfo \-text *.inf
.PP
This will git all shiznit (includin track size info) from the
.B *.inf
filez n' then read tha audio data from stdin.
.sp
If you like ta write from 
.BR stdin ,
make shizzle dat wodim is called wit a big-ass enough FIFO size (e.g.
.BR fs=128m ),
reduce tha write speed ta a value below tha read speed of tha source drive
(e.g.
.BR speed=12 ),
and git a CD/DVD drive wit BURN-Jacked feature if it aint available yet.
.PP
To set drive options without freestylin a CD (e.g. ta switch a thugged-out drive
to single session mode), run
.PP
    wodim dev=1,0 \-setdropts driveropts=singlesession
.PP
If you like ta do dis when no CD is up in tha drive, call
.PP
    wodim dev=1,0 \-force \-setdropts driveropts=singlesession
.PP
To copy a CD up in clone mode, first read tha masta CD using:
.PP
    readom dev=b,t,l \-clone f=somefile
.PP
or (in case tha CD gotz nuff nuff sectors dat is unreadable by intention)
by calling:
.PP
    readom dev=1,0 -clone -nocorr f=somefile
.PP
will create tha files
.I somefile
and
.IR somefile.toc .
Then write tha CD using:
.PP
    wodim dev=1,0 -raw96r -clone -v somefile


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CDR_DEVICE
This may either hold a thang identifier dat is suitable ta tha open
call of tha SCSI transhiznit library or a label up in tha file /etc/wodim.conf.
.TP
.B CDR_SPEED
Sets tha default speed value fo' freestylin (see also 
.B speed=
option).
.TP
.B CDR_FIFOSIZE
Sets tha default size of tha FIFO (see also 
.BR fs= #
option).
.TP
.B CDR_FORCERAWSPEED
If dis environment variable is set, 
.B wodim
will allow you ta write all up in tha full RAW encodin speed a single CPU supports.
This will create high potential of buffer underruns. Use wit care.
.TP
.B CDR_FORCESPEED
If dis environment variable is set, 
.B wodim
will allow you ta write all up in tha full DMA speed tha system supports.
There is no DMA reserve fo' readin tha data dat is ta be freestyled from disk.
This will create high potential of buffer underruns. Use wit care.
.TP
.B RSH
If tha 
.B RSH
environment is present, tha remote connection aint gonna be pimped via
.BR rcmd (3)
but by callin tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSH .
Use e.g. 
.BR RSH= /usr/bin/ssh
to create a secure shell connection.
.sp
Note dat dis forces 
.B wodim
to create a pipe ta tha 
.B rsh(1)
program n' disallows
.B wodim
to directly access tha network socket ta tha remote server.
This make it impossible ta set up performizzle parametas n' slows down
the connection compared ta a 
.B root
initiated
.B rcmd(3)
connection.
.TP
.B RSCSI
If tha 
.B RSCSI
environment is present, tha remote SCSI server aint gonna be tha program
.B /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi
but tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSCSI .
Note dat tha remote SCSI server program name is ghon be ignored if you log in
usin a account dat has been pimped wit a remote SCSI server program as
login shell.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/wodim.conf
Default joints can be set fo' tha followin options up in /etc/wodim.conf.
For example:
.SM CDR_FIFOSIZE=8m
or
.SM CDR_SPEED=2
.RS
.TP
CDR_DEVICE
This may either hold a thang identifier dat is suitable ta tha open
call of tha SCSI transhiznit library or a label up in tha file /etc/wodim.conf 
that allows ta identify a specific drive on tha system.
.TP
CDR_SPEED
Sets tha default speed value fo' freestylin (see also 
.B speed=
option).
.TP
CDR_FIFOSIZE
Sets tha default size of tha FIFO (see also 
.BR fs= #
option).
.TP
CDR_MAXFIFOSIZE
Sets tha maximum size of tha FIFO (see also 
.BR fs= #
option).
.TP
Any other keyword (label) be a identifier (symbolic name) fo' a specific drive
on tha system.  Such a identifier may not contain tha charactas ',', '/', '@'
or ':'.
.sp
Each line dat bigs up a label gotz nuff a whitespace separated list of items.
Currently, four shit is recognized: tha drivez target justification, the
default speed dat should be used fo' dis drive, tha default FIFO size
that should be used fo' dis drive n' drive specific options. Da joints fo' 
.I speed
and
.I fifosize
may be set ta -1 ta tell wodim ta use tha global defaults.
.I target
can be -1 ta use tha auto-guessin of tha drive (see above).

Da value fo' driveropts may be omitted or set ta "" if no driveropts is used.
A typical line may look dis way:
.sp
plex760= 0,5,0	12	50m	varirec=1
.sp
pioneer= /dev/hdd	-1	-1
.sp
This tells
.B wodim
that a thugged-out drive named
.I plex760
is at scsibus 0, target 5, lun 0 n' should be used wit speed 12 and
a FIFO size of 50 MB. Well shiiiit, it also uses some thang specific parameter.
A second drive may be accessible via tha thang file /dev/hdd n' uses the
default speed n' tha default FIFO size.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR icedax (1),
.BR readom (1),
.BR genisoimage (1),
.BR ssh (1).

.SH NOTES
.PP
On Solaris you need ta stop tha volume pimpment if you like ta use tha USCSI
fallback SCSI transhiznit code. Even thangs like 
.B "wodim -scanbus
will not work if tha volume pimpment is hustlin.
.PP
Disks made up in 
.B "Track At Once 
mode is not suitable as a masta fo' direct mass thang by CD manufacturers.
Yo ass will need tha 
.B "disk at once
option ta record such disks.
Nevertheless tha disks made in
.B "Track At Once 
will normally be read up in all CD playas. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some old
audio CD playas however may produce a two second click between two audio tracks.
.PP
Da minimal size of a track is 4 secondz or 300 sectors. If you write 
smalla tracks, tha CD-Recorder will add dummy blocks. This aint an
error, even though tha SCSI-error message looks dis way.
.PP
Da Yamaha CDR-400 n' all freshly smoked up SCSI-3/mmc conformin drives is supported
in single n' multi-session.
.PP
Yo ass should run nuff muthafuckin tests up in all supported speedz of yo' drive wit the
.B \-dummy
option turned on if yo ass is rockin 
.B wodim
on a unknown system. Freestylin a CD be a real-time process. 
.B NFS, CIFS
and other network file systems
won't always serve up constantly tha needed data rates.
If you wanna use 
.B wodim 
with CD-images dat is located on a
.B NFS
mounted filesystem, be shizzle dat tha FIFO size is big-ass enough.
If you wanna make shizzle dat buffer underruns is not
caused by yo' source disk, you may use tha command
.PP
.B "    wodim -dummy dev=2,0 padsize=600m /dev/null
.PP
to create a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk dat is entirely made of dummy data.
.PP
There is also cases where you either need ta be root or install
.B wodim 
executable wit suid-root permissions. First, if yo ass is rockin a thugged-out device
manufactured before 1999 which requires a non-MMC driver, you should run
.B wodim
in dummy mode before freestylin data. If you find a problem bustin this, please
report it ta the
.B cdrkit
maintainers (see below).
.PP
Second, certain functionalitizzle may be unusable cuz of Linuxz SCSI
command filtering. When using
.B wodim
for anythang except of pure data writing, you should also test tha process in
dummy mode n' report shiznit ta tha contact address below.
.PP
If you still wanna run
.B wodim
with root permissions, you can set tha permissionz of tha executable to
suid-root. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha additionizzle notez of yo' system/program distribution or
README.suidroot which is part of tha cdrkit source.
.PP
Yo ass should not connect oldschool drives dat do not support
disconnect/reconnect ta either tha SCSI bus dat is connected ta the
CD-Recorder or tha source disk.
.PP
A Compact Disc can have no mo' than 99 tracks.
.PP
When bustin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disc wit both audio n' data tracks, 
the data should be on track 1 otherwise you should create
a CDplus disk which be a multi session disk wit tha straight-up original gangsta session 
containin tha audio tracks n' tha followin session containin tha data track.
.PP
Many operatin systems is not able ta read mo' than a single data track, or
need special software ta do so.
.PP
If you have mo' shiznit or SCSI command manuals fo' currently 
unsupported CD/DVD/BR/HD-DVD-Recorders, please contact the
.B cdrkit
maintainers (see below).
.PP
Many CD recordaz have bugs n' often require a gangbangin' firmware update ta work
correctly. If you experience problems which cannot be solved or explained by the
notes above, please look fo' instructions on tha homepizzy of tha particular
manufacturer.
.PP
Some bugs will force you ta juice cycle tha thang or ta reboot tha machine.
.PP
Da FIFO cement output is computed just afta a funky-ass block of data has been written
to tha CD/DVD-Recorder n' shit. For dis reason, there aint NEVER gonna be 100% FIFO fill ratio
while tha FIFO is up in streamin mode.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Yo ass have 4 secondz ta abort
.B wodim
start afta you peep tha message:
.PP
Startin ta write CD at speed %d up in %s mode fo' %s session.
In most shells you can do dat by pressin Ctrl-C.
.PP
A typical error message fo' a SCSI command looks like:
.sp
.RS
.nf
wodim: I/O error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. test unit ready: scsi sendcmd: no error
CDB:  00 20 00 00 00 00
status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
Sense Bytes: 70 00 05 00 00 00 00 0A 00 00 00 00 25 00 00 00 00 00
Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
Sense Code: 0x25 Qual 0x00 (logical unit not supported) Fru 0x0
Sense flags: Blk 0 (not valid)
cmd finished afta 0.002s timeout 40s
.fi
.RE
.sp
Da first line gives shiznit bout tha transhiznit of tha command.
Da text afta tha straight-up original gangsta colon gives tha error text fo' tha system call
from tha view of tha kernel. Well shiiiit, it probably is:
.B "I/O error
unless other problems happen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da next lyrics contain a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description for
the SCSI command dat fails. Da rest of tha line  drops some lyrics ta you if there were
any problems fo' tha transhiznit of tha command over tha SCSI bus.
.B "fatal error
means dat dat shiznit was not possible ta transhiznit tha command (i.e. no thang present
at tha axed SCSI address).
.PP
Da second line prints tha SCSI command descriptor block fo' tha failed command.
.PP
Da third line gives shiznit on tha SCSI status code returned by tha 
command, if tha transhiznit of tha command succeeds. 
This is error shiznit from tha SCSI device.
.PP
Da fourth line be a hex dump of tha auto request sense shiznit fo' tha 
command.
.PP
Da fifth line is tha error text fo' tha sense key if available, followed
by tha segment number dat is only valid if tha command was a
.I copy
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha error message aint directly related ta tha current command,
the text
.I deferred error
is appended.
.PP
Da sixth line is tha error text fo' tha sense code n' tha sense qualifier if available.
If tha type of tha thang is known, tha sense data is decoded from tables
in
.IR scsierrs.c " .
Da text is followed by tha error value fo' a gangbangin' field replaceable unit.
.PP
Da seventh line prints tha block number dat is related ta tha failed command
and text fo' nuff muthafuckin error flags. Da block number may not be valid.
.PP
Da eight line reports tha timeout set up fo' dis command n' tha time
that tha command straight-up needed ta complete.
.PP
Da followin message aint a error:
.sp
.RS
.nf
Track 01: Total bytes read/written: 2048/2048 (1 sectors).
wodim: I/O error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. flush cache: scsi sendcmd: no error
CDB:  35 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
Sense Bytes: F0 00 05 80 00 00 27 0A 00 00 00 00 B5 00 00 00 00 00
Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
Sense Code: 0xB5 Qual 0x00 (dummy data blocks added) Fru 0x0
Sense flags: Blk -2147483609 (valid)
cmd finished afta 0.002s timeout 40s
.fi
.RE
.sp
It simply notifies, dat a track dat is smalla than tha minimum size has been
expanded ta 300 sectors.
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B netscsid
does not work properly n' is generally unmaintained. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it is probably not
compatible wit rscsi from 
.BR cdrtools
either n' shit. Dope bugfixes is welcome, rap ta Cdrkit maintainers.
.PP
.B cuefile support is straight-up limited, only one file be allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For volunteers,
see TODO file up in tha source.
.PP
.B Specifyin a audio file multiple times causes corruption of tha second
track (effectively no data plus minimum padding).
.PP
Some of tha bugs may be fixed up in Joerg Schillingz cdrtools. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there for
details, URL attached below.

.SH CREDITS
.PP
.TP 15
Joerg Schillin (schilling@fokus.fhg.de)
.br
For freestylin cdrecord n' libscg which represent da most thugged-out partz of wodimz code.
.PP
.TP 15
Bizzle Swartz	(Bizzle_Swartz@twolf.com)
.br
For helpin me wit tha TEAC driver support
.TP
Aaron Shitome	(aaron.d.newsome@wdc.com)
.br
For lettin me pimp Sony support on his fuckin lil' drive
.TP
Eric Youngdale	(eric@andante.jic.com)
.br
For supplyin mkisofs
.TP
Gadi Oxman	(gadio@netvision.net.il)
.br
For tips on tha ATAPI standard
.TP
Finn Arne Gangstad	(finnag@guardian.no)
.br
For tha straight-up original gangsta FIFO implementation.
.TP
Dizzle Platt	(dplatt@feghoot.ml.org)
.br
For bustin tha experimenstrual packet freestylin support,
the first implementation of CD-RW blankin support,
the first .wav file decoder 
and nuff sick raps on cdrecord.
.TP
Chris P. Ross (cross@eng.us.uu.net)
.br
For tha straight-up original gangsta implementation of a BSDI SCSI transport.
.TP
Grant R. Guenther   (grant@torque.net)
.br
For bustin tha straight-up original gangsta parallel port transhiznit implementation
for Linux.
.TP
Kenneth D. Merry (ken@kdm.org)
.br
for providin tha CAM port fo' FreeBSD together wit Mike Smizzle (msmith@freebsd.org)
.TP
Heiko Ei\*sfeldt (heiko@hexco.de)
for makin libedc_ecc available (needed ta write RAW data sectors).

.SH "MAILING LISTS
If you wanna actively take part on tha pimpment of wodim,
you may join tha pimper mailin list via dis URL:
.sp
.B
https://alioth.debian.org/mail/?group_id=31006
.PP
Da mail address of tha list is:
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

.SH AUTHORS
.B wodim
is currently maintained as part of tha cdrkit project by its pimpers. Most of tha code n' dis manual page was originally freestyled by:
.PP
.nf
Joerg Schilling
Seestr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 110
D-13353 Berlin
Germany
.fi
.PP
This application is derived from "cdrecord" as included
in tha cdrtools package [1] pimped by Joerg
Schilling, whoz ass deserves most of tha credit fo' its success. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat he is not
involved tha fuck into tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore da perved-out muthafucka shall not be
held responsible fo' any problems caused by dat shit. Do not refer ta dis application
as "cdrecord", do not try ta git support fo' wodim by contactin tha original
authors.
.PP
Additionizzle shiznit can be found on:
.br
https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" up in tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.SH SOURCES
.PP
.br
[1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de

