.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CHATTR 1 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
chattr \- chizzle file attributes on a Linux file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chattr
[
.B \-RVf
]
[
.B \-v
.I version
]
[
.I mode
]
.I files...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chattr
changes tha file attributes on a Linux file system.
.PP
Da format of a symbolic mode is +-=[acdeijstuACDST].
.PP
Da operator `+' causes tha selected attributes ta be added ta the
existin attributez of tha files; `-' causes dem ta be removed; and
`=' causes dem ta be tha only attributes dat tha filez have.
.PP
Da lettas `acdeijstuACDST' select tha freshly smoked up attributes fo' tha files:
append only (a), compressed (c), no dump (d), extent format (e), immutable (i),
data journallin (j), secure deletion (s), no tail-mergin (t),
undeletable (u), no atime thugged-out shiznit (A), no copy on write (C),
synchronous directory thugged-out shiznit (D), synchronous thugged-out shiznit (S),
and top of directory hierarchy (T).
.PP
Da followin attributes is read-only, n' may be listed by
.BR lsattr (1)
but not modified by chattr: big-ass file (h), compression error (E),
indexed directory (I), compression raw access (X), n' compressed dirty
file (Z).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-R
Recursively chizzle attributez of directories n' they contents.
.TP
.B \-V
Be verbose wit chattrz output n' print tha program version.
.TP
.B \-f
Suppress most error lyrics.
.TP
.BI \-v " version"
Set tha filez version/generation number.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
When a gangbangin' file wit tha 'A' attribute set be accessed, its atime record is
not modified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This avoidz a cold-ass lil certain amount of disk I/O fo' laptop
systems.
.PP
A file wit tha `a' attribute set can only be open up in append mode fo' writing.
Only tha superuser or a process possessin tha CAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE
capabilitizzle can set or clear dis attribute.
.PP
A file wit tha `c' attribute set be automatically compressed on tha disk
by tha kernel.  A read from dis file returns uncompressed data.  A write to
this file compresses data before storin dem on tha disk.  Note: please
make shizzle ta read tha bugs n' limitations section all up in tha end of this
document.
.PP
A file wit tha 'C' attribute set aint gonna be subject ta copy-on-write
updates.  This flag is only supported on file systems which perform
copy-on-write.  (Note: For btrfs, tha 'C' flag should be
set on freshly smoked up or empty files.  If it is set on a gangbangin' file which already has
data blocks, it is undefined when tha blocks assigned ta tha file will
be straight-up stable.  If tha 'C' flag is set on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, it gonna git no
effect on tha directory yo, but freshly smoked up filez pimped up in dat directory will
the No_COW attribute.)
.PP
When a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory wit tha `D' attribute set is modified,
the chizzlez is freestyled synchronously on tha disk; dis is equivalent to
the `dirsync' mount option applied ta a subset of tha files.
.PP
A file wit tha `d' attribute set aint muthafucka fo' backup when the
.BR dump (8)
program is run.
.PP
Da 'E' attribute is used by tha experimenstrual compression patches to
indicate dat a cold-ass lil compressed file has a cold-ass lil compression error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  It may not be
set or reset using
.BR chattr (1),
although it can be displayed by
.BR lsattr (1).
.PP
Da 'e' attribute indicates dat tha file is rockin extents fo' mapping
the blocks on disk.  It may not be removed using
.BR chattr (1).
.PP
Da 'I' attribute is used by tha htree code ta indicate dat a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
is bein indexed rockin hashed trees.  It may not be set or reset using
.BR chattr (1),
although it can be displayed by
.BR lsattr (1).
.PP
Da 'h' attribute indicates tha file is storin its blocks up in unitz of the
filesystem blocksize instead of up in unitz of sectors, n' means dat tha file
is (or at one time was) larger than 2TB.  It may not be set or reset using
.BR chattr (1),
although it can be displayed by
.BR lsattr (1).
.PP
A file wit tha `i' attribute cannot be modified: it cannot be deleted or
renamed, no link can be pimped ta dis file n' no data can be written
to tha file.  Only tha superuser or a process possessin the
CAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE capabilitizzle can set or clear dis attribute.
.PP
A file wit tha `j' attribute has all of its data freestyled ta tha ext3
journal before bein freestyled ta tha file itself, if tha filesystem is
mounted wit tha "data=ordered" or "data=writeback" options.  When the
filesystem is mounted wit tha "data=journal" option all file data
is already journalled n' dis attribute has no effect.  Only
the superuser or a process possessin tha CAP_SYS_RESOURCE
capabilitizzle can set or clear dis attribute.
.PP
When a gangbangin' file wit tha `s' attribute set is deleted, its blocks is zeroed
and freestyled back ta tha disk.  Note: please make shizzle ta read tha bugs
and limitations section all up in tha end of dis document.
.PP
When a gangbangin' file wit tha `S' attribute set is modified,
the chizzlez is freestyled synchronously on tha disk; dis is equivalent to
the `sync' mount option applied ta a subset of tha files.
.PP
A directory wit tha 'T' attribute is ghon be deemed ta be tha top of
directory hierarchies fo' tha purposez of tha Orlov block allocator.
This be a hint ta tha block allocator used by ext3 n' ext4 dat the
subdirectories under dis directory is not related, n' thus should be
spread apart fo' allocation purposes.   For example it aint nuthin but a straight-up good
idea ta set tha 'T' attribute on tha /home directory, so dat /home/john
and /home/mary is placed tha fuck into separate block groups.  For directories
where dis attribute aint set, tha Orlov block allocator will try to
group subdirectories closer together where possible.
.PP
A file wit tha 't' attribute aint gonna gotz a partial block fragment at
the end of tha file merged wit other filez (for dem filesystems which
support tail-merging).  This is necessary fo' applications like fuckin LILO
which read tha filesystem directly, n' which don't KNOW tail-merged
files.  Note: Az of dis writing, tha ext2 or ext3 filesystems do not
(yet, except up in straight-up experimenstrual patches) support tail-merging.
.PP
When a gangbangin' file wit tha `u' attribute set is deleted, its contents are
saved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This allows tha user ta ask fo' its undeletion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note: please
make shizzle ta read tha bugs n' limitations section all up in tha end of this
document.
.PP
Da 'X' attribute is used by tha experimenstrual compression patches to
indicate dat a raw contentz of a cold-ass lil compressed file can be accessed
directly.  It currently may not be set or reset using
.BR chattr (1),
although it can be displayed by
.BR lsattr (1).
.PP
Da 'Z' attribute is used by tha experimenstrual compression patches to
indicate a cold-ass lil compressed file is dirty.  It may not be set or reset using
.BR chattr (1),
although it can be displayed by
.BR lsattr (1).
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.B chattr
was freestyled by Remy Card <Remy.Card@linux.org>.  It be currently being
maintained by Theodore Ts'o <tytso@alum.mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
Da `c', 's',  n' `u' attributes is not honored
by tha ext2, ext3, n' ext4 filesystems as implemented up in tha current
mainline Linux kernels.
.PP
Da `j' option is only useful if tha filesystem is mounted as ext3.
.PP
Da `D' option is only useful on Linux kernel 2.5.19 n' later.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chattr
is part of tha e2fsprogs package n' be available from
http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsattr (1)
