.\"
.\"  chfn.1 -- chizzle yo' finger shiznit
.\"  (c) 1994 by salvatore valente <svalente@athena.mit.edu>
.\"
.\"  dis program is free software.  you can redistribute it and
.\"  modify it under tha termz of tha gnu general hood license.
.\"  there is no warranty.
.\"
.\"  $Author: faith $
.\"  $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"  $Date: 1995/03/12 01:29:16 $
.\"
.TH CHFN 1 "July 2009" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chfn \- chizzle yo' finger shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chfn
.RB [ \-f
.IR full-name ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR crib ]
,RB [ \-p
.IR office-phone ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR home-phone ]
.BR \-u ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RI [ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chfn
is used ta chizzle yo' finger shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This shiznit is
stored up in the
.I /etc/passwd
file, n' is displayed by the
.B finger
program.  Da Linux
.B finger
command will display four piecez of shiznit dat can be chizzled by
.BR chfn :
your real name, yo' work room n' phone, n' yo' home phone.

.B chfn
supports non-local entries (kerberos, LDAP, etc.) if linked wit libuser,
otherwise use ypchsh, lchsh or any other implementation fo' non-local
entries.
.SS COMMAND LINE
Any of tha four piecez of shiznit can be specified on tha command
line.  If no shiznit is given on tha command line,
.B chfn
entas interactizzle mode.
.SS INTERACTIVE MODE
In interactizzle mode,
.B chfn
will prompt fo' each field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  At a prompt, you can enta tha freshly smoked up shiznit,
or just press return ta leave tha field unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Enta tha keyword
"none" ta make tha field blank.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-f, \-\-full-name " full-name
Specify yo' real name.
.TP
.BI "\-o, \-\-office " office
Specify yo' crib room number.
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-office-phone " office-phone
Specify yo' crib beeper number.
.TP
.BI "\-h, \-\-home-phone " home-phone
Specify yo' home beeper number.
.TP
.B "\-u, \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.B "-v, \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Returns 0 if operation was successful, 1 if operation failed or command syntax was not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR finger (1),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Salvatore Valente <svalente@mit.edu>
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da chfn command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
