.TH CHRONYC 1 "July 2014" "chrony 1.30" "Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
chronyc \- command-line intercourse fo' chronyd

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chronyc
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIchrony\fR be a pair of programs fo' maintainin tha accuracy of computer
clocks.

\fBchronyc\fR be a cold-ass lil command-line intercourse program which can be used to
monitor \fIchronyd\fRz performizzle n' ta chizzle various operating
parametas whilst it is hustlin.

.SH USAGE
A detailed description of all commandz supported by \fBchronyc\fR be available
via tha documentation supplied wit tha distribution (\fIchrony.txt\fR and
\fIchrony.texi\fR).

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of tha options supported by \fBchronyc\fR is included below.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhostname\fR
specify hostname (default 127.0.0.1)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIport-number\fR
specify port-number
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
display raw IP addresses (don't attempt ta look up hostnames)
.TP
\fB\-4\fR
resolve hostnames only ta IPv4 addresses
.TP
\fB\-6\fR
resolve hostnames only ta IPv6 addresses
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
allow multiple commandz ta be specified on tha command line.  Each argument
will be interpreted as a whole command.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIconf-file\fR
This option can be used ta specify a alternate location fo' the
configuration file (default \fI/etc/chrony.conf\fR). Da configuration file is
needed fo' tha \fB-a\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
With dis option chronyc will try ta authenticate automatically on
start. Well shiiiit, it will read tha configuration file, read tha command key from the
keyfile n' run tha authhash n' password commands.
.TP
\fIcommand\fR
specify command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If no command is given, chronyc will read commands
interactively.

.SH BUGS
To report bugs, please visit \fIhttp://chrony.tuxfamily.org\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chronyd(8),
.BR chrony(1)

.I http://chrony.tuxfamily.org/

.SH AUTHOR
Slick Rick Curnow <rc@rc0.org.uk>

This man-page was freestyled by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> as part of "Da Missing
Man Pages Project".  Please peep \fIhttp://www.netmeister.org/misc/m2p2/index.html\fR
for details.

Da complete chrony documentation is supplied up in texinfo format.
