.TH CHRONY 1 "July 2014" "chrony 1.30" "Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
chrony \- programs fo' keepin computa clocks accurate

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchronyc\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

\fBchronyd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchrony\fR be a pair of programs fo' keepin computa clocks accurate.
\fIchronyd\fR be a funky-ass background (daemon) program n' \fIchronyc\fR be a
command-line intercourse ta dat shit. Time reference sources fo' chronyd can be
RFC1305 NTP servers, human (via keyboard n' \fIchronyc\fR), or tha computer's
real-time clock at boot time (Linux only). chronyd can determine tha rate at
which tha computa gains or loses time n' compensate fo' it while no external
reference is present. Its use of NTP servers can be switched on n' off
(all up in \fIchronyc\fR) ta support computas wit dial-up/intermittent access
to tha Internet, n' it can also act as a RFC1305-compatible NTP server.

.SH USAGE
\fIchronyc\fR be a cold-ass lil command-line intercourse program which can be used to
monitor \fIchronyd\fRz performizzle n' ta chizzle various operating
parametas whilst it is hustlin.

\fIchronyd\fRz main function is ta obtain measurementz of tha legit (UTC)
time from one of nuff muthafuckin sources, n' erect tha system clock
accordingly.  It also works up tha rate at which tha system clock
gains or loses time n' uses dis shiznit ta keep it accurate
between measurements from tha reference.

Da reference time can be derived from either Network Time Protocol
(NTP) servers, reference clocks, or wristwatch-and-keyboard (via \fIchronyc\fR).
Da main source of shiznit bout tha Network Time Protocol is
\fIhttp://www.ntp.org\fR.

It be designed so dat it can work on computas which only have
intermittent access ta reference sources, fo' example computas which
use a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dial-up account ta access tha Internizzle or laptops.  Of course, it
will work well on computas wit permanent connections like a muthafucka.

In addition, on Linux it can monitor tha systemz real time clock
performance, so tha system can maintain accurate time even across
reboots.

Typical accuracies available between 2 machines are

On a ethernet LAN : 100-200 microseconds, often much better
On a V32bis dial-up modem connection : 10z of millisecondz (from one
session ta tha next)

With a phat reference clock tha accuracy can reach one microsecond.

\fIchronyd\fR can also operate as a RFC1305-compatible NTP server n' peer.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chronyc(1),
.BR chrony.conf(5),
.BR chronyd(8)

.I http://chrony.tuxfamily.org/

.SH AUTHOR
Slick Rick Curnow <rc@rc0.org.uk>

This man-page was freestyled by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> as part
of "Da Missin Man Pages Project".  Please see
\fIhttp://www.netmeister.org/misc/m2p2/index.html\fR fo' details.

Da complete chrony documentation is supplied up in texinfo format.

