.\" chrt(1) manpage
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Robert Love
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" 2002-05-11 Robert Ludd <rml@tech9.net>
.\" 	Initial version
.\"
.TH CHRT 1 "June 2010" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chrt \- manipulate tha real-time attributez of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chrt
.RI [ options ]\  prio
.IR command\  [ arg ]...
.br
.B chrt
.RI [ options ]
.B \-p
.RI [ prio ]\  pid
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B chrt
sets or retrieves tha real-time schedulin attributez of a existin \fIpid\fR,
or runs \fIcommand\fR wit tha given attributes.  Both policy (one of
.BR SCHED_OTHER ,
.BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.BR SCHED_RR ,
.BR SCHED_BATCH ,
or
.BR SCHED_IDLE )
and prioritizzle can be set n' retrieved.
.PP
The
.BR SCHED_BATCH
policy is supported since Linux 2.6.16.  The
.BR SCHED_IDLE
policy is supported since Linux 2.6.23.
.PP
The
.BR SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK
flag fo' policies SCHED_RR n' SCHED_FIFO is supported
since Linux 2.6.31.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --all-tasks
Set or retrieve tha schedulin attributez of all tha tasks (threads) fo' a
given PID.
.TP
.B -b, --batch
Set schedulin policy to
.BR SCHED_BATCH
(Linux specific).
.TP
.B -f, --fifo
Set schedulin policy to
.BR SCHED_FIFO .
.TP
.B -i, --idle
Set schedulin policy to
.BR SCHED_IDLE
(Linux specific).
.TP
.B -m, --max
Show minimum n' maximum valid priorities, then exit.
.TP
.B -o, --other
Set policy schedulin policy to
.BR SCHED_OTHER .
.TP
.B -p, --pid
Operate on a existin PID n' do not launch a freshly smoked up task.
.TP
.B -r, --rr
Set schedulin policy to
.BR SCHED_RR .
When policy aint defined the
.B SCHED_RR
is used as default.
.TP
.B -R, --reset-on-fork
Add
.B SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK
flag ta the
.B SCHED_FIFO
or
.B SCHED_RR
schedulin policy (Linux specific).
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Show status shiznit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH USAGE
.TP
Da default behavior is ta run a freshly smoked up command:
.B chrt
.I prio
.IR command\  [ arguments ]
.TP
Yo ass can also retrieve tha real-time attributez of a existin task:
.B chrt \-p
.I pid
.TP
Or set them:
.B chrt \-r \-p
.I prio pid
.SH PERMISSIONS
A user must possess
.BR CAP_SYS_NICE
to chizzle tha schedulin attributez of a process.  Any user can retrieve the
schedulin shiznit.
.SH NOTES
Only
.BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.BR SCHED_OTHER
and
.BR SCHED_RR
are part of POSIX 1003.1b Process Scheduling. Da other schedulin attributes
may be ignored on some systems.
.P
Linux default schedulin policy is
.BR SCHED_OTHER .
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Robert M. Love.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Robert M. Love
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR taskset (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR renice (1)
.sp
See
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
for a thugged-out description of tha Linux schedulin scheme.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da chrt command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
