.\"
.\"  chsh.1 -- chizzle yo' login shell
.\"  (c) 1994 by salvatore valente <svalente@athena.mit.edu>
.\"
.\"  dis program is free software.  you can redistribute it and
.\"  modify it under tha termz of tha gnu general hood license.
.\"  there is no warranty.
.\"
.\"  $Author: faith $
.\"  $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"  $Date: 1995/03/12 01:28:58 $
.\"
.TH CHSH 1 "July 2009" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chsh \- chizzle yo' login shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chsh
.RB [ \-s
.IR shell ]
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RI [ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chsh
is used ta chizzle yo' login shell.
If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell aint given on tha command line,
.B chsh
prompts fo' one.

.B chsh
supports non-local entries (kerberos, LDAP, etc.) if linked wit libuser,
otherwise use ypchsh, lchsh or any other implementation fo' non-local
entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-shell " shell
Specify yo' login shell.
.TP
.B "\-l, \-\-list-shells"
Print tha list of shells listed in
.I /etc/shells
and exit.
.TP
.B "\-u, \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.B "-v, \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH "VALID SHELLS"
.B chsh
will accept tha full pathname of any executable file on tha system.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it will issue a warnin if tha shell aint listed up in the
.I /etc/shells
file.
On tha other hand, it can also be configured such dat it will
only accept shells listed up in dis file, unless yo ass is root.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Returns 0 if operation was successful, 1 if operation failed or command syntax was not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR shells (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Salvatore Valente <svalente@mit.edu>
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da chsh command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
