.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"	(at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"	Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"	along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.TH CIPTOOL 1 "JUNE 6, 2003" "" ""

.SH NAME
ciptool \- Bluetooth Common ISDN Access Flava (CIP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "ciptool
[
.I options
] <
.I command
>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ciptool
is used ta set up, maintain, n' inspect tha CIP configuration
of tha Bluetooth subsystem up in tha Linux kernel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -h
Gives a list of possible commands.
.TP
.BI -i " <hciX> | <bdaddr>"
Da command be applied ta device
.I
hciX
, which must be tha name or tha address of a installed Bluetooth
device. If not specified, tha command is ghon be use tha first
available Bluetooth device.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI show
Display shiznit bout tha connected devices.
.TP
.BI search
Search fo' Bluetooth devices n' connect ta first one that
offers CIP support.
.TP
.BI connect " <bdaddr> [psm]"
Connect tha local thang ta tha remote Bluetooth thang on the
specified PSM number n' shit. If no PSM is specified, it will use the
SDP ta retrieve it from tha remote device.
.TP
.BI release " [bdaddr]"
Release a cold-ass lil connection ta tha specific device. If no address is
given n' only one thang is connected dis is ghon be busted out.
.TP
.BI loopback " <bdaddr> [psm]"
Smoke a cold-ass lil connection ta tha remote thang fo' Bluetooth testing.
This command aint gonna provide a CAPI controller, cuz it is
only fo' testin tha CAPI Message Transhiznit Protocol.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>.
.br
