.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: clear.1,v 1.8 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH clear 1 ""
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBclear\fR \- clear tha terminal screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBclear\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBclear\fR clears yo' screen if dis is possible.  It looks up in the
environment fo' tha terminal type n' then up in tha \fBterminfo\fR database to
figure up how tha fuck ta clear tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Some terminals can clear also their
scrollback buffer ta prevent access ta potentially sensitizzle data.  If the
\fBterminfo\fR entry fo' tha terminal type gotz nuff extended capability
\fBE3\fR, \fBclear\fR will use it ta clear tha scrollback buffer.
.PP
\fBclear\fR ignores any command-line parametas dat may be present.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtput\fR(1), \fBterminfo\fR(\*n)
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
