.de TQ
.  br
.  ns
.  TP \\$1
..
.TH CLUSTER 1 "3 March 2011"
.SH NAME
clusta \- find clustas up in a graph n' augment tha graph wit dis shiznit.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cluster
[\fB\-v?\fP]
[
.BI \-C k
]
[
.BI \-c k
]
[
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cluster
takes as input a graph up in DOT format, findz node clustas n' augments 
the graph wit dis shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da clustas is specified by tha "cluster" attribute attached ta nodes; cluster
values is non-negatizzle integers.
.B cluster
attempts ta maximize tha modularitizzle of tha clustering.
If tha edge attribute "weight" is defined, dis is ghon be used up in 
computin tha clustering.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.BI \-C k 
specifies a targeted number of clustas dat should be generated.
Da specified number \fIk\fP is only a suggestion n' may not be realisable. 
If \fIk == 0\fP, tha default, tha number of clustas dat approximately optimizes tha modularitizzle is returned.
.TP
.BI \-c k
specifies clusterin method.
If \fIk == 0\fP, tha default, modularitizzle clusterin is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
If \fIk == 1\fP modularitizzle qualitizzle is ghon be used.
.TP
.BI \-o outfile 
Specifies dat output should go tha fuck into tha file \fIoutfile\fP. By default,
\fIstdout\fP is used.
.TP
.BI \-v 
Verbose mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Applyin 
.B cluster
to tha followin graph,
.PP
.nf
\fB   graph {
       1--2 [weight=10.]
       2--3 [weight=1]
       3--4 [weight=10.]
       4--5 [weight=10]
       5--6 [weight=10]
       3--6 [weight=0.1]
       4--6 [weight=10.]
      }\fP
.fi
.PP
gives
.PP
.nf
\fB   graph {
         node [cluster="-1"];
         1 [cluster=1];
         2 [cluster=1];
         3 [cluster=2];
         4 [cluster=2];
         5 [cluster=2];
         6 [cluster=2];
         1 -- 2 [weight="10."];
         2 -- 3 [weight=1];
         3 -- 4 [weight="10."];
         4 -- 5 [weight=10];
         5 -- 6 [weight=10];
         3 -- 6 [weight="0.1"];
         4 -- 6 [weight="10."];
   }\fP
.fi


.SH AUTHOR
Yifan Hu <yifanhu@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
gvmap(1)
.PP

Blondel, V.D., Guillaume, J.L., Lambiotte, R., Lefebvre, E.: Fast unfoldin of communitizzles up in big-ass networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory n' Experiment (2008), P10008.
