.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Mike Rendell.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)col.1	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/17/91
.\"
.TH COL "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
col - filta reverse line feedz from input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B col
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B col
filtas up reverse (and half-reverse) line feedz so tha output is up in the
correct order wit only forward n' half-forward line feeds, n' replaces
white-space charactas wit tabs where possible.  This can be useful in
processin tha output of
.BR nroff (1)
and
.BR tbl (1).
.PP
.B col
readz from standard input n' writes ta standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-no-backspaces\fR
Do not output any backspaces, printin only tha last characta freestyled to
each column position.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fine\fR
Forward half line feedz is permitted
.I fine
mode.  Normally charactas printed on a half-line boundary is printed on the
followin line.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pass\fR
Force unknown control sequences ta be passed all up in unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Normally,
.B col
will filta up any control sequences from tha input other than them
recognized n' interpreted by itself, which is listed below.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-tabs\fR
Output tabs instead of multiple spaces.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-spaces\fR
Output multiple spaces instead of tabs.
.It Fl l, Fl Fl lines Ar num
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lines\fR \fInumber\fR
Buffer at least
.I number
lines up in memory.  By default, 128 lines is buffered.
.It Fl V, Fl Fl version
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH NOTES
Da control sequences fo' carriage motion that
.B col
understandz n' they decimal joints is listed up in tha followin table:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 18
.B ESC\-7
reverse line feed (escape then 7)
.TP
.B ESC\-8
half reverse line feed (escape then 8)
.TP
.B ESC\-9
half forward line feed (escape then 9)
.TP
.B backspace
moves back one column (8); ignored up in tha straight-up original gangsta column
.TP
.B newline
forward line feed (10); also do carriage return
.TP
.B carriage return
(13)
.TP
.B shift in
shift ta aiiight characta set (15)
.TP
.B shift out
shift ta alternate characta set (14)
.TP
.B space
moves forward one column (32)
.TP
.B tab
moves forward ta next tab stop (9)
.TP
.B vertical tab
reverse line feed (11)
.PD
.RE
.PP
All unrecognized control charactas n' escape sequences is discarded.
.PP
.B col
keeps track of tha characta set as charactas is read n' make shizzle the
characta set is erect when they is output.
.PP
If tha input attempts ta back up ta tha last flushed line,
.B col
will display a warnin message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR expand (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1)
.SH STANDARDS
The
.B col
utilitizzle conforms ta tha Single UNIX Justification, Version 2.  The
.B \-l
option be a extension ta tha standard.
.SH HISTORY
A
.B col
command rocked up in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da col command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
