.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colcrt.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/30/93
.\"
.TH COLCRT "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
colcrt \- filta nroff output fo' CRT peepshowing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B colcrt
[options] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B colcrt
provides virtual half-line n' reverse line feed sequences fo' terminals
without such capability, n' on which overstrikin is destructive.
Half-line charactas n' underlinin (changed ta dashin `\-') is placed on
new lines up in between tha aiiight output lines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\fR, \fB\-\-no-underlining\fR
Suppress all underlining.  This option is especially useful fo' peepshowing
.I allboxed
tablez from
.BR tbl (1).
.TP
\fB\-2\fR, \fB\-\-half-lines\fR
Causes all half-lines ta be printed, effectively double spacin tha output.
Normally, a minimal space output format is used which will suppress empty
lines.  Da program never suppresses two consecutizzle empty lines, however.
The
.B \-2
option is useful fo' bustin  output ta tha line printa when tha output
gotz nuff superscripts n' subscripts which would otherwise be invisible.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
A typical use of
.B colcrt
would be
.PP
tbl exum2.n \&| nroff \-ms \&| colcrt \- \&| more
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR col (1),
.BR mo' (1),
.BR ul (1)
.SH BUGS
Should fold underlines onto blanks even wit the
.B '\-'
option so dat a legit underline characta would show.
.PP
Can't back up mo' than 102 lines.
.PP
General overstrikin is lost; as a special case '|' overstruck wit '\-' or
underline becomes '+'.
.PP
Lines is trimmed ta 132 characters.
.PP
Some provision should be made fo' processin superscripts n' subscripts in
documents which is already double-spaced.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B colcrt
command rocked up in 3.0BSD.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da colcrt command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
