.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.TH COLUMN 1 "October 2010" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
column - columnate lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B column
.RB [ options ]
.RI [ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B column
utilitizzle formats its input tha fuck into multiple columns.  By default, rows
are filled before columns.  Input is taken from \fIfile\fR, or
otherwise from standard input.  Empty lines is ignored.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-columns\fP \fIwidth\fP"
Output is formatted ta a width specified as number of characters.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-table\fP"
Determine tha number of columns tha input gotz nuff n' create a table.
Columns is delimited wit whitespace, by default, or wit tha characters
supplied rockin tha \fB\-\-output-separator\fP option.
Table output is useful fo' pretty-printing.
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-separator\fP \fIseparators\fP"
Specify tha possible input item delimitas (default is whitespace).
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-output-separator\fP \fIstring\fP"
Specify tha columns delimita fo' table output (default is two spaces).
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-fillrows\fP"
Fill columns before fillin rows.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da environment variable COLUMNS is used ta determine tha size of
the screen if no other shiznit be available.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
sed 's/#.*//' /etc/fstab | column -t
.nf
.SH BUGS
Da util-linux version 2.23 chizzled
.B \-s
option ta be non-greedy, fo' example:
.PP
.EX
$ printf "a:b:c\\n1::3\\n" | column  -t -s ':'
.EE
.PP
old output:
.EX
a  b  c
1  3
.EE
.PP
new output (since util-linux 2.23)
.EX
a  b  c
1     3
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR colrm (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR paste (1),
.BR sort (1)
.SH HISTORY
Da column command rocked up in 4.3BSD-Reno.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da column command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
