.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
.\" Student Hype Processin Board. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Header$
.\"
.TH COMPILE_ET 1 "30 Mar 1998" SIPB
.SH NAME
compile_et \- error table compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B compile_et
file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Compile_et
converts a table listin error-code names n' associated lyrics into
a C source file suitable fo' use wit the
.IR com_err (3)
library.

Da source file name must end wit a suffix of ``.et''; tha file
consistz of a thugged-out declaration supplyin tha name (up ta four characters
long) of tha error-code table:

.B error_table
.I name

followed by up ta 256 entriez of tha form:

.B error_code
.I name,
"
.I string
"

and a gangbangin' final

.B end

to indicate tha end of tha table.

Da name of tha table is used ta construct tha name of a subroutine
.I initialize_XXXX_error_table
which must be called up in order fo' the
.I com_err
library ta recognize tha error table.

Da various error codes defined is assigned sequentially increasing
numbers (startin wit a big-ass number computed as a hash function of
the name of tha table); thus fo' compatibilitizzle it is suggested that
new codes be added only ta tha end of a existin table, n' dat no
codes be removed from tables.

Da names defined up in tha table is placed tha fuck into a C header file with
preprocessor directives definin dem as integer constantz of up to
32 bits up in magnitude.

A C source file be also generated which should be compiled n' linked
with tha object filez which reference these error codes; it gotz nuff
the text of tha lyrics n' tha initialization subroutine.  Both C
filez have names derived from dat of tha original gangsta source file, with
the ``.et'' suffix replaced by ``.c'' n' ``.h''.

A ``#'' up in tha source file is treated as a cold-ass lil comment character, n' all
remainin text ta tha end of tha source line is ghon be ignored.

.SH BUGS

Since tha original
.B compile_et
uses a straight-up simple parser based on
.IR yacc (1), 
and dis current version of 
.B compile_et
uses a awk/sed combination of scripts, 
its error recovery leaves much ta be desired.

.\" .IR fo' manual entries
.\" .PP fo' paragraph breaks

.SH "SEE ALSO"
com_err (3).

Ken Raeburn, "A Common Error Description Library fo' UNIX".
