.TH cppunit 1 "September 2001"
.SH NAME
cppunit-config - script ta git shiznit bout tha installed version of cppunit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cppunit-config
[\-\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-exec\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-version] [\-\-libs] [\-\-cflags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIcppunit-config\fP be a tool dat is used ta configure ta determine
the compila n' linker flags dat should be used ta compile n' link
programs dat use \fIcppunit\fP. Well shiiiit, it be also used internally ta tha .m4
macros fo' GNU autoconf dat is included wit \fIcppunit\fP.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIcppunit-config\fP accepts tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B  \-\-version
Print tha currently installed version of \fIcppunit\fP on tha standard
output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs
Print tha linker flags dat is necessary ta link a \fIcppunit\fP
program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-cflags
Print tha compila flags dat is necessary ta compile a \fIcppunit\fP
program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix
Print tha prefix wit which \fIcppunit\fP was compiled.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation prefix that
\fIcppunit\fP was built wit when computin tha output fo' the
\-\-cflags n' \-\-libs options. This option be also used fo' tha exec
prefix if \-\-exec\-prefix was not specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option must be
specified before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix
Print tha exec\-prefix wit which \fIcppunit\fP was compiled.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation exec prefix that
\fIcppunit\fP was built wit when computin tha output fo' the
\-\-cflags n' \-\-libs options.  This option must be specified before
any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.SH COPYRIGHT
cppunit Copyright \(co 1996-2000 by Mike Feathers <mfeathers@objectmentor.com>  
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at
your option) any lata version.
.PP
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU
General Public License fo' mo' details.
.PP
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage be a almost word-for-word copy of tha gtk-config
manpage, freestyled by Owen Taylor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Dat shiznit was modified by E. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sommerlade
<eric@sommerla.de>.
