.\"/* Copyright 1988,1990,1993 by Pizzle Vixie
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\" */
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 by Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1997,2000 by Internizzle Software Consortium, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Modified 2010/09/12 by Colin Dean, Durham Universitizzle IT Service,
.\" ta add clusterin support.
.\"
.\" $Id: crontab.1,v 1.7 2004/01/23 19:03:32 vixie Exp $
.\"
.TH CRONTAB 1 "2012-11-22" "cronie" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crontab \- maintains crontab filez fo' individual users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crontab
.RB [ -u
.IR user ] " file"
.br
.B crontab
.RB [ -u
.IR user ]
.RB [ -l " | " -r " | " -e ]\ [ -i ]
.RB [ -s ]
.br
.B crontab
.BR -n\ [
.IR "hostname " ]
.br
.B crontab
.BR -c
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Crontab
is tha program used ta install, remove or list tha tablez used ta serve
the
.BR cron (8)
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Each user can have they own crontab, n' though these is files
in
.IR /var/spool/ ,
they is not intended ta be edited directly.  For SELinux up in MLS mode,
you can define mo' crontabs fo' each range.  For mo' shiznit, see
.BR selinux (8).
.PP
In dis version of
.IR Cron
it is possible ta bust a network-mounted shared
.I /var/spool/cron
across a cold-ass lil clusta of hosts n' specify dat only one of tha hosts should
run tha crontab thangs up in tha particular directory at any one time.  You
may also use
.BR crontab (1)
from any of these hosts ta edit tha same shared set of crontab files, and
to set n' query which host should run tha crontab thangs.
.PP
Hustlin cron thangs can be allowed or disallowed fo' different users.  For
this purpose, use the
.I cron.allow
and
.I cron.deny
files.  If the
.I cron.allow
file exists, a user must be listed up in it ta be allowed ta use cron If the
.I cron.allow
file do not exist but the
.I cron.deny
file do exist, then a user must
.I not
be listed up in the
.I cron.deny
file up in order ta use cron. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If neither of these filez exists, only the
supa user be allowed ta use cron. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Another way ta restrict access to
cron is ta use PAM authentication in
.I /etc/security/access.conf
to set up users, which is allowed or disallowed ta use
.I crontab
or modify system cron thangs up in the
.IR /etc/cron.d/
directory.
.PP
Da temporary directory can be set up in a environment variable.  If it is
not set by tha user, the
.I /tmp
directory is used.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-u"
Appendz tha name of tha user whose crontab is ta be modified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If this
option aint used,
.I crontab
examines "your" crontab, i.e., tha crontab of tha thug executin the
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note that
.BR su (8)
may confuse
.IR crontab ,
thus, when executin commandz under
.BR su (8)
you should always use the
.B -u
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If no crontab exists fo' a particular user, it is pimped for
him tha last time the
.B crontab -u
command is used under his username.
.TP
.B "\-l"
Displays tha current crontab on standard output.
.TP
.B "\-r"
Removes tha current crontab.
.TP
.B "\-e"
Edits tha current crontab rockin tha editor specified by the
.I VISUAL
or
.I EDITOR
environment variables.  Afta you exit from tha editor, tha modified
crontab is ghon be installed automatically.
.TP
.B "\-i"
This option modifies the
.B "\-r"
option ta prompt tha user fo' a 'y/Y' response before straight-up removing
the crontab.
.TP
.B "\-s"
Appendz tha current SELinux securitizzle context strang as a MLS_LEVEL
settin ta tha crontab file before editin / replacement occurs - peep the
documentation of MLS_LEVEL in
.BR crontab (5).
.TP
.B "\-n"
This option is relevant only if
.BR cron (8)
was started wit the
.B \-c
option, ta enable clusterin support.  It be used ta set tha host up in the
clusta which should run tha thangs specified up in tha crontab filez up in the
.I /var/spool/cron
directory.  If a hostname is supplied, tha host whose hostname returned
by
.BR gethostname (2)
matches tha supplied hostname, is ghon be selected ta run tha selected cron thangs subsequently.  If there
is no host up in tha clusta matchin tha supplied hostname, or you explicitly specify
an empty hostname, then tha selected thangs aint gonna be run at all.  If tha hostname
is omitted, tha name of tha local host returned by
.BR gethostname (2)
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Usin dis option has no effect on the
.I /etc/crontab
file n' tha filez up in the
.I /etc/cron.d
directory, which is always run, n' considered host-specific.  For more
information on clusterin support, see
.BR cron (8).
.TP
.B "\-c"
This option is only relevant if
.BR cron (8)
was started wit the
.B \-c
option, ta enable clusterin support.  It be used ta query which host in
the clusta is currently set ta run tha thangs specified up in tha crontab
filez up in tha directory
.I /var/spool/cron
, as set rockin the
.B \-n
option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crontab (5),
.BR cron (8)
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/cron.allow
/etc/cron.deny
.fi
.SH STANDARDS
The
.I crontab
command conforms ta IEEE Std1003.2-1992 (``POSIX'').  This freshly smoked up command
syntax differs from previous versionz of Vixie Cron, as well as from the
funky-ass SVR3 syntax.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An informatizzle usage message appears if you run a cold-ass lil crontab wit a gangbangin' faulty
command defined up in dat shit.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT vixie@isc.org
Pizzle Vixie
.ME
.br
.MT colin@colin-dean.org
Colin Dean
.ME
