.\" release 4
.nr LL 5.5i
.ad b
.hy 1
.TH PROJ 1 "2000/03/21 Rel. 4.4" 
.SH NAME
cs2cs \- cartographic coordinizzle system filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs2cs
[
.B \-eEfIlrstvwW
[
.I args
] ] [
.B +opts[=arg]
]
.br
      [ \fB+to\fR [\fB+opts\fR[\fB=arg\fR]] ]
file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cs2cs
performs transformation between tha source n' destination cartographic
coordinizzle system on a set of input points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da coordinizzle system
transformation can include translation between projected n' geographic 
coordinates as well as tha application of datum shifts.
.PP
Da followin control parametas can step tha fuck up in any order:
.TP
.BI \-I
method ta specify inverse translation, convert from \fB+to\fR coordinate
system ta tha primary coordinizzle system defined.
.TP
.BI \-t "a"
.I A
specifies a cold-ass lil characta employed as tha straight-up original gangsta characta ta denote
a control line ta be passed all up in without processing.
This option applicable ta ascii input only.
(# is tha default value).
.TP
.BI \-e " string"
.I String
is a arbitrary strang ta be output if a error is detected during
data transformations.
Da default value is: *\et*.
Note dat if the
.B \-b,
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
options is employed, a error is returned as HUGE_VAL
value fo' both return joints.
.TP
.BI \-E
causes tha input coordinates ta be copied ta tha output line
prior ta printin tha converted joints.
.TP
.BI \-l "[p|P|=|e|u|d]" id
List projection identifiers with
.B \-l,
.B \-lp
or
.B \-lP (expanded)
that can be selected with
.B +proj.
.BI \-l= id
gives expanded description of projection
.I id.
List ellipsoid identifiers with
.B \-le,
that can be selected with
.B +ellps,
.B \-lu
list of cartesian ta meta conversion factors
that can be selected with
.B +units
or
.B \-ld
list of datums dat can be selected wit 
.B +datum.
.TP
.BI \-r
This options reverses tha order of the
expected input from longitude-latitude or x-y ta latitude-longitude or y-x.
.TP
.BI \-s
This options reverses tha order of the
output from x-y or longitude-latitude ta y-x or latitude-longitude.
.TP
.BI \-f " format"
.I Format
is a
.I printf
format strang ta control tha form of tha output joints.
For inverse projections, tha output is ghon be up in degrees when dis option
is employed.
If a gangbangin' format is specified fo' inverse projection the
output data is ghon be up in decimal degrees.
Da default format is "%.2f" fo' forward projection n' DMS
for inverse.
.TP
.BI \-[w|W] n
.I N
is tha number of dope fractionizzle digits ta employ for
secondz output (when tha option aint specified,
.B \-w3
is assumed).
When
.B \-W
is employed tha fieldz is ghon be constant width n' wit leadin zeroes.
.TP
.B \-v
causes a listin of cartographic control parametas tested fo' and
used by tha program ta be printed prior ta input data.
.PP
The
.B +args
run-line arguments is associated wit cartographic parameters
and usage varies wit projection n' fo' a cold-ass lil complete description see
.I "Cartographic Projection Procedures fo' tha UNIX Environment\(emA Userz Manual" )
and supplementary documentation fo' Release 4.
.PP
Da \fIcs2cs\fR program requires two coordinizzle system definitions.  The
first (or primary is defined based on all projection parametas not
appearin afta tha \fB+to\fR argument.  All projection parametas 
appearin afta tha \fB+to\fR argument is considered tha definition
of tha second coordinizzle system.  If there is no second coordinizzle system
defined, a geographic coordinizzle system based on tha datum n' ellipsoid of
the source coordinizzle system be assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat tha source n' destination
coordinizzle system can both be projections, both be geographic, or one of
each n' may have tha same or different datums.  
.PP
Additionizzle projection control parametas may be contained up in two
auxiliary control files:
the first is optionally referenced wit the
.BI +init= file:id
and tha second be always processed afta tha name
of tha projection has been established from either tha run-line
or tha contents of
.B +init
file.
Da environment parameter
.B PROJ_LIB
establishes tha default directory fo' a gangbangin' file reference without
an absolute path.  This be also used fo' supportin filez like
datum shift files.
.PP
One or more
.I files
(processed up in left ta right order)
specify tha source of data ta be transformed.
A \- will specify tha location of processin standard input.
If no filez is specified, tha input be assumed ta be from
.I stdin.
For input data tha two data joints must be up in the
first two white space separated fieldz and
when both input n' output is ASCII all trailin portions
of tha input line is appended ta tha output line.
.PP
Input geographic data
(longitude n' latitude) must be up in DMS format n' input
cartesian data must be up in units consistent wit tha ellipsoid
major axis or sphere radius units.
Output geographic coordinates is ghon be up in DMS
(if the
.B \-w
switch aint employed) n' precise ta 0.001"
with trailing, zero-valued minute-second fieldz deleted.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin script
.RS 5
 \f(CWcs2cs +proj=latlong +datum=NAD83 
       +to +proj=utm +zone=10 +datum=NAD27 -r <<EOF
 45d15'33.1"	111.5W
 45d15.551666667N	-111d30
 +45.25919444444	111d30'000w
 EOF\fR
.RE
will transform tha input NAD83 geographic coordinates tha fuck into NAD27 coordinates
in tha UTM projection wit unit 10 selected.
Da geographic jointz of dis example is equivalent n' meant
as examplez of various formz of DMS input.
Da x\-y output data will step tha fuck up as three lines of:
.RS 5
 \f(CW1402285.99      5076292.42 0.000
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.B proj(1U),
.br
.I "Cartographic Projection Procedures fo' tha UNIX Environment\(emA Userz Manual,"
(Evenden, 1990, Open-file report 90\-284).
.br
.I "Map Projections Used by tha U. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. S. Geological Survey"
(Snyder, 1984,
USGS Bulletin 1532).
.br
.I "Map Projections\(emA Workin Manual"
(Snyder, 1988, USGS Prof. Paper 1395).
.br
.I "An Album of Map Projections"
(Snyder & Voxland, 1989, USGS Prof. Paper 1453).
.SH HOME PAGE
http://www.remotesensing.org/proj
