.\" cue2toc.1 - manual page fo' cue2toc
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Matthias Czapla <dermatsch@gmx.de>
.\"
.\" This file is part of cue2toc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.TH CUE2TOC 1

.SH NAME
cue2toc \- convert CUE ta TOC format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "cue2toc" " [" "-hnqv" "] [" "-o"
.IR "tocfile" "]"
.RB "[" "-w"
.IR "wavefile" "] [" "cuefile" "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cue2toc
converts
.I cuefile
from CUE ta TOC format n' writes tha result to
.IR "tocfile" "."
If either
.IR "cuefile" " or " "tocfile"
is omitted or a single dash "-"
.B cue2toc
readz from standard input n' writes ta standard ouput
respectively.

CUE filez is text filez describin tha layout of a CD-Rom and
typically carry tha extension ".cue".

Cdrdao be a CD-burnin application which has its own natizzle TOC
format ta describe tha disc layout fo' realz. Although cdrdao has direct
support fo' readin CUE files, it is currently limited ta data
tracks only. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So
.BR "cue2toc" "'s"
main usefulnizz lies up in converting
CUE filez containin audio tracks.

Output of CD-Text data can be disabled wit the
.B -n
option.

CUE filez often come wit MP3 filez but since cdrdao dont
support decodin dem on tha fly they probably must be decoded by
other means prior ta freestylin tha CD (e.g. using
.BR "lame" ")."
For dis reason you can specify a gangbangin' filename wit the
.B -w
option ta be used fo' all audio tracks instead of tha one
in tha CUE file. Of course dis is only straight-up useful if all
the tracks is based on tha same file. This seems ta be tha case
quite often however.

.B Cue2toc
normally displays warnin lyrics fo' unsupported commandz and
constructs, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. The
.B -q
option disablez these warnings.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message

.TP
.B -n
no CD-Text; disable output of CD-Text shiznit

.TP
.BI "-o " "tocfile"
write result to
.I tocfile
instead of standard ouput

.TP
.B -q
quiet mode; do not print warnings

.TP
.B -v
print version number

.TP
.BI "-w " "wavefile"
use
.I wavefile
for all audio tracks


.SH CUE FORMAT
What bigs up be a thugged-out description of tha CUE format expected by
.BR "cue2toc" "."
For shiznit bout tha TOC format please consult the
.BR "cdrdao" "(1)"
manual page.

CUE filez consist of commandz n' they arguments which must be
separated from each other by any number of whitespace characters.
Space, horizontal tabulator, newline n' carriage return are
recognized as whitespace charactas except inside strings surrounded
by double quotes, where they is part of tha string. Commandz are
not case sensitive. CD-Text data can be at most 80 charactas per
item.

Timecode joints is accepted up in tha forms "X:X:X", "X:X" and
"X" where each "X" must consist of at most two digits n' may be
zero padded ta tha left. They is interpreted as "M:S:F", "S:F" and
"F" respectively where "M" means "minutes" n' must be up in tha range
0 <= M <= 99, "S" means "seconds" n' must be up in tha range
0 <= S <= 59, n' "F" means "frames" n' must be up in tha range
0 <= F <= 74.

CUE filez is logically divided tha fuck into a global section and
one ta 99 track sections. Inside these sections tha following
commandz is allowed:

.SS Global Section

.B REM
.I anything_to_newline
.br
.B CATALOG
.I string
.br
.B CDTEXTFILE
.I string
.br
.B TITLE
.I string
.br
.B PERFORMER
.I string
.br
.B SONGWRITER
.I string
.br
.B FILE
.I string
.BR "BINARY" "|" "MOTOROLA" "|" "AIFF" "|" "WAVE" "|" "MP3"


.TP
.B REM
Optional.
Introduces a cold-ass lil comment fo' realz. Anythang from there on up ta n' includin the
next newline characta is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Comments can step tha fuck up anywhere in
the file but not between a cold-ass lil command n' its arguments.

.TP
.B CATALOG
Optional.
Da Media Catalog Number of tha disc. Must be exactly 13 characters.

.TP
.B CDTEXTFILE
Optional.
Specifies a external file containin CD-Text data. Ignored.

.TP
.B TITLE
Optional.
Da CD-Text title of tha disc.

.TP
.B PERFORMER
Optional.
Da CD-Text performa of tha disc.

.TP
.B SONGWRITER
Optional.
Da CD-Text songwrita of tha disc.

.TP
.B FILE
Required.
Da name n' type of tha file ta be used fo' all followin tracks.
The
.I string
gotz nuff tha name of tha file followed by one of
.BR "BINARY" ", " "MOTOROLA" ", " "AIFF" ", " "WAVE" " or " "MP3" "."
As far as
.B cue2toc
is concerned tha type of tha file is effectively ignored.
Nonetheless
.BR "MOTOROLA" ", " "AIFF" " n' " "MP3"
cause printin of a warnin message since these file types can
not be used directly wit cdrdao.

.LP
Da first appearizzle of a
.B TRACK
command causes leavin of tha global section n' enterin the
track section.

.SS Track Section

.B TRACK
.I number
.I mode
.br
.B REM
.I anything_to_newline
.br
.B FLAGS
.RB "[" "DCP" "]"
.RB "[" "4CH" "]"
.RB "[" "PRE" "]"
.RB "[" "SCMS" "]"
.br
.B ISRC
.I string
.br
.B TITLE
.I string
.br
.B PERFORMER
.I string
.br
.B SONGWRITER
.I string
.br
.B PREGAP
.I timecode
.br
.B INDEX
.I number
.I timecode
.br
.B POSTGAP
.I timecode
.br
.B FILE
.I string
.BR "BINARY" "|" "MOTOROLA" "|" "AIFF" "|" "WAVE" "|" "MP3"


.TP
.B TRACK
Required.
Starts a freshly smoked up track definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
.I number
is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
.I mode
must be one of
.BR "AUDIO" ", " "MODE1/2048" ", " "MODE1/2352" ","
.BR "MODE2/2336" " or " "MODE2/2352" "."

.TP
.B FLAGS
Optional.
Defines tha flags fo' dis track. Must be followed by one
or mo' of tha followin commands:
.B DCP
(digital copy permitted),
.B 4CH
(four channel audio),
.B PRE
(pre-emphasis enabled) and
.B SCMS
(serial copy pimpment system).
.B SCMS
is ignored cuz there is no correspondin option in
the TOC format.

.TP
.B ISRC
Optional.
Da Internationistic Standard Recordin Code fo' dis track. Must
be exactly 12 charactas long.

.TP
.B TITLE
Optional.
Da CD-Text title of dis track.

.TP
.B PERFORMER
Optional.
Da CD-Text performa of dis track.

.TP
.B SONWRITER
Optional.
Da CD-Text songwrita of dis track.

.TP
.B PREGAP
Optional.
Da length of tha track pregap ta be filled wit zero data.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR "INDEX 0" "."

.TP
.B POSTGAP
Optional.
Da length of tha track postgap ta be filled wit zero data.

.TP
.B INDEX
Optional.
The
.I number
must be up in tha range 0 <=
.I number
<= 99. Index number 1 specifies tha start of tha track. Index
number 0 is tha start of tha track pregap filled wit data
from tha file, i.e. tha difference between index 0 n' index 1
is tha length of tha pregap. Index 0 is mutually exclusive with
.BR "PREGAP" "."
Index numbers pimped outa than 1 specify subindexes fo' dis track
and must be sequential.

.TP
.B FILE
Optionizzle up in track section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da syntax is tha same ol' dirty as busted lyrics about
above n' if it appears inside a track justification it takes
effect on tha next
.B TRACK
command.

.SH LIMITATIONS

Da command
.B CDTEXTFILE
and tha flag
.B SCMS
have no equivalent up in tha TOC format n' is ignored.

CUE filez containin data tracks which specify a startin time
greata than zero cannot be converted by
.B cue2toc
because tha TOC format do not provide a way ta specify a
startin time at all fo' data tracks yo. However if tha CUE file
does not contain any audio tracks you can try ta use tha CUE file
directly wit cdrdao.


.SH EXAMPLE

Suppose our crazy asses have tha followin CUE file "uwe.froehn.cue" describing
an audio CD wit CD-Text data:

.nf
.in +4m
REM Example CUE file wit audio tracks
CATALOG 1234567890123
TITLE "Der Berg ruft"
PERFORMER "Uwe Froehn"
FILE "uwe.froehn.mp3" MP3

TRACK 01 AUDIO
  TITLE "Meine Mama ist take a thugged-out dirtnap Beste"
  PERFORMER "Uwe Froehn"
  SONGWRITER "Hansi Klabuster"
  REM two secondz pregap filled wit audio data
  INDEX 00 00:00:00
  INDEX 01 00:02:00
  REM subindexes
  INDEX 02 00:35:17
  INDEX 03 01:12:44

TRACK 02 AUDIO
  TITLE "Hoch oben im Tal"
  SONGWRITER "Gabi Geil"
  REM no pregap
  INDEX 01 02:45:38

TRACK 03 AUDIO
  REM pregap wit zero data
  PREGAP 00:4:47
  INDEX 01 07:58:74
  REM postgap wit zero data
  POSTGAP 00:35:00
.in -4m
.fi

Since cdrdao cannot decode tha MP3 file on tha fly dis step must
be carried up by hand, e.g. rockin lame:

.nf
.in +4m
lame --decode uwe.froehn.mp3 uwe.froehn.wav
.in -4m
.fi

Although tha filename appears only once up in tha example CUE
file it gets freestyled fo' every last muthafuckin track up in tha TOC file so you
would need ta edit fuckin shitloadz of occurencez of tha filename up in the
TOC file by hand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For dis reason you can specify a string
with the
.B -w
option ta be used by
.B cue2toc
as tha filename fo' all audio tracks. Da command

.nf
.in +4m
cue2toc -w uwe.froehn.wav -o uwe.froehn.toc uwe.froehn.cue
.in -4m
.fi

should produce tha file uwe.froehn.toc wit tha followin content:

.nf
.in +4m
CATALOG "1234567890123"
CD_DA
CD_TEXT {
    LANGUAGE_MAP {
        0 : EN
    }
    LANGUAGE 0 {
        TITLE "Der Berg ruft"
        PERFORMER "Uwe Froehn"
    }
}

TRACK AUDIO
    CD_TEXT {
        LANGUAGE 0 {
            TITLE "Meine Mama ist take a thugged-out dirtnap Beste"
            PERFORMER "Uwe Froehn"
            SONGWRITER "Hansi Klabuster"
        }
    }
    AUDIOFILE "uwe.froehn.wav" 00:00:00 02:45:38
    START 00:02:00
    INDEX 00:35:17
    INDEX 01:12:44

TRACK AUDIO
    CD_TEXT {
        LANGUAGE 0 {
            TITLE "Hoch oben im Tal"
            SONGWRITER "Gabi Geil"
        }
    }
    AUDIOFILE "uwe.froehn.wav" 02:45:38 05:13:36

TRACK AUDIO
    PREGAP 00:04:47
    AUDIOFILE "uwe.froehn.wav" 07:58:74
    SILENCE 00:35:00
.in -4m
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdrdao (1),
.BR lame (1)

.SH BUGS

Since
.BR "cue2toc" "'s"
definizzle of tha CUE format is entirely based on a number
of different CUE filez tha lyricist came across there be a hella
high probabilitizzle dat it aint gonna work erectly wit all the
other CUE filez you might encounter n' shit. If dis is tha case for
you please bust tha problematic CUE file along wit tha version
number of
.B cue2toc
to <dermatsch@gmx.de>.


.SH AUTHOR
Matthias Czapla <dermatsch@gmx.de>
