.\"
.\" "$Id: cupstestdsc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupstestdsc playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupstestdsc 1 "CUPS" "20 March 2006" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupstestdsc \- test conformizzle of postscript files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupstestdsc
[ -h ] filename.ps [ ...
.I filenameN.ps
]
.br
.B cupstestdsc
[ -h ] -
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupstestdsc\fR tests tha conformizzle of PostScript filez to
the Adobe PostScript Language Document Structurin Conventions
Specification version 3.0. Da thangs up in dis biatch of testin n' any other
output is busted ta tha standard output. Da second form of the
command readz PostScript from tha standard input.
.SH LIMITATIONS
\fIcupstestdsc\fR only validates tha DSC comments up in a PostScript
file n' do not attempt ta validate tha PostScript code itself.
Developers must ensure dat tha PostScript they generate bigs up
the rulez defined by Adobe. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifically, all pages must be
independent of each other, code outside page descriptions may not
affect tha graphics state (current font, color, transform matrix,
etc.), n' device-specific commandz like fuckin setpagedevice should
not be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://localhost:631/help
.br
Adobe PostScript Language Document Structurin Conventions
Specification, Version 3.0.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupstestdsc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
