.\"
.\" "$Id: cupstestppd.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupstestppd playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupstestppd 1 "CUPS" "19 November 2009" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupstestppd \- test conformizzle of ppd files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupstestppd
[ -I
.I category
] [ -R
.I rootdir
] [ -W
.I category
] [ -q ] [-r] [ -v[v] ] filename.ppd[.gz] [ ... filenameN.ppd[.gz] ]
.br
.B cupstestppd
[ -R
.I rootdir
] [ -W
.I category
] [ -q ] [-r] [ -v[v] ] -
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupstestppd\fR tests tha conformizzle of PPD filez ta the
Adobe PostScript Printa Description file format justification
version 4.3. Well shiiiit, it can also be used ta list tha supported options
and available fonts up in a PPD file. Da thangs up in dis biatch of testin and
any other output is busted ta tha standard output.
.LP
Da first form of \fIcupstestppd\fR tests one or mo' PPD files
on tha command-line. Da second form tests tha PPD file provided
on tha standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIcupstestppd\fR supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-I filename
.br
Ignores all PCFileName warnings.
.TP 5
-I filters
.br
Ignores all filta errors.
.TP 5
-I profiles
.br
Ignores all flava errors.
.TP 5
-R rootdir
.br
Specifies a alternate root directory fo' tha filter, pre-filter,
and other support file checks.
.TP 5
-W constraints
.br
Report all UIConstraint errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W defaults
.br
Except fo' size-related options, report all default option errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W filters
.br
Report all filta errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W profiles
.br
Report all flava errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W sizes
.br
Report all media size errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W translations
.br
Report all translation errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W all
.br
Report all of tha previous errors as warnings.
.TP 5
-W none
.br
Report all of tha previous errors as errors.
.TP 5
-q
.br
Specifies dat no shiznit should be displayed.
.TP 5
-r
.br
Relaxes tha PPD conformizzle requirements so dat common
whitespace, control character, n' formattin problems is not
treated as hard errors.
.TP 5
-v
.br
Specifies dat detailed conformizzle testin thangs up in dis biatch should be
displayed rather than tha concise PASS/FAIL/ERROR status.
.TP 5
-vv
.br
Specifies dat all shiznit up in tha PPD file should be
displayed up in addizzle ta tha detailed conformizzle testing
results.
.LP
Da \fI-q\fR, \fI-v\fR, n' \fI-vv\fR options is mutually exclusive.
.SH EXIT STATUS
\fIcupstestppd\fR returns zero on success n' non-zero on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. The
error codes is as bigs up:
.TP 5
1
.br
Wack command-line arguments or missin PPD filename.
.TP 5
2
.br
Unable ta open or read PPD file.
.TP 5
3
.br
Da PPD file gotz nuff format errors dat cannot be skipped.
.TP 5
4
.br
Da PPD file do not conform ta tha Adobe PPD justification.
.SH EXAMPLES
Da followin command will test all PPD filez under tha current
directory n' print tha namez of each file dat do not
conform:
.nf

    find . -name \\*.ppd \\! -exec cupstestppd -q '{}' \\; -print

.fi
Da next command tests all PPD filez under tha current directory
and print detailed conformizzle testin thangs up in dis biatch fo' tha files
that do not conform:
.nf

    find . -name \\*.ppd \\! -exec cupstestppd -q '{}' \\; \\
        -exec cupstestppd -v '{}' \\;

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlpadmin(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.br
Adobe PostScript Printa Description File Format Justification, Version 4.3.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupstestppd.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
