.\" 
.\" dbus\-send manual page.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.TH dbus\-send 1
.SH NAME
dbus\-send \- Send a message ta a message bus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B dbus\-send
[\fB\-\-system\fP | \fB\-\-session\fP]
[\fB\-\-dest=\fINAME\fP]
[\fB\-\-print\-reply\fP[\fB=literal\fP]]
[\fB\-\-reply\-timeout=\fIMSEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-type=\fITYPE\fP]
\fIOBJECT_PATH\fP \fIINTERFACE\fB.\fIMEMBER\fP [\fICONTENTS\fP ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fIdbus\-send\fP command is used ta bust a message ta a D\-Bus message
bus. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/ fo' mo' 
information bout tha big-ass picture.

.PP
There is two well\-known message buses: tha systemwide message bus 
(installed on nuff systems as tha "messagebus" service) n' tha 
per\-user\-login\-session message bus (started each time a user logs in).
Da \fB\-\-system\fP n' \fB\-\-session\fP options direct
\fBdbus\-send\fP ta bust lyrics ta tha system or session buses respectively.
If neither is specified, \fBdbus\-send\fP sendz ta tha session bus.

.PP 
Nearly all usez of \fBdbus\-send\fP must provide tha \fB\-\-dest\fP argument
which is tha name of a cold-ass lil connection on tha bus ta bust tha message to. If
\fB\-\-dest\fP is omitted, no destination is set.

.PP
Da object path n' tha name of tha message ta bust must always be
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Peepin arguments, if any, is tha message contents
(message arguments).  These is given as type\-specified joints n' 
may include containers (arrays, dicts, n' variants) as busted lyrics bout below.

.nf
<contents>   ::= <item> | <container> [ <item> | <container>...]
<item>       ::= <type>:<value>
<container>  ::= <array> | <dict> | <variant>
<array>      ::= array:<type>:<value>[,<value>...] 
<dict>       ::= dict:<type>:<type>:<key>,<value>[,<key>,<value>...]
<variant>    ::= variant:<type>:<value>
<type>       ::= strang | int16 | uint 16 | int32 | uint32 | int64 | uint64 | double | byte | boolean | objpath
.fi

D\-Bus supports mo' types than these yo, but \fBdbus\-send\fP currently
does not.  Also, \fBdbus\-send\fP do not permit empty containers
or nested containers (e.g. arrayz of variants).

.PP
Here be a example invocation:
.nf

  dbus\-send \-\-dest=org.freedesktop.ExampleName               \\
            /org/freedesktop/sample/object/name              \\
            org.freedesktop.ExampleInterface.ExampleMethod   \\
            int32:47 string:'wassup ghetto' double:65.32       \\
            array:string:"1st item","next item","last item"  \\
            dict:string:int32:"one",1,"two",2,"three",3      \\
            variant:int32:\-8                                 \\
            objpath:/org/freedesktop/sample/object/name 

.fi

Note dat tha intercourse is separated from a method or signal 
name by a thugged-out dot, though up in tha actual protocol tha intercourse
and tha intercourse member is separate fields.

.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.BI \-\-dest= NAME
Specify tha name of tha connection ta receive tha message.
.TP
.B "\-\-print\-reply"
Block fo' a reply ta tha message sent, n' print any reply received
in a human-readable form.
.TP
.B "\-\-print\-reply=literal"
Block fo' a reply ta tha message sent, n' print tha body of the
reply. If tha reply be a object path or a string, it is printed
literally, wit no punctuation, escape charactas etc.
.TP
.BI \-\-reply\-timeout= MSEC
Wait fo' a reply fo' up ta \fIMSEC\fP milliseconds.
Da default is implementation\(hydefined, typically 25 seconds.
.TP
.B "\-\-system"
Send ta tha system message bus.
.TP
.B "\-\-session"
Send ta tha session message bus.  (This is tha default.)
.TP
.BI \-\-type= TYPE
Specify \fBmethod_call\fP or \fBsignal\fP (defaults ta "\fBsignal\fP").

.SH AUTHOR
dbus\-send was freestyled by Philip Blundell.

.SH BUGS
Please bust bug reports ta tha D\-Bus mailin list or bug tracker,
see http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/
