.\" 
.\" dbus\-cleanup\-sockets manual page.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.TH dbus\-cleanup\-sockets 1
.SH NAME
dbus\-cleanup\-sockets \- clean up leftover sockets up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B dbus\-cleanup\-sockets [DIRECTORY]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fIdbus\-cleanup\-sockets\fP command cleans up unused D\-Bus
connection sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/ for
more shiznit bout tha big-ass picture.

.PP
If given no arguments, \fIdbus\-cleanup\-sockets\fP cleans up sockets 
in tha standard default socket directory fo' the
per\-user\-login\-session message bus; dis is probably /tmp. 
Optionally, you can pass a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory on tha command line.

.PP
On Linux, dis program is essentially useless, cuz D\-Bus defaults
to rockin "abstract sockets" dat exist only up in memory n' aint gots a
correspondin file up in /tmp. 

.PP
On most other flavorz of UNIX, itz possible fo' tha socket filez to
leak when programs rockin D\-Bus exit abnormally or without closing
their D\-Bus connections. Thus, it might be bangin-ass ta run
dbus\-cleanup\-sockets up in a cold-ass lil cron thang ta mop up any leaked sockets.
Or you can just ignore tha leaked sockets, they aren't straight-up hurting
anything, other than clutterin tha output of "ls /tmp"

.SH AUTHOR
dbus\-cleanup\-sockets was adapted by Havoc Pennington from
linc\-cleanup\-sockets freestyled by Mike Meeks.

.SH BUGS
Please bust bug reports ta tha D\-Bus mailin list or bug tracker,
see http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/
