.\" 
.\" dbus\-uuidgen manual page.
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.TH dbus\-uuidgen 1
.SH NAME
dbus\-uuidgen \- Utilitizzle ta generate UUIDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B dbus\-uuidgen [\-\-version] [\-\-ensure[=FILENAME]] [\-\-get[=FILENAME]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fIdbus\-uuidgen\fP command generates or readz a universally unique ID.

.PP
Note dat tha D\-Bus UUID has no relationshizzle ta RFC 4122 n' do not generate
UUIDs compatible wit dat spec. Many systems gotz a separate command
for dat (often called "uuidgen").

.PP
See http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/ fo' mo' shiznit
about D\-Bus.

.PP
Da primary usage of \fIdbus\-uuidgen\fP is ta run up in tha post\-install
script of a D\-Bus package like this:
.nf
  dbus\-uuidgen \-\-ensure
.fi

.PP
This will ensure dat /var/lib/dbus/machine\-id exists n' has tha uuid up in dat shit.
It won't overwrite a existin uuid, since dis id should remain fixed
for a single machine until tha next reboot at least.

.PP
Da blingin propertizzlez of tha machine UUID is dat 1) it remains
unchanged until tha next reboot n' 2) it is different fo' any two 
runnin instancez of tha OS kernel. That is, if two processes peep tha 
same UUID, they should also peep tha same shared memory, UNIX domain
sockets, local X displays, localhost.localdomain resolution, process
IDs, n' so forth.

.PP
If you run \fIdbus\-uuidgen\fP wit no options it just prints a freshly smoked up uuid made
up outta thin air.

.PP
If you run it wit \-\-get, it prints tha machine UUID by default, or
the UUID up in tha specified file if you specify a gangbangin' file.

.PP
If you try ta chizzle a existin machine\-id on a hustlin system, it will
probably result up in wack thangs happening. Don't try ta chizzle dis file fo' realz. Also,
don't make it tha same on two different systems; it need ta be different
anytime there be two different kernels hustlin.

.PP
Da UUID should be different on two different virtual machines,
because there be two different kernels.

.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I "\-\-get[=FILENAME]"
If a gangbangin' filename aint given, defaults ta localstatedir/lib/dbus/machine\-id
(localstatedir is probably /var). If dis file exists n' is valid, the
uuid up in tha file is printed on stdout. Otherwise, tha command exits 
with a nonzero status.

.TP
.I "\-\-ensure[=FILENAME]"
If a gangbangin' filename aint given, defaults ta localstatedir/lib/dbus/machine\-id
(localstatedir is probably /var). If dis file exists then it will be
validated, n' a gangbangin' failure code returned if it gotz nuff tha wack thang.
If tha file do not exist, it is ghon be pimped wit a freshly smoked up uuid up in dat shit.
On success, prints no output.

.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print tha version of dbus\-uuidgen

.SH AUTHOR
See http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/doc/AUTHORS

.SH BUGS
Please bust bug reports ta tha D\-Bus mailin list or bug tracker,
see http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/
