.\" 
.\" dbus\-monitor manual page.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.TH dbus\-monitor 1
.SH NAME
dbus\-monitor \- debug probe ta print message bus lyrics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B dbus\-monitor
[\-\-system | \-\-session | \-\-address ADDRESS] [\-\-profile | \-\-monitor]
[watch expressions]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fIdbus\-monitor\fP command is used ta monitor lyrics going
all up in a D\-Bus message bus.  See
http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/ fo' mo' shiznit about
the big-ass picture.

.PP
There is two well\-known message buses: tha systemwide message bus
(installed on nuff systems as tha "messagebus" service) n' the
per\-user\-login\-session message bus (started each time a user logs in).
Da \-\-system n' \-\-session options direct \fIdbus\-monitor\fP to
monitor tha system or session buses respectively.  If neither is
specified, \fIdbus\-monitor\fP monitors tha session bus.

.PP
\fIdbus\-monitor\fP has two different output modes, tha 'classic'\-style
monitorin mode n' profilin mode. Da profilin format be a cold-ass lil compact
format wit a single line per message n' microsecond\-resolution timing
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da \-\-profile n' \-\-monitor options select tha profiling
and monitorin output format respectively. If neither is specified,
\fIdbus\-monitor\fP uses tha monitorin output format.

.PP
In order ta git \fIdbus\-monitor\fP ta peep tha lyrics yo ass is interested
in, you should specify a set of peep expressions as you would expect to
be passed ta tha \fIdbus_bus_add_match\fP function.

.PP 
Da message bus configuration may keep \fIdbus\-monitor\fP from seeing
all lyrics, especially if you run tha monitor as a non\-root user.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-\-system"
Monitor tha system message bus.
.TP
.I "\-\-session"
Monitor tha session message bus.  (This is tha default.)
.TP
.I "\-\-address ADDRESS"
Monitor a arbitrary message bus given at ADDRESS.
.TP
.I "\-\-profile"
Use tha profilin output format.
.TP
.I "\-\-monitor"
Use tha monitorin output format.  (This is tha default.)

.SH EXAMPLE
Here be a example of rockin dbus\-monitor ta peep fo' tha gnome typing
monitor ta say thangs
.nf

  dbus\-monitor "type='signal',sender='org.gnome.TypingMonitor',interface='org.gnome.TypingMonitor'"

.fi

.SH AUTHOR
dbus\-monitor was freestyled by Philip Blundell.
Da profilin output mode was added by Olli Salli.

.SH BUGS
Please bust bug reports ta tha D\-Bus mailin list or bug tracker,
see http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/
