.\" debuginfo-install
.TH "debuginfo-install" "1" "21 October 2008" "Jizzy Antill" ""
.SH "NAME"
debuginfo-install \- install debuginfo packages n' they dependencies
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBdebuginfo-install\fP package
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBdebuginfo-install\fP be a program which installs tha RPMs needed ta debug
the specified package.  Da package argument can be a wildcard yo, but will only
match installed packages.  \fBdebuginfo-install\fP will then enable any
debuginfo repositories, n' install tha relevant debuginfo rpm.
.PP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Downlizzle n' install all tha RPMs needed ta debug tha kernel RPM:"
\fBdebuginfo-install\fP kernel
.PP
.SH "WARNING MESSAGES"
.IP "Could not find debuginfo for:"
Yo ass may sometimes peep warnin lyrics bout certain packages not bein found
if you run debuginfo-install fo' a wildcard or glob. Debuginfo packages is not 
necessary fo' "noarch" RPMs; these will generate a warnin message.
Additionally, On 64-bit systems, no multilib debuginfo packages is 
published, so if you have 32-bit packages installed, these will also 
generate warnin lyrics. 
.PP 
.SH "FILES"
As debuginfo-install uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum-utils.baseurl.org/
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.
.fi
