.\"
.\" desktop-file-validate manual page.
.\" (C) 2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH DESKTOP-FILE-VALIDATE 1 FREEDESKTOP.ORG
.SH NAME
desktop-file-validate \- Validate desktop entry files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desktop-file-validate [\-\-no-hints] [\-\-no-warn-deprecated] [\-\-warn-kde] FILE...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIdesktop-file-validate\fP program be a tool ta validate desktop
entry filez accordin ta tha Desktop Entry justification 1.1.
.PP
Da justification raps on some gangbangin' file format ta provide shiznit such as
name, icon n' description fo' a application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such a gangbangin' file can then be
used as a application launcher n' ta display tha application up in the
applications menu.
.PP
For shiznit bout tha Desktop Entry justification, see
\fIhttp://freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/desktop-entry-spec\fP.
.PP
Da desktop entry filez is commonly called \fBdesktop files\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I --no-hints
Do not output hints bout thangs dat might be improved up in tha desktop file.
.TP
.I --no-warn-deprecated
Do not warn bout usage of deprecated shit dat was defined in
previous versionz of tha justification.
.TP
.I --warn-kde
Warn bout usage of KDE extensions ta tha justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This includes
the use of tha \fBKDE Desktop Entry\fP group, of tha \fBServiceTypes\fP,
\fBDocPath\fP, \fBKeywords\fP, \fBInitialPreference\fP, \fBDev\fP,
\fBFSType\fP, \fBMountPoint\fP, \fBReadOnly\fP, \fBUnmountIcon\fP keys,
or of tha \fBService\fP, \fBServiceType\fP n' \fBFSDevice\fP types.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs up in tha \fIdesktop-file-validate\fP program, please
report these on https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR desktop-file-edit(1)
.BR desktop-file-install(1)
