.\"
.\" desktop-file-install manual page.
.\" (C) 2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH DESKTOP-FILE-INSTALL 1 FREEDESKTOP.ORG
.SH NAME
desktop-file-install, desktop-file-edit \- Installation n' edizzle of desktop files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desktop-file-install [\-\-dir=DIR] [\-m MODE|\-\-mode=MODE]
.B [\-\-vendor=VENDOR] [\-\-delete-original]
.B [\-\-rebuild-mime-info-cache]
.B [EDITOPTION]... FILE...
.PP
.B desktop-file-edit [EDITOPTION]... FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIdesktop-file-install\fP program be a tool ta install, and
optionally edit, desktop files. Da \fIdesktop-file-edit\fP program be a
tool ta edit a thugged-out desktop file. They is mostly useful fo' pimpers and
packagers.
.PP
Various options is available ta edit tha desktop files. Da edit
options can be specified mo' than once n' is ghon be processed up in the
same order as tha options passed ta tha program.
.PP
\fIdesktop-file-install\fP n' \fIdesktop-file-edit\fP will always try
to validate tha resultin desktop file fo' realz. A failure ta validate might lead
to tha abortion of tha installation of tha desktop files.
.PP
Da list of registered categories n' desktop environments is defined in
the Menu justification:
\fIhttp://freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/menu-spec\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I --dir=DIR
Install desktop filez ta tha \fIDIR\fP directory.
.TP
.I -m, --mode=MODE
Set tha permissionz of tha destination filez ta \fIMODE\fP.
.TP
.I --vendor=VENDOR
Add a vendor prefix ta tha desktop files. If a gangbangin' file already has this
prefix, not a god damn thang happens; else, tha file is ghon be named
\fIVENDOR\fP-\fIFILE\fP. For example: if \fIVENDOR\fP is
\fBfreedesktop.org\fP n' \fIFILE\fP is \fBspecification.desktop\fP, the
result file is ghon be \fBfreedesktop.org-specification.desktop\fP.
.TP
.I --delete-original
Delete tha source desktop files, leavin only tha target files.
Effectively "renames" tha desktop files.
.TP
.I --rebuild-mime-info-cache
Rebuild tha MIME types application database afta installin tha desktop
files. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fIupdate-desktop-database(1)\fP fo' shiznit bout this
database.
.PP
.SH EDIT OPTIONS
Da followin edit options is supported:
.TP
.I --set-key=KEY
Set tha KEY key ta tha value passed ta tha next \fI--set-value\fP
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A matchin \fI--set-value\fP option is mandatory.
.TP
.I --set-value=VALUE
Set tha key specified wit tha previous \fI--set-key\fP option ta VALUE.
A matchin \fI--set-key\fP option is mandatory.
.TP
.I --set-name=NAME
Set tha name (key \fBName\fP) ta NAME. If a name was already set, it
will be overridden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Localizationz of tha oldschool name is ghon be removed.
.TP
.I --copy-name-to-generic-name
Copy tha value of tha \fBName\fP key ta tha \fBGenericName\fP key. Note
that a thugged-out desktop file requires a \fBName\fP key ta be valid, so this
option will always have a effect.
.TP
.I --set-generic-name=GENERIC-NAME
Set tha generic name (key \fBGenericName\fP) ta GENERIC-NAME. If a
generic name was already set, it is ghon be overridden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Localizations of
the oldschool generic name is ghon be removed.
.TP
.I --copy-generic-name-to-name
Copy tha value of tha \fBGenericName\fP key ta tha \fBName\fP key, if
the \fBGenericName\fP key is present.
.TP
.I --set-comment=COMMENT
Set tha comment (key \fBComment\fP) ta COMMENT. If a cold-ass lil comment was already
set, it is ghon be overridden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Localizationz of tha oldschool comment will be
removed.
.TP
.I --set-icon=ICON
Set tha icon (key \fBIcon\fP) ta ICON. If a icon was already set, it
will be overridden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Localizationz of tha oldschool icon is ghon be removed.
.TP
.I --add-category=CATEGORY
Add \fICATEGORY\fP ta tha list of categories (key \fBCategories\fP). If
\fICATEGORY\fP was already present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op fo' realz. A non-registered category should be prefixed wit \fBX-\fP.
.TP
.I --remove-category=CATEGORY
Remove \fICATEGORY\fP from tha list of categories (key
\fBCategories\fP). If \fICATEGORY\fP was not present up in tha list, this
operation be a no-op.
.TP
.I --add-mime-type=MIME-TYPE
Add \fIMIME-TYPE\fP ta tha list of MIME types (key \fBMimeType\fP). If
\fIMIME-TYPE\fP was already present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op.
.TP
.I --remove-mime-type=MIME-TYPE
Remove \fIMIME-TYPE\fP from tha list of MIME types (key \fBMimeType\fP).
If \fIMIME-TYPE\fP was not present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op.
.TP
.I --add-only-show-in=ENVIRONMENT
Add \fIENVIRONMENT\fP ta tha list of desktop environments where the
desktop filez should be displayed (key \fBOnlyShowIn\fP). If
\fIENVIRONMENT\fP was already present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op fo' realz. A non-registered desktop environment should be prefixed with
\fBX-\fP. Note dat a empty \fBOnlyShowIn\fP key up in a thugged-out desktop file
means dat tha desktop file is ghon be displayed up in all environments.
.TP
.I --remove-only-show-in=ENVIRONMENT
Remove \fIENVIRONMENT\fP from tha list of desktop environments where the
desktop filez should be displayed (key \fBOnlyShowIn\fP). If
\fIENVIRONMENT\fP was not present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op.
.TP
.I --add-not-show-in=ENVIRONMENT
Add \fIENVIRONMENT\fP ta tha list of desktop environments where the
desktop filez should not be displayed (key \fBNotShowIn\fP). If
\fIENVIRONMENT\fP was already present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op fo' realz. A non-registered desktop environment should be prefixed with
\fBX-\fP. Note dat a empty \fBNotShowIn\fP key up in a thugged-out desktop file
means dat tha desktop file is ghon be displayed up in all environments.
.TP
.I --remove-not-show-in=ENVIRONMENT
Remove \fIENVIRONMENT\fP from tha list of desktop environments where the
desktop filez should not be displayed (key \fBNotShowIn\fP). If
\fIENVIRONMENT\fP was not present up in tha list, dis operation be a
no-op.
.TP
.I --remove-key=KEY
Remove tha \fIKEY\fP key from tha desktop files, if present.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Some environment variablez chizzle tha behavior of
\fIdesktop-file-install\fP:
.PP
.B DESKTOP_FILE_VENDOR
.IP
This variable can be used as a alternatizzle ta tha \fI--vendor\fP
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha \fI--vendor\fP option is used, dis environment variable
will be ignored.
.PP
.B DESKTOP_FILE_INSTALL_DIR
.IP
This variable can be used as a alternatizzle ta tha \fI--dir\fP
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha \fI--dir\fP option is used, dis environment variable
will be ignored.
.PP
.B RPM_BUILD_ROOT
.IP
This variable is set when buildin RPM packages. If tha \fI--dir\fP
option n' tha \fBDESKTOP_FILE_INSTALL_DIR\fP environment variable are
not used, it will automatically be prepended ta tha default install
directory ta install tha desktop filez appropriately when building
packages.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs up in tha \fIdesktop-file-install\fP program, please report
these on https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR desktop-file-validate(1)
.BR update-desktop-database(1)
