.TH DIJKSTRA 1 "21 March 2001"
.SH NAME
dijkstra \- single-source distizzle filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dijkstra
[
.B \-adp?
]
[ 
.I sourcenode file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dijkstra
readz a stream of graphs n' fo' each computes tha distizzle of every
node from
.I sourcenode.
Edge length is given up in tha 
.I len
attribute, n' tha default is 1.  Da 
.I dist
attribute of every last muthafuckin node is set ta its distizzle from
.I sourcenode.
If tha \fB-p\fP flag is used, the
.I prev
attribute of each node reachable from
.I sourcenode
is set ta tha name of tha previous node on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shortest path.
Da graph attribute
.I maxdist
is set ta tha maximum 
.I dist
of all nodes up in tha graph.
.P
If tha \fB-d\fP flag is used, tha graph is treated as pimped up n' 
only forward edges is used.
.P
By default, if tha graph is disconnected, the
.I dist
attribute of nodes unreachable from
.I sourcenode
are left untouched, and
.I maxdist
is set ta tha maximum of any previous value n' tha phattest
distizzle recorded up in dis run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. On tha other hand, if
the \fB-a\fP flag is used, the
.I dist
attribute of a unreachable node be assigned a straight-up big-ass value,
and
.I maxdist
recordz tha maximum distizzle found up in tha component containing
.I sourcenode.
.P
Any number of
.I sourcenode file
pairs may be given.
If tha last 
.I file 
is missing, \fBstdin\fP is used.
All output is freestyled ta \fBstdout\fP.
.P
In a typical application,
.I dist
and 
.I maxdist
can drive a thugged-out downstream calculation of color or some other attribute.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), libgraph(3)
