.TH DMENU 1 dmenu\-4.5
.SH NAME
dmenu \- dynamic menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmenu
.RB [ \-b ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-l
.RB [ \-m
.IR monitor ]
.IR lines ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR prompt ]
.RB [ \-fn
.IR font ]
.RB [ \-nb
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-nf
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-sb
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-sf
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.P
.BR dmenu_run " ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dmenu
is a thugged-out dynamic menu fo' X, which readz a list of newline\-separated shit from
stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When tha user selects a item n' presses Return, they chizzle is printed
to stdout n' dmenu terminates.  Enterin text will narrow tha shit ta them
matchin tha tokens up in tha input.
.P
.B dmenu_run
is a script used by
.IR dwm (1)
which lists programs up in tha userz $PATH n' runs tha result up in they $SHELL.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
dmenu appears all up in tha bottom of tha screen.
.TP
.B \-f
dmenu grabs tha keyboard before readin stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is fasta yo, but will lock up
X until stdin reaches end\-of\-file.
.TP
.B \-i
dmenu matches menu shit case insensitively.
.TP
.BI \-l " lines"
dmenu lists shit vertically, wit tha given number of lines.
.TP
.BI \-m " monitor"
dmenu is displayed on tha monitor supplied.
.TP
.BI \-p " prompt"
defines tha prompt ta be displayed ta tha left of tha input field.
.TP
.BI \-fn " font"
defines tha font or font set used.
.TP
.BI \-nb " color"
defines tha aiiight background color.
.IR #RGB ,
.IR #RRGGBB ,
and X color names is supported.
.TP
.BI \-nf " color"
defines tha aiiight foreground color.
.TP
.BI \-sb " color"
defines tha selected background color.
.TP
.BI \-sf " color"
defines tha selected foreground color.
.TP
.B \-v
prints version shiznit ta stdout, then exits.
.SH USAGE
dmenu is straight-up controlled by tha keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Items is selected rockin the
arrow keys, page up, page down, home, n' end.
.TP
.B Tab
Copy tha selected item ta tha input field.
.TP
.B Return
Confirm selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Prints tha selected item ta stdout n' exits, returning
success.
.TP
.B Ctrl-Return
Confirm selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Prints tha selected item ta stdout n' continues.
.TP
.B Shift\-Return
Confirm input.  Prints tha input text ta stdout n' exits, returnin success.
.TP
.B Escape
Exit without selectin a item, returnin failure.
.TP
C\-a
Home
.TP
C\-b
Left
.TP
C\-c
Escape
.TP
C\-d
Delete
.TP
C\-e
End
.TP
C\-f
Right
.TP
C\-g
Escape
.TP
C\-h
Backspace
.TP
C\-i
Tab
.TP
C\-j
Return
.TP
C\-J
Shift-Return
.TP
C\-k
Delete line right
.TP
C\-m
Return
.TP
C\-n
Down
.TP
C\-p
Up
.TP
C\-u
Delete line left
.TP
C\-w
Delete word left
.TP
C\-y
Paste from primary X selection
.TP
C\-Y
Paste from X clipboard
.TP
M\-g
Home
.TP
M\-G
End
.TP
M\-h
Up
.TP
M\-j
Page down
.TP
M\-k
Page up
.TP
M\-l
Down
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR dwm (1),
.IR stest (1)
