.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH DMESG "1" "July 2012" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dmesg \- print or control tha kernel rang buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmesg
.RB [ options ]
.sp
dmesg \-\-clear
.br
dmesg \-\-read-clear [options]
.br
dmesg \-\-console-level level
.br
dmesg \-\-console-on
.br
dmesg \-\-console-off
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dmesg
is used ta examine or control tha kernel rang buffer.
.PP
Da default action is ta read all lyrics from tha kernel rang buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
Da \-\-clear, \-\-read-clear, \-\-console-on, \-\-console-off and
\-\-console-level options is mutually exclusive.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR"
Clear tha rang buffer.
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-read-clear\fR"
Clear tha rang buffer afta first printin its contents.
.IP "\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-console-off\fR"
Disable printin lyrics ta tha console.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-show-delta\fR"
Display tha timestamp n' tha time delta dropped between lyrics.  If used
together with
.B \-\-notime
then only tha time delta without tha timestamp is printed.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-reltime\fR"
Display tha local time n' tha delta up in human-readable format.
.IP "\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-console-on\fR"
Enable printin lyrics ta tha console.
.IP "\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-file \fIfile\fR"
Read tha lyrics from tha given
.IR file .
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-facilitizzle \fIlist\fR"
Restrict output ta tha given (comma-separated)
.I list
of facilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example:
.PP
.RS 14
dmesg \-\-facility=daemon
.RE
.IP
will print lyrics from system daemons only.  For all supported facilities
see
.B dmesg \-\-help
output.
.IP "\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR"
Enable human-readable output.  See also \fB\-\-color\fR, \fB\-\-reltime\fR
and \fB\-\-nopager\fR.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kernel\fR"
Print kernel lyrics.
.IP "\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIwhen\fR]"
Colorize blingin lyrics.  Da optionizzle argument \fIwhen\fP can be \fBauto\fR,
\fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If tha \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
then it defaults ta \fBauto\fR.
.IP  "\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-level \fIlist\fR"
Restrict output ta tha given (comma-separated)
.I list
of levels.  For example:
.PP
.RS 14
dmesg \-\-level=err,warn
.RE
.IP
will print error n' warnin lyrics only.  For all supported levels see
.B dmesg \-\-help
output.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-console-level \fIlevel\fR
Set the
.I level
at which printin of lyrics is done ta tha console.  The
.I level
is a level number or abbreviation of tha level name.  For all supported
levels see
.B dmesg \-\-help
output.
.sp
For example,
.B \-n 1
or
.B \-n alert
prevents all lyrics, except emergency (panic) lyrics, from appearin on
the console.  All levelz of lyrics is still freestyled to
.IR /proc/kmsg ,
so
.BR syslogd (8)
can still be used ta control exactly where kernel lyrics appear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  When the
.B \-n
option is used,
.B dmesg
will
.I not
print or clear tha kernel rang buffer.
.IP "\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-nopager\fR"
Do not pipe output tha fuck into a pager n' shit.  A pager is enabled by default fo' \fB\-\-human\fR output.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR"
Print tha raw message buffer, i.e. do not strip tha log-level prefixes.

Note dat tha real raw format dependz on tha method how
.BR dmesg (1)
readz kernel lyrics.  Da /dev/kmsg thang uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different format than
.BR syslog (2) .
For backward compatibility,
.BR dmesg (1)
returns data always up in the
.BR syslog (2)
format.  It be possible ta read tha real raw data from /dev/kmsg by, fo' example,
the command 'dd if=/dev/kmsg iflag=nonblock'.
.IP "\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-syslog\fR"
Force \fBdmesg\fR ta use the
.BR syslog (2)
kernel intercourse ta read kernel lyrics.  Da default is ta use /dev/kmsg rather
than
.BR syslog (2)
since kernel 3.5.0.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-buffer-size \fIsize\fR
Use a funky-ass buffer of
.I size
to query tha kernel rang buffer n' shit.  This is 16392 by default.  (Da default
kernel syslog buffer size was 4096 at first, 8192 since 1.3.54, 16384 since
2.1.113.)  If you have set tha kernel buffer ta be larger than tha default,
then dis option can be used ta view tha entire buffer.
.IP "\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-ctime\fR"
Print human-readable timestamps.
.IP
Be aware dat tha timestamp could be inaccurate!
The
.B time
source used fo' tha logs is
.B not updated after
system
.BR SUSPEND / RESUME .
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-notime\fR"
Do not print kernelz timestamps.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-userspace\fR"
Print userspace lyrics.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-follow\fR"
Wait fo' freshly smoked up lyrics.  This feature is supported only on systems with
a readable /dev/kmsg (since kernel 3.5.0).
.IP "\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-decode\fR"
Decode facilitizzle n' level (priority) numbers ta human-readable prefixes.
.IP "\fB\-\-time\-format\fR \fIformat\fR"
Print timestamps rockin tha given \fIformat\fR, which can be
.BR ctime ,
.BR reltime ,
.BR delta
or
.BR iso .
Da first three formats is aliasez of tha time-format-specific options.
The
.B iso
format be a
.B dmesg
implementation of tha ISO-8601 timestamp format.  Da purpose of dis format is
to make tha comparin of timestamps between two systems, n' any other parsing,
easy.  Da definizzle of tha \fBiso\fR timestamp is:
YYYY-MM-DD<T>HH:MM:SS,<microseconds><-+><timezone offset from UTC>.
.IP
The
.B iso
format has tha same ol' dirty issue as
.BR ctime :
the time may be inaccurate when a system is suspended n' resumed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syslogd (8)
.SH AUTHORS
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.br
.MT tytso@athena.mit.edu
Theodore Ts'o
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da dmesg command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
