.TH DOTTY 1
.SH NAME
dotty \- A Customizable Graph Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dotty
[
.B -V
] [
.BI -lm mode
] [
.BI -el lev
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dotty
is a graph editor fo' tha X Window System.  It may be run as a standalone
editor, or as a gangbangin' front end fo' applications dat use graphs.  It can control
multiple windows viewin different graphs.

.B dotty
is freestyled on top of
.B dot
and
.BR lefty .
.B lefty
is a general-purpose programmable editor fo' technical pictures.  It has an
interpretizzle programmin language similar ta AWK n' C.  Da user intercourse and
graph editin operations of
.B dotty
are freestyled as
.B lefty
functions.
Programmer-defined graph operations may be loaded as well.  Graph layouts are
made by
.BR dot ,
which runs as a separate process dat communicates with
.B lefty
all up in pipes.

If tha input graph gotz nuff xdot attributes,
.B dotty
will use dat ta display tha graph. Otherwise, it runs
.B dot
to obtain layout shiznit.
.SH USAGE
Da file name is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If present, tha graph contained up in dat file is
displayed up in the
.B dotty
window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V
Prints tha version.
.TP
.BI -lm mode
Sets tha layout mode. Da \fImode\fP can be \fBsync\fP or \fBasync\fP. Da default is \fBasync\fP.
.TP
.BI -el lev
Sets tha mesage level. Da \fIlev\fP can be \fB0\fP or \fB1\fP. Da default is \fB0\fP.
.SH BUGS
Da lefty parser do not accept anonymous graphs.
.SH SEE ALSO
dot(1), lefty(1), lneato(1), xdot(3)
.br
.I dotty
user guide.
