.\" @(#)drill.1 1.7.0 14-Jul-2004 OF; 
.TH drill 1 "28 May 2006"
.SH NAME
drill \- git (debug) shiznit outta DNS(SEC)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B drill
[
.IR OPTIONS
]
.IR name
[
.IR @server
]
[
.IR type
]
[
.IR class
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdrill\fR be a tool ta designed ta git all sortz of shiznit outta the
DNS. Well shiiiit, it is specificly designed ta be used wit DNSSEC. 
.PP
Da name \fBdrill\fR be a pun on \fBdig\fR. With \fBdrill\fR you should be able
get even mo' shiznit than wit \fBdig\fR.
.PP
If no arguments is given class defaults ta 'IN' n' type ta 'A'. The
server(s) specified up in /etc/resolv.conf is used ta query against.

.PP
\fIname\fR
Ask fo' dis name.

.PP
\fI@server\fR
Send ta query ta dis server n' shit. If not specified use tha nameservers from
\fI/etc/resolv.conf\fR.

.PP
\fItype\fR
Ask fo' dis RR type. If type aint given on tha command line it defaults
to 'A'. Except when bustin ta reverse lookup when it defaults ta 'PTR'.

.PP
\fIclass\fR
Use dis class when querying.

.SH SAMPLE USAGE
\fBdrill mx miek.nl\fR
Show tha MX recordz of tha domain miek.nl

.TP
\fBdrill -S jelte.nlnetlabs.nl\fR
Chase any signatures up in tha jelte.nlnetlab.nl domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is
only available when ldns has been compiled wit openssl-support.

.TP
\fBdrill -TD www.example.com\fR
Do a DNSSEC (-D) trace (-T) from tha rootservers down ta www.example.com.
This option only works when ldns has been compiled wit openssl support.

.TP
\fBdrill -s dnskey jelte.nlnetlabs.nl\fR
Show tha DNSKEY record(s) fo' jelte.nlnetlabs.nl. For each found DNSKEY
record also print tha DS record.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-D
Enable DNSSEC up in tha query. When queryin fo' DNSSEC types (DNSKEY, RRSIG,
DS n' NSEC) dis is \fInot\fR automaticly enabled.

.TP
\fB\-T
Trace \fIname\fR from tha root down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When rockin dis option tha @server and
the type arguments is not used.

.TP
\fB\-S
Chase tha signature(s) of 'name' ta a known key or as high up in
the tree as possible.

.TP
\fB\-I  \fIIPv4 or IPv6 address\fR
Source address ta query from.  Da source address has ta be present
on a intercourse of tha host hustlin drill.

.TP
\fB\-V \fIlevel\fR
Be mo' verbose. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set level ta 5 ta peep tha actual query dat is sent.

.TP
\fB\-Q
Quiet mode, dis overrulez -V. 

.TP
\fB\-f \fIfile\fR
Read tha query from a gangbangin' file. Da query must be dumped wit -w. 

.TP
\fB\-i \fIfile\fR
read tha answer from tha file instead from tha network. This aids
in debuggin n' can be used ta check if a query on disk is valid.
If tha file gotz nuff binary data it be assumed ta be a query in
network order.

.TP
\fB\-w \fIfile\fR
Write a answer packet ta file.

.TP
\fB\-q \fIfile\fR
Write tha query packet ta file.

.TP
\fB\-v
Show drillz version.

.TP
\fB\-h
Show a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message.

.SS QUERY OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-4
Stay on ip4. Only bust queries ta ip4 enabled nameservers.

.TP
\fB\-6
Stay on ip6. Only bust queries ta ip6 enabled nameservers.

.TP
\fB\-a
Use tha resolver structurez fallback mechanizzle if tha answer
is truncated (TC=1). If a truncated packet is received n' this
option is set, drill will first bust a freshly smoked up query wit EDNS0 
buffer size 4096.

If tha EDNS0 buffer size was already set ta 512+ bytes, or the
above retry also thangs up in dis biatch up in a truncated answer, tha resolver
structure will fall back ta TCP.

.TP
\fB\-b \fIsize\fR
Use size as tha buffer size up in tha EDNS0 pseudo RR.

.TP
\fB\-c \fIfile\fR
Use file instead of /etc/resolv.conf fo' nameserver configuration.

.TP
\fB\-d \fIdomain\fR
When tracin (-T), start from dis domain instead of tha root.

.TP
\fB\-t
Use TCP/IP when queryin a server

.TP
\fB\-k \fIkeyfile\fR
Use dis file ta read a (trusted) key from. When dis options is
given \fBdrill\fR tries ta validate tha current answer wit this
key. No chasin is done. When \fBdrill\fR is bustin a secure trace, this
key is ghon be used as trust anchor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Can contain a DNSKEY or a DS record.

Alternatively, when DNSSEC enabled tracin (\fB-TD\fR) or signature
chasin (\fB-S\fR), if \fB-k\fR aint specified, n' a thugged-out default trust anchor
(/var/lib/unbound/root.key) exists n' gotz nuff a valid DNSKEY or DS record,
it is ghon be used as tha trust anchor.

.TP
\fB\-o \fImnemonic\fR
Use dis option ta set or unset specific header bits fo' realz. A bit is
set by rockin tha bit mnemonic up in CAPITAL lettas fo' realz. A bit is unset when
the mnemonic is given up in lowercase. Da followin mnemonics are
understood by \fBdrill\fR:

        QR, qr: set, unset QueRy (default: on)
        AA, aa: set, unset Authoritatizzle Answer (default: off)
        TC, tc: set, unset TrunCated (default: off)
        RD, rd: set, unset Recursion Desired (default: on)
        CD, cd: set, unset Checkin Disabled  (default: off)
        RA, ra: set, unset Recursion Available  (default: off)
        AD, ad: set, unset Authenticated Data (default: off)

Thus: \fB-o CD\fR, will enable Checkin Disabled, which instructs tha 
cache ta not validate tha lyrics it gives out.

.TP
\fB\-p \fIport\fR
Use dis port instead of tha default of 53.

.TP
\fB\-r \fIfile\fR
When tracin (-T), use file as a root servers hint file.

.TP
\fB\-s
When encounterin a DNSKEY print tha equivalent DS also.

.TP
\fB\-u
Use UDP when queryin a server n' shit. This is tha default.

.TP
\fB\-w \fIfile\fR
write tha answer ta a gangbangin' file. Da file will contain a hexadecimal dump
of tha query. This can be used up in conjunction wit -f.

.TP
\fB\-x
Do a reverse loopup. Da type argument aint used, it is preset ta PTR.

.TP
\fB\-y \fI<name:key[:algo]>\fR
specify named base64 tsig key, n' optionizzle a algorithm (defaults ta hmac-md5.sig-alg.reg.int)

.TP
\fB\-z \fR
don't randomize tha nameserver list before bustin  queries.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Da exit status is 0 if tha looked up answer is secure n' trusted,
or insecure.
Da exit status aint 0 if tha looked up answer is untrusted or bogus,
or a error occurred while struttin tha lookup.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/var/lib/unbound/root.key
Da file from which trusted keys is loaded when no \fB-k\fR option is given.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
unbound-anchor(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Jelte Jansen n' Miek Gieben. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Both of NLnet Labs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>.

.SH BUGS

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 NLnet Labs.
Licensed under tha revised BSD license. There is NO warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdig\fR(1), \fIRFC403{3,4,5}\fR.
