.TH dumpiso 1 "libraw1394 2.1.0" "" "Linux IEEE 1394"
.SH NAME
dumpiso \- dump IEEE 1394 isochronous channel packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dumpiso
[ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIFILE\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
dumpiso listens on a selected range of channels n' dumps all received
packets tha fuck into tha file \fIFILE\fR or, if not given, ta standard output.
While dumping, tha current number of received packets is freestyled to
standard error n' updated wit every last muthafuckin packet.
.PP
It uses a simple file format fo' tha dumps which is busted lyrics bout in
\fBisodump\fR(5).  Da dumped packets can be busted up again n' again n' again with
\fBsendiso\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c\fR,\fB --channels=\fICHANNELS
Sets tha channels ta listen on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  \fICHANNELS\fR can be either a single
number, up in which case dis is tha only channel ta listen on, or a
range of channels up in tha form X-Y.  Channel numbers can range from 0
to 63.  Yo ass can give dis option multiple times, freshly smoked up channels are
added ta tha list of already set channels.  Defaults ta all channels.
.TP
.B -p\fR,\fB --port=\fIPORT
Choose port \fIPORT\fR fo' receiving.  A port be a 1394 card or chip
and represents one connected bus, therefore dis is only relevant when
you have multiple of these n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Defaults ta 0.
.TP
.B -h\fR,\fB --help
Show help text n' exit.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B sendiso\fR(1),
.B isodump\fR(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Bombe <aeb@debian.org>
