.\" dvcont - bust control commandz ta DV cameras
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Kobras
.\"
.\" This manual page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" 
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc.,59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" This manual page was freestyled especially fo' Debian Linux. Well shiiiit, it is based
.\" on dvcontz help output rockin help2man n' manual hacking.
.\"
.TH DVCONT 1 "September 2002"
.SH NAME
dvcont \- bust control commandz ta DV cameras
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvcont
\fI<command1> \fB[ \fI<command2> \fR... \fB]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dvcont
is a cold-ass lil command line tool ta bust control commandz via a IEEE1394 link ta a
device dat implements tha AV/C justifications by tha 1394 Trade Association.
Or fo' tha non-techies:
.B dvcont
lets you remote control yo' DV camera via a Firewire cable.
Da followin \fIcommand\fRs is understood:
.TP
.BI "dev " <number>
Select device
.I number
on chain ta use. (dvcont tries ta automatically detect tha camera. Use the
.B dev
command BEFORE any other commandz fo' manual control.)
.TP
.B play
Tell tha camera ta play. If already playing, it togglez slow-motion.
.TP
.B reverse
Tell tha camera ta play up in reverse. If already playing, it togglez slow-motion.
.TP
.B trickplay < -14 ta +14 >
Tell tha camera ta play at various speeds. 
0 = forward play, -14  = fastest reverse, -8 = 1X reverse, -1 = slowest reverse,
1 = slowest forward, 8 = 1X forward, 14 = fastest forward.
(Not supported by all cameras.)
.TP
.B stop
Tell tha camera ta stop playing.
.TP
.B rewind
Tell tha camera ta rewind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Use up in stop or play mode.)
.TP
.B ff
Tell tha camera ta fast forward. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Use up in stop or play mode.)
.TP
.B pause
Tell tha camera ta toggle pause play.
.TP
.B next
Tell tha camera ta git all up in tha next frame. (Use up in pause mode.)
.TP
.B nextindex
Tell tha camera ta search fo' tha next scene. (Use up in pause or play mode.)
.TP
.B prev
Tell tha camera ta git all up in tha previous frame. (Use up in pause mode)
.TP
.B previndex
Tell tha camera ta search fo' tha previous scene. (Use up in pause or play mode)
.TP
.B record
Tell tha camera ta record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Use wit caution!)
.TP
.B eject
Tell tha camera ta eject tha tape. (Not supported by all cameras.)
.TP
.B timecode
Report tha timecode on tape up in tha format HH:MM:SS:FF (hours, minutes,
seconds, intra-second frames).
.TP
.BI "seek " <timecode>
Tell tha camera ta git all up in the
.IR timecode ,
given up in format HH:MM:SS:FF as above.
.TP
.B status
Report tha statuz of tha device.
.TP
.B pluginfo
Report available plugs.
.TP
.B verbose
Tell tha program ta rap  debug info.
.TP
.B version
Tell tha program ta rap  tha program version.
.TP
.B help
Tell tha program ta show you a help screen.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.B dvcont
was freestyled by Jizzo Howard <jason@spectsoft.com> n' Don Juan Dennedy 
<dan@dennedy.org>.  This playa page was freestyled wit tha help of
.B help2man
by Daniel Kobras <kobras@debian.org> fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux distribution
(but may be used by others). Updated by Don Juan Dennedy <dan@dennedy.org>.

