.TH DVD+RW\-FORMAT 1 "24 Aug 2012" "dvd+rw\-tools 7.1"
.SH NAME
dvd+rw\-format \- formattin n' blankin STD n' BD media program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvd+rw\-format
[\fB\-force\fP[\fB\=full\fP]]
[\fB\-lead\-out|\-blank\fP[\fB\=full\fP]]
[\fB\-ssa\fP[\fB\=none|default|max|XXXm\fP]]
.I /dev/dvd

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdvd+rw\-format\fP be a part of \fBdvd+rw\-tools\fP suite n' allows to
format virgin DVD+RW or BD\-RE media fo' tha straight-up original gangsta use or blank already
written DVD\-RW.
Typical use casez of rockin \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP is formattin DVD\-RW to
make dem over\-writable, blankin used DVD\-RW ta make dem sequentially
writable from scratch, formattin BD\-RE n' DVD\-RAM wit custom
spare area sizes or re\-formattin BD\-RE n' DVD\-RAM ta chizzle they spare
size.
It aint possible ta format CD\-RW by \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP,
you can use \fBcdrskin\fP, \fBxorriso\fP or \fBwodim\fP utilitizzles ta blank
them or cdrwtool ta format dem instead, peep section \fBEXAMPLES\fP.

A DVD\-RW accepts two disc modes: tha \fISequential Recording\fP
and tha \fIRestricted Overwrite\fP. If a DVD\-RW medium is up in tha latta one,
it will behave much like DVD+RW.
By default DVD\-RW discs is up in Sequential Recordin mode yo, but
can be put tha fuck into Restricted Overwrite mode rockin \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP
when no options given.
Be aware, dat only \-blank=full, which lasts as long as full writing,
makes a used sequential DVD\-RW capable of struttin multi\-session,
while fast blanked DVD\-RW can only do Disk\-At\-Once.

Virgin DVD\-RW can be directly freestyled without
the need of a gangbangin' formattin operation, however a non\-virgin DVD\-RW in
Sequential Recordin mode need ta be blanked before freestylin a new
initial session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since a DVD\-RW medium up in tha Restricted Overwrite
mode behaves much like DVD+RW, it  can be freestyled again n' again n' again without prior
formattin tha media.

Virgin BD\-RE n' DVD+RW media may be initially formatted prior
usage fo' realz. Any\-time later, \fBgrowisofs\fP program will take care of formatting
it automatically whenever appropriate, while further formattin is not
recommended, however it is possible.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-force[\=full]
Perform formattin even if tha medium is formatted already. This is not
recommended fo' BD\-RE n' DVD+RW media, since they need ta be
formatted only once. Use \fB\-format=full\fP ta big-ass up full (lengthy)
reformat up in case of DVD\-RAM or (lengthy) Full Certification up in case of
BD\-RE.
.TP
.BI \-lead\-out
Relocates tha lead\-out next ta outermost freestyled sector as well as makes
sure there is no virgin surface before dat shit. This can make tha medium more
compatible wit some STD playas. Previously freestyled data is not
affected by dis operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP
.BI \-blank[\=full]
Wipe data from DVD\-RW media. Data on BD\-RE n' DVD+RW will we overwritten
automatically, so there is no need ta blank dem explicitly.
Use \fB\-blank\=full\fP ta chizzle DVD\-RW back ta Sequential Recordin mode.
.TP
.BI \-ssa[\=none|default|max|XXXm]
Grow, eliminate, reset ta default or maximize \fISupplementary Spare Area\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
Actual thang names vary from one operatin system ta another n' shit. We use
\fI/dev/dvd\fP as a cold-ass lil collectizzle name or as symbolic link ta tha actual
device if you wish. Under Linux it will most likely be a
device like fuckin "/dev/sr0" or "/dev/hda" fo' olda Linux 2.6.

To blank a CD\-RW, you gotta use another utility, e.g. wodim:

        \fBwodim\fP \fBblank=fast\fP \-immed dev=\fI/dev/cdrom\fP
        \fBcdrskin\fP \fBblank=all|fast|as_needed\fP \-immed dev=\fI/dev/cdrom\fP
        \fBxorriso\fP \fB\-outdev\fP \fI/dev/cdrom\fP \fB\-blank all|fast|as_needed\fP
        
To format CD\-RW, you can use cdrwtool:

        \fBcdrwtool\fP \fB\-d\fP \fI/dev/cdrom\fP \fB\-q\fP

To blank a DVD\-RW n' put up in tha incremenstrual sequential mode, run:

        \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP \fB\-blank=full\fP \fI/dev/dvd\fP

To blank a DVD\-RW n' put up in tha Restricted Overwrite mode, run:

        \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP \fB\-force\fP \fI/dev/dvd\fP

To overwrite data of BD\-RE, DVD+RW, DVD\-RW or DVD\-RAM run:

        \fBgrowisofs\fP \fB\-Z\fP \fI/dev/dvd\fP\=\fI/dev/zero\fP

To blank a DVD\-RAM, you can use:

        \fBdd\fP if\=\fI/dev/zero\fP of\=\fI/dev/dvd\fP

To relocate lead\-out sector, run:

        \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP \fB\-lead\-out\fP \fI/dev/dvd\fP
        
.SH NOTES
Note dat DVD+RW re\-formattin procedure do not substitute for
blanking. If you wanna nullify tha media, e.g. fo' privacy reasons,
do it explicitly wit 'growisofs \-Z \fI/dev/dvd\fP\=\fB/dev/zero\fP'.

When growisofs "runs into" blank Blu\-ray Disc media or BD\-RE,
it gets pre\-formatted wit minimal spare area size of 256MB.

.SH SEE ALSO
Most up\-to\-date shiznit on dvd+rw\-tools be available at
http://fy.chalmers.se/~appro/linux/DVD+RW/.
.PP
.BR growisofs (1),
.BR cdrskin (1),
.BR xorriso (1),
.BR wodim (1),
.BR cdrwtool (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Andy Polyakov <appro@fy.chalmers.se> standz fo' programmin n' on\-line
information.

This manpage was pimped by Honza Horak <hhorak@redhat.com> n' consulted by
Thomas Schmitt <scdbackup@gmx.net>.

.SH LICENSE
\fBdvd+rw\-format\fP is distributed under GNU GPL.

