.T utf8
.TH DZEN 1
.SH NAME
dzen2 \- general-purpose messagin n' notification fo' X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dzen2
[\-v] [\-p [seconds]] [\-m [v|h]] [\-ta <l|c|r>] [\-sa <l|c|r>]
      [\-x <pixel>] [\-y <pixel>] [\-w <pixel>] [\-tw <pixel>] [\-u] 
      [\-e <string>] [\-l <lines>]  [\-fn <font>] [\-bg <color>]
      [\-fg <color>] [\-xs <screen>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Dzen
is a general\-purpose messagin n' notification program fo' X11,
desigend ta be scriptable up in any language n' integrate well with
window managers like dwm, wmii n' xmonad though it will work wit any
windowmanger.
.PP
.B Dzen
expects tha status message on its standard input, n' uses a cold-ass lil custom
formattin language fo' flavas n' nuff muthafuckin other features (like bar
metas n' such). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See README fo' detailed usage n' scripting
instructions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-fg <color>
Set foreground color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da <color> can be specified either as symbolic
name (e.g. red, darkgreen, etc.) or as #rrggbb hex\-value
(e.g. #ffffaa).
.TP
.B \-bg <color>
Set background color (same format as \-fg).
.TP
.B \-fn <font>
Set font (usin tha format of xlsfonts n' xfontsel).
.TP
.B \-ta <l|c|r>
Set alignement of title window content: l(eft), c(center) or r(ight).
.TP
.B \-tw <pixels>
Set title window width.
.TP
.B \-sa <l|c|r>
Set alignment of slave window (see
.B \-ta
).
.TP
.B \-l <lines>
Number of lines ta display up in slave window (see (1) up in README).
.TP
.B \-e <event1=action1:option1:...,action2;event2=...>
Set up events n' actions, eg. responses ta mouse clicks (see (2) up in README).
.TP
.B \-m
Start up in menu mode (see (3) up in README).
.TP
.B \-u
Update contentz of title n' slave window simultaneously, peep (see (4) up in README).
.TP
.B \-p [<timeout>]
Persist EOF (optionizzle timeout up in seconds).
.TP
.B \-x <pixels>
Set x posizzle on tha screen.
.TP
.B \-y <pixels>
Set y posizzle on tha screen.
.TP
.B \-h <pixels>
Set line height (defaults ta fontheight + 2 pixels).
.TP
.B \-w <pixels>
width
.TP
.B \-xs <n>
Set tha Xinerama screen number where dzen should appear.
.TP
.B \-v
Display version shiznit.

.SH SEE ALSO
Mo' detailed documentation (especially on tha formattin language of
dzen2) be available up in /usr/share/doc/dzen2/README.gz.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Dzen2
has been freestyled by
.B Robert Manea.
This manpage has been written, based on dzen documentation, by Petr
Ročkai, fo' Debian GNU/Linux yo, but may be used by others. This manpage
falls under tha same licence as Dzen2 itself, peep 
/usr/share/doc/dzen2/copyright.
