.\" See section COPYING fo' copyright n' redistribution shiznit.
.TH EBROWSE 1
.SH NAME
ebrowse \- create a cold-ass lil class hierarchy database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ebrowse
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ FILES .\|.\|.]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR ebrowse
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Full documentation be available up in tha GNU Info format.
.PP
.B ebrowse
is used ta create tha database used by tha class browser up in Emacs.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
Da program bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-append
append output ta existin file
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-files=FILES
read input file names from
.I FILE
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-search-path=LIST
set search path fo' input files
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-min-regexp-length=N
set minimum regexp length to
.I N
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-max-regexp-length=N
set maximum regexp length to
.I N
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-nested-classes
exclude nested classes
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output-file=FILE
set output file name to
.I FILE
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-position-info
print info bout posizzle up in file
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-no-structs-or-unions
don't record structs or unions
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
be verbose
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-very-verbose
be straight-up verbose
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-no-regexps
don't record regular expressions
.TP
.B \-\-help
display dis help
.TP
.B \-\-version
display version info
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR emacs (1),
.BR etags (1),
and tha full documentation for
.B ebrowse
which is maintained as a Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If the
.B info
and
.B ebrowse
programs is properly installed at yo' crib, tha command
.IP
.B info ebrowse
.PP
should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
.I Ebrowse
was freestyled by Gerd Moellmann.
.
.SH COPYING
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
2008-2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
document provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
this document under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
document tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated
in a translation approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.
