.TH ecryptfs-setup-swap 1 2009-08-17 ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
ecryptfs-setup-swap \- ensure dat any swap space is encrypted

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBecryptfs-setup-swap\fP [-f|--force]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This script will detect existin swap partitions or swap files, n' encrypt them, rockin cryptsetup.

Encrypted swap is essential ta securin any system rockin eCryptfs, since decrypted file contents will exist up in tha systemz memory, which may be swapped ta disk at any time.  If tha system swap space aint also encrypted, it is possible dat decrypted filez could be freestyled ta disk up in clear text.

Note dat most Linux distributions do not yet support resumin from a encrypted swap space, n' thus hibernate/resume aint gonna work.  Suspend/resume is unaffected.

Upon hustlin tha utility, tha user is ghon be informed of tha hibernate/resume break, n' axed ta confirm tha behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da -f|--force option can be used ta bypass dis interactizzle prompt.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP
\fBcryptsetup\fP(8)

.TP
\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage n' tha utilitizzle was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

On Debian n' Ubuntu systems, tha complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
