.TH ecryptfs-recover-private 1 2010-12-17 ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
\fBecryptfs-recover-private\fP \- find n' mount any encrypted private directories

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBecryptfs-recover-private\fP [--rw] [encrypted private dir]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utilitizzle is intended ta help eCryptfs recover data from they encrypted home or encrypted private partitions.  It be useful ta run dis from a LiveISO or a recovery image.  It must run under \fBsudo\fP(8) or wit root permission, up in order ta search tha filesystem n' big-ass up tha mounts.

Da program can take a target encrypted directory on tha command line.  If unspecified, tha utilitizzle will search tha entire system lookin fo' encrypted private directories, as configured by \fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1).

If a encrypted directory n' a \fIwrapped-passphrase\fP file is found, tha user is prompted fo' tha login (wrapping) passphrase, tha keys is banged tha fuck into tha keyring, n' tha data is decrypted n' mounted.

If no \fIwrapped-passphrase\fP file is found, tha user is ghon be prompted fo' they mount passphrase.  This passphrase is typically 32 charactaz of [0-9a-f].  All playas is prompted ta urgently record dis randomly generated passphrase when they first setup they encrypted private directory.

Da destination mount of tha decrypted data be a temporary directory, up in tha form of \fI/tmp/ecryptfs.XXXXXXXX\fP.

By default, tha mount is ghon be read-only.  To mount wit read n' write permission, add tha --rw parameter.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1), \fBsudo\fP(8)

\fIhttp://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/mounting-your-encrypted-home-from.html\fP

.TP
\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

On Debian n' Ubuntu systems, tha complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
