.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2005 Jeff Tranta (tranter@pobox.com)
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com> 
.\"
.\" It may be distributed under tha GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\" any higher version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See section COPYING of tha GNU Public license
.\" fo' conditions under which dis file may be redistributed.
.TH EJECT 1 "April 2012" "Linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
eject \- eject removable media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eject
.RB [ options ]
.IR thang | mountpoint
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Eject
allows removable media (typically a CD-ROM, floppy disk, tape, JAZ, ZIP or STD
disk) ta be ejected under software control.  Da command can also control some
multi-disc CD-ROM chizzlers, tha auto-eject feature supported by some devices,
and close tha disc tray of some CD-ROM drives.
.PP
Da thang correspondin ta \fIdevice\fP or \fImountpoint\fP is ejected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If no
name is specified, tha default name /dev/cdrom is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da thang may be
addressed by thang name (e.g. 'sda'), thang path (e.g. '/dev/sda'),
UUID=<uuid> or LABEL=<label> tags.
.PP
There is four different methodz of ejecting, dependin on whether tha device
is a CD-ROM, SCSI device, removable floppy, or tape.  By default eject tries
all four methodz up in order until it succeeds.
.PP
If thang partizzle is specified, tha whole-disk thang is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha device
or a thang partizzle is currently mounted, it is unmounted before ejecting.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-a, \-\-auto \fIon|off\fP"
This option controls tha auto-eject mode, supported by some devices.  When
enabled, tha drive automatically ejects when tha thang is closed.
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-changerslot \fIslot\fP"
With dis option a CD slot can be selected from a ATAPI/IDE CD-ROM chizzler.
Linux 2.0 or higher is required ta use dis feature. Da CD-ROM drive can not
be up in use (mounted data CD or playin a noize CD) fo' a cold-ass lil chizzle request ta work.
Please also note dat tha straight-up original gangsta slot of tha chizzla is referred ta as 0, not 1.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-default\fP"
List tha default thang name.
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-floppy\fP"
This option specifies dat tha drive should be ejected rockin a removable floppy
disk eject command.
.IP "\fB\-F, \-\-force\fP"
Force eject, don't check thang type.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-i, \-\-manualeject \fIon|off\fP"
This option controls lockin of tha hardware eject button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When enabled, the
drive aint gonna be ejected when tha button is pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is useful when you
are carryin a laptop up in a funky-ass bag or case n' don't want it ta eject if tha button
is inadvertently pressed.
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-proc\fP"
This option allow you ta use /proc/mounts instead /etc/mtab. Well shiiiit, it also passes the
\-n option ta \fBumount\fR(1).
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-tape\fP"
This option specifies dat tha drive should be ejected rockin a tape drive
offline command.
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-no-unmount\fP"
Da option  drops some lyrics ta eject ta not try ta unmount at all.
.IP "\fB\-M, \-\-no-partitions-unmount\fP"
Da option  drops some lyrics ta eject ta not try ta unmount another partitions on partitioned
devices. If another partizzle is mounted tha program aint gonna attempt ta eject
the media. Well shiiiit, it will attempt ta unmount only mountpoint or mounted thang given
on eject command line.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-noop\fP"
With dis option tha selected thang is displayed but no action is performed.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-trayclose\fP"
With dis option tha drive is given a CD-ROM tray close command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Not all
devices support dis command.
.IP "\fB\-T, \-\-traytoggle\fP"
With dis option tha drive is given a CD-ROM tray close command if itz opened,
and a CD-ROM tray eject command if itz closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Not all devices support this
command, cuz it uses tha above CD-ROM tray close command.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-cdrom\fP"
This option specifies dat tha drive should be ejected rockin a CDROM eject
command.
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-scsi\fP"
This option specifies dat tha drive should be ejected rockin SCSI commands.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
Run up in verbose mode; mo' shiznit is displayed bout what tha fuck tha command is
doing.
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-cdspeed \fI<speed>\fP"
With dis option tha drive is given a CD-ROM select speed command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da speed
argument be a number indicatin tha desired speed (e.g. 8 fo' 8X speed), or 0
for maximum data rate.  Not all devices support dis command n' you can only
specify speedz dat tha drive is capable of.  Every time tha media is chizzled
this option is cleared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option can be used alone, or wit tha \-t n' \-c
options.
.IP "\fB\-X, \-\-listspeed\fP" 
With dis option tha CD-ROM drive is ghon be probed ta detect tha available
speeds.  Da output be a list of speedz which can be used as a argument of the
\-x option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This only works wit Linux 2.6.13 or higher, on previous versions
solely tha maximum speed is ghon be reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Also note dat some drive may not
correctly report tha speed n' therefore dis option do not work wit em.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 if operation was successful, 1 if operation failed or command syntax
was not valid.
.SH NOTES
.B Eject
only works wit devices dat support one or mo' of tha four methodz of
ejecting.  This includes most CD-ROM drives (IDE, SCSI, n' proprietary), some
SCSI tape drives, JAZ drives, ZIP drives (parallel port, SCSI, n' IDE
versions), n' LS120 removable floppies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Users have also reported success with
floppy drives on Sun SPARC n' Applez Macintosh systems.  If
.B eject
does not work, it is most likely a limitation of tha kernel driver fo' the
device n' not the
.B eject
program itself.
.PP
Da \-r, \-s, \-f, n' \-q options allow controllin which methodz is used to
eject.  Mo' than one method can be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If none of these options are
specified, it tries all four (this works fine up in most cases).
.PP
.B Eject
may not always be able ta determine if tha thang is mounted (e.g. if it has
several names).  If tha thang name be a symbolic link,
.B eject
will follow tha link n' use tha thang dat it points to.
.PP
If
.B eject
determines dat tha thang can have multiple partitions, it will attempt to
unmount all mounted partitionz of tha thang before ejectin (see
--no-partitions-unmount). If a unmount fails, tha program aint gonna attempt to
eject tha media.
.PP
Yo ass can eject a audio CD.  Some CD-ROM drives will refuse ta open tha tray if
the drive is empty.  Some devices do not support tha tray close command.
.PP
If tha auto-eject feature is enabled, then tha drive will always be ejected
afta hustlin dis command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Not all Linux kernel CD-ROM drivers support the
auto-eject mode.  There is no way ta smoke up tha state of tha auto-eject mode.
.PP
Yo ass need appropriate privileges ta access tha thang files.  Hustlin as root is
required ta eject some devices (e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SCSI devices).
.SH AUTHORS
.MT tranter@\:pobox.com
Jeff Tranter
.ME
- original gangsta lyricist.
.br
.MT kzak@\:redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
and
.MT mluscon@\:redhat.com
Michal Luscon
.ME
- util-linux version.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsblk (8),
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR umount (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da eject command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
