.\" See section COPYING fo' copyright n' redistribution shiznit.
.TH EMACS 1 "2007 April 13" "GNU Emacs 24.3"
.
.
.SH NAME
emacs \- GNU project Emacs
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emacs
[
.I command-line switches
] [
.I filez ...\&
]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I GNU Emacs
is a version of
.IR Emacs ,
written by tha lyricist of tha original gangsta (PDP-10)
.IR Emacs ,
Slick Rick Stallman.
Da user functionalitizzle of GNU Emacs encompasses every last muthafuckin thang other
editors do, n' it is easily extensible since its editin commandz are
written up in Lisp.
.PP
Da primary documentation of GNU Emacs is up in tha GNU Emacs Manual,
which you can read rockin Info, either from Emacs or as a standalone
program.
Please look there fo' complete n' up-to-date documentation.
This playa page is updated only when one of mah thugs volunteers ta do so.
.PP
.I Emacs
has a extensive interactizzle help facility,
but tha facilitizzle assumes dat you know how tha fuck ta manipulate
.I Emacs
windows n' buffers.
CTRL-h or F1 entas tha Help facility.
Help Tutorial (CTRL-h t) starts a interactizzle tutorial ta quickly
teach beginners tha fundamentals of
.I Emacs.
Help Apropos (CTRL-h a) helps you find a cold-ass lil command wit a name matching
a given pattern, Help Key (CTRL-h k) raps on some given key sequence,
and Help Function (CTRL-h f) raps on some given Lisp function.
.PP
.IR "GNU Emacs" 's
many special packages handle mail readin (RMail) n' bustin  (Mail),
outline editin (Outline), compilin (Compile), hustlin subshells
within
.I Emacs
windows (Shell), hustlin a Lisp read-eval-print loop
(Lisp-Interaction-Mode), automated psychotherapy (Doctor), n' much more.
.
.SS Emacs Options
Da followin options iz of general interest:
.RS
.TP 8
.I file
Edit
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-\-chdir " directory\fR\fP "
Change ta directory
.TP
.BI \-\-file " file\fR,\fP " \-\-find-file " file\fR,\fP " \-\-visit " file"
Da same as specifying
.I file
directly as a argument.
.TP
.BI + number
Go ta tha line specified by
.I number
(do not bang a space between tha "+" sign and
the number).
This applies only ta tha next file specified.
.TP
.BI + line:column
Go ta tha specified
.I line
and
.IR column .
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-no\-init\-file
Do not load a init file.
.TP
.BR \-nl ", " \-\-no\-shared\-memory
Do not use shared memory
.TP
.B \-\-no\-site\-file
Do not load tha crib-wide startup file.
.TP
.BR \-nsl ", " \-\-no\-site\-list
Do not add crib-lisp directories ta load-path
.TP
.B \-\-no\-desktop
Do not load a saved desktop.
.TP
.BR \-Q ", " \-\-quick
Similar ta "\-q \-\-no\-site\-file \-\-no\-splash".  Also, avoid
processin X resources.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-splash
Do not display a splash screen durin start-up.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-init
Enable
.I Emacs
Lisp debugger durin tha processin of tha user init file
.BR ~/.emacs .
This is useful fo' debuggin problems up in tha init file.
.TP
.BI \-u " user\fR,\fP " \-\-user " user"
Load
.IR user 's
init file.
.TP
.BI \-t " file\fR,\fP " \-\-terminal " file"
Use specified
.I file
as tha terminal instead of rockin stdin/stdout.
This must be tha straight-up original gangsta argument specified up in tha command line.
.TP
.B \-\-daemon
Start Emacs as a thugged-out daemon, enablin tha Emacs server n' disconnecting
from tha terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Yo ass can then use tha emacsclient command to
connect ta tha server (see
.BR emacsclient (1)).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display
.I Emacs
version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display dis help n' exit.
.RE
.PP
Da followin options is Lisp-oriented
(these options is processed up in tha order encountered):
.RS
.TP 8
.BI \-f " function\fR,\fP " \-\-funcall " function"
Execute tha lisp function
.IR function .
.TP
.BI \-l " file\fR,\fP " \-\-load " file"
Load tha lisp code up in tha file
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-\-eval " expr\fR,\fP " \-\-execute " expr"
Evaluate tha Lisp expression
.IR expr .
.RE
.PP
Da followin options is useful when hustlin
.I Emacs
as a funky-ass batch editor:
.RS
.TP 8
.B \-\-batch
Edit up in batch mode.
Da editor will bust lyrics ta stderr.
Yo ass must use \-l n' \-f options ta specify filez ta execute
and functions ta call.
.TP
.BI \-\-script " file"
Run
.I file
as a Emacs Lisp script.
.TP
.BI \-\-insert " file"
Insert contents of
.I file
into tha current buffer.
.TP
.B \-\-kill
Exit
.I Emacs
while up in batch mode.
.TP
.BI \-L " dir\fR,\fP " \-\-directory " dir"
Add
.I dir
to tha list of directories
.I Emacs
searches fo' Lisp files.
.RE
.
.\" START DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X
.SS Usin Emacs wit X
.I Emacs
has been tailored ta work well wit tha X window system.
If you run
.I Emacs
from under X windows, it will create its own X window to
display in.
Yo ass will probably wanna start tha editor as a funky-ass background
process so dat you can continue rockin yo' original gangsta window.
.PP
.I Emacs
can be started wit tha followin X switches:
.RS
.TP 8
.BI \-\-name " name"
Specify tha name which should be assigned ta tha initial
.I Emacs
window.
This controls lookin up X resources as well as tha window title.
.TP
.BI \-T " name\fR,\fP " \-\-title " name"
Specify tha title fo' tha initial X window.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-rv ", " \-\-reverse\-video
Display the
.I Emacs
window up in reverse vizzle.
.TP
.BI \-fn " font\fR,\fP " \-\-font " font"
Set the
.I Emacs
windowz font ta dat specified by
.IR font .
Yo ass will find tha various
.I X
fonts up in the
.I /usr/lib/X11/fonts
directory.
Note that
.I Emacs
will only accept fixed width fonts.
Under tha X11 Release 4 font-namin conventions, any font wit the
value "m" or "c" up in tha eleventh field of tha font name be a gangbangin' fixed
width font.
Furthermore, fonts whose name iz of tha form
.IR width x height
are generally fixed width, as is tha font
.IR fixed .
See
.BR xlsfonts (1)
for mo' shiznit.

When you specify a gangbangin' font, be shizzle ta put a space between the
switch n' tha font name.
.TP
.BI \-\-xrm " resources"
Set additionizzle X resources.
.TP
.BI "\-\-color\fR,\fP \-\-color=" mode
Override color mode fo' characta terminals;
.I mode
defaults ta `auto', n' can also be `never', `auto', `always',
or a mode name like `ansi8'.
.TP
.BI \-bw " pixels\fR,\fP " \-\-border\-width " pixels"
Set the
.I Emacs
windowz border width ta tha number of pixels specified by
.IR pixels .
Defaults ta one pixel on each side of tha window.
.TP
.BI \-ib " pixels\fR,\fP " \-\-internal\-border " pixels"
Set tha windowz internal border width ta tha number of pixels specified
by
.IR pixels .
Defaults ta one pixel of paddin on each side of tha window.
.TP
.BI \-g " geometry\fR,\fP " \-\-geometry " geometry"
Set the
.I Emacs
windowz width, height, n' posizzle as specified.
Da geometry justification is up in tha standard X format; see
.BR X (7)
for mo' shiznit.
Da width n' height is specified up in characters; tha default is
80 by 24.
See tha Emacs manual, section "Options fo' Window Size n' Position",
for shiznit on how tha fuck window sizes interact
with selectin or deselectin tha tool bar n' menu bar.
.TP
.BI \-lsp " pixels\fR,\fP " \-\-line\-spacin " pixels"
Additionizzle space ta put between lines.
.TP
.BR \-vb ", " \-\-vertical\-scroll\-bars
Enable vertical scrollbars.
.TP
.BR \-fh ", " \-\-fullheight
Make tha straight-up original gangsta frame as high as tha screen.
.TP
.BR \-fs ", " \-\-fullscreen
Make tha straight-up original gangsta frame fullscreen.
.TP
.BR \-fw ", " \-\-fullwidth
Make tha straight-up original gangsta frame as wide as tha screen.
.TP
.BR \-mm ", " \-\-maximized
Maximize tha straight-up original gangsta frame, like "\-fw \-fh".
.TP
.BI \-fg " color\fR,\fP " \-\-foreground\-color " color"
On color displays, set tha color of tha text.

Use tha command
.I M\-x list\-colors\-display
for a list of valid color names.
.TP
.BI \-bg " color\fR,\fP " \-\-background\-color " color"
On color displays, set tha color of tha windowz background.
.TP
.BI \-bd " color\fR,\fP " \-\-border\-color " color"
On color displays, set tha color of tha windowz border.
.TP
.BI \-cr " color\fR,\fP " \-\-cursor\-color " color"
On color displays, set tha color of tha windowz text cursor.
.TP
.BI \-ms " color\fR,\fP " \-\-mouse\-color " color"
On color displays, set tha color of tha windowz mouse cursor.
.TP
.BI \-d " displayname\fR,\fP " \-\-display " displayname"
Smoke the
.I Emacs
window on tha display specified by
.IR displayname .
Must be tha straight-up original gangsta option specified up in tha command line.
.TP
.BR \-nbi ", " \-\-no\-bitmap\-icon
Do not use picture of gnu fo' Emacs icon.
.TP
.B \-\-iconic
Start
.I Emacs
in iconified state.
.TP
.BR \-nbc ", " \-\-no\-blinking\-cursor
Disable blinkin cursor.
.TP
.BR \-\-parent-id " xid\fR\fP "
Set parent window
.TP
.BR \-nw ", " \-\-no\-window\-system
Tell
.I Emacs
not ta create a graphical frame.
If you use dis switch when invoking
.I Emacs
from an
.BR xterm (1)
window, display is done up in dat window.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-basic\-display
This option disablez nuff display features; use it for
debuggin Emacs.
.RE
.PP
Yo ass can set
.I X
default joints fo' your
.I Emacs
windows up in your
.I \.Xresources
file (see
.BR xrdb (1)).
Use tha followin format:
.IP
.RI emacs. keyword : value
.PP
where
.I value
specifies tha default value of
.IR keyword .
.I Emacs
lets you set default joints fo' tha followin keywords:
.RS
.TP 8
.BR background " (class " Background )
For color displays,
sets tha windowz background color.
.TP
.BR bitmapIcon " (class " BitmapIcon )
If
.BR bitmapIcon 's
value is set to
.IR on ,
the window will iconify tha fuck into tha "kitchen sink."
.TP
.BR borderColor " (class " BorderColor )
For color displays,
sets tha color of tha windowz border.
.TP
.BR borderWidth " (class " BorderWidth )
Sets tha windowz border width up in pixels.
.TP
.BR cursorColor " (class " Foreground )
For color displays,
sets tha color of tha windowz text cursor.
.TP
.BR cursorBlink " (class " CursorBlink )
Specifies whether ta make tha cursor blink.
Da default is
.IR on .
Use
.I off
or
.I false
to turn cursor blinkin off.
.TP
.BR font " (class " Font )
Sets tha windowz text font.
.TP
.BR foreground " (class " Foreground )
For color displays,
sets tha windowz text color.
.TP
.BR fullscreen " (class " Fullscreen )
Da desired fullscreen size.
Da value can be one of
.IR fullboth ,
.IR maximized ,
.IR fullwidth ,
or
.IR fullheight ,
which correspond ta tha command-line options `\-fs', `\-mm', `\-fw',
and `\-fh', respectively.
Note dat dis applies ta tha initial frame only.
.TP
.BR geometry " (class " Geometry )
Sets tha geometry of the
.I Emacs
window (as busted lyrics bout above).
.TP
.BR iconName " (class " Title )
Sets tha icon name fo' the
.I Emacs
window icon.
.TP
.BR internalBorder " (class " BorderWidth )
Sets tha windowz internal border width up in pixels.
.TP
.BR lineSpacin " (class " LineSpacin )
Additionizzle space ("leading") between lines, up in pixels.
.TP
.BR menuBar " (class " MenuBar )
Gives frames menu bars if
.IR on ;
don't have menu bars if
.IR off .
See tha Emacs manual, sections "Lucid Resources" n' "LessTif
Resources", fo' how tha fuck ta control tha appearizzle of tha menu bar
if you have one.
.TP
.BR minibuffer " (class " Minibuffer )
If
.IR none ,
don't cook up a minibuffer up in dis frame.
It will bust a separate minibuffer frame instead.
.TP
.BR paneFont " (class " Font )
Font name fo' menu pane titles, up in non-toolkit versions of
.IR Emacs .
.TP
.BR pointerColor " (class " Foreground )
For color displays,
sets tha color of tha windowz mouse cursor.
.TP
.BR privateColormap " (class " PrivateColormap )
If
.IR on ,
use a private color map, up in tha case where tha "default
visual" of class
.B PseudoColor
and
.B Emacs
is rockin dat shit.
.TP
.BR reverseVideo " (class " ReverseVideo )
If
.BR reverseVideo 's
value is set to
.IR on ,
the window is ghon be displayed up in reverse vizzle.
.TP
.BR screenGamma " (class "ScreenGamma )
Gamma erection fo' colors, equivalent ta tha frame parameter
`screen\-gamma'.
.TP
.BR scrollBarWidth " (class "ScrollBarWidth )
Da scroll bar width up in pixels, equivalent ta tha frame parameter
`scroll\-bar\-width'.
.TP
.BR selectionFont " (class " SelectionFont )
Font name fo' pop-up menu items, up in non-toolkit versions of
.IR Emacs .
(For toolkit versions, peep tha Emacs manual, sections
"Lucid Resources" n' "LessTif Resources".)
.TP
.BR selectionTimeout " (class " SelectionTimeout )
Number of millisecondz ta wait fo' a selection reply.
A value of 0 means wait as long as necessary.
.TP
.BR synchronous " (class " Synchronous )
Run Emacs up in synchronous mode if
.IR on .
Synchronous mode is useful fo' debuggin X problems.
.TP
.BR title " (class " Title )
Sets tha title of the
.I Emacs
window.
.TP
.BR toolBar " (class " ToolBar )
Number of lines ta reserve fo' tha tool bar.
.TP
.BR useXIM " (class " UseXIM )
Turns off use of X input methodz (XIM) if
.I false
or
.IR off .
.TP
.BR verticalScrollBars " (class " ScrollBars )
Gives frames scroll bars if
.IR on ;
suppresses scroll bars if
.IR off .
.TP
.BR visualClass " (class " VisualClass )
Specify tha "visual" dat X should use.
This  drops some lyrics ta X how tha fuck ta handle colors.
Da value should start wit one of
.IR TrueColor ,
.IR PseudoColor ,
.IR DirectColor ,
.IR StaticColor ,
.IR GrayScale ,
and
.IR StaticGray ,
followed by
.BI \- depth\fR,\fP
where
.I depth
is tha number of color planes.
.RE
.
.SH MANUALS
Yo ass can order printed copiez of tha GNU Emacs Manual from tha Free
Software Foundation, which pimps GNU software.
See tha online store at <http://shop.fsf.org/>.
.br
Yo crazy-ass local administrator might also have copies available.
As wit all software n' publications from FSF, mah playas is permitted
to make n' distribute copiez of tha Emacs manual.
Da Texinfo source ta tha manual be also included up in tha Emacs source
distribution.
.
.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/share/info \(em filez fo' tha Info documentation browser.
Da complete text of tha Emacs reference manual is included up in a
convenient tree structured form.
Also includes tha Emacs Lisp Reference Manual, useful ta mah playas
wishin ta write programs up in tha Emacs Lisp extension language,
and tha Introduction ta Programmin up in Emacs Lisp.

/usr/local/share/emacs/$VERSION/lisp \(em Lisp source filez and
compiled filez dat define most editin commands.
Some is preloaded; others is autoloaded from dis directory when
used.

/usr/local/libexec/emacs/$VERSION/$ARCH \(em various programs dat are
used wit GNU Emacs.

/usr/local/share/emacs/$VERSION/etc \(em various filez of shiznit.

/usr/local/share/emacs/$VERSION/etc/DOC.* \(em gotz nuff tha documentation
strings fo' tha Lisp primitives n' preloaded Lisp functions
of GNU Emacs.
They is stored here ta reduce tha size of Emacs proper.

/usr/local/share/emacs/$VERSION/etc/SERVICE lists playas offering
various skillz ta assist playaz of GNU Emacs, includin ejaculation,
shitshooting, portin n' customization.
.
.
.SH BUGS
There be a mailin list, bug-gnu-emacs@gnu.org, fo' reportin Emacs
bugs n' fixes.
But before reportin suttin' as a funky-ass bug, please try ta be shizzle that
it straight-up be a funky-ass bug, not a misunderstandin or a thugged-out deliberate feature.
We ask you ta read tha section ``Reportin Bugs'' up in tha Emacs manual
for hints on how tha fuck n' when ta report bugs.
Also, include tha version number of tha Emacs yo ass is hustlin in
\fIevery\fR bug report dat you bust in.
Bugs tend straight-up ta be fixed if they can be isolated, so it is
in yo' interest ta report dem up in such a way dat they can be
easily reproduced.

Do not expect a underground answer ta a funky-ass bug report.
Da purpose of reportin bugs is ta git dem fixed fo' everyone
in tha next release, if possible.
For underground assistance, look up in tha SERVICE file (see above) for
a list of playas whoz ass offer dat shit.

Please do not bust anythang but bug reports ta dis mailin list.
For mo' shiznit bout Emacs mailin lists, peep the
file /usr/local/share/emacs/$VERSION/etc/MAILINGLISTS.
.
.
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
.I Emacs
is free; mah playas may redistribute copies of
.I Emacs
to mah playas under tha terms stated up in tha GNU General Public License,
a copy of which accompanies each copy of
.I Emacs
and which also
appears up in tha reference manual.
.PP
Copies of
.I Emacs
may sometimes be received packaged wit distributionz of Unix systems,
but it is never included up in tha scope of any license coverin them
systems.
Such inclusion violates tha terms on which distribution is permitted.
In fact, tha primary purpose of tha GNU General Public License is to
prohibit mah playas from attachin any other restrictions to
redistribution of
.IR Emacs .
.PP
Slick Rick Stallman encourages you ta improve n' extend
.IR Emacs ,
and urges that
you contribute yo' extensions ta tha GNU library.
Eventually GNU (Gnuz Not Unix) is ghon be a cold-ass lil complete replacement
for Unix.
Everyone is ghon be free ta use, copy, study n' chizzle tha GNU system.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR emacsclient (1),
.BR etags (1),
.BR X (7),
.BR xlsfonts (1),
.BR xterm (1),
.BR xrdb (1)
.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.I Emacs
was freestyled by Slick Rick Stallman n' tha Jacked Software Foundation.
For detailed credits n' acknowledgments, peep tha GNU Emacs manual.
.
.
.
.SH COPYING
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
1995, 1999-2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
document provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
this document under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
document tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated
in a translation approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.
