.\" See section COPYING fo' conditions fo' redistribution.
.TH EMACSCLIENT 1
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
emacsclient \-  drops some lyrics ta a hustlin Emacs ta git on over ta a gangbangin' file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emacsclient
.I "[options] filez ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR emacsclient
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Full documentation be available up in tha GNU Info format; see
below.
This manual page was originally freestyled fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux
distribution yo, but aint specific ta dat system.
.PP
.B emacsclient
works up in conjunction wit tha built-in Emacs server.
.PP
Yo ass can either call
.B emacsclient
directly or let other programs run it fo' you when necessary.  On
GNU n' Unix systems nuff programs consult tha environment
variable EDITOR (sometimes also VISUAL) ta obtain tha command used for
editing.  Thus, settin dis environment variable ta 'emacsclient'
will allow these programs ta use a already hustlin Emacs fo' editing.
Other operatin systems might have they own methodz fo' definin the
default editor.

For
.B emacsclient
to work, you need a already hustlin Emacs wit a server n' shit.  Within Emacs,
call tha functions `server-start' or `server-mode'.  (Yo crazy-ass `.emacs' file
can do dis automatically if you add either `(server-start)' or
`(server-mode 1)' ta dat shit.)

When you've finished editin tha buffer, type `C-x #'
(`server-edit').  This saves tha file n' sendz a message back ta the
`emacsclient' program spittin some lyrics ta it ta exit.  Da programs dat use
`EDITOR' wait fo' tha "editor" (actually, `emacsclient') ta exit.  `C-x
#' also checks fo' other pendin external requests ta edit various
files, n' selects tha next such file.

If you set tha variable `server-window' ta a window or a gangbangin' frame, `C-x
#' displays tha server buffer up in dat window or up in dat frame.

.SH OPTIONS
Da programs follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-alternate-editor=EDITOR
if tha Emacs server aint hustlin, run tha specified editor instead.
This can also be specified via tha `ALTERNATE_EDITOR' environment variable.
If tha value of EDITOR is tha empty string, run `emacs --daemon' to
start Emacs up in daemon mode, n' try ta connect ta dat shit.
.TP
.B -c, \-\-create-frame
create a freshly smoked up frame instead of tryin ta use tha current Emacs frame
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-frame-parameters=ALIST
set tha parametaz of a newly-created frame.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-display=DISPLAY
tell tha server ta display tha filez on tha given display.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-eval
do not visit filez but instead evaluate tha arguments as Emacs
Lisp expressions.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-server-file=FILENAME
use TCP configuration file FILENAME fo' communication.
This can also be specified via tha `EMACS_SERVER_FILE' environment variable.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-wait
returns
immediately without waitin fo' you ta "finish" tha buffer up in Emacs.
.TP
.B \-nw, \-t, \-\-tty
open a freshly smoked up Emacs frame on tha current terminal
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-socket-name=FILENAME
use socket named FILENAME fo' communication.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
print version shiznit n' exit
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-help
print dis usage shiznit message n' exit
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Normally, tha exit status is 0.  If emacsclient shuts down due to
Emacs signalin a error, tha exit status is 1.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Da program is documented straight-up in
.IR "Usin Emacs as a Server"
available via tha Info system.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Stephane Bortzmeyer <bortzmeyer@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SH COPYING
This manual page is up in tha hood domain.

