.PU
.TH ENCHANT 1 "July 2006" enchant "Enchant Mini Help File"
.SH NAME
Enchant \- a spellchecker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +8
.B enchant
[\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-L\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.ll -8
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Enchant
is a ispell-compatible spellchecker.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a"
List alternatives.
.TP
.B "\-l"
List only tha misspellings.
.TP
.B "\-L"
Include tha line number up in tha output.
.TP
.B "\-v"
Prints tha programz version.
.SH ENCHANT ORDERING FILE
Enchant has a global n' a per-user orderin file named \fIenchant.ordering\fR.
It lets tha user specify which spellin backend ta use fo' individual
languages up in tha case when you care which backend gets used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da global
file is located up in \fI$(datadir)/enchant\fR n' tha per-user file is
located up in \fI~/.enchant\fR.
Da per-user file takes precedence, if found.
.PP
Da orderin file takes tha form language_tag:<comma-separated list of spelling
backends>. I be currently aware of tha followin backends: aspell, myspell, ispell, uspell, hspell, voikko, n' zemberek. '*' is
used ta mean "use dis orderin fo' all languages, unless instructed otherwise." For example:
.PP
*:aspell,myspell,ispell
.br
en:aspell,myspell,ispell
.br
en_UK:myspell,aspell,ispell
.br
fr:myspell,ispell:aspell
.SH DIRECTORIES IMPORTANT TO ENCHANT
Unless configured otherwise, Enchantz Myspell, Ispell, n' Uspell
backendz will look fo' dictionaries up in directories specific ta Enchant,
and aint gonna use yo' system-wide installed dictionaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This is for
pragmatic reasons since nuff distributions install these dictionaries
into different locations.
.PP
Like tha \fIenchant.ordering\fR file busted lyrics bout above, Enchant looks in
the global directory fo' these dictionaries n' a per-user directory.
Da per-user directory takes precedence if it is found.
Enchant looks fo' Myspell dictionaries up in \fI$(datadir)/enchant/myspell\fR n' \fI~/.enchant/myspell\fR.
Enchant looks fo' Ispell dictionaries up in \fI$(datadir)/enchant/ispell\fR n' \fI~/.enchant/ispell\fR.
Enchant looks fo' Uspell dictionaries up in \fI$(datadir)/enchant/uspell\fR n' \fI~/.enchant/uspell\fR.
.PP
Packagers n' playas may wish ta make symbolic links ta tha system-wide doggtionary directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Or, preferably, use tha --with-myspell-dir, --with-ispell-dir, n' --with-uspell-dir 'configure' arguments.
.SH MORE INFORMATION
http://www.abisource.com/enchant/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR aspell(1),
.BR ispell(1),
.SH "AUTHOR"
 Dom Lachowicz
 WEB: http://www.abisource.com/enchant/
 MAIL: domlachowicz@gmail.com
