.
.Dd November 7, 2012
.Dt ERB(1) "" "Ruby Programmers Reference Guide"
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm erb
.Nd Ruby Templating
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl UPdnvx
.Op Fl E Ar ext Ns Op Ns : Ns int
.Op Fl S Ar level
.Op Fl T Ar mode
.Op Fl r Ar library
.Op Fl -
.Op file ...
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a cold-ass lil command line front-end for
.Li "ERB"
library, which be a implementation of eRuby.
.Pp
ERB serves up a easy as fuck  ta use but bangin templatin system fo' Ruby.
Usin ERB, actual Ruby code can be added ta any plain text document fo' the
purposez of generatin document shiznit details and/or flow control.
.Pp
.Nm
is a part of
.Nm Ruby .
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl -version
Prints tha version of
.Nm .
.Pp
.It Fl E Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
.It Fl -encodin Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
Specifies tha default value(s) fo' external encodings n' internal encoding. Values should be separated wit colon (:).
.Pp
Yo ass can omit tha one fo' internal encodings, then tha value
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) is ghon be nil.
.Pp
.It Fl P
Evaluates lines startin with
.Li "%"
as Ruby code n' removes tha tailin EOLs.
.Pp
.It Fl S Ar level
Specifies tha safe level up in which eRuby script will run.
.Pp
.It Fl T Ar mode
Specifies trim mode (default 0).
.Ar mode
can be one of
.Bl -hang -offset indent
.It Sy 0
EOL remains afta tha embedded ruby script is evaluated.
.Pp
.It Sy 1
EOL is removed if tha line endz with
.Li "%>" .
.Pp
.It Sy 2
EOL is removed if tha line starts with
.Li "<%"
and endz with
.Li "%>" .
.Pp
.It Sy -
EOL is removed if tha line endz with
.Li "-%>" .
And leadin whitespaces is removed if tha erb directizzle starts with
.Li "<%-" .
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.It Fl U
can be one of
Sets tha default value fo' internal encodings
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) ta UTF-8.
.Pp
.It Fl d
.It Fl -debug
Turns on debug mode.
.Li "$DEBUG"
will be set ta true.
.Pp
.It Fl h
.It Fl -help
Prints a summary of tha options.
.Pp
.It Fl n
Used with
.Fl x .
Prependz tha line number ta each line up in tha output.
.Pp
.It Fl v
Enablez verbose mode.
.Li "$VERBOSE"
will be set ta true.
.Pp
.It Fl x
Converts tha eRuby script tha fuck into Ruby script n' prints it without line numbers.
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
Here be a eRuby script
.Bd -literal -offset indent
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<% require 'prime' -%>
<erb-example>
  <calc><%= 1+1 %></calc>
  <var><%= __FILE__ %></var>
  <library><%= Prime.each(10).to_a.join(", ") %></library>
</erb-example>
.Ed
.Pp
Command
.Dl "% erb -T - example.erb"
prints
.Bd -literal -offset indent
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<erb-example>
  <calc>2</calc>
  <var>example.erb</var>
  <library>2, 3, 5, 7</library>
</erb-example>
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ruby 1 .
.Pp
And see
.Xr ri 1
documentation for
.Li "ERB"
class.
.Pp
.Sh REPORTING BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.Li Securitizzle vulnerabilitizzles should be reported via a email to
.Aq security@ruby-lang.org Ns
.Li .
Reported problems is ghon be published afta bein fixed.
.Pp
.Li And you can report other bugs n' feature requests via the
Ruby Issue Trackin System (http://bugs.ruby-lang.org).
Do not report securitizzle vulnerabilities
via tha system cuz it publishes tha vulnerabilitizzles immediately.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Masatoshi SEKI.
