.\" $Id: escputil.1.in,v 1.11 2004/09/17 18:38:02 rleigh Exp $
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Robert Krawitz <rlk@alum.mit.edu>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH ESCPUTIL 1 "07 Jul 2012" "Version 5.2.9" "Gutenprint Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
escputil \- maintain Epson Stylus inkjet printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B escputil
[ \fI\-P\fP \fIprinter\fP | \fI\-r\fP \fIdevice\fP ] [ \fI\-m\fP \fImodel\fP ] [
\fI\-S\fP ] [ \fI\-C\fP ] [ \fI\-p\fP ] [
\fI\-u\fP ] [ \fI\-c\fP | \fI\-n\fP | \fI\-a\fP | \fI\-i\fP | \fI\-d\fP |
\fI\-o\fP | \fI\-s\fP | \fI\-l\fP | \fI\-M\fP | \fI\-h\fP ] [ \fI\-q\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBescputil\fP be a cold-ass lil command line utilitizzle ta big-ass up various maintenizzle tasks
on Epson Stylus inkjet printers.  These tasks include head alignment, head
cleaning, nozzle check, printa identification, n' retrieval of ink level from
the printer.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBescputil\fP accepts tha followin options:
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-printer\-name=\fIprinter\fP
Specify tha name of tha printa ta operate on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is tha default
system printer.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-raw\-device=\fIdevice\fP
Specify tha name of tha thang ta write ta directly rather than goin all up in a
printa queue. Yo ass must use dis (rather than specifyin a printer) when
retrievin ink levels or identifyin tha printer, or if you wish ta perform
head alignment without specifyin tha printa model.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-model=\fImodel\fP
Specify tha precise printa model fo' head alignment.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-new
Da printa be a freshly smoked up printa (Stylus Color 740 or newer).
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-short\-name
Print tha short name of tha printa wit \-\-identify.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-choices
Specify tha number of pattern chizzlez fo' alignment.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-patterns
Specify tha number of setz of patterns fo' alignment.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-clean\-head
Clean tha print head. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can also be performed from tha printer
front panel.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nozzle\-check
Print a nozzle test pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Dirty or clogged nozzlez will show as gaps up in the
pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If you peep any gaps, you should run a head cleanin pass or two.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-align\-head
Align tha print head. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  CAUTION: Misuse of dis option may result up in skanky print
qualitizzle and/or damage ta tha printer n' shit.  Yo ass must either specify tha printer
model wit tha \-m option, or use tha raw printa thang ta allow escputil to
detect tha printa model.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ink\-level
Obtain tha ink level from tha printer n' shit.  This requires
read/write access ta tha raw printa device.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-identify
Query tha printa fo' make n' model shiznit.
This requires read/write access ta tha raw printer
device.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-align\-color
Align tha color print head (used by Stylus Color 480 n' 580 only).  CAUTION:
Misuse of dis option may result up in skanky print qualitizzle and/or damage ta the
printer n' shit.   
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-status
Retrieve printa status.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-license
Display tha license/warranty termz of dis program.
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-list\-models
List tha supported printa models.
.TP
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Display a list of all command line options.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress tha banner.
.SH BUGS
STD-connected printas sometimes fail ta identify or return ink levels.  You
may gotta repeat tha command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is probably a timin issue up in escputil,
not a gangbangin' flaw up in tha printer.
.PP
Anythang requirin bidirectionizzle communication wit tha printa (identify, ink
levels, or head alignment without specifyin tha printa model) requires
read/write access ta tha printa port (for example /dev/lp0).  This may require
these operations ta be performed as root.  In addition, kernel support is
required fo' bidirectionizzle communication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For Linux version 2.2,
\fICONFIG_PRINTER_READBACK\fP should be enabled; dis is called
\fICONFIG_PARPORT_1284\fP on 2.4 n' lata kernels.
.PP
If tha printa is struttin self-test or head cleanin on juice up, the
identify n' ink level commandz will time out, although tha printer
successfully receives tha command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da command will need ta be reissued when
the printa is quiescent.
.SH AUTHORS
Robert Krawitz.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  2000 Robert Krawitz (rlk@alum.mit.edu)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by tha Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option)
any lata version.
.SH OTHER INFORMATION
Da homepizzy of tha Gutenprint project from which dis utilitizzle was
contributed is located at http://gimp\-print.sourceforge.net/.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lp (4),
.BR tunelp (8).
.\"#
.\"# Da followin sets edit modes fo' GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
