.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH ESPEAK 1 "July 25, 2007"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
espeak \- A multi-lingual software rap synthesizer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B espeak
.RI [ options ]\ [ lyrics ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B espeak
is a software rap synthesizer fo' Gangsta, n' some other languages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f file
Text file ta speak.
.TP
.B \-\-stdin
Read text input from stdin instead of a gangbangin' file
.TP
If neither \fB-f\fP nor \fB--stdin\fP, \fIwords\fP is spoken, or if none then text is spoken from stdin, each line separately.
.TP
.BI \-a integer
Amplitude, 0 ta 20, default is 10.
.TP
.BI \-g integer
Word gap. Pause between lyrics, unitz of 10 ms all up in tha default speed.
.TP
.BI \-k integer
Indicate capital lettas with: 1=sound, 2=the word "capitals", higher joints = a pitch increase (try -k20).
.TP
.BI \-l integer
Line length. If not zero (which is tha default), consider
lines less than dis length as and-of-clause.
.TP
.BI \-p integer
Pitch adjustment, 0 ta 99, default is 50.
.TP
.BI \-s integer
Speed up in lyrics per minute, default is 160.
.TP
.BI \-v voicename
Use voice file of dis name from espeak-data/voices.
.TP
.BI \-w file
Write output ta dis WAV file, rather than bustin lyrics it directly.
.TP
.B \-b
Input text is 8-bit encoding.
.TP
.B \-m
Indicates dat tha text gotz nuff SSML (Rap Synthesis Markup Language) tags or other XML tags. Those SSML tags which is supported is interpreted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Other tags, includin HTML, is ignored, except dat some HTML tags like fuckin <hr> <h2> n' <li> ensure a funky-ass break up in tha speech.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet, don't produce any rap (may be useful wit \fB-x\fP).
.TP
.B \-x
Write phoneme mnemonics ta stdout.
.TP
.B \-X
Write phonemes mnemonics n' translation trace ta stdout.
.TP
.B \-z
No final sentence pause all up in tha end of tha text.
.TP
.BI \-\-compile \fR[\fP\fB=\fPvoicename\fR]\fP
Compile tha pronunciation rulez n' doggtionary up in tha current directory. Da \fIvoicename\fP is optionizzle n' specifies which language ta use.
.TP
.BI \-\-ipa \fR[\fP\fB=\fPipa\fR]\fP
Write phonemes ta stdout rockin Internationistic Phonetic Alphabet. If \fIipa\fP is 1 use ties, if 2 use ZWJ, if 3 separate wit "\_".
.TP
.BI \-\-path= path
Specifies tha directory containin tha espeak-data directory.
.TP
.B \-\-pho
Write mbrola phoneme data (.pho) ta stdout or ta tha file up in \fB--phonout\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-phonout= filename
Write output from \fB-x\fP, \fB-X\fP commandz n' mbrola phoneme data ta dis file.
.TP
.BI \-\-punct \fR[\fP\fB=\fPcharacters\fR]\fP
Speak tha namez of punctuation charactas durin bustin lyrics. If \fIcharacters\fP is omitted, all punctuation is spoken.
.TP
.BI \-\-split= minutes
Starts a freshly smoked up WAV file every last muthafuckin \fIminutes\fP. Used wit \fB-w\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-stdout
Write rap output ta stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-voices \fR[\fP\fB=\fPlanguage\fR]\fP
Lists tha available voices. If \fIlanguage\fP is present then only dem voices which is suitable fo' dat language is listed.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B --version
Show version shiznit.
.SH AUTHOR
eSpeak was freestyled by Jonathan Duddington <jonsd@jsd.clara.co.uk>. Da webpage fo' dis package can be found at http://espeak.sourceforge.net/.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Luke Yelavich <themuso@ubuntu.com>, fo' tha Ubuntu project (but may be used by others).
Several thugged-out shiznit by Jaroslav Škarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>.
