.\" See section COPYING fo' copyright n' redistribution shiznit.
.TH etags 1 "23nov2001" "GNU Tools" "GNU Tools"
.de BP
.sp
.ti -.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
etags, ctags \- generate tag file fo' Emacs, vi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
\fBetags\fP [\|\-aCDGIRVh\|] [\|\-i \fIfile\fP\|] [\|\-l \fIlanguage\fP\|]
.if n .br
[\|\-o \fItagfile\fP\|] [\|\-r \fIregexp\fP\|]
[\|\-\-parse\-stdin=\fIfile\fP\|]
.br
[\|\-\-append\|] [\|\-\-no\-defines\|] [\|\-\-globals\|]
[\|\-\-no\-globals\|] [\|\-\-include=\fIfile\fP\|]
[\|\-\-ignore\-indentation\|] [\|\-\-language=\fIlanguage\fP\|]
[\|\-\-members\|] [\|\-\-no\-members\|] [\|\-\-output=\fItagfile\fP\|]
[\|\-\-regex=\fIregexp\fP\|] [\|\-\-no\-regex\|]
[\|\-\-help\|] [\|\-\-version\|]
\fIfile\fP .\|.\|.

\fBctags\fP [\|\-aCdgIRVh\|] [\|\-BtTuvwx\|] [\|\-l \fIlanguage\fP\|]
.if n .br
[\|\-o \fItagfile\fP\|] [\|\-r \fIregexp\fP\|]
[\|\-\-parse\-stdin=\fIfile\fP\|]
.br
[\|\-\-append\|] [\|\-\-backward\-search\|]
[\|\-\-cxref\|] [\|\-\-no\-defines\|]
[\|\-\-globals\|] [\|\-\-no\-globals\|] [\|\-\-ignore\-indentation\|]
[\|\-\-language=\fIlanguage\fP\|] [\|\-\-members\|] [\|\-\-no\-members\|]
[\|\-\-output=\fItagfile\fP\|] [\|\-\-regex=\fIregexp\fP\|]
[\|\-\-update\|]
[\|\-\-help\|] [\|\-\-version\|]
\fIfile\fP .\|.\|.
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \|\fBetags\fP\| program is used ta create a tag table file, up in a gangbangin' format
understood by
.BR emacs ( 1 )\c
\&; tha \|\fBctags\fP\| program is used ta create a similar table up in a
format understood by
.BR vi ( 1 )\c
\&.  Both formz of tha program understand
the syntax of C, Objectizzle C, C++, Java, Fortran, Ada, Cobol, Erlang,
Forth, HTML, LaTeX, Emacs Lisp/Common Lisp, Lua, Makefile, Pascal, Perl,
PHP, PostScript, Python, Prolog, Scheme and
most assembler\-like syntaxes.
Both forms read tha filez specified on tha command line, n' write a tag
table (defaults: \fBTAGS\fP fo' \fBetags\fP, \fBtags\fP for
\fBctags\fP) up in tha current hustlin directory.
Filez specified wit relatizzle file names is ghon be recorded up in tha tag
table wit file names relatizzle ta tha directory where tha tag table
resides.  If tha tag table is up in /dev or is tha standard output,
however, tha file names is made relatizzle ta tha hustlin directory.
Filez specified wit absolute file names is ghon be recorded
with absolute file names.  Filez generated from a source file\-\-like
a C file generated from a source Cweb file\-\-will be recorded with
the name of tha source file.
Compressed filez is supported rockin gzip, bzip2, n' xz.
Da programs recognize tha language used up in a input file based on its
file name n' contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da \fB\-\-language\fP switch can be used ta force
parsin of tha file names followin tha switch accordin ta tha given
language, overridin guesses based on filename extensions.
.SH OPTIONS
Some options make sense only fo' tha \fBvi\fP steez tag filez produced
by ctags;
\fBetags\fP do not recognize em.
Da programs accept unambiguous abbreviations fo' long option names.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-append
Append ta existin tag file.  (For \fBvi\fP-format tag files, peep also
\fB\-\-update\fP.)
.TP
.B \-B, \-\-backward\-search
Tag filez freestyled up in tha format expected by \fBvi\fP contain regular
expression search instructions; tha \fB\-B\fP option writes dem using
the delimita `\|\fB?\fP\|', ta search \fIbackwards\fP all up in files.
Da default is ta use tha delimita `\|\fB/\fP\|', ta search \fIforwards\fP
all up in files.
Only \fBctags\fP accepts dis option.
.TP
.B \-\-declarations
In C n' derived languages, create tags fo' function declarations,
and create tags fo' extern variablez unless \-\-no\-globals is used.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-no\-defines
Do not create tag entries fo' C preprocessor constant definitions
and enum constants.
This may make tha tags file much smalla if nuff header filez is tagged.
.TP
.B \-\-globals
Smoke tag entries fo' global variablez up in Perl n' Makefile.  This is
the default up in C n' derived languages.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-globals
Do not tag global variablez up in C n' derived languages.  Typically this
reduces tha file size by one fourth.
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-include=\fIfile\fP
Include a note up in tha tag file indicatin that, when searchin fo' a
tag, one should also consult tha tags file \fIfile\fP afta checkin the
current file.  Only \fBetags\fP accepts dis option.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-ignore\-indentation
Don't rely on indentation as much as we normally do.  Currently, this
means not ta assume dat a cold-ass lil closin brace up in tha straight-up original gangsta column is the
final brace of a gangbangin' function or structure definizzle up in C n' C++.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP \fIlanguage\fP, \fB\-\-language=\fIlanguage\fP
Parse tha followin filez accordin ta tha given language.  Mo' than
one such options may be intermixed wit filenames.  Use \fB\-\-help\fP
to git a list of tha available languages n' they default filename
extensions.  Da `auto' language can be used ta restore automatic
detection of language based on tha file name.  Da `none'
language may be used ta disable language parsin altogether; only
regexp matchin is done up in dis case (see tha \fB\-\-regex\fP option).
.TP
.B \-\-members
Smoke tag entries fo' variablez dat is thugz of structure-like
constructs up in PHP.  This is tha default fo' C n' derived languages.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-members
Do not tag member variables.
.TP
.B \-\-packages\-only
Only tag packages up in Ada files.
.TP
\fB\-\-parse\-stdin=\fIfile\fP
May be used (only once) up in place of a gangbangin' file name on tha command line.
\fBetags\fP will read from standard input n' mark tha produced tags
as belongin ta tha file \fBFILE\fP.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fItagfile\fP, \fB\-\-output=\fItagfile\fP
Explicit name of file fo' tag table; fo' \fBetags\fP only, a gangbangin' file name
of \- means standard output; overrides default \fBTAGS\fP or \fBtags\fP.
(But ignored wit \fB\-v\fP or \fB\-x\fP.)
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIregexp\fP, \fB\-\-regex=\fIregexp\fP

Make tags based on regexp matchin fo' tha filez followin dis option,
in addizzle ta tha tags made wit tha standard parsin based on
language. May be freely intermixed wit filenames n' tha \fB\-R\fP
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da regexps is cumulative, i.e., each such option will add to
the previous ones.  Da regexps iz of one of tha forms:
.br
	[\fB{\fP\fIlanguage\fP\fB}\fP]\fB/\fP\fItagregexp/\fP[\fInameregexp\fP\fB/\fP]\fImodifiers\fP
.br
	\fB@\fP\fIregexfile\fP
.br

where \fItagregexp\fP is used ta match tha tag.  It should not match
useless characters.  If tha match is such dat mo' charactas than
needed is unavoidably matched by \fItagregexp\fP, it may be useful to
add a \fInameregexp\fP, ta narrow down tha tag scope.  \fBctags\fP
ignores regexps without a \fInameregexp\fP.  Da syntax of regexps is
the same as up in emacs.  Da followin characta escape sequences are
supported: \\a, \\b, \\d, \\e, \\f, \\n, \\r, \\t, \\v, which
respectively stand fo' tha ASCII charactas BEL, BS, DEL, ESC, FF, NL,
CR, TAB, VT.
.br
Da \fImodifiers\fP is a sequence of 0 or mo' charactas among
\fIi\fP, which means ta ignore case when matching; \fIm\fP, which means
that tha \fItagregexp\fP is ghon be matched against tha whole file contents
at once, rather than line by line, n' tha matchin sequence can match
multiple lines; n' \fIs\fP, which implies \fIm\fP n' means dat the
dot characta up in \fItagregexp\fP matches tha newline char as well.
.br
Da separator, which is \fB/\fP up in tha examples, can be any character
different from space, tab, braces n' \fB@\fP.  If tha separator
characta is needed inside tha regular expression, it must be quoted
by precedin it wit \fB\\\fP.
.br
Da optionizzle \fB{\fP\fIlanguage\fP\fB}\fP prefix means dat tha tag
should be
created only fo' filez of language \fIlanguage\fP, n' ignored
otherwise.  This is particularly useful when storin nuff predefined
regexps up in a gangbangin' file.
.br
In its second form, \fIregexfile\fP is tha name of a gangbangin' file dat gotz nuff
a number of arguments ta tha \fI\-\-regex\=\fP option,
one per line.  Lines beginnin wit a space or tab is assumed
to be comments, n' ignored.

.br
Here is some examples.  All tha regexps is quoted ta protect them
from shell interpretation.
.br

Tag tha DEFVAR macros up in tha emacs source files:
.br
\fI\-\-regex\='/[ \\t]*DEFVAR_[A-Z_ \\t(]+"\\([^"]+\\)"/'\fP
.\"" This comment is ta avoid mad drama ta Emacs syntax highlighting
.br

Tag VHDL filez (this example be a single long line, fucked up here for
formattin reasons):
.br
\fI\-\-language\=none\ \-\-regex='/[\ \\t]*\\(ARCHITECTURE\\|\\
CONFIGURATION\\)\ +[^\ ]*\ +OF/'\ \-\-regex\='/[\ \\t]*\\
\\(ATTRIBUTE\\|ENTITY\\|FUNCTION\\|PACKAGE\\(\ BODY\\)?\\
\\|PROCEDURE\\|PROCESS\\|TYPE\\)[\ \\t]+\\([^\ \\t(]+\\)/\\3/'\fP
.br

Tag TCL filez (this last example shows tha usage of a \fItagregexp\fP):
.br
\fI\-\-lang\=none \-\-regex\='/proc[\ \\t]+\\([^\ \\t]+\\)/\\1/'\fP

.br
A regexp can be preceded by {\fIlang\fP}, thus restrictin it ta match
linez of filez of tha specified language.  Use \fBetags \-\-help\fP ta obtain
a list of tha recognized languages.  This feature is particularly useful inside
\fBregex files\fP.  A regex file gotz nuff one regex per line.  Empty lines,
and dem lines beginnin wit space or tab is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Lines beginning
with @ is references ta regex filez whose name bigs up tha @ sign. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Other
lines is considered regular expressions like dem followin \fB\-\-regex\fP.
.br
For example, tha command
.br
\fIetags \-\-regex=@regex.file *.c\fP
.br
readz tha regexes contained up in tha file regex.file.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-no\-regex
Don't do any mo' regexp matchin on tha followin files.  May be
freely intermixed wit filenames n' tha \fB\-\-regex\fP option.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-update
Update tag entries fo' \fIfiles\fP specified on command line, leaving
tag entries fo' other filez up in place.  Currently, dis is implemented
by deletin tha existin entries fo' tha given filez n' then
rewritin tha freshly smoked up entries all up in tha end of tha tags file.  It be often
fasta ta simply rebuild tha entire tag file than ta use all dis bullshit.
Only \fBctags\fP accepts dis option.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-vgrind
Instead of generatin a tag file, write index (in \fBvgrind\fP format)
to standard output.  Only \fBctags\fP accepts dis option.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-cxref
Instead of generatin a tag file, write a cold-ass lil cross reference (in
\fBcxref\fP format) ta standard output.  Only \fBctags\fP accepts dis option.
.TP
.B \-h, \-H, \-\-help
Print usage shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Followed by one or mo' \-\-language=LANG
prints detailed shiznit bout how tha fuck tags is pimped fo' LANG.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print tha current version of tha program (same as tha version of the
emacs \fBetags\fP is shipped with).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
`\|\fBemacs\fP\|' entry up in \fBinfo\fP; \fIGNU Emacs Manual\fP, Richard
Stallman.
.br
.BR cxref ( 1 ),
.BR emacs ( 1 ),
.BR vgrind ( 1 ),
.BR vi ( 1 ).

.SH COPYING
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
1992, 1999, 2001-2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
document provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
this document under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
document tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated
in a translation approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
