.TH evince 1 "19 Jun 2011" "GNOME"
.SH NAME
\fBevince\fP \- GNOME document viewer

Da Evince Document Viewer application fo' tha GNOME desktop environment

.SH SYNTAX
.B evince
.RI [--help]
.RI [--page-label=PAGE\ |
.RI --page-index=NUMBER\ |
.RI --named-dest=DEST]
.RI [--fullscreen]
.RI [--presentation]
.RI [--preview]
.RI [--find=STRING]
.RI [filename(s)...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B evince

Evince be a thugged-out document viewer capable of displayin multiple n' single
page document formats like PDF n' Postscript.  For mo' general
information bout Evince please visit our joint at
http://www.gnome.org/projects/evince/

.LP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-?, \-h, \-\-help\fR
Prints tha command line options.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-page\-label=PAGE\fR
Open tha document on tha page wit tha specified page label (or page number).
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-page\-index=NUMBER\fR
Open tha document on tha page wit tha specified page index (this is tha exact page number, not a page label).
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-named\-dest=DEST\fR
Open tha document on tha specified named destination.
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-fullscreen\fR
Run evince up in fullscreen mode.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-presentation\fR
Run evince up in presentation mode.
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-find=string\fR
Yo ass can pass a word or phrase here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. If it exists, evince will display
the document n' tha straight-up original gangsta match.
.TP
\fBfilename(s)...\fR
Specifies tha file ta open when Evince starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If dis is not
specified, Evince will open a funky-ass blank window. Multiple filez can be loaded
if they is separated by spaces.  Evince also supports handlin of
remote files.  For example, you can pass tha location on tha wizzy or load
a file from a FTP server, like "ftp://adobe.com/sample.pdf".

.SH Print peepshow options
These options is primarily intended fo' use wit tha GTK+ print
preview function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For mo' shiznit bout these options see
http://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/GtkSettings.html#GtkSettings--gtk-print-preview-command
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-preview\fR
Run evince as a peepshower.
.TP
\fB\-\-unlink\-temp\-file\fR
If evince is run up in peepshow mode, dis will unlink tha temporary file
created by GTK+.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-settings %s %f
This sendz tha full path of tha PDF file, f, n' tha settingz of the
print dialog, s, ta evince.

.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=evince.
