.TH EXIFTRAN 1 "(c) 2002-2012 Gerd Hoffmann" "EXIFTRAN 2.08" "Transform digital camera jpeg images"
\#
\#
.SH NAME
exiftran - transform digital camera jpeg images
\#
\#
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBexiftran\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIfile1 file2 ... fileN\fP
.TP
\fBexiftran\fP -i [\fItransform options\fP] [\fIothers options\fP] \fIfile1 file2 ... fileN\fP
.TP
\fBexiftran\fP -o \fIoutputfile\fP [\fItransform options\fP] [\fIother options\fP] \fIinputfile\fP
.TP
\fBexiftran\fP -d \fIfile1 file2 ... fileN\fP > \fIexifinfo\fP
\#
\#
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Exiftran
is a cold-ass lil command line utilitizzle ta transform digital camera \fIjpeg\fP images. Well shiiiit, it can do lossless
rotations like
.BR "jpegtran" "(1),"
but unlike
.BR "jpegtran" "(1)"
it cares bout tha \fIEXIF\fP data: It can rotate images automatically by
checkin tha exif orientation tag; it thugged-out shiznit tha exif shiznits if needed
(image dimension, orientation); it also rotates tha exif thumbnail. Well shiiiit, it can
process multiple images at once.
\#
\#
.SH "TRANSFORM OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -a
Automatic (usin exif orientation tag).
.TP
.B -9
Rotate by 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
.B -1
Rotate by 180 degrees clockwise.
.TP
.B -2
Rotate by 270 degrees clockwise.
.TP
.B -f
Mirror image vertically (top / bottom).
.TP
.B -F
Mirror image horizontally (left ta right).
.TP
.B -t
Transpose (across UL-to-LR corner).
.TP
.B -T
Transverse (across UR-to-LL corner).
.TP
.B -nt
Don't transform exif thumbnail.
.TP
.B -ni
Don't transform jpeg image. Yo ass might need dis or tha \fB-nt\fP option ta fixup
things up in case you transformed tha image wit some utilitizzle which ignores the
exif thumbnail. Just generatin a freshly smoked up thumbnail wit \fB-g\fP be another way to
fix dat shit.
.TP
.B -no
Don't update tha orientation tag. By default
.BR exiftran
sets tha orientation ta "1" (no transformation needed) ta avoid other exif-aware
applications try ta rotate tha already-rotated image again.
\#
\#
.SH "OTHER OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -h
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text.
.TP
.B -d
Dump exif data fo' tha file(s).
.TP
.BI "-c" "\ text"
Set jpeg comment tag ta \fItext\fP.
.TP
.B -g
(re)generate exif thumbnail.
.TP
.BI "-o" "\ file"
Specify output \fIfile\fP. Only one input file be allowed up in dis mode.
.TP
.B -i
Enable inplace editin of tha images.
.BR Exiftran
allows multiple input filez then. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass must specify either dis option or a
output file wit \fB-o\fP fo' all operations which modify tha image (i.e.
everythang but \fB-d\fP right now).
.TP
.B -b
Smoke a funky-ass backup file when bustin inplace editin (imply \fB-i\fP).
.TP
.B -p
Preserve timestamps (atime + mtime) when bustin inplace editin (imply \fB-i\fP).
\#
\#
.SH EXAMPLES
Autorotate all jpeg filez up in tha current directory:
.P
.in +4n
   \fIexiftran\ -ai\ *.jpeg\fP
.in
\#
\#
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exif (1),
.BR exiftags (1),
.BR jpegtran (1)
\#
\#
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Hoffmann
.BR <gerd@kraxel.org>
\#
\#
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2002-2012 Gerd Hoffmann <gerd@kraxel.org>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by tha Jacked Software
Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any later
version.
.P
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.P
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
