." Copyright (c) 1998, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH extcheck 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
extcheck \- A utilitizzle ta detect jar conflicts
.LP
.LP
\f3extcheck\fP detects version conflicts between a target jar file n' currently installed extension jar files.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
extcheck [ \-verbose ] targetfile.jar
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3extcheck\fP utilitizzle checks a specified Jar file fo' title n' version conflicts wit any extensions installed up in tha Java(TM) SDK. Before installin a extension, you can use dis utilitizzle ta peep if tha same or a mo' recent version of tha extension be already installed.
.LP
.LP
Da \f3extcheck\fP utilitizzle compares tha \f2Specification\-title\fP n' \f2Specification\-version\fP headaz up in tha manifest of tha \f2targetfile.jar\fP file against tha correspondin headaz up in all Jar filez currently installed up in tha extension directory. (Da extension directory is \f2jre/lib/ext\fP by default.) Da \f3extcheck\fP utilitizzle compares version numbers up in tha same way as tha method \f2java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith\fP.
.LP
.LP
If no conflict is detected, tha return code is \f20\fP.
.LP
.LP
If tha manifest of any jar file up in tha extensions directory has tha same ol' dirty \f2Specification\-title\fP n' tha same or a newer \f2Specification\-version\fP number, a non\-zero error code is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A non\-zero error code be also returned if \f2targetfile.jar\fP aint gots tha \f2Specification\-title\fP or \f2Specification\-version\fP attributes up in its manifest.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-verbose 
Lists Jar filez up in tha extension directory as they is checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Additionally, manifest attributez of tha target jar file n' any conflictin jar filez is also reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP ta tha Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of tha options busted lyrics bout on tha reference page fo' tha java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets tha startup memory ta 48 megabytes. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.LP
jar(1)
.LP
 
