.TH extlinux "1" "18 December 2007" "SYSLINUX fo' ext2/ext3 filesystem"
.SH NAME
extlinux \- install tha \s-1SYSLINUX\s+1 bootloader on a ext2/ext3 filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extlinux
[\fIoptions\fP] \fIdirectory\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBEXTLINUX\fP be a freshly smoked up syslinux derivative, which boots from a Linux ext2/ext3
filesystem.  It works tha same ol' dirty way as \fBSYSLINUX\fP, wit all dem slight modifications.
It be intended ta simplify first-time installation of Linux, n' fo' creation of
rescue n' other special-purpose boot disks.
.PP
Da installa is designed ta be run on a mounted directory.  For example, if you have an
ext2 or ext3 usb key mounted on /mnt, you can run tha followin command:
.IP
.B extlinux --install /mnt
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-heads\fR=#
Force tha number of heads.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-install\fR
Install over tha current bootsector.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-clear\-once\fR
Clear tha boot-once command.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-once\fR=\fIcommand\fR
Execute a cold-ass lil command once upon boot.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-menu\-save\fR=\fIlabel\fR
Set tha label ta select as default on tha next boot
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raid\fR
Fall back ta tha next thang on boot failure.
.TP
\fB\-\-reset\-adv\fR
Reset auxiliary data.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sectors\fR=\fI#\fR
Force tha number of sectors per track.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-update\fR
Updates a previous \fBEXTLINUX\fP installation.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-zip\fR
Force zipdrive geometry (-H 64 -S 32).
.SH FILES
Da extlinux configuration file need ta be named extlinux.conf n' need ta be stored up in tha extlinux installation directory. For mo' shiznit bout tha contentz of extlinux.conf, peep syslinux(1) manpage, section files.
.SH BUGS
I would appreciate hearin of any problems you have wit \s-1SYSLINUX\s+1.  I
would also like ta hear from you if you have successfully used \s-1SYSLINUX\s+1,
especially if yo ass is rockin it fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distribution.
.PP
If yo ass is reportin problems, please include all possible shiznit
about yo' system n' yo' BIOS; tha vast majoritizzle of all problems
reported turn up ta be BIOS or hardware bugs, n' I need as much
information as possible up in order ta diagnose tha problems.
.PP
There be a mailin list fo' rap among \s-1SYSLINUX\s+1 playas n' for
announcementz of freshly smoked up n' test versions. To join, bust a message to
majordomo@linux.kernel.org wit tha line:
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syslinux (1)
