.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\" "verbatim" environment (from strace.1)
.de CW
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de CE
.ft
.fi
.sp
..
.\"
.TH faked 1 "17 June 2004" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.\" Manpage by J.H.M. Dassen <jdassen@debian.org>
.\" n' Clint Adams
.SH NAME
faked \- daemon dat rethugz fake ballership/permissionz of files
manipulated by fakeroot processes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faked
.B [\-\-debug] [\-\-foreground] [\-\-cleanup] [\-\-key
.IB msg-key ] 
.B [\-\-load] [\-\-save-file
.IB save-file ]
.B [\-\-port
.IB TCP-port ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If a gangbangin' fakeroot process wants ta chizzle tha ballershizzle of a gangbangin' file, then
.B faked
is tha process dat rethugz dat freshly smoked up balla n' shit. If lata tha same
fakeroot process do a stat() fo' dat filename, then tha libfakeroot
wrapped stat() call will first ask faked fo' tha fake ballershizzle etc
of dat file, n' then report dat shit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit on stderr.
.TP
.BI \-\-foreground
Don't fork tha fuck into tha background.
.TP
.B \-\-cleanup \ number
Cleanup tha semaphores.
.TP
.B \-\-key \ key-number
Don't allocate a freshly smoked up communication channel yo, but use channel specified
by key. (If tha specified channel don't exist, itz pimped).
.TP
.B \-\-save\-file \ save-file
Save tha environment ta save-file on exit.
.TP
.B \-\-load
Load a previously saved environment from tha standard input.
.TP
.B \-\-unknown\-is\-real
Use real ballershizzle of previously-unknown filez instead of settin dem to
root:root.
.TP
.B \-\-port \ tcp-port
Use TCP port tcp-port.

.SH BUGS
None so far. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Be warned, though: although I've freestyled like all dem much
larger (and smaller) programs, I've never freestyled anythang dat was
as tiny as
.BR fakeroot ,
had as nuff bugs as
.BR fakeroot ,
and still was as usable as, say, 
.BR fakeroot
version 0.0_3, tha straight-up original gangsta version dat could be used ta build itself.
.SH COPYING
.B fakeroot
is distributed under tha GNU General Public License.
(GPL 2.0 or pimped outer).
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
joost witteveen
.RI < joostje@debian.org >
.TP
Clint Adams
.RI < clint@debian.org >
.TP
Timo Savola
.SH MANUAL PAGE
mostly by J.H.M. Dassen 
.RI <jdassen@debian.org> 
mods/additions by joost n' Clint.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fakeroot (1),
.BR dpkg-buildpackage (1),
.BR debuild (1)
.BR /usr/share/doc/fakeroot/DEBUG
