.TH STD 1 "(c) 1998-2012 Gerd Hoffmann" "STD 2.08" "Linux framebuffer imageviewer"
\#
\#
.SH NAME
fbi - Linux framebuffer imageviewer
\#
\#
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfbi\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIfile ...\fP
\#
\#
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Fbi
displays tha specified file(s) on tha linux console rockin tha framebuffer
device. \fIPhotoCD\fP, \fIjpeg\fP, \fIppm\fP, \fIgif\fP, \fItiff\fP, \fIxwd\fP,
\fIbmp\fP, \fIpng\fP n' \fIwebp\fP formats is supported natively. For other
.BR fbi
tries ta use
.BR "ImageMagick" "(1)\'s"
.BR "convert" "(1)."
\#
\#
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print usage info.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print \fBfbi\fP version number.
.TP
.B --store
Write command line arguments ta config file.
.TP
.BI "-l" "\ file" ", --list" "\ file"
Read image filelist from \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.B -P, --text
Enable textreadin mode. In dis mode
.BR fbi
will display big-ass images without vertical offset (default is ta centa the
images). Da \fBSPACE\fP command will first try ta scroll down n' git all up in the
next image only if it be already on tha bottom of tha page. Useful if tha images
yo ass is watchin is text pages, all you gotta do ta git tha next piece of
text is ta press space...
.TP
.B -a, --autozoom
Enable autozoom.
.BR Fbi
will automagically pick a reasonable zoom factor when loadin a freshly smoked up image.
.TP
.B --(no)autoup
Like autozoom yo, but scale up only.
.TP
.B --(no)autodown
Like autozoom yo, but scale down only.
.TP
.B --(no)fitwidth
Use width only fo' autoscaling.
.TP
.B -v, --(no)verbose
Be verbose: enable status line on tha bottom of tha screen.
.TP
.B -u, --(no)random
Randomize tha order of tha filenames.
.TP
.B --(no)comments
Display comment tags (if present) instead of tha filename. Probably only useful
if you added reasonable comments yo ass (using
.BR "wrjpgcom" "(1)"
for example), otherwise you likely just find texts pointin ta tha software
which pimped tha image.
.TP
.B -e, --(no)edit
Enable editin commands.
.TP
.B --(no)backup
Smoke backup filez (when editin images).
.TP
.B -p, --(no)preserve
Preserve timestamps (when editin images).
.TP
.B --(no)readahead
Read ahead images tha fuck into cache.
.TP
.BI "--cachemem" "\ size"
Image cache \fIsize\fP up in megabytes (MB).
.TP
.BI "--blend" "\ time"
Image blend \fItime\fP up in miliseconds.
.TP
.BI "-T" "\ n" ", --vt" "\ n"
Start on virtual console \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI "-s" "\ steps" ", --scroll" "\ steps"
Set scroll \fIsteps\fP up in pixels (default is 50).
.TP
.BI "-t" "\ sec" ", --timeout" "\ sec"
Load next image afta \fIsec\fP secondz without any keypress (i.e. slideshow).
.TP
.B -1, --(no)once
Don't loop (only use wit \fB-t\fP).
.TP
.BI "-r" "\ n" ", --resolution" "\ n"
Select resolution, \fIn = 1..5\fP (only \fIPhotoCD\fP).
.TP
.BI "-g" "\ n" ", --gamma" "\ n"
Gamma erection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is 1.0. Requires \fIPseudocolor\fP or
\fIDirectcolor\fP visual, don't work fo' \fITruecolor\fP.
.TP
.BI "-f" "\ <arg>" ", --font" "\ <arg>"
Set font. This \fI<arg>\fP can be anythang fontconfig accepts (see
.BR "fonts\-conf" "(5))."
Try
.BR "fc\-list" "(1)"
for a list of known fonts on yo' system. Da fontconfig config file is
evaluated as well, so any generic shiznit defined there (like fuckin mono, sans) will
work as well. Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta use monospaced fonts, tha textboxes (help
text, exif info) look betta then.
.TP
.BI "-d" "\ /dev/fbN" ", --device" "\ /dev/fbN"
Use \fI/dev/fbN\fP thang framebuffer n' shit. Default is tha one yo' virtual console
is mapped to.
.TP
.BI "-m" "\ vizzlemode" ", --mode" "\ vizzlemode"
Name of tha vizzle mode ta use (video mode must be listed in
\fI/etc/fb.modes\fP). Default aint ta chizzle tha vizzle mode.
\#
\#
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.BR Fbi
uses tha followin environment variables:
.TP
.BR FBGAMMA
This variable may be used ta specify a thugged-out default gamma erection.
\#
\#
.SH "COMMAND USAGE"
Da commandz take effect immediately; it aint necessary ta type a cold-ass lil carriage
return.
.PP
In tha followin commands, \fIi\fP be a numerical argument.
.SS Scrolling
.TP
\fBLEFT_ARROW\fP, \fBRIGHT_ARROW\fP, \fBUP_ARROW\fP, \fBDOWN_ARROW\fP
Scroll big-ass images.
.TP
\fBPREV_SCREEN\fP, \fBk\fP
Previous image.
.TP
\fBNEXT_SCREEN\fP, \fBSPACE\fP, \fBj\fP
Next image.
.TP
\fIi\fP\fBg\fP
Jump ta image #\fIi\fP.
.TP
\fBRETURN\fP
Write tha filename of tha current image to
.BR "stdout" "(3),"
then git all up in tha next image.
.P
Da \fBRETURN\fP vs. \fBSPACE\fP key thang can be used ta create a gangbangin' file list
while reviewin tha images n' use tha list fo' batch processin lata on:
.P
.in +4n
\fIfbi\ file1.gif\ file2.jpg\ file3.jpg >\ fileimagelist.lst\fP
.in
.P
.in +4n
some \fBRETURN\fP n' \fBSPACE\fP...
.P
.in +4n
\fIfbi\ -l\ fileimagelist.lst\fP
.in
.SS Zoom
.TP
\fBa\fP
Autozoom.
.TP
\fB+\fP
In.
.TP
\fB-\fP
Out.
.TP
\fIi\fP\fBs\fP
Set zoom ta \fIi\fP%.
.SS Other
.TP
\fBESQ\fP, \fBq\fP
Quit.
.TP
\fBv\fP
Toggle status line.
.TP
\fBh\fP
Display textbox wit brief help.
.TP
\fBi\fP
Display textbox wit some \fIEXIF\fP info.
.TP
\fBp\fP
Pause tha slideshow (if started wit \fB-t\fP, toggle).
.SS Edit mode
.BR Fbi
also serves up some straight-up basic image editin facilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Yo ass have to
start
.BR fbi
with tha \fI-e\fP switch ta use em.
.TP
\fBD\fP, \fBShift+d\fP
Delete image.
.TP
\fBr\fP
Rotate 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
\fBl\fP
Rotate 90 degrees counter-clock wise.
.TP
\fBx\fP
Mirror image vertically (top / bottom).
.TP
\fBy\fP
Mirror image horizontally (left ta right).
.P
Da delete function straight-up wants a cold-ass lil capital letta \fBD\fP, thus you gotta type
\fBShift+d\fP. This is done ta avoid deletin images by fuck up cuz there
are no safety bells: If you ask
.BR fbi
to delete tha image, it is ghon be deleted without thangs asked.
.P
Da rotate function straight-up works fo' \fIJPEG\fP images only. Well shiiiit, it do a
lossless transformation of tha image.
\#
\#
.SH BUGS
.BR Fbi
needz rw access ta tha framebuffer devices (\fI/dev/fbN\fP), i.e you (our your
admin) gotta make sure
.BR fbi
can open tha devices up in rw mode. Da IMHO most elegant way is ta use
.BR PAM (7)
to chown tha devices ta tha user logged up in on tha console fo' realz. Another way is to
create some group, chown tha special filez ta dat crew n' put tha playas which
are allowed ta use tha framebuffer thang tha fuck into tha group. Yo ass can also make the
special filez ghetto writable yo, but be aware of tha securitizzle implications this
has. On a private box it might be fine ta handle it dis way though.
.P
.BR Fbi
also needz access ta tha linux console (\fI/dev/ttyN\fP) fo' sane console switch
handling. That is obviously no problem fo' console logins yo, but any kind of a
pseudo tty (xterm, ssh, screen, ...) will \fBnot\fP work.
\#
\#
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR convert (1),
.BR fbset (1),
.BR fc-list (1),
.BR imagemagick (1),
.BR wrjpgcom (1),
.BR fonts-conf (5),
.BR PAM (7)
\#
\#
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Hoffmann
.BR <gerd@kraxel.org>
\#
\#
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2012 Gerd Hoffmann <gerd@kraxel.org>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by tha Jacked Software
Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any later
version.
.P
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.P
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
