.\" playa page originally fo' tha Debian/GNU Linux system
.TH FBPANEL "1" "May 2005" "fbpanel 6.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fbpanel \- a NETWM compliant lightweight GTK2-based panel fo' UNIX desktop.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fbpanel
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
fbpanel is desktop panel which serves up graphical shiznit n' feedback bout 
desktop activitizzle n' allows interaction wit tha window manager n' shit. 
It features:
.HP
\(bu taskbar \- shows a list of tha managed windows (tasks)
.HP
\(bu pager \- thumbnailed view of tha desktop.
.HP
\(bu launchbar \- buttons ta quickly launch applications
.HP
\(bu show desktop \- button ta iconify or shade all windows 
.HP
\(bu image \- display a image
.HP
\(bu clock \- show tha current time and/or date
.HP
\(bu system tray \- tray fo' XEMBED icons (aka docklets)
.PP
fbpanel requires NETWM (www.freedesktop.org) compliant window manager n' shit. 
Yo ass can run nuff instancez of fbpanel each wit its own configuration
(see \fBOPTIONS\fR below).

Most updated info bout fbpanel can be found on its home page:
http://fbpanel.sf.net/

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--help\fR
\-- print help message n' exit.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
\-- print version n' exit.
.TP
\fB\--log <number>\fR
\-- set log level 0-5. 0 - none 5 - chatty
.TP
\fB\--configure\fR
\-- open configuration dialog
.TP
\fB\--profile <name>\fR 
\-- use specified profile. Da flava is loaded from tha file ~/.fbpanel/<name>. 
If dat fails, fbpanel will load @DATADIR@/<name>. 
No -p option is equivalent ta -p default
.TP
\fB\-h\fR 
\-- same as --help
.TP
\fB\-p\fR 
\-- same as --profile
.TP
\fB\-v\fR 
\-- same as --version
.TP
\fB\-C\fR 
\-- same as --configure

.SH CUSTOMIZATION
To chizzle default settings, copy flava file ta yo' home directory
.br
      mkdir -p ~/.fbpanel
      cp @DATADIR@/default ~/.fbpanel
.br
and edit dat shit. Default flava file gotz nuff comments n' explanation inside,
so it should be easy as fuck . For full list of options please visit fbpanelz home page.

.SH FILES
.TP
@DATADIR@/
Directory wit system-wide resources n' default settings
.TP
~/.fbpanel/
Directory wit tha userz private profiles
.TP
~/.fbpanel/default
Da userz default profile.
.SH AUTHOR
fbpanel was freestyled by Anatoly Asviyan <aanatoly@users.sf.net>.
This manual page was originally freestyled fo' the
Debian GNU/Linux system by Shyamal Prasad <shyamal@member.fsf.org>.
