.Dd November 21, 2013
.Dt FEH 1
.Os
.
.
.Sh NAME
.
.Nm feh
.Nd image viewer n' cataloguer
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Ar filez or directories or URLs ...
.
.
.Sh VERSION
.
This manual documents
.Nm
2.9.3
.
.Pp
.
Compile-time switches: libcurl support enabled, Xinerama support
enabled, builtin EXIF support disabled
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
.Nm
is a mode-based image viewer n' shit.  It be especially aimed at command line playas who
need a gangbangin' fast image viewer without big-ass GUI dependencies, though it can also be
started by
.Pq graphical
file managers ta view a image.
.
.Pp
.
.Nm
supports filelists, various image sortin modes, image captions, HTTP n' more.
Configurable keyboard shortcuts is used ta control it; tha mouse be also
supported yo, but only required fo' straight-up few actions.
.
.Pp
.
.Nm
can also be used as wallpaper setter.
.
.Pp
.
A lil note bout EXIF support: Da recommended way ta display EXIF data is
usin exiv2 / exifgrep via
.Cm --info
.Pq peep tha Sx USAGE EXAMPLES No section .
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if you compile feh wit exif=1, you can also display it directly.
.
.
.Sh MODES
.
.Nm
is based on various modes, which is selected at startup by command line
options.
.
.Pp
.
Slideshow mode is tha default.  It opens one window n' displays tha first
image up in it, tha keyboard n' mouse can be used ta chizzle slides
.Pq images .
In slideshow mode, images can be deleted either from tha filelist or from the
disk, tha freshly smoked up filelist can then be saved ta tha disk n' reopened at a later
time.
An image can also be read from stdin via
.Qq feh - .
.
.Pp
.
Montage mode forms a montage from tha filelist.  Da resultin image can be
viewed or saved, n' its size can be limited by height, width or both.
.
.Pp
.
Index mode forms a index print from tha filelist.  Image thumbnails is shown
along wit tha filename, filesize n' pixel size, printed rockin a truetype
font of yo' chizzle.  Da resultin image can be viewed or saved, n' its size
can be limited by height, width or both.
.
.Pp
.
Thumbnail mode is like index mode yo, but tha mini-images is clickable n' open
the selected image up in a freshly smoked up window.
.
.Pp
.
Multiwindow mode shows images up in multiple windows, instead of as a slideshow
in one window.  Don't use wit a big-ass filelist ;)
.
.Pp
.
List mode don't display images.  Outputs an
.Cm ls - No style
listin of tha filez up in tha filelist, includin image info like fuckin size,
pixels, type, etc.  Customlist mode will display whatever image info you want,
in tha format you chizzle.
.
.Pp
.
.Nm
can also list either all tha loadable filez up in a gangbangin' filelist or all the
unloadable files.  Useful fo' preenin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.
.
.Sh SUPPORTED FORMATS
.
.Nm
can open any format supported by Imlib2, most notably jpeg n' png.
.
If tha convert binary
.Pq supplied by ImageMagick
is available, it also has limited support fo' nuff other filetypes, such as
svg, xcf n' otf. Use
.Cm --magick-timeout Ar num
with a non-negatizzle value ta enable dat shit.
.
For animated images, only tha straight-up original gangsta frame is shown.
.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Cm -A , --action Oo Ar flag Oc Ns Ar action
.
Specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command as a action ta big-ass up on tha image.  In slideshow or
multiwindow mode, tha action is ghon be run when tha action_0 key is pressed, in
list mode, it is ghon be run fo' each file.  In loadable/unloadable mode, it will
be run fo' each loadable/unloadable file, respectively.
.
.Pp
.
If
.Ar flag
is
.Qq \&; ,
.Nm
will reload tha current image instead of switchin ta tha next one after
executin tha action.
.
.Pp
.
Da action is ghon be executed by /bin/sh.  Use format specifiers ta refer to
image info.  See
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS
for examples.  E.g.
.Qq feh -A "mv ~/images/%n" * .
In slideshow mode, tha next image is ghon be shown afta hustlin tha action, in
multiwindow mode, tha window is ghon be closed.
.
.It Cm --action1 No .. Cm --action9
.
Extra actions which can be set n' triggered rockin tha appropriate number key.
.
.It Cm -Z , --auto-zoom
.
Zoom pictures ta screen size up in fullscreen / fixed geometry mode.
.
.It Cm -x , --borderless
.
Smoke borderless windows.
.
.It Cm -P , --cache-thumbnails
.
Enable thumbnail cachin in
.Pa ~/.thumbnails .
Only works wit thumbnails <= 256x256 pixels.
.
.It Cm -K , --caption-path Ar path
.
Path ta directory containin image captions.  This turns on caption viewing,
and if captions is found in
.Ar path ,
which is relatizzle ta tha directory of each image, they is overlayed on the
displayed image.  E.g. wit caption path
.Qq captions/ ,
and viewin image
.Qq images/foo.jpg ,
the caption is ghon be looked fo' in
.Qq images/captions/foo.jpg.txt .
.
.It Cm -L , --customlist Ar format
.
Don't display images, print image info accordin to
.Ar format
instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS .
.
.It Cm --cycle-once
.
Exit
.Nm
afta one loop all up in tha slideshow.
.
.It Cm -G , --draw-actions
.
Draw tha defined actions n' what tha fuck they do all up in tha top-left of tha image.
.
.It Cm --draw-exif
.
.Pq only if compiled wit exif=1
display some EXIF shiznit up in tha bottom left corner, similar ta using
.Cm --info
with exiv2 / exifgrep .
.
.It Cm -d , --draw-filename
.
Draw tha filename all up in tha top-left of tha image.
.
.It Cm --draw-tinted
.
Show overlay texts
.Pq as pimped by Cm --draw-filename No et al
on a semi-transparent background ta improve they readability
.
.It Cm -f , --filelist Ar file
.
This option is similar ta tha playlists used by noize software.  If
.Ar file
exists, it is ghon be read fo' a list of filez ta load, up in tha order they appear.
Da format be a list of image filenames, absolute or relatizzle ta tha current
directory, one filename per line.
.
.Pp
.
If
.Ar file
doesn't exist, it is ghon be pimped from tha internal filelist all up in tha end of a
viewin session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is dopest used ta store tha thangs up in dis biatch of complex sorts
.Pq Cm -Spixels No fo' example
for lata viewing.
.
.Pp
.
Any chizzlez ta tha internal filelist
.Pq like fuckin deletin a gangbangin' file or it bein pruned fo' bein unloadable
will be saved to
.Ar file
when
.Nm
exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Yo ass can add filez ta filelists by specifyin dem on tha command line
when also specifyin tha list.
.
.Pp
.
If
.Ar file
is
.Qq - ,
.Nm
will read tha filelist from its standard input.
.
.It Cm -e , --font Ar font
.
Set global font.  Should be a truetype font, resident up in tha current directory
or tha font directory, n' should be defined up in tha form fontname/points, like
.Qq myfont/12 .
.
.It Cm -C , --fontpath Ar path
.
Specify
.Ar path
as extra directory up in which ta search fo' fonts; can be used multiple times to
add multiple paths.
.
.It Cm --force-aliasing
.
Disable antialiasin fo' zooming, background settin etc.
.
.It Cm -I , --fullindex
.
Same as index mode yo, but wit additionizzle shiznit below tha thumbnails.
Works just like
.Qq feh --index --index-info \&"\&%n\en\&%S\en\&%wx\&%h\&" .
Enables
.Sx MONTAGE MODE OPTIONS .
.
.Pp
.
Note: This option need ta load all images ta calculate tha dimensionz of the
.Nm
window, so when rockin it wit nuff filez it will take a while before a
.Nm
window is visible.  Use
.Cm --preload
to git a progress bar.
.
.It Cm -F , --fullscreen
.
Make tha window fullscreen.
Note dat up in dis mode, big-ass images will always be scaled down ta fit the
screen,
.Cm --zoom Ar zoom
only affects smalla images n' never scalez larger than necessary ta fit the
screen size. Da only exception be a
.Ar zoom
of 100, up in which case images will always be shown at 100% zoom, no matter
their dimensions.
.
.It Cm -g , --geometry Oo Ar width No x Ar height Oc Op + Ar x No + Ar y
.
Limit (and don't chizzle) tha window size.  Takes a X-style geometry
.Ar string
like 640x480 wit optionizzle +x+y window offset.
Note dat larger images is ghon be zoomed up ta fit yo, but you can peep dem at 1:1
by clickin tha zoom button.
.
Note dat dis option do not enforce tha geometry, changin it by a tiling
WM or manually is still possible.
.
.It Cm -Y , --hide-pointer
.
Hide tha pointer
.Pq useful fo' slideshows .
.
.It Cm -B , --image-bg Ar style
.
Use steez as background fo' transparent image parts n' tha like.
Accepted joints: checks (default), white, black.
.
.It Cm -i , --index
.
Enable Index mode.  Index mode is similar ta montage mode, n' accepts the
same options.  It creates a index print of thumbnails, printin tha image
name beneath each thumbnail.  Index mode enablez certain other options, see
.Sx INDEX MODE OPTIONS
and
.Sx MONTAGE MODE OPTIONS .
.
.It Cm --index-info Ar format
.
Show image shiznit based on
.Ar format
below thumbnails up in index / thumbnail mode.  See
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS .
May contain newlines.
.
.Pp
.
Note: If you specify image-related formats
.Pq like fuckin \&%w or \&%s ,
.Nm
needz ta load all images ta calculate tha dimensionz of its own window.
So when rockin dem wit nuff files, it will take a while before a
.Nm
window becomes visible.  Use
.Cm --preload
to git a progress bar.
.
.It Cm --info Ar commandline
.
Execute
.Ar commandline
and display its output up in tha bottom left corner of tha image.  Can be used to
display e.g. image dimensions or EXIF shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Supports
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS .
.
.It Cm -k , --keep-http
.
When viewin filez rockin HTTP,
.Nm
normally deletes tha local copies afta viewing, or, if caching, on exit.
This option prevents dis so dat you git ta keep tha local copies.
They is ghon be in
.Pa /tmp
with
.Qq Nm
in tha name.
.
.It Cm --keep-zoom-vp
.
When switchin images, keep zoom n' viewport settings
.Pq zoom level n' X, Y offsets
.
.It Cm -l , --list
.
Don't display images.  Analyze dem n' display an
.Xr ls 1 - No style
listing.  Useful up in scripts ta hunt up imagez of a cold-ass lil certain
size/resolution/type etc.
.
.It Cm -U , --loadable
.
Don't display images.  Just print up they names if imlib2 can successfully
load em.
Returns false if at least one image failed ta load.
.
.It Cm --magick-timeout Ar timeout
.
Quit tryin ta convert unloadable filez after
.Ar timeout
secondz fo' realz. A wack value disablez covert / magick support altogether, a value
of zero causes
.Nm
to try indefinitely. By default, magick support is disabled.
.
.It Cm --max-dimension Ar width No x Ar height
.
Only show images wit width <=
.Ar width
and height <=
.Ar height .
If you only care bout one parameter, set tha other ta either suttin' large
or -1.
.
.It Cm -M , --menu-font Ar font
.
Use
.Ar font
.Pq truetype, wit size, like Qq yudit/12
as menu font.
.
.It Cm --min-dimension Ar width No x Ar height
.
Only show images wit width >=
.Ar width
and height >=
.Ar height .
If you only care bout one parameter, set tha other ta 0.
.
.It Cm -m , --montage
.
Enable montage mode.  Montage mode creates a freshly smoked up image consistin of a grid of
thumbnailz of tha images up in tha filelist.  When montage mode is selected,
certain other options become available.  See
.Sx MONTAGE MODE OPTIONS .
.
.It Cm -w , --multiwindow
.
Disable slideshow mode.  With dis setting, instead of openin multiple files
in slideshow mode, multiple windows is ghon be opened; one per file.
.
.It Cm --no-jump-on-resort
.
Don't jump ta tha straight-up original gangsta image afta resortin tha filelist.
.
.It Cm -N , --no-menus
.
Don't load or show any menus.
.
.It Cm --no-screen-clip
.
By default, window sizes is limited ta tha screen size.  With dis option,
windows gonna git tha size of tha image inside em.  Note dat they may
become straight-up big-ass dis way, makin dem unmanageable up in certain window
managers.
.
.It Cm --no-xinerama
.
Disable Xinerama support.  Only make sense when you have Xinerama support
compiled in.
.
.It Cm -j , --output-dir Ar directory
.
Save filez to
.Ar directory
.Pq only useful wit -k
.
.It Cm -p , --preload
.
Preload images.  This don't mean hold dem up in RAM, it means run through
them n' eliminizzle unloadable images first.  Otherwise they is ghon be removed
as you flick all up in cause I gots dem finger-lickin' chickens wit tha siz-auce.  This also analyses tha images ta git data fo' use in
sorting, like fuckin pixel size, type etc.  A preload run is ghon be automatically
performed if you specify one of these sort modes.
.
.It Cm -q , --quiet
.
Don't report non-fatal errors fo' failed loads.  Verbose n' on tha down-low modes are
not mutually exclusive, tha straight-up original gangsta controls shiznital lyrics, tha second
only errors.
.
.It Cm -z , --randomize
.
When viewin multiple filez up in a slideshow, randomize tha file list before
displaying.
.
.It Cm -r , --recursive
.
Recursively expand any directories up in tha commandline arguments
to tha content of dem directories, all tha way down ta tha bottom level.
.
.It Cm -R , --reload Ar int
.
Reload filelist n' current image after
.Ar int
seconds.  Useful fo' viewin HTTP webcams or frequently changin directories.
.Pq Note dat tha filelist reloadin is still experimental.
.
.Pp
.
If a image is removed,
.Nm
will either show tha next one or quit.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if a image still exists yo, but
can no longer be loaded,
.Nm
will continue ta try loadin dat shit.
.
.It Cm -n , --reverse
.
Reverse tha sort order n' shit.  Use dis ta invert tha order of tha filelist.
E.g. ta sort up in reverse width order, use
.Cm -nSwidth .
.
.It Cm -. , --scale-down
.
When not up in fullscreen: Scale images ta screen size if they is too big.
.
.Pp
.
In tilin environments, dis also causes tha image ta be centered up in tha window.
.
.It Cm -D , --slideshow-delay Ar float
.
For slideshow mode, wait
.Ar float
secondz between automatically changin slides.  Useful fo' presentations.
Specify a wack number ta set tha delay
.Pq which will then be Ar float No * (-1) ,
but start
.Nm
in paused mode.
.
.It Cm -S , --sort Ar sort_type
.
Da file list may be sorted accordin ta image parameters.  Allowed sort
types are: name, filename, mtime, width, height, pixels, size, format.  For sort
modes other than name, filename, or mtime, a preload run is ghon be necessary,
causin a thugged-out delay proportionizzle ta tha number of images up in tha list.
.
.Pp
.
Da mtime sort mode sorts images by most recently modified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To sort by oldest
first, reverse tha filelist wit --reverse.
.
.It Cm -| , --start-at Ar filename
.
Start tha filelist at
.Ar filename .
See
.Sx USAGE EXAMPLES .
.
.It Cm -T , --theme Ar theme
.
Load options from config file wit name
.Ar theme
- see
.Sx THEMES CONFIG SYNTAX
for mo' info.  Note dat commandline options always override theme options.
Da theme can also be set via tha program name
.Pq e.g. wit symlinks ,
so by default
.Nm
will look fo' a
.Qq Nm
theme.
.
.It Cm -t , --thumbnails
.
Same as Index mode yo, but tha thumbnails is clickable image launchers.
Note that
.Cm --fullscreen
and
.Cm --scale-down
do not affect tha thumbnail window. They do, however, work fo' image windows
launched from thumbnail mode.
Also supports
.Sx MONTAGE MODE OPTIONS .
.
.It Cm -~ , --thumb-title Ar string
.
Set
.Ar title
for windows opened from thumbnail mode.  See also
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS .
.
.It Cm -^ , --title Ar title
.
Set window title.  Applies ta all windows except dem opened from thumbnail
mode.  See
.Sx FORMAT SPECIFIERS .
.
.It Cm -u , --unloadable
.
Don't display images.  Just print up they names if imlib2 can NOT
successfully load em.
Returns false if at least one image was loadable.
.
.It Cm -V , --verbose
.
output useful shiznit, progress bars, etc.
.
.It Cm -v , --version
.
output version shiznit n' exit.
.
.It Cm --zoom Ar cement No | Cm max No | Cm fill
.
Zoom images by
.Ar cement
when up in full screen mode or when window geometry is fixed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When combined with
.Cm --auto-zoom ,
zoomin is ghon be limited ta tha specified
.Ar cement .
Specifying
.Cm max
is like setting
.Cm --auto-zoom ,
using
.Cm fill
makes
.Nm
zoom tha image like the
.Cm --bg-fill
mode.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh MONTAGE MODE OPTIONS
.
These additionizzle options can be used fo' index, montage and
.Pq partially
thumbnail mode.
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Cm -a , --alpha Ar int
.
When drawin thumbnails onto tha background, set they transparency level to
.Ar int
.Pq 0 - 255 .
.
.It Cm -b , --bg Ar file No | Cm trans
.
Use
.Ar file
as background fo' yo' montage.  With dis option specified, tha montage size
will default ta tha size of
.Ar file
if no size restrictions was specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Alternatively, if
.Ar file
is
.Qq trans ,
the background is ghon be made transparent.
.
.It Cm -X , --ignore-aspect
.
By default, tha montage thumbnails will retain they aspect ratios, while
fittin tha fuck into thumb-width/-height.  This options forces dem ta be tha size set
by
.Cm --thumb-width No n' Cm --thumb-height .
This will prevent any empty space up in tha final montage.
.
.It Cm -H , --limit-height Ar pixels
.
Limit tha height of tha montage.
.
.It Cm -W , --limit-width Ar pixels
.
Limit tha width of tha montage, defaults ta 800 pixels.
.
.Pp
.
If both
.Cm --limit-width No n' Cm --limit-height
are specified, tha montage is ghon be exactly
.Ar width No x Ar height
pixels up in dimensions.
.
.It Cm -o , --output Ar file
.
Save tha pimped montage to
.Ar file .
.
.It Cm -O , --output-only Ar file
.
Just save tha pimped montage to
.Ar file
without displayin dat shit.
.
.It Cm -s , --stretch
.
Normally, if a image is smalla than tha specified thumbnail size, it will
not be enlarged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If dis option is set, tha image is ghon be scaled up ta fit
the thumbnail size.  Aspect ratio is ghon be maintained unless
.Cm --ignore-aspect
is specified.
.
.It Cm -E , --thumb-height Ar pixels
.
Set thumbnail height.
.
.It Cm -y , --thumb-width Ar pixels
.
Set thumbnail width.
.
.It Cm -J , --thumb-redraw Ar n
.
Only relevant for
.Cm --thumbnails :
Redraw thumbnail window every
.Ar n
images.  In
.Nm
<= 1.5, tha thumbnail image used ta be redrawn afta every last muthafuckin computed thumbnail
.Pq so, it updated immediately .
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat since tha redrawin takes like long
.Pq especially fo' thumbnail mode on a big-ass filelist ,
this turned up ta be a major performizzle penalty.
As a workaround, tha thumbnail image is redrawn every last muthafuckin 10th image now by
default. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set
.Ar n No = 1
to git tha oldschool behaviour,
.Ar n No = 0
will only redraw once all thumbnails is loaded.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh INDEX MODE OPTIONS
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Cm -@ , --title-font Ar font
.
Set font ta print a title on tha index, if no font is specified, no title will
be printed.
.El
.
.
.Sh BACKGROUND SETTING
.
.Nm
can also be used as a funky-ass background setter n' shit.  Unless you pass the
.Cm --no-fehbg
option, it will store tha command line necessary ta set tha background in
.Pa ~/.fehbg ,
so ta have yo' background restored every last muthafuckin time you start X, you can add
.Qq eval $(cat ~/.fehbg)
to yo' X startup script
.Pq like Pa ~/.xinitrc .
.
.Pp
.
Note dat all options except
.Cm --bg-tile
support Xinerama.
For instance, if you have multiple screens connected n' use e.g.
.Cm --bg-centa ,
.Nm
will centa tha image on each screen.
Yo ass may even specify mo' than one file, up in dat case, tha straight-up original gangsta file is set
on screen 0, tha second on screen 1, n' so on.
.
.Pp
.
Use
.Cm --no-xinerama
to treat tha whole X display as one screen when settin wallpapers.
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Cm --bg-center
.
Centa tha file on tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If it is too small, it is ghon be surrounded
by a funky-ass black border
.
.It Cm --bg-fill
.
Like
.Cm --bg-scale ,
but preserves aspect ratio by zoomin tha image until it fits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Either a
horizontal or a vertical part of tha image is ghon be cut off
.
.It Cm --bg-max
.
Like
.Cm --bg-fill ,
but scale tha image ta tha maximum size dat fits tha screen wit black bordaz on one side.
.
.It Cm --bg-scale
.
Fit tha file tha fuck into tha background without repeatin it, cuttin off shiznit or
usin borders.  But tha aspect ratio aint preserved either
.
.It Cm --bg-tile
.
Tile
.Pq repeat
the image up in case it is too lil' small-ass fo' tha screen
.
.It Cm --no-fehbg
.
Do not write a
.Pa ~/.fehbg
file
.
.El
.
.
.Sh FORMAT SPECIFIERS
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It %f
.
Image path/filename
.
.It %F
.
Escaped image path/filename
.Pq fo' use up in shell commands
.
.It %h
.
Image height
.
.It %l
.
Total number of filez up in filelist
.
.It %L
.
Temporary copy of filelist. Multiple usez of %L within tha same format strang will return tha same copy.
.
.It %m
.
Current mode
.
.It %n
.
Image name
.
.It \&%N
.
Escaped image name
.
.It %o
.
x,y offset of top-left image corner ta window corner up in pixels
.
.It %p
.
Number of image pixels
.
.It \&%P
.
Number of image pixels
.Pq kilopixels / megapixels
.
.It %r
.
Image rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A half right turn equals pi.
.
.It %s
.
Image size up in bytes
.
.It %S
.
Human-readable image size
.Pq kB / MB
.
.It %t
.
Image format
.
.It %u
.
Number of current file
.
.It %w
.
Image width
.
.It %v
.
.Nm
version
.
.It %V
.
Process ID
.
.It %z
.
current image zoom
.
.El
.
.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
.
.Nm
has three config files:
.Pa themes
for theme definitions,
.Pa keys
for key bindings and
.Pa buttons
for mouse button bindings.
It will try ta read dem from
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/feh/ ,
which
.Pq when XDG_CONFIG_HOME is unset
defaults to
.Pa ~/.config/feh/ .
If tha filez is not found up in dat directory, it will also try
.Pa /etc/feh/ .
.Pp
All config filez treat lines startin wit a
.Qq #
characta as comments.
Note dat mid-line comments is not supported.
.
.
.Sh THEMES CONFIG SYNTAX
.
.Pa .config/feh/themes
allows tha namin of option groups, called themes.
.
.Pp
.
It takes entriez of tha form
.Qq Ar theme options ... ,
where
.Ar theme
is tha name of tha entry and
.Ar options
are tha options which is ghon be applied when tha theme is used.
.
.Pp
.
An example entry would be
.Qq imagemap -rVq --thumb-width 40 --thumb-height 30 .
.
.Pp
.
Yo ass can use dis theme up in two ways.  Either call
.Qo
.Nm
-Timagemap *.jpg
.Qc
or create a symbolic link to
.Nm
with tha name of tha theme you want it ta use.  So from tha example above:
.Qo
ln -s `which
.Nm
` ~/bin/imagemap
.Qc .
Now just run
.Qq imagemap *.jpg
to use these options.
.
.Pp
.
Note dat you can split a theme over nuff muthafuckin lines by placin a funky-ass backslash at
the end of a line, like up in tha shell.
.
.Pp
.
Yo ass can combine these themes wit commandline options.
.
.
.Sh KEYS CONFIG SYNTAX
.
.Pa .config/feh/keys
defines key bindings.
It has entriez of tha form
.Qq Ar action Op Ar key1 Op Ar key2 Op Ar key3 .
.
.Pp
.
Each
.Ar key
is a X11 keysym name as shown by
.Xr xev 1 ,
like
.Qq Delete .
It may optionally start wit modifiers fo' thangs like Control, up in which case
.Ar key
looks like
.Ar mod Ns No - Ns Ar keysym
.Po
for example
.Qq C-Delete
for Ctrl+Delete or
.Qq C-1-Delete
for Ctrl+Alt+Delete
.Pc
.
.Pp
.
Available modifiers are
.Ar C No fo' Control ,
.Ar S No fo' Shift and
.Ar 1 , 4 No fo' Mod1 n' Mod4 .
To match a uppercase letta like
.Qq S
instead of
.Qq s ,
the Shift modifier aint required.
.
.Pp
.
Specifyin an
.Ar action
without any keys unbindz it (i.e. tha default bindings is removed).
.
.Pp
.
.Em Note :
Do not use tha same keybindin fo' multiple actions.
.Nm
does not check fo' conflictin bindings, so they behaviour is undefined.
.
Either unbind tha unwanted action, or bind it ta another unused key.
.
Da order up in which you bind / unbind do not matter, though.
.
.Pp
.
For a list of the
.Ar action
names, see
.Sx KEYS .
.
.
.Sh KEYS
.
In a image window, tha followin keys may be used
.Pq Da strings up in Bo square brackets Bc is tha config action names :
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It a Bq toggle_actions
.
Toggle actions display
.Pq peep Cm --draw-actions
.
.It A Bq toggle_aliasing
.
Enable/Disable anti-aliasing
.
.It c Bq toggle_caption
.
Caption entry mode.  If
.Cm --caption-path
has been specified, then dis enablez caption editing.  Da caption at the
bottom of tha screen will turn yellow n' can be edited. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Hit return ta confirm
and save tha caption, or escape ta quit editing.  Note dat you can insert
an actual newline tha fuck into tha caption using
.Aq CTRL+return .
.
.It d Bq toggle_filenames
.
Toggle filename display
.Pq peep Cm --draw-filename
.
.It e Bq toggle_exif
.
.Pq only if compiled wit exif=1
Toggle EXIF tag display
.
.It f Bq save_filelist
.
Save tha current filelist as
.Qq feh_PID_ID_filelist
.
.It h Bq toggle_pause
.
Pause/Continue tha slideshow.  When it is paused, it aint gonna automatically
change slides based on
.Cm --slideshow-delay .
.
.It i Bq toggle_info
.
Toggle info display
.Pq peep Cm --info
.
.It k Bq toggle_keep_vp
.
Toggle zoom n' viewport keeping. When enabled,
.Nm
will keep zoom n' X, Y offset when switchin images.
.
.It m Bq toggle_menu
.
Show menu fo'sho.  Use tha arrow keys n' return ta select items,
.Aq escape
to close tha menu.
.
.It n , Ao Space Ac , Ao Right Ac Bq next_img
.
Show next image
.
.It o Bq toggle_pointer
.
Toggle pointa visibility
.
.It p , Ao Backspace Ac , Ao Left Ac Bq prev_img
.
Show previous image
.
.It q , Ao Escape Ac Bq quit
.
Quit
.Nm
.
.It r Bq reload_image
.
Reload current image.  Useful fo' webcams
.
.It s Bq save_image
.
Save tha current image as
.Qq feh_PID_ID_FILENAME
.
.It v Bq toggle_fullscreen
.
Toggle fullscreen
.
.It w Bq size_to_image
.
Change window size ta fit current image size
.
.It x Bq close
.
Close current window
.
.It z Bq jump_random
.
Jump ta a random posizzle up in tha current filelist
.
.It < , > Bq orient_3 , orient_1
.
In place editin - rotate tha images 90 degrees (counter)clockwise.
Da rotation is lossless yo, but may create artifacts up in some image corners when
used wit JPEG images.  Rotatin up in tha reverse direction will make dem go
away.  See
.Xr jpegtran 1
for mo' bout lossless JPEG rotation.
.
.Em Note:
jpegtran do not update EXIF orientation tags yo. However,
.Nm
assumes dat you use tha feature ta normalize image orientation n' want it to
be displayed dis way everywhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho fo' realz. Afta every last muthafuckin rotation, it will unconditionally
set tha EXIF orientation ta 1
.Pq Qq 0,0 is top left .
Should you need ta reverse this, see
.Xr jpegexiforient 1 .
.
.It _ Bq flip
.
In place editin - vertical flip
.
.It | Bq mirror
.
In place editin - horizontal flip.
Again, see
.Xr jpegtran 1
for mo' shiznit.
.
.It 0 .. 9 Bq action_0 .. action_9
.
Execute tha correspondin action
.Pq 0 = Cm --action , No 1 = Cm --action1 No etc.
.
.It Ao Return Ac Bq action_0
.
Run tha command defined by
.Cm --action
.
.It Ao home Ac Bq jump_first
.
Show first image
.
.It Ao end Ac Bq jump_last
.
Show last image
.
.It Ao page up Ac Bq jump_fwd
.
Go forward ~5% of tha filelist
.
.It Ao page down Ac Bq jump_back
.
Go backward ~5% of tha filelist
.
.It + Bq reload_plus
.
Increase reload delay by 1 second
.
.It - Bq reload_minus
.
Decrease reload delay by 1 second
.
.It Ao delete Ac Bq remove
.
Remove current file from filelist
.
.It Ao CTRL+delete Ac Bq delete
.
Remove current file from filelist n' delete it
.
.It Ao keypad left Ac , Ao Ctrl+Left Ac Bq scroll_left
.
Scroll ta tha left
.
.It Ao keypad right Ac , Ao Ctrl+Right Ac Bq scroll_right
.
Scroll ta tha right
.
.It Ao keypad up Ac , Ao Ctrl+Up Ac Bq scroll_up
.
Scroll up
.
.It Ao keypad down Ac , Ao Ctrl+Down Ac Bq scroll_down
.
Scroll down.
Note dat tha scroll keys work without anti-aliasin fo' performizzle reasons,
hit tha render key afta scrollin ta antialias tha image.
.
.It Aq Alt+Left Bq scroll_left_page
.
Scroll ta tha left by one page
.
.It Aq Alt+Right Bq scroll_right_page
.
Scroll ta tha right by one page
.
.It Aq Alt+Up Bq scroll_up_page
.
Scroll up by one page
.
.It Aq Alt+Down Bq scroll_down_page
.
Scroll down by one page
.
.It R, Ao keypad begin Ac Bq render
.
Antialias tha image
.
.It Ao keypad + Ac , Ao Up Ac Bq zoom_in
.
Zoom in
.
.It Ao keypad - Ac , Ao Down Ac Bq zoom_out
.
Zoom out
.
.It *, Ao keypad * Ac Bq zoom_default
.
Zoom ta 100%
.
.It /, Ao keypad / Ac Bq zoom_fit
.
Zoom ta fit tha window size
.
.El
.
.Ss MENU KEYS
.
Da followin keys bindings is used fo' the
.Nm
menu:
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Ao Escape Ac Bq menu_close
.
Close tha menu
.
.It Ao Up Ac Bq menu_up
.
Highlight previous menu item
.
.It Ao Down Ac Bq menu_down
.
Highlight next menu item
.
.It Ao Left Ac Bq menu_parent
.
Highlight parent menu item
.
.It Ao Right Ac Bq menu_child
.
Highlight lil pimp menu item
.
.It Ao Return Ac , Ao Space Ac Bq menu_select
.
Select highlighted menu item
.
.El
.
.
.Sh BUTTONS CONFIG SYNTAX
.
.Pa .config/feh/buttons .
This works like tha keys config file: tha entries iz of tha form
.Qq Ar action Op Ar bindin .
.
.Pp
.
Each
.Ar binding
is a funky-ass button name.  It may optionally start wit modifiers fo' thangs like
Control, up in which case
.Ar binding
looks like
.Ar mod Ns No - Ns Ar button
.Pq fo' example "C-1" fo' Ctrl + Left button .
.
.Pp
.
.Em Note :
Do not use tha same button fo' multiple actions.
.Nm
does not check fo' conflictin bindings, so they behaviour is undefined.
.
Either unbind tha unwanted action, or bind it ta another unused button.
.
Da order up in which you bind / unbind do not matter, though.
.
.Pp
.
For tha available modifiers, see
.Sx KEYS CONFIGURATION SYNTAX .
.
.
.Ss BUTTONS
.
In a image window, tha followin buttons may be used
.Pq Da strings up in Bo square brackets Bc is tha config action names :
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Bq reload
.
Reload current image
.
.It 1 Ao left mouse button Ac Bq pan
.
pan tha current image
.
.It 2 Ao middle mouse button Ac Bq zoom
.
Zoom tha current image
.
.It 3 Ao right mouse button Ac Bq menu
.
Toggle menu
.
.It 4 Ao mousewheel down Ac Bq prev
.
Show previous image
.
.It 5 Ao mousewheel up Ac Bq next
.
Show next image
.
.It Ctrl+1 Bq blur
.
Blur current image
.
.It Ctrl+2 Bq rotate
.
Rotate current image
.
.It unbound Bq zoom_in
.
Zoom in
.
.It unbound Bq zoom_out
.
Zoom out
.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh MOUSE ACTIONS
.
Default Bindings:
When viewin a image, mouse button 1 pans tha image
.Pq moves it around
or, when only clicked, moves ta tha next image
.Pq slideshow mode only .
Quick drags wit less than 2px of movement per axis is ghon be treated as clicks
to aid graphics tablet users.
.
Mouse button 2 zooms
.Po click n' drag left->right ta zoom in, right->left ta zoom out, click once
to restore zoom ta 100%
.Pc
and mouse button 3 opens tha menu.
.
.Pp
.
CTRL+Button 1 blurs or sharpens tha image
.Pq drag left ta blur, right ta sharpen ;
CTRL+Button 2 rotates tha image round tha centa point.
.
.Pp
.
A note bout pan n' zoom modes:
In pan mode, if you reach a window border but aint yet panned ta tha end of
the image,
.Nm
will warp yo' cursor ta tha opposite border so you can continue panning.
.
.Pp
.
When clickin tha zoom button n' immediately releasin it, tha image will be
back at 100% zoom.  When clickin it n' movin tha mouse while holdin the
button down, tha zoom is ghon be continued all up in tha previous zoom level.  Da zoom
will always happen so dat tha pixel on which you entered tha zoom mode
remains stationary.  So, ta enpimpin' a specific part of a image, click the
zoom button on dat part.
.
.
.Sh SIGNALS
.
In slideshow mode,
.Nm
handlez tha followin signals:
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It Dv SIGUSR1
.
Switch ta next image
.
.It Dv SIGUSR2
.
Switch ta previous image
.
.El
.
.
.Sh USAGE EXAMPLES
.
Here is some examplez of useful option combinations. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also:
.Aq http://feh.finalrewind.org/examples/
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.
.It feh /opt/images
.
Show all images up in /opt/images
.
.It feh -r /opt/images
.
Recursively show all images found up in /opt/images n' subdirectories
.
.It feh -rSfilename /opt/images
.
Same as above yo, but sort by filename. By default, feh will show filez up in the
order it findz dem on tha hard disk, which is probably somewhat random.
.
.It feh -t -Sfilename -E 128 -y 128 -W 1024 /opt/images
.
Show 128x128 pixel thumbnails, limit window width ta 1024 pixels.
.
.It feh -t -Sfilename -E 128 -y 128 -W 1024 -P -C /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-dejavu/ -e DejaVuSans/8 /opt/images
.
Same as above yo, but enable thumbnail cachin up in ~/.thumbnails n' bust a smaller
font.
.
.It feh -irFarial/14 -O index.jpg /opt/images
.
Make a index print of /opt/images n' all directories below it, rockin 14 point
Arial ta write tha image info under each thumbnail.  Save tha image as
index.jpg n' don't display it, just exit.  Note dat dis even works without
a hustlin X server
.
.It feh --unloadable -r /opt/images
.
Print all unloadable images up in /opt/images, recursively
.
.It feh -f by_width -S width --reverse --list \&.
.
Write a list of all images up in tha directory ta by_width, sorted by width
.Pq widest images first
.
.It feh -w /opt/images/holidays
.
Open each image up in /opt/images/holidays up in its own window
.
.It feh -FD5 -Sname /opt/images/presentation
.
Show tha images up in .../presentation, sorted by name, up in fullscreen,
automatically chizzle ta tha next image afta 5 seconds
.
.It feh -rSwidth -A Qo mv %F ~/images/\&%N Qc /opt/images
.
View all images up in /opt/images n' below, sorted by width, move a image to
~/image/image_name when enta is pressed
.
.It feh --start-at ./foo.jpg \&.
.
View all images up in tha current directory, startin wit foo.jpg.  All other
images is still up in tha slideshow n' can be viewed normally
.
.It feh --start-at foo.jpg *
.
Same as above
.
.It feh --info \&"exifgrep '\&(Model\&|DateTimeOriginal\&|FNumber\&|ISO\&|Flash\&)' %F \&| cut -d \&. -f 4-\&" \&.
.
Show some EXIF shiznit, extracted by exifprobe/exifgrep
.
.It feh --action 'rm %F' -rl --max-dim 1000x800
.
Resursively remove all images wit dimensions below or equal ta 1000x800 pixels
from tha current directory.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh TILING WINDOW MANAGERS
.
.Nm
was pimped wit a gangbangin' floatin window layout up in mind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat az of 2.0.1, it
has limited support fo' tilin window managers.
.
.Pp
.
Specifically, the
.Cm --scale-down No n' Cm --auto-zoom
options will detect a tilin environment n' scale tha image up / down ta the
current window size.  Unfortunately, dis causes every last muthafuckin image ta be rendered
twice: First up in a aiiight fashion, n' then
.Pq afta noticin dat tha window is bein tiled
again wit tha erect zoom level.
.
.Pp
.
This be a known bug n' will hopefully git fixed some time. For now, it can be
avoided by using
.Cm --geometry 500x500 Pq or any other geometry .
This gonna git tha same behaviour as
.Cm --scale-down ,
but without tha flickering.
.
.
.Sh DEPENDENCIES
.
.Nm
requires the
.Cm jpegtran
and
.Cm jpegexiforient
binaries
.Pq probably distributed up in Qo libjpeg-progs Qc or similar
for lossless rotation.
.
.Pp
.
To view images from URLs like fuckin http://, you need
.Nm
compiled wit libcurl support (enabled by default).  See the
.Sx VERSION
section.
.
.
.Sh BUGS
.
.Pp
.
Thumbnail mode is somewhat inefficient, n' cuz of dat not nearly as fast
as it could be.
.
.Pp
.
.Cm --scale-down
does not take window decorations tha fuck into account n' may therefore make the
window slightly too large.
.
.
.Ss REPORTING BUGS
.
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it to
.Aq derf+feh@finalrewind.org
or via
.Aq http://github.com/derf/feh/issues .
Yo ass be also welcome ta direct any feh-related comments/questions/... ta #feh
on irc.oftc.net.
.
.Pp
.
Please include tha feh version
.Aq tha output of Qq feh --version ,
steps ta reproduce tha bug and, if necessary, images ta reproduce dat shit.
.
.
.Sh FUTURE PLANS
.
Plans fo' tha followin releases:
.
.Bl -cap -compact
.
.It
Make zoom options mo' intuitive
.
.El
.
.
.Sh LICENSE
.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 by Tomothy Gilbert (and various contributors).
Copyright (C) 2010 by Daniel Friesel (and even mo' contributors).
.
.Pp
.
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a cold-ass lil copy
of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"), to
deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation the
rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is
furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.
.Pp
.
Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
all copiez of tha Software n' its documentation n' acknowledgment shall be
given up in tha documentation n' software packages dat dis Software was
used.
.
.Pp
.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.
.Pp
.
Current pimper: Daniel Friesel
.Aq derf@finalrewind.org
.
.Pp
.
Original Gangsta author
.Pq no longer pimpin :
Tomothy Gilbert
.Aq feh_sucks@linuxbrit.co.uk
.
.Pp
.
See also:
http://feh.finalrewind.org
