.TH  FESTIVAL 1 "1st Aug 1997"
.SH NAME
festival_client \- client access ta festiva; text-to-speech server mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gangbang_client
.I [options]
.I [file0]
.I [file1]
.I ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
Allows bustin  commandz and/or test ta a gangbang test-to-speech
server n' shit.  Gangbang may be started up in server mode rockin the
option 
.BI --server

festival-clinet allows waveforms ot be generated fasta as not
time is required fo' start up.  See tha gangbang manual for
more details on recommended use.

.SH OPTIONS


.TP 8
.BI "--server " <string>
hostname (or IP number) of server 
.TP 8
.BI "--port " <int> " {1314}"
port number of server process (1314) 
.TP 8
.BI "--output " <string>
file ta save output waveform ta 
.TP 8
.BI "--otype " <string> " {riff}"
output type fo' waveform 
.TP 8
.BI "--passwd " <string>
server passwd up in plain text (optional) 
.TP 8
.BI "--prolog " <string>
filename containin commandz ta be busted 
to tha server before standard commandz 
(useful when rockin --ttw) 
.TP 8
.BI "--async " 
Asynchronous mode, server may bust back 
multiple waveforms per text file 
.TP 8
.BI "--ttw " 
Text ta waveform: take text from first 
arg or stdin git server ta return 
waveform(s) stored up in output or operated 
on by aucommand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 8
.BI "--withlisp " 
Output lisp replies from server n' shit. 
.TP 8
.BI "--tts_mode " <string>
TTS mode fo' file (default is fundamental). 
.TP 8
.BI "--aucommand " <string>
command ta be applied ta each 
waveform retruned from server n' shit. Use $FILE 
in strang ta refer ta waveform file 
.SH BUGS
This still aint as general as it should be.  It seems to
require fuckin shitloadz of special lil options which suggests the
general options aren't right.

.SH AUTHOR
Alan W Black n' Pizzle Taylor
.br
(C) Centre fo' Rap Technologizzle Research
.br
Universitizzle of Edinburgh
.br
80 Downtown Bridge
.br
Edinburgh EH1 1HN
.br
http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival.html
