.TH  FESTIVAL 1 "6th Apr 1998"
.SH NAME
festival \- a text-to-speech system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gangbang 
.I [options]
.I [file0]
.I [file1]
.I ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
Festival be a general purpose text-to-speech system.  As well as 
simply renderin text as rap it can be used up in a interactive
command mode fo' testin n' pimpin various aspectz of speech
synthesis technology.

Festival has two major modes, command n' tts (text-to-speech).
When up in command mode input (from file or interactively) is interpreted
by tha command interpreter n' shit.  When up in tts mode input is rendered as 
speech.  When up in command mode filenames dat start wit a left
paranthesis is treated as literal commandz n' evaluated.

.SH OPTIONS


.TP 8
.BI "-q " 
Load no default setup filez 
.TP 8
.BI "--libdir " <string>
Set library directory pathname 
.TP 8
.BI "-b " 
Run up in batch mode (no interaction) 
.TP 8
.BI "--batch " 
Run up in batch mode (no interaction) 
.TP 8
.BI "--tts " 
Synthesize text up in filez as rap 
no filez means read from stdin 
(implies no interaction by default) 
.TP 8
.BI "-i " 
Run up in interactizzle mode (default) 
.TP 8
.BI "--interactizzle " 
Run up in interactizzle mode (default) 
.TP 8
.BI "--pipe " 
Run up in pipe mode, readin commandz from 
stdin yo, but no prompt or return joints 
are printed (default if stdin not a tty) 
.TP 8
.BI "--language " <string>
Run up in named language, default is 
english, spanish n' welsh is available 
.TP 8
.BI "--server " 
Run up in server mode waitin fo' clients 
of server_port (1314) 
.TP 8
.BI "--script " 
<ifile> 
Used up in #! scripts, runs up in batch mode on 
file n' passes all other args ta Scheme 
.TP 8
.BI "--heap " <int> " {1000000}"
Set size of Lisp heap, should not normally need 
to be chizzled from its default 
.TP 8
.BI "-v " 
Display version number n' exit 
.TP 8
.BI "--version " 
Display version number n' exit 
.SH BUGS
Mo' than you can imagine.  

A manual wit much detail (though not complete) be available
in distributed as part of tha system n' be also accessible at
.br
http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/manual/

Although we cannot guarantee tha time required ta fix bugs, we
would appreciated it if they was reported ta 
.br
festival-bug@cstr.ed.ac.uk

.SH AUTHOR
Alan W Black, Slick Rick Caley n' Pizzle Taylor
.br
(C) Centre fo' Rap Technologizzle Research, 1996-1998
.br
Universitizzle of Edinburgh
.br
80 Downtown Bridge
.br
Edinburgh EH1 1HN
.br
http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival.html
