.TH ffcfstress 1 "March 8, 2009" ffcfstress
.SH NAME
ffcfstress \- constant force stress test fo' force-feedback devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ffcfstress
.RB "[" \-d " <\fIdevice\fP>] [" \-u " <\fIupdate rate\fP>] [" \-f " <\fIfrequency\fP>] [" \-a " <\fIamplitude\fP>] [" \-s " <\fIstrength\fP>] [" \-x " <\fIaxis\fP>] [" \-A "] [" \-o "]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
ffcfstress stress tests constant non-enveloped forces on a gangbangin' force
feedback device.
It simulates a movin sprang force by applyin a gangbangin' frequently updated
constant force effect.
.PP
.B Beware, tha stress test may damage yo' device!
.SH OPTIONS
At least one option is required.
.TP
.BR \-d " <\fIdevice\fP>"
Da thang ta test (by default \fI/dev/input/event0\fR).
.TP
.BR \-u " <\fIupdate rate\fP>"
Da update rate up in Hz (25 by default).
.TP
.BR \-f " <\fIfrequency\fP>"
Da sprang centa motion frequency up in Hz (0.1 by default).
.TP
.BR \-a " <\fIamplitude\fP>"
Da sprang centa motion amplitude, between 0.0 n' 1.0 (1.0 by
default).
.TP
.BR \-s " <\fIstrength\fP>"
Da sprang strength factor (1.0 by default).
.TP
.BR \-x " <\fIaxis\fP>"
absolute axis ta test (default: 0)
.br
[0 = X, 1 = Y, 2 = Z, 3 = RX, 4 = RY, 5 = RZ, 6 = WHEEL]
.TP
.B \-A
switch off auto-centering
.TP
.B \-o
Dummy option, useful when all defaults should be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBffmvforce\fP(1), \fBfftest\fP(1), \fBjstest\fP(1).
.SH AUTHOR
.B ffcfstress
was freestyled by Oliver Hamann.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Stephen Kitt <steve@sk2.org>, fo' tha Debian
GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
Dat shiznit was last modified for
.B ffcfstress
dated February 15, 2002.

