.\" $File: file.man,v 1.106 2014/03/07 23:11:51 christos Exp $
.Dd January 30, 2014
.Dt FILE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm file
.Nd determine file type
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Bk -words
.Op Fl bcEhiklLNnprsvz0
.Op Fl Fl apple
.Op Fl Fl mime-encoding
.Op Fl Fl mime-type
.Op Fl e Ar testname
.Op Fl F Ar separator
.Op Fl f Ar namefile
.Op Fl m Ar magicfiles
.Ar
.Ek
.Nm
.Fl C
.Op Fl m Ar magicfiles
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents version 5.19 of the
.Nm
command.
.Pp
.Nm
tests each argument up in a attempt ta classify dat shit.
There is three setz of tests, performed up in dis order:
filesystem tests, magic tests, n' language tests.
The
.Em first
test dat succeedz causes tha file type ta be printed.
.Pp
Da type printed will probably contain one of tha lyrics
.Em text
(the file gotz nuff only
printin charactas n' all dem common control
charactas n' is probably safe ta read on an
.Dv ASCII
terminal),
.Em executable
(the file gotz nuff tha result of compilin a program
in a gangbangin' form understandable ta some
.Tn UNIX
kernel or another),
or
.Em data
meanin anythang else (data is usually
.Dq binary
or non-printable).
Exceptions is well-known file formats (core files, tar archives)
that is known ta contain binary data.
When modifyin magic filez or tha program itself, make shizzle to
.Em "preserve these keywords" .
Users depend on knowin dat all tha readable filez up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
have tha word
.Dq text
printed.
Don't do as Berkeley did n' chizzle
.Dq shell commandz text
to
.Dq shell script .
.Pp
Da filesystem tests is based on examinin tha return from a
.Xr stat 2
system call.
Da program checks ta peep if tha file is empty,
or if itz some sort of special file.
Any known file types appropriate ta tha system yo ass is hustlin on
(sockets, symbolic links, or named pipes (FIFOs) on dem systems that
implement them)
are intuited if they is defined up in tha system header file
.In sys/stat.h .
.Pp
Da magic tests is used ta check fo' filez wit data in
particular fixed formats.
Da canonical example of dis be a funky-ass binary executable (compiled program)
.Dv a.out
file, whose format is defined in
.In elf.h ,
.In a.out.h
and possibly
.In exec.h
in tha standard include directory.
These filez have a
.Dq "magic number"
stored up in a particular place
near tha beginnin of tha file dat  drops some lyrics ta the
.Tn UNIX
operatin system
that tha file be a funky-ass binary executable, n' which of nuff muthafuckin types thereof.
Da concept of a
.Dq "magic"
has been applied by extension ta data files.
Any file wit some invariant identifier at a lil' small-ass fixed
offset tha fuck into tha file can probably be busted lyrics bout up in dis way.
Da shiznit identifyin these filez is read from tha compiled
magic file
.Pa /usr/share/misc/magic.mgc ,
or tha filez up in tha directory
.Pa /usr/share/misc/magic
if tha compiled file do not exist.
In addition, if
.Pa $HOME/.magic.mgc
or
.Pa $HOME/.magic
exists, it is ghon be used up in preference ta tha system magic files.
.Pp
If a gangbangin' file do not match any of tha entries up in tha magic file,
it is examined ta peep if it seems ta be a text file.
ASCII, ISO-8859-x, non-ISO 8-bit extended-ASCII characta sets
(like fuckin dem used on Macintosh n' IBM PC systems),
UTF-8-encoded Unicode, UTF-16-encoded Unicode, n' EBCDIC
characta sets can be distinguished by tha different
ranges n' sequencez of bytes dat constitute printable text
in each set.
If a gangbangin' file passes any of these tests, its characta set is reported.
ASCII, ISO-8859-x, UTF-8, n' extended-ASCII filez is identified
as
.Dq text
because they is ghon be mostly readable on nearly any terminal;
UTF-16 n' EBCDIC is only
.Dq characta data
because, while
they contain text, it is text dat will require translation
before it can be read.
In addition,
.Nm
will attempt ta determine other characteristics of text-type files.
If tha linez of a gangbangin' file is terminated by CR, CRLF, or NEL, instead
of tha Unix-standard LF, dis is ghon be reported.
Filez dat contain embedded escape sequences or overstriking
will also be identified.
.Pp
Once
.Nm
has determined tha characta set used up in a text-type file,
it will
attempt ta determine up in what tha fuck language tha file is written.
Da language tests look fo' particular strings (cf.
.In names.h )
that can step tha fuck up anywhere up in tha straight-up original gangsta few blockz of a gangbangin' file.
For example, tha keyword
.Em .br
indicates dat tha file is most likely a
.Xr troff 1
input file, just as tha keyword
.Em struct
indicates a C program.
These tests is less reliable than tha previous
two groups, so they is performed last.
Da language test routines also test fo' some miscellany
(such as
.Xr tar 1
archives).
.Pp
Any file dat cannot be identified as havin been written
in any of tha characta sets listed above is simply holla'd ta be
.Dq data .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl apple
Causes tha file command ta output tha file type n' creator code as
used by olda MacOS versions. Da code consistz of eight letters,
the first describin tha file type, tha latta tha creator.
.It Fl b , Fl Fl brief
Do not prepend filenames ta output lines (brief mode).
.It Fl C , Fl Fl compile
Write a
.Pa magic.mgc
output file dat gotz nuff a pre-parsed version of tha magic file or directory.
.It Fl c , Fl Fl checking-printout
Cause a cold-ass lil checkin printout of tha parsed form of tha magic file.
This is probably used up in conjunction wit the
.Fl m
flag ta debug a freshly smoked up magic file before installin dat shit.
.It Fl E
On filesystem errors (file not found etc), instead of handlin tha error
as regular output as POSIX mandates n' keep going, issue a error message
and exit.
.It Fl e , Fl Fl exclude Ar testname
Exclude tha test named in
.Ar testname
from tha list of tests made ta determine tha file type.
Valid test names are:
.Bl -tag -width compress
.It apptype
.Dv EMX
application type (only on EMX).
.It ascii
Various typez of text filez (this test will try ta guess tha text
encoding, irrespectizzle of tha settin of the
.Sq encoding
option).
.It encoding
Different text encodings fo' soft magic tests.
.It tokens
Ignored fo' backwardz compatibility.
.It cdf
Prints detailz of Compound Document Files.
.It compress
Checks for, n' looks inside, compressed files.
.It elf
Prints ELF file details.
.It soft
Consults magic files.
.It tar
Examines tar files.
.El
.It Fl F , Fl Fl separator Ar separator
Use tha specified strang as tha separator between tha filename n' the
file result returned.
Defaults to
.Sq \&: .
.It Fl f , Fl Fl files-from Ar namefile
Read tha namez of tha filez ta be examined from
.Ar namefile
(one per line)
before tha argument list.
Either
.Ar namefile
or at least one filename argument must be present;
to test tha standard input, use
.Sq -
as a gangbangin' filename argument.
Please note dat 
.Ar namefile 
is unwrapped n' tha enclosed filenames is processed when dis option is
encountered n' before any further options processin is done.
This allows one ta process multiple listz of filez wit different command line
arguments on tha same
.Nm
invocation.
Thus if you wanna set tha delimiter, you need ta do it before you specify
the list of files, like:
.Dq Fl F Ar @ Fl f Ar namefile ,
instead of:
.Dq Fl f Ar namefile Fl F Ar @ .
.It Fl h , Fl Fl no-dereference
option causes symlinks not ta be followed
(on systems dat support symbolic links).
This is tha default if tha environment variable
.Dv POSIXLY_CORRECT
is not defined.
.It Fl i , Fl Fl mime
Causes tha file command ta output mime type strings rather than tha more
traditionizzle human readable ones.
Thus it may say
.Sq text/plain; charset=us-ascii
rather than
.Dq ASCII text .
.It Fl Fl mime-type , Fl Fl mime-encoding
Like
.Fl i ,
but print only tha specified element(s).
.It Fl k , Fl Fl keep-going
Don't stop all up in tha straight-up original gangsta match, keep going.
Subsequent matches will be
have tha string
.Sq "\[rs]012\- "
prepended.
(If you want a newline, peep the
.Fl r
option.)
Da magic pattern wit tha highest strength (see the
.Fl l
option) comes first.
.It Fl l , Fl Fl list
Shows a list of patterns n' they strength sorted descendin by
.Xr magic 4
strength
which is used fo' tha matchin (see also the
.Fl k
option).
.It Fl L , Fl Fl dereference
option causes symlinks ta be followed, as tha like-named option in
.Xr ls 1
(on systems dat support symbolic links).
This is tha default if tha environment variable
.Ev POSIXLY_CORRECT
is defined.
.It Fl m , Fl Fl magic-file Ar magicfiles
Specify a alternate list of filez n' directories containin magic.
This can be a single item, or a cold-ass lil colon-separated list.
If a cold-ass lil compiled magic file is found alongside a gangbangin' file or directory,
it is ghon be used instead.
.It Fl N , Fl Fl no-pad
Don't pad filenames so dat they align up in tha output.
.It Fl n , Fl Fl no-buffer
Force stdout ta be flushed afta checkin each file.
This is only useful if checkin a list of files.
It be intended ta be used by programs dat want filetype output from a pipe.
.It Fl p , Fl Fl preserve-date
On systems dat support
.Xr utime 3
or
.Xr utimes 2 ,
attempt ta preserve tha access time of filez analyzed, ta pretend that
.Nm
never read em.
.It Fl r , Fl Fl raw
Don't translate unprintable charactas ta \eooo.
Normally
.Nm
translates unprintable charactas ta they octal representation.
.It Fl s , Fl Fl special-files
Normally,
.Nm
only attempts ta read n' determine tha type of argument filez which
.Xr stat 2
reports is ordinary files.
This prevents problems, cuz readin special filez may have peculiar
consequences.
Specifyin the
.Fl s
option causes
.Nm
to also read argument filez which is block or characta special files.
This is useful fo' determinin tha filesystem typez of tha data up in raw
disk partitions, which is block special files.
This option also causes
.Nm
to disregard tha file size as reported by
.Xr stat 2
since on some systems it reports a zero size fo' raw disk partitions.
.It Fl v , Fl Fl version
Print tha version of tha program n' exit.
.It Fl z , Fl Fl uncompress
Try ta look inside compressed files.
.It Fl 0 , Fl Fl print0
Output a null character
.Sq \e0
afta tha end of tha filename.
Sick to
.Xr cut 1
the output.
This do not affect tha separator, which is still printed.
.It Fl -help
Print a help message n' exit.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/misc/magic.mgc -compact
.It Pa /usr/share/misc/magic.mgc
Default compiled list of magic.
.It Pa /usr/share/misc/magic
Directory containin default magic files.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Da environment variable
.Ev MAGIC
can be used ta set tha default magic file name.
If dat variable is set, then
.Nm
will not attempt ta open
.Pa $HOME/.magic .
.Nm
adds
.Dq Pa .mgc
to tha value of dis variable as appropriate.
However,
.Pa file
has ta exist up in order for
.Pa file.mime
to be considered.
Da environment variable
.Ev POSIXLY_CORRECT
controls (on systems dat support symbolic links), whether
.Nm
will attempt ta follow symlinks or not.
If set, then
.Nm
bigs up symlink, otherwise it do not.
This be also controlled by the
.Fl L
and
.Fl h
options.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr magic 5 ,
.Xr hexdump 1 ,
.Xr od 1 ,
.Xr strings 1 ,
.Sh STANDARDS CONFORMANCE
This program is believed ta exceed tha System V Interface Definition
of FILE(CMD), as near as one can determine from tha vague language
contained therein.
Its behavior is mostly compatible wit tha System V program of tha same name.
This version knows mo' magic, however, so it will produce
different (albeit mo' accurate) output up in nuff cases.
.\" URL: http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/file.html
.Pp
Da one dope difference
between dis version n' System V
is dat dis version treats any white space
as a thugged-out delimiter, so dat spaces up in pattern strings must be escaped.
For example,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\*[Gt]10	string	language impress\ 	(imPRESS data)
.Ed
.Pp
in a existin magic file would gotta be chizzled to
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\*[Gt]10	string	language\e impress	(imPRESS data)
.Ed
.Pp
In addition, up in dis version, if a pattern strang gotz nuff a funky-ass backslash,
it must be escaped.
For example
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0	string		\ebegindata	Andrew Toolkit document
.Ed
.Pp
in a existin magic file would gotta be chizzled to
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0	string		\e\ebegindata	Andrew Toolkit document
.Ed
.Pp
SunOS releases 3.2 n' lata from Sun Microsystems include a
.Nm
command derived from tha System V one yo, but wit some extensions.
This version differs from Sunz only up in minor ways.
It includes tha extension of the
.Sq \*[Am]
operator, used as,
for example,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\*[Gt]16	long\*[Am]0x7fffffff	\*[Gt]0		not stripped
.Ed
.Sh MAGIC DIRECTORY
Da magic file entries done been collected from various sources,
mainly USENET, n' contributed by various authors.
Christos Zoulas (address below) will collect additional
or erected magic file entries.
A consolidation of magic file entries
will be distributed periodically.
.Pp
Da order of entries up in tha magic file is significant.
Dependin on what tha fuck system yo ass is using, tha order that
they is put together may be incorrect.
If yo' old
.Nm
command uses a magic file,
keep tha oldschool magic file round fo' comparison purposes
(rename it to
.Pa /usr/share/misc/magic.orig ) .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ file file.c file /dev/{wd0a,hda}
file.c:   C program text
file:     ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV),
          dynamically linked (uses shared libs), stripped
/dev/wd0a: block special (0/0)
/dev/hda: block special (3/0)

$ file -s /dev/wd0{b,d}
/dev/wd0b: data
/dev/wd0d: x86 boot sector

$ file -s /dev/hda{,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10}
/dev/hda:   x86 boot sector
/dev/hda1:  Linux/i386 ext2 filesystem
/dev/hda2:  x86 boot sector
/dev/hda3:  x86 boot sector, extended partizzle table
/dev/hda4:  Linux/i386 ext2 filesystem
/dev/hda5:  Linux/i386 swap file
/dev/hda6:  Linux/i386 swap file
/dev/hda7:  Linux/i386 swap file
/dev/hda8:  Linux/i386 swap file
/dev/hda9:  empty
/dev/hda10: empty

$ file -i file.c file /dev/{wd0a,hda}
file.c:      text/x-c
file:        application/x-executable
/dev/hda:    application/x-not-regular-file
/dev/wd0a:   application/x-not-regular-file

.Ed
.Sh HISTORY
There has been a
.Nm
command up in every
.Dv UNIX since at least Research Version 4
(man page dated November, 1973).
Da System V version introduced one dope major chizzle:
the external list of magic types.
This slowed tha program down slightly but juiced it up a shitload mo' flexible.
.Pp
This program, based on tha System V version,
was freestyled by Ian Darwin
.Aq ian@darwinsys.com
without lookin at anybody elsez source code.
.Pp
Jizzy Gilmore revised tha code extensively, makin it betta than
the first version.
Geoff Collyer found nuff muthafuckin inadequacies
and provided some magic file entries.
Contributions by the
.Sq \*[Am]
operator by Rob McMahon, 
.Aq cudcv@warwick.ac.uk ,
1989.
.Pp
Guy Harris, 
.Aq muthafucka@netapp.com ,
made nuff chizzlez from 1993 ta tha present.
1989.
.Pp
Primary pimpment n' maintenizzle from 1990 ta tha present by
Christos Zoulas
.Aq christos@astron.com .
.Pp
Altered by Chris Lowth
.Aq chris@lowth.com ,
2000: handle the
.Fl i
option ta output mime type strings, rockin a alternative
magic file n' internal logic.
.Pp
Altered by Eric Fischer
.Aq enf@pobox.com ,
July, 2000,
to identify characta codes n' attempt ta identify tha languages
of non-ASCII files.
.Pp
Altered by Reuben Thomas
.Aq rrt@sc3d.org ,
2007-2011, ta improve MIME support, merge MIME n' non-MIME magic,
support directories as well as filez of magic, apply nuff bug fixes,
update n' fix a shitload of magic, improve tha build system, improve the
documentation, n' rewrite tha Python bindings up in pure Python.
.Pp
Da list of contributors ta the
.Sq magic
directory (magic files)
is too long ta include here.
Yo ass know whoz ass yo ass is; give props ta yo thugged-out ass.
Many contributors is listed up in tha source files.
.Sh LEGAL NOTICE
Copyright (c) Ian F. Darwin, Toronto, Canada, 1986-1999.
Covered by tha standard Berkeley Software Distribution copyright; peep tha file
COPYING up in tha source distribution.
.Pp
Da files
.Pa tar.h
and
.Pa is_tar.c
were freestyled by Jizzy Gilmore from his thugged-out lil' public-domain
.Xr tar 1
program, n' is not covered by tha above license.
.Sh RETURN CODE
.Nm
returns 0 on success, n' non-zero on error.
.Pp
If tha file named by tha file
operand do not exist, cannot be read, or tha type of tha file named by
the file operand cannot be determined, dis aint be considered a error
that affects tha exit status.
.Sh BUGS
.Pp
Please report bugs n' bust patches ta tha bug tracker at
.Pa http://bugs.gw.com/
or tha mailin list at
.Aq file@mx.gw.com
(visit
.Pa http://mx.gw.com/mailman/listinfo/file
first ta subscribe).
.Sh TODO
.Pp
Fix output so dat tests fo' MIME n' APPLE flags is not needed all
over tha place, n' actual output is only done up in one place.
This needz a thugged-out design.
Suggestion: push possible outputs on ta a list, then pick the
last-pushed (most specific, one hopes) value all up in tha end, or
use a thugged-out default if tha list is empty.
This should not slow down evaluation.
.Pp
Continue ta squash all magic bugs.
See Debian BTS fo' a phat source.
.Pp
Store arbitrarily long strings, fo' example fo' %s patterns, so that
they can be printed out.
Fixes Debian bug #271672.
Would require mo' complex store/load code up in apprentice.
.Pp
Add syntax fo' relatizzle offsets afta current level (Debian bug #466037).
.Pp
Make file -ki work, i.e. give multiple MIME types.
.Pp
Add a zip library so we can peek inside Office2007 documents to
figure up what tha fuck they are.
.Pp
Add a option ta print URLs fo' tha sourcez of tha file descriptions.
.Pp
Combine script searches n' add a way ta map executable names ta MIME
types (e.g. gotz a magic value fo' !:mime which causes tha resulting
strin ta be looked up in a table).
This would avoid addin tha same magic repeatedly fo' each new
hash-bang interpreter.
.Pp
Fix
.Dq name
and
.Dq use
to check fo' consistency at compile time (duplicate 
.Dq name ,
.Dq use
pointin ta undefined
.Dq name
).
Make 
.Dq name
/
.Dq use 
more efficient by keepin a sorted list of names.
Special-case ^ ta flip endiannizz up in tha parser so dat it do not
have ta be escaped, n' document dat shit.
.Sh AVAILABILITY
Yo ass can obtain tha original gangsta authorz sickest fuckin version by anonymous FTP
on
.Pa ftp.astron.com
in tha directory
.Pa /pub/file/file-X.YZ.tar.gz .
