.\" find-repos-of-install
.TH "find-repos-of-install" "1" "13 January 2013" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
find-repos-of-install \- report which Yum repository a package was installed from
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfind-repos-of-install\fP [options] package1 [package2...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBfind-repos-of-install\fP be a program which reports tha Yum repository that
a specified package was installed from.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fP"
Report program version n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display a help message, n' then quit.
.IP "\fB\-\-repoid=REPOID\fP"
Specify repo idz ta query, can be specified multiple times (default is
all enabled).
.IP "\fB\-\-enablerepo=ENABLEREPOS\fP"
In addizzle ta tha default set, query tha given additionizzle repository, even if
it is disabled up in YUM configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Can be used multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-disablerepo=DISABLEREPOS\fP"
Do not query tha given repository, even if it is enabled up in YUM
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Can be used multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-repofrompath=REPOID,PATH/URL\fP"
Specify a path or url ta a repository (same path as up in a funky-ass baseurl) ta add to
the repositories fo' dis query. This option can be used multiple times. If
you wanna view only tha pkgs from dis repository combine dis with
\-\-repoid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da repoid fo' tha repository is specified by REPOID.
.IP "\fB\-C, \-\-cache\fP"
Tells repoquery ta run entirely from YUM cache - do not downlizzle any metadata
or update tha cache. Queries up in dis mode can fail or give partial/incorrect
results if tha cache aint straight-up populated beforehand wit eg "yum makecache".
.IP "\fB\-\-tempcache\fP"
Use a temp dir fo' storing/accessin yum-cache.
.IP "\fB\-\-sync2yumdb\fP"
Sync anythang dat is found ta tha yumdb, if available.

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi
