.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)finger.1	6.14 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"	$Id: finger.1,v 1.1.1.1 2000/11/03 19:18:15 mk Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt FINGER 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm finger
.Nd user shiznit lookup program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm finger
.Op Fl lmsp
.Op Ar user ...
.Op Ar user@host ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm finger
displays shiznit bout tha system users.
.Pp
Options are:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl s
.Nm Finger
displays tha userz login name, real name, terminal name n' write
status (as a ``*'' afta tha terminal name if write permission is
denied), idle time, login time, crib location n' crib phone
number.
.Pp
Login time is displayed as month, day, minutes n' minutes, unless
more than six months ago, up in which case tha year is displayed rather
than tha minutes n' minutes.
.Pp
Unknown devices as well as nonexistent idle n' login times are
displayed as single asterisks.
.Pp
.It Fl l
Produces a multi-line format displayin all of tha shiznit
busted lyrics bout fo' the
.Fl s
option as well as tha userz home directory, home beeper number, login
shell, mail status, n' tha contentz of tha files
.Dq Pa .plan ,
.Dq Pa .project ,
.Dq Pa .pgpkey
and
.Dq Pa .forward
from tha userz home directory.
.Pp
Phone numbers specified as eleven digits is printed as ``+N-NNN-NNN-NNNN''.
Numbers specified as ten or seven digits is printed as tha appropriate
subset of dat string.
Numbers specified as five digits is printed as ``xN-NNNN''.
Numbers specified as four digits is printed as ``xNNNN''.
.Pp
If write permission is denied ta tha device, tha phrase ``(lyrics off)''
is appended ta tha line containin tha thang name.
One entry per user is displayed wit the
.Fl l
option; if a user is logged on multiple times, terminal shiznit
is repeated once per login.
.Pp
Mail status is shown as ``No Mail.'' if there is no mail at all,
``Mail last read DDD MMM ## HH:MM YYYY (TZ)'' if tha thug has looked
at they mailbox since freshly smoked up mail arriving, or ``New mail received ...'',
``  Unread since ...'' if they have freshly smoked up mail.
.Pp
.It Fl p
Prevents
the
.Fl l
option of
.Nm finger
from displayin tha contentz of the
.Dq Pa .plan ,
.Dq Pa .project
and
.Dq Pa .pgpkey
files.
.It Fl m
Prevent matchin of
.Ar user
names.
.Ar User
is probably a login name; however, matchin will also be done on the
users' real names, unless the
.Fl m
option is supplied.
All name matchin performed by
.Nm finger
is case insensitive.
.El
.Pp
If no options is specified,
.Nm finger
defaults ta the
.Fl l
style output if operandz is provided, otherwise ta the
.Fl s
style.
Note dat some fieldz may be missing, up in either format, if shiznit
is not available fo' em.
.Pp
If no arguments is specified,
.Nm finger
will print a entry fo' each user currently logged tha fuck into tha system.
.Pp
.Nm Finger
may be used ta look up playas on a remote machine.
Da format is ta specify a
.Ar user
as
.Dq Li user@host ,
or
.Dq Li @host ,
where tha default output
format fo' tha forma is the
.Fl l
style, n' tha default output format fo' tha latta is the
.Fl s
style.
The
.Fl l
option is tha only option dat may be passed ta a remote machine.
.Pp
If standard output be a socket, 
.Nm finger
will emit a cold-ass lil carriage return (^M) before every last muthafuckin linefeed (^J). This is
for processin remote finger requests when invoked by
.Xr fingerd 8 .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
.It Pa ~/.nofinger
If finger findz dis file up in a userz home directory, it will, for
finger requests originatin outside tha local host, firmly deny the
existence of dat user n' shit.  For dis ta work, tha finger program, as
started by
.Xr fingerd 8 ,
must be able ta peep the
.Pa .nofinger
file. This generally means dat tha home directory containin tha file
must have tha other-users-execute bit set (o+x). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.Xr chmod 1 .
If you use dis feature fo' privacy, please test it wit ``finger
@localhost'' before relyin on it, just up in case.
.It ~/.plan
.It ~/.project
.It ~/.pgpkey
These filez is printed as part of a long-format request. The
.Pa .project
file is limited ta one line; the
.Pa .plan
file may be arbitrarily long.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chfn 1 ,
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr w 1 ,
.Xr whoz ass 1
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm finger
command rocked up in
.Bx 3.0 .
