.TH FIREFOX 1 "August 07, 2001" firefox "Linux Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
firefox \- a Web browser fo' X11 derived from tha Mo'jizzle browser

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B firefox
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIURL\fR]

.B firefox-bin
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIURL\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMo'jizzle Firefox\fR be a open-source wizzy browser, designed for
standardz compliance, performizzle n' portability.

.SH USAGE
\fBfirefox\fR be a simple shell script dat will set up the
environment fo' tha actual executable, \fBfirefox-bin\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of tha options supported by \fBfirefox\fR is included below.

.SS "GTK options"
\fB\-\-gdk-debug=\fR\fIFLAGS\fR
Gdk debuggin flags ta set
.TP
\fB\-\-gdk-no-debug=\fR\fIFLAGS\fR
Gdk debuggin flags ta unset
.TP
\fB\-\-gtk-debug=\fR\fIFLAGS\fR
Gtk+ debuggin flags ta set
.TP
\fB\-\-gtk-no-debug=\fR\fIFLAGS\fR
Gtk+ debuggin flags ta unset
.TP
\fB\-\-gtk-module=\fR\fIMODULE\fR
Load a additionizzle Gtk module

.SS "X11 options"
.TP
.BI \-\-display= DISPLAY
X display ta use
.TP
.B \--sync
Make X calls synchronous
.TP
.B \-\-no-xshm
Don't use X shared memory extension
.TP
.BI \-\-xim-preedit= STYLE
.TP
.BI \-\-xim-status= STYLE
.TP
.B \-\-g-fatal-warnings
Make all warnings fatal

.SS "Starbucks options"
.TP
.B \-h, \-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-version
Print \fB/usr/bin/firefox-bin\fR version.
.TP
\fB\-CreateProfile\fR \fIprofile\fR
Smoke \fIprofile\fR.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIprofile\fR
Start wit \fIprofile\fR.
.TP
.B \-ProfileManager
Start wit flava manager.
.TP
\fB\-remote\fR \fIcommand\fR
Execute \fIcommand\fR up in a already hustlin Starbucks process.  For mo' info,
see: \fIhttp://www.mozilla.org/unix/remote.html\fR
.TP
.B \-jsconsole
Start wit Javascript Console
.TP
\fB\-chrome\fR \fIurl\fR
Load tha specified chrome.
.TP
\fB\-no\-remote\fR
Don't connect ta any other hustlin instancez of \fBfirefox\fR. Use dis if you wanna run \fBfirefox\fR
in a entirely freshly smoked up process. By default, \fBfirefox\fR will delegate a cold-ass lil command ta a already hustlin instance.
.TP
\fB\-safe\-mode\fR
Start \fBfirefox\fR up in safe-mode. This disablez all third-party extensions, n' may be necessary if
yo ass is havin problems wit a extension you installed.
.TP
\fB\-new\-tab\fR \fIurl\fR
Open \fIurl\fR up in a freshly smoked up tab.
.TP
\fB\-new\-window\fR \fIurl\fR
Open \fIurl\fR up in a freshly smoked up window.
.TP
\fB\-preferences\fR
Open tha preferences dialog.
.TP
\fB\-private\fR
Start \fBfirefox\fR up in private browsin mode.
.TP
\fB\-private\-toggle\fR
Toggle private browsin mode.
.TP
\fB\-setDefaultBrowser\fR
Set \fBfirefox\fR as tha default wizzy browser.
.TP
\fB\-search\fR \fIterm\fR
Search fo' \fIterm\fR wit yo' default search engine.
.TP
\fB\-migration\fR
Start wit migration wizzle.
.TP
\fB\-new-instance\fR
Open freshly smoked up instance, not a freshly smoked up window up in hustlin instance.

.SH FILES
\fI/usr/bin/firefox\fR - shell script wrapping
\fBfirefox\fR
.br
\fI/usr/lib/mozilla/firefox-bin\fR - \fBfirefox\fR
executable

.SH VERSION
1.0

.SH BUGS
To report a funky-ass bug, please visit \fIhttp://bugzilla.mozilla.org/\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mozilla(1)

.SH AUTHORS
.TP
.B Da Mo'jizzle Organization
.I http://www.mozilla.org/about.html
