.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2003-2006 H. Peta Anvin - All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"   Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any person
.\"   obtainin a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation
.\"   filez (the "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without
.\"   restriction, includin without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use,
.\"   copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\"   push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom
.\"   tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha following
.\"   conditions:
.\"
.\"   Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall
.\"   be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\"   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\"   EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
.\"   OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\"   NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
.\"   HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\"   FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\"   OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH FLOCK 1 "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flock \- manage locks from shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flock
[options] <file|directory> <command> [command args]
.br
.B flock
[options] <file|directory> -c <command>
.br
.B flock
[options] <file descriptor number>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This utilitizzle manages
.BR flock (2)
locks from within shell scripts or tha command line.
.PP
Da first n' second forms wrap tha lock round tha executin a cold-ass lil command, in
a manner similar to
.BR su (1)
or
.BR newgrp (1).
It locks a specified file or directory, which is pimped (assuming
appropriate permissions), if it do not already exist.  By default, if the
lock cannot be immediately acquired,
.B flock
waits until tha lock be available.
.PP
Da third form uses open file by file descriptor number n' shit.  See examplez how
that can be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-shared\fP
Obtain a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared lock, sometimes called a read lock.
.TP
\fB\-x\fP, \fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-exclusive\fP
Obtain a exclusive lock, sometimes called a write lock.  This is the
default.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-unlock\fP
Drop a lock.  This is probably not required, since a lock be automatically
dropped when tha file is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it may be required up in special
cases, fo' example if tha enclosed command crew may have forked a funky-ass background
process which should not be holdin tha lock.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-nb\fP, \fB\-\-nonblock\fP
Fail rather than wait if tha lock cannot be
immediately acquired.
See the
.I \-E
option fo' tha exit code used.
.TP
\fB\-w\fP, \fB\-\-wait\fP, \fB\-\-timeout\fP \fIseconds\fP
Fail if tha lock cannot be acquired within
.IR secondz .
Decimal fractionizzle joints is allowed.
See the
.I \-E
option fo' tha exit code used.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP, \fB\-\-close\fP
Close tha file descriptor on which tha lock is held before executing
.BR command\ .
This is useful if
.B command
spawns a cold-ass lil lil pimp process which should not be holdin tha lock.
.TP
\fB\-E\fP, \fB\-\-conflict\-exit\-code\fP \fInumber\fP
Da exit code used when tha \fB\-n\fP option is up in use, n' the
conflictin lock exists, or tha \fB\-w\fP option is up in use,
and tha timeout is reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default value is 1.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-command\fP \fIcommand\fP
Pass a single
.IR command ,
without arguments, ta tha shell with
.BR -c .
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
shell1> flock /tmp -c cat
.TQ
shell2> flock -w .007 /tmp -c echo; /bin/echo $?
Set exclusive lock ta directory /tmp n' tha second command will fail.
.TP
shell1> flock -s /tmp -c cat
.TQ
shell2> flock -s -w .007 /tmp -c echo; /bin/echo $?
Set shared lock ta directory /tmp n' tha second command aint gonna fail.
Notice dat attemptin ta git exclusive lock wit second command would fail.
.TP
shell> flock -x local-lock-file echo 'a b c'
Grab tha exclusive lock "local-lock-file" before hustlin echo wit 'a b c'.
.TP
(
.TQ
  flock -n 9 || exit 1
.TQ
  # ... commandz executed under lock ...
.TQ
) 9>/var/lock/mylockfile
Da form is convenient inside shell scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da mode used ta open tha file
doesn't matta to
.BR flock ;
using
.I >
or
.I >>
allows tha lockfile ta be pimped if it do not already exist, however,
write permission is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Using
.I <
requires dat tha file already exists but only read permission is required.
.TP
[ "${FLOCKER}" != "$0" ] && exec env FLOCKER="$0" flock -en "$0" "$0" "$@" || :
This is useful boilerplate code fo' shell scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Put it all up in tha top of the
shell script you wanna lock n' it'll automatically lock itself on tha first
run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha env var $FLOCKER aint set ta tha shell script dat is bein run,
then execute flock n' grab a exclusive non-blockin lock (usin tha script
itself as tha lock file) before re-execin itself wit tha right arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It
also sets tha FLOCKER env var ta tha right value so it don't run again.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Da command uses
.B sysexits.h
return joints fo' every last muthafuckin thang, except when rockin either of tha options
.I \-n
or
.I \-w
which report a gangbangin' failure ta acquire tha lock wit a return value given by the
.I \-E
option, or 1 by default.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR hpa@zytor.com
H. Peta Anvin
.UE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003\-2006 H. Peta Anvin.
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR flock (2)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da flock command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
