.\" Manual page fo' fontimage by George Williams
.\" Copyright © 2006 by George Williams.
.TH FONTIMAGE 1 "26 October 2006"
.SH NAME
.B fontimage - produce a gangbangin' font thumbnail image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fontimage
.RB [ \--help ]
.RB [ \--width 
.IR num ]
.RB [ \--height
.IR num ]
.RB [ \--pixelsize
.IR num ]
.RB [ \--text
.IR strang ]
.RB [ \--o
.IR outputfile ]
.RB [ \--usage ]
.RB [ \--version ]
.I fontfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da program
.B fontimage
loadz a gangbangin' font, which may be up in any format
.IR fontforge (1)
can read, n' then produces a image showin representatizzle glyphz of tha font.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--help
Provide a thugged-out description wit a list of tha available options.
.TP
.B \--width num
Specifies tha width of tha output image. If dis is omitted tha image will
be as wide as necessary ta display tha text.
.TP
.B \--height num
Specifies tha height of tha output image. If dis is omitted tha image will be
as high as necessary ta display tha text.
.TP
.B \--pixelsize num
Specifies tha pixelsize used ta display tha text. This argument may be specified
multiple times n' each refers ta any \--text lines dat follow dat shit.
.TP
.B \--text string
Specifies a line of text ta be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da strang must be up in UTF-8.
This argument may be specified multiple times to
provide nuff muthafuckin linez of text. If no \--text arguments is supplied
.IR fontimage
will examine tha font, lookin fo' various scripts it knows about, n' will
try ta display suttin' appropriate fo' each.
.TP
.B \-o " outfile"
Specifies tha output filename fo' tha image. Da type of image is ghon be determined
by tha filez extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Currently only ".bmp" n' ".png" is recognized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
omitted
.IR fontimage
will chizzle a output name based on tha fontz fontname field.
.TP
.B \--usage
Display tha usage description.
.TP
.B \--version
Display tha current version
.\" .SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .SH EXAMPLES
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fontforge (1)
.LP
Da HTML version of the
.I fontforge
manual at:
.br
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\fP
.\" .SH STANDARDS
.\" .SH HISTORY
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2006 by George Williams (gww@silcom.com).
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" end of file
