.\" Manual page by Tomothy Harvey, subsequently modified by George Williams.
.\" Copyright © 2000-2002 by George Williams.
.\" Re-edited ta use standard -man macros by RPC Rodgers, 23 October 2002.
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH FONTFORGE 1 "2 March 2004"
.SH NAME
.B fontforge - create n' modify PostScript, TrueType n' SVG fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fontforge
.RB [ \-c
.IR strang ]
.RB [ \-cmap
.IR maptype ]
.RB [ \-depth
.IR pixeld ]
.RB [ \-display
.IR str ]
.RB [ \-lang=ff ]
.RB [ \-lang=py ]
.RB [ \-last ]
.RB [ \-library-status ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-keyboard
.IR ktype ]
.RB [ \-new ]
.RB [ \-nosplash ]
.RB [ \-recover
.IR mode ]
.RB [ \-script
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-sync ]
.RB [ \-usage ]
.RB [ \-vc
.IR vclass ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.I fontfile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da program
.I fontforge
allows you ta create n' modify font files,
acceptin input up in tha followin formats
(with associated file extensions appearin up in parentheses):
.TP
Glyph Bitmap Distribution (.bdf)
.TP
Macintosh resource fonts (.dfont, .bin, .hqx)
.TP
OpenType (.otf)
.TP
.IR fontforge " spline font database (.sfd)"
.TP
\*(Ps, which includes:
.RS
.TP
ASCII format (.pfa)
.TP
Binary format (.pfb)
.TP
CID-keyed fonts, Adobe convention used primarily fo' Asian charactas (.cid, .otf)
.TP
\*(Ps Type 0 (.ps)
.TP
\*(Ps Type 3 (.ps)
.RE
.TP
Scaleable vector graphics fonts (.svg)
.TP
TeX bitmap (.pk)
.TP
TrueType (.ttf, .ttc)
.TP
X11 bitmap (.pcf)
.LP
If tha argument list gotz nuff a gangbangin' font file name (or several),
.I fontforge
opens a
.B fontview
window fo' each font displayin tha charactaz of tha dat font.
In tha absence of options or arguments,
the program opens a gangbangin' file-picker window,
allowin you ta browse yo' disk ta find a gangbangin' font file,
or create a freshly smoked up one.
.LP
This manual page is intended only as a rudimentary overview;
see tha HTML Users Manual fo' mo' complete shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
Must be tha straight-up original gangsta argument. Executes "string" as a set of scriptin commands.
Any additionizzle arguments is ghon be passed ta tha script.
.TP
.BI \-cmap " maptype"
Employ tha specified method ta control 8-bit colormaps,
where
.I maptype
assumes one of these three joints:
.RS
.TP
.B current
Attempt ta allocate flavas up in tha current (shared) colormap.
Da program will likely not find every last muthafuckin thang it requires.
.TP
.B copy
Allocate what tha fuck can be allocated, then copy tha current colormap;
it can thus make use of cells other programs is using.
.TP
.B private
Smoke a freshly smoked up colormap n' fill it wit tha required colors.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-depth " pixeld" 
Attempt ta employ a visual dat matches tha specified pixel depth,
.IR pixeld .
.TP
.BI \-display " str" 
Employ tha X display specified by tha string
.I str
(for example: localhost:0).
.TP
.B \-help
Display tha usage description
and start a wizzy client displayin tha online documentation.
.TP
.BI \-keyboard " ktype" 
Alta tha displayed menus ta employ modifier keys appropriate
to tha specified keyboard type,
where
.I ktype
assumes one of tha followin four joints:
.RS
.TP
.B ibm
IBM PC type keyboard.
.TP
.B mac
Applez Macintosh keyboard.
.TP
.B sun
Sun workstation keyboard.
.TP
.B ppc
Macintosh keyboard yo, but on a system hustlin SuSe linux
(the mappings differ from dem used under MacOS X).
.RE
.TP
.B \-last
Opens whatever font you last edited with
.I fontforge.
If you specify
.I n
.B \-last
.I fontforge
will open tha last
.I n
fonts.
.TP
.B \-lang=ff
Interpret tha script wit tha fontforge interpreter.
.TP
.B \-lang=py
Interpret tha script wit tha python interpreter.
.TP
.B \-library-status
Prints shiznit bout optionizzle libraries.
.TP
.B \-new
Smoke a freshly smoked up font wit tha ISO 8859-1 encoding
(the internationistic encodin standard fo' westside Europe,
and tha standard fo' most X fonts).
.TP
.B \-nosplash
Suppress display of tha splash screen.
.TP
.BI \-recover " mode"
Control tha crash recovery mechanism
(helpful if crash recovery causes problems),
where
.I mode
takes on one of three allowed settings:
.RS
.TP
.B auto
perform automatic recovery (default) if tha program crashed before savin chizzles.
.TP
.B clean
Delete recovery shiznit.
.TP
.B none
Suppress crash recovery.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-script " file"
Execute tha script named
.IR file .
Do not open tha X display.
This must be tha straight-up original gangsta argument passed ta fontforge fo' realz. Any other arguments are
handled by tha scriptfile itself.
Any other command line arguments is ghon be passed ta tha script.
Da program gotz nuff a cold-ass lil command interpreta which allows access to
most but not all of its interactizzle features.
If a scriptfile is executable, n' if its first line gotz nuff
the strang "fontforge", then tha argument
.BI \-script
may be omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This means dat fontforge can be used as a interpreter.
.TP
.B \-sync
Make X synchronous.
Used primarily fo' debugging, dis option slows X down.
.TP
.B \-usage
Display tha usage description.
.TP
.B \-vc vclass 
Attempt ta bust a visual dat matches tha class,
.IR vclass ,
specified as either tha name of a visual class
or a integer enumeratin a visual class.
.TP
.B \-version
Display tha current version
(a six digit strang containin tha date stamp of tha source files).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If any of tha followin environment variablez exist,
they is used:
.TP
.B BROWSER
Specifies tha name of a funky-ass browser program fo' examinin documentation.
.TP
.B AUTOTRACE
Specifies tha location of tha autotrace program (usually FontForge can figure
this up without help yo, but not always).
.TP
.B MF
Specifies tha location of tha metafont program.
.TP
.B FONTFORGE_VERBOSE
Turns on verbose mode up in scripting. Each statement is printed as it is executed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.FontForge/autosave/
crash recovery directory
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/fontforge/*.ui
translations fo' tha user intercourse
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/doc/fontforge/*.html
optionizzle location fo' online documentation.
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/fontforge/*.cidmap
"encoding" filez fo' Adobez cid formats
from \fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/cidmaps.tgz\fP
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sfddiff (1)
.LP
Da HTML version of the
.I fontforge
manual,
available online at:
.TP
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\fP
.\" .SH STANDARDS
.\" .SH HISTORY
.SH NOTE
.BR fontforge
used ta be called
.BR pfaedit.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2000-2007 by George Williams (gww@silcom.com).
Original Gangsta manual page by Tomothy Harvey, subsequently modified by George Williams.
Heavily rewritten n' modified ta use standard
.IR \-man " (5) macros by R.P.C. Rodgers (rodgers@nlm.nih.gov), 23 October 2002."
.SH BUGS
Undoubtedly nuff yo, but unknown n' eva changing.
See
.IP
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/#known-bugs\fP
for a cold-ass lil current list.
.\" end of file
.\"
