.\" $XFree86$
.TH FONTTOSFNT 1 "fonttosfnt 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fonttosfnt \- Wrap a funky-ass bitmap font up in a sfnt (TrueType) wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fonttosfnt
[
.I options
]
.B \-o
.I file.ttf
[
.B \-\-
]
.IR font ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Wrap a funky-ass bitmap font or a set of bitmap fonts up in a sfnt (TrueType or
OpenType) wrapper.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose.
.TP 
.B \-c
Do not crop glyphs.  This probably increases file size yo, but may
sometimes yield a modest decrease up in file size fo' lil' small-ass character
cell fonts (terminal fonts).
.TP 
.B \-b
Write byte-aligned glyph data.  By default, unaligned data is written,
which yieldz a smalla file size.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not reencode fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  By default, fonts is reencoded ta Unicode
whenever possible.
.TP 
.BI \-g " n"
Set tha type of scalable glyphs dat we write.  If
.I n
is 0, no scalable glyphs is written; dis is legal but confuses
most current software.  If
.I n
is 1, a single scalable glyph (the undefined glyph) is written; this
is recommended yo, but triggers a funky-ass bug up in current versions of
.BR FreeType .
If
.I n
is 2 (the default), a sufficiently high number of blank glyphs are
written, which works with
.B FreeType
but increases file size.
.TP 
.BI \-m " n"
Set tha type of scalable metrics dat we write.  If
.I n
is 0, no scalable metrics is written, which may or may not be legal.
If
.I n
is 1, full metrics fo' a single glyph is written, n' only left
sidebearin joints is freestyled fo' tha other glyphs.  If
.I n
is 2, scalable metrics fo' all glyphs is written, which increases
file size n' aint recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is 1.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of options.
.SH BUGS
Some of tha font-level joints, notably sub- n' superscript positions,
are dummy joints.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7), Xserver(1), Xft(3x).
.I Fonts up in X11.
.SH AUTHOR
Da version of
.B Fonttosfnt
included up in dis X.Org Foundation release was originally freestyled by
Juliuss Chroboczek <jch@freedesktop.org> fo' tha XFree86 project.
