.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-PRINTJOB 1 "2001-01-06" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-printjob \- manage printa thangs up in a spooler-independent fashion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-printjob [ -s spoola ] [ -P queuename ] 
.B [ -o option1=value1 -o option2 ... ] [ -i ] 
.B [ file1 file2 ... ]

.B foomatic-printjob -Q [ -s spoola ] [ -P queuename ] [ -i ] [ -a ]
.B [ user1 user2 ... ]

.B foomatic-printjob -R [ -s spoola ] [ -P queuename ] [ -i ] 
.B [ \- | thangid1 thangid2 ... ]

.B foomatic-printjob -C [ -s spoola ] [ -i ] command [ arguments ]

.B foomatic-printjob -S [ -s spoola ] [ -i ]

.B foomatic-printjob -h [ -s spoola ] [ -P queuename ] [ -i ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-printjob
provides a spooler-independent intercourse ta bustin n' managing
printa thangs n' print queues.  Note dat tha straight-up original gangsta argument chizzles
the mode of tha command, as it combines tha functionalitizzle of several
System V-style printin commands.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-s spooler
Explicit spoola type.

.TP 10
.BI \-P queuename
Any commandz specified should apply ta dis queue instead of tha default.

.TP 10
.BI \-o option=value
Set option ta value

.TP 10
.BI \-o option
Set tha switch option

.TP 10
.BI \-# n
Print n copies

.TP 10
.BI file1\ \ file2\ \ ...
Filez ta be printed, when no file is given, standard input is ghon be printed

.TP 10
.BI \-Q
Query tha thangs up in a queue.  If a list of playas is specified, only
those users' thangs is ghon be queried.

.TP 10
.BI \-Q\ \-a
Query tha thangs up in all queues.  If a list of playas is specified, only
those users' thangs is ghon be queried.

.TP 10
.BI \-R\ [\ \-\ |\ thangid1\ thangid2\ ...\ ]
Remove a thang from a queue.  Usin \fI-\fR will remove all thangs.

.TP 10
.BI \-C\ command\ [\ arguments\ ]
Execute control commandz fo' queue/job manipulation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da commandz are
the onez of tha BSD "lpc" utility. Use tha control command "help" to
get a list of supported commands. Note: tha amount of commandz varies
with tha spoola yo, but tha same commandz given under different spoolers
do tha same thang.

.TP 10
.BI \-i
Interactizzle mode: Yo ass is ghon be axed if foomatic-printjob is up in doubt
about something. Otherwise foomatic-printjob uses auto-detection or
quits wit a error.

.TP 10
.BI \-S
Save tha chosen spoola as tha default spooler

.TP 10
.BI \-h
Show dis message or show a list of available options if a queue is specified

.SH SEE ALSO
foomatic-configure(1) n' tha documentation fo' yo' print spooler.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> n' Chris
Lawrence <\fIlawrencc@debian.org\fR> fo' tha foomatic project using
output from tha associated binary.

.SH BUGS
This manpage still needz some editing.
