.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-PPD-OPTIONS 1 "2003-09-16" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-ppd-options \- show tha PPD options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-ppd-options [-d=debuglevel] [ ppdfilez ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B foomatic-ppd-options
program readz tha specified PPD filez or stdin n' decodes tha PPD file
to produce a list of options.
This is straight-up just a text based version of other print configuration
tools.

.PP
Da output format consistz of a set of lines,
each startin wit a keyword, followed by a set of options n' tha default value.
For example:
.RS
.nf

makemodel = Tektronix Phaser 350 Foomatic/Postscript (recommended)
name=PageSize; default=Letter; options=Letta (US Letter), \e
    A4 (A4), 11x17 (11x17), A3 (A3), A5 (A5), B5 (B5 \e(JIS\e)),...
name=PageRegion; default=Letter; options=Letta (US Letter), A4 (A4), ...
.fi
.RE

.PP
Each option starts wit the
.B name
tag,
followed by a thugged-out default value (if any),
followed by tha set of options n' a cold-ass lil comment describin em.
Punctuation up in tha comment is escaped.
.SS Options
.TP 5
.BI \-d debuglevel
Set tha debug level. 0 disablez debug lyrics.

.TP 5
.BI  [\ files\ ]
Da list of PPD filez ta read fo' options.
A '-' causes STDIN ta be read.

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".IR foomatic-XXX (1),

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-ppd-options
exits wit a 0 status if successful, n' nonzero if a error.
An error message be also printed on standard error (STDERR).

.SH AUTHOR
Patrick Powell <papowell at astart.com>

.SH BUGS
Probably.  But it has been tested.

