.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-PPDFILE 1 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-ppdfile \- Generate a PPD file fo' a given printer/driver combo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-ppdfile [-w] [\-d <driver>] \-p <printerid>
.br
.B foomatic-ppdfile [-A] [-P pattern]
.br
.B foomatic-ppdfile -h

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da first form of the
.B foomatic-ppdfile
to compute tha spooler-independent Foomatic PPD file fo' any valid
printer/driver combo available up in tha Foomatic database, both for
printin wit \fBfoomatic-rip(1)\fR n' fo' applications/clients being
able ta access tha printerz options.  Da PPD file is returned on
standard ouput.
If tha driver aint specified, tha default driver is used.

.PP
Da second form of the
.B foomatic-ppdfile
program will search tha printa database n' return either all
printa entries or dem whose name and/or model shiznit
match a regular expression.

.PP
Da last form prints a help message n' exits.

.SS Options
.TP 5
.BI \-d " drivername"
Da (optional) driver name ta use.
If tha driver name aint supplied, tha default or first driver up in tha printers
compatible driver list is used.

.TP 5
.BI \-p
printa id
Da printa id.

.TP 5
.B \-w
Return a PPD file dat conforms ta tha Microsizzlez Windows format
limitations.

.TP 5
.B \-A
Return all printa entries up in tha database.

.TP 5
.BI \-P pattern
Return all printa entries up in tha database which match
the regular expression.


.TP 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR foomatic-rip (1)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-ppdfile
returns 0 on success, 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin output from tha associated binary.

Modified n' updated by Patrick Powell <\fIpapowell at astart.com\fF>.

.SH BUGS
None so far.

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic

