.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-COMPILEDB 1 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-compiledb \- Compile tha Foomatic printer/driver database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI foomatic-compiledb \ \fB[ \ \-t \ \fItype\fB \ \fB] \ \fB[ \ \fB\-f \ \fB]\ \fB[ \ \fB\-j \ \fIn\fB \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \ \fIdriver\fB \ \fB...\ \ \fB]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-compiledb
generates all PPD filez or Foomatic combo XML filez fo' all possible
printer/driver combos, or only fo' a selected range of drivers.  It
generally should not be necessary except fo' playas whoz ass want to
generate a set of Foomatic data filez fo' distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For
configurin single printas \fBfoomatic-ppdfile(1)\fR n' especially
\fBfoomatic-configure(1)\fR will automagically compute just what tha fuck they
need.

.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI \-t \ type
Output file type, either ppd or xml.

.TP 10
.BI \-f
Force: Write tha fuck into tha destination directory even if it already exists.

.TP 10
.BI \-j \ n
n = number of work processes ta run

.TP 10
.I driver ...  
only generate data filez fo' these driver(s)

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR foomatic-ppdfile (1), foomatic-configure (1)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-compiledb
returns 0 unless suttin' unexpected happens.

.SH AUTHORS
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> n' Till Kamppeter
<\fItill.kamppeter@gmx.net\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin output from tha associated binary.

.SH BUGS
Existin filez is always conserved instead of olda filez being
overwritten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So deletin tha destination directory (rm \-rf dir) and
callin foomatic-compiledb without tha \-f option is recommended.

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic

