.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-CONFIGURE 1 "2002-01-06" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-configure \- tha main configuration program of tha foomatic
printin system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-configure
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-n \ queuename \ [\ \-N \ description \ ] \ [\ \-L \ location \ ] \ [\ \-c \ connect \ ] \ [\ \-d \ driver \ ] \ [\ \-p \ printa \ ] \ [\ \--ppd \ ppdfile \ ] \ [\ \-s \ spoola \ ] \ \fB[\ \fB\-C \ \fB[\ \fIsourcespooler\fB\ \fB]\ \fIsourcequeue\fB \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \fB\-o \ \fIoption1\fB=\fIvalue1\fB \ \fB\-o \ \fIoption2\fB \ \fB...\ \fB]\ \fB[\ \fB\-q\ \fB]\

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-D\ \-n \ queuename \ [\ \-s \ spoola \ ]\ [\ \-q\ ]

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-R\ \-n \ queuename \ [\ \-s \ spoola \ ]\ [\ \-q\ ]

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-Q\ \ [\ \-s \ spoola \ ]\ [\ \-n \ queuename \ ]\ [\ \-r\ ]

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-P\ \ [\ \-s \ spoola \ ]\ [\ \-n \ queuename \ ] \ \fB[\ \fB\-d \ \fIdriver \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \fB\-p \ \fIprinta \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \fB\--ppd \ \fIppdfile \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \fIindex \ \fB]

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-X\ \-p \ printa \ |\ \-d \ driver \ |
.BI \-p \ printa \ \-d \ driver

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-O

.BI foomatic-configure\ \-h

.BI foomatic-configure\ \--help

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-configure 
is a program ta set up n' configure print queues fo' every last muthafuckin known
spoola (CUPS, LPRng, LPD, GNUlpr, PPR, PDQ. CPS, no spooler) and
every valid printer/driver combo up in tha Foomatic database or every last muthafuckin PPD
file comin wit PostScript printas fo' realz. As RIP filta (Rasta Image
Processor, translation from PostScript ta tha natizzle language of the
printer) always \fBfoomatic-rip(1)\fR is ghon be used, except fo' PPD
filez of PostScript printas under CUPS or PPR, they is ghon be used
without RIP filter.

It also comprises half of a programatic API fo' user tools: you can
learn n' control every last muthafuckin thang bout tha static propertizzlez of print
queues here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. With tha sista program \fBfoomatic-printjob(1)\fR, you
can do every last muthafuckin thang related ta tha print queuez dynamic state: submit
jobs, n' query, cancel, reorder, n' redirect em.

.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI \-n \ queuename
Configure dis print queue
.TP 10
.BI \-N \ Name/Description
Use dis proper human-readable name/description
.TP 10
.BI \-L \ Location
Short phrase describin dis printerz location
.TP 10
.BI \-c \ connection
Printa is connected thusly (ex file:/dev/lp0)
.TP 10
.BI \-d \ driver
Foomatic database name fo' desired printa driver
.TP 10
.BI \-p \ printer
Foomatic id fo' printer
.TP 10
.BI \--ppd \ ppdfile
PPD file, fo' example tha one supplied by tha manufacturer of a PostScript printer
.TP 10
.BI \-s \ spooler
Explicit spoola type (cups, lpd, lprng, pdq, ppr, direct)
.TP 10
.BI \-o \ option=value
Set tha default of option ta value
.TP 10
.BI \-o \ option
Turn on option by default
.TP 10
.BI \-D
Set dis queue as tha default queue (just give \fB\-n\fP \fIqueuename\fP)
.TP 10
.BI \-R
Remove dis whole queue entirely (just give \fB\-n\fP \fIqueuename\fP)
.TP 10
.BI \-C \ [ \ sourcespoola \ ] \ sourcequeue
Copy sourcequeue from sourcespoola (or tha current one if sourcespoola aint given) tha fuck into tha queue given by \fB\-n\fP \fIqueuename\fP (of tha current spooler).
.TP 10
.BI \-Q
Query existin configuration (gives XML summary)
.TP 10
.BI \-r
List also remotely defined queues (CUPS only)
.TP 10
.BI \-P \ [ \ index \ ]
Git Perl dump of current configuration (as a Perl array named QUEUES, tha straight-up original gangsta index is index, or zero if index aint given)
.TP 10
.BI \-O
Print XML Overview of all known printer/drivers (this shows also tha Foomatic IDz of tha printers)
.TP 10
.BI \-X
Print XML data fo' \fB\-p\fP \fIprinter\fP and/or \fB\-d\fP \fIdriver\fP object
.TP 10
.BI \-q
Run on tha fuckin' down-lowly


.SS Commands
No commands, just options

.\".SH FILES
.\".TP 25
.\"/etc/foomatic/lpd/<queue>
.\".TP 25
.\"/etc/foomatic/<queue>.xml
.\".TP 25
.\"/etc/printcap
.\"Da systems list of configured printers.
.\".PD 0

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR foomatic-printjob (1), \ foomatic-rip (1)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-configure
returns 0 if no errors occurred.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin comments from tha source.

.SH BUGS
\fBfoomatic-configure\fR currently cannot handle printcap filez up in the
\fBlprng\fR style.  As \fBlprng\fR can use BSD steez printcaps dis is
not much of a problem, as long as tha GUI based print manager
\fBlprngtool\fR aint used.
Da difference between dem formats is, dat BSD steez requires
continuation lines up in printa definitions ta be ended wit a cold-ass lil colon and
the newline characta ta be escaped wit a funky-ass backslash.  \fBLprng\fR has
no such restriction.

To bust a printcap file generated or edited wit \fBlprngtool\fR with
\fBfoomatic-configure\fR it is necessary ta add \fB:\\\fR ta tha end
of all but tha last line of every last muthafuckin printa definition, just as shown
below:
.nf
.sp
.ft CW
#comment
# primary printa name
lp
#alternate names
 |lp2|lp3
 |Example of a printer
 :sd=/usr/spool/LPD/lp
 :rw:lp=/dev/lp:mx#100
 :
.sp
.fi
.LP
must be converted to:
.nf
.sp
.ft CW
#comment
# primary printa name
lp\\
 |lp2|lp3\\
 |Example of a printer\\
 :sd=/usr/spool/LPD/lp:\\
 :rw:lp=/dev/lp:mx#100:
.sp
.fi
.LP
This manpage may be outta date.
