.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.

.hy 0
.TH FOOMATIC-RIP 1 "2002-11-26" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-rip \- Universal print filter/RIP wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS

.SS \fRGeneral Options:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB[-v]\ [-q]\fP \fI\ <spooler-specific\ options>

.SS \fRSpooler-less printing/CPS (olda versions) filter:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB[\fB-P\fR \ \fI<printer>\fR \ 
| \ \fB--ppd\fR \ \fI<ppdfile>\fR \fB]\fR \ [\fB-J\fR\ \fI<jobtitle>\fR ]
[\fB-o\fR \ \fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR \ [...]] \ \fB[\fI<files>\fB]\fR

.SS \fRCUPS filter:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fI<jobid>\fR \ \fI<user>\fR \ \fI<jobtitle>\fR \ \fI<numcopies>\fR \ \fI<options>\fR \ \fB[\fI<file>\fB]\fR 

.SS \fRLPRng filter:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ --lprng\  \fB[\fB-J\fI<jobtitle>\fB]\fR   \fB[\fB-Z\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[,\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[, \ \fB...]]\fR \ \fI<ppdfile>\fR
.br

.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \ \fB[\fB-J\fI<jobtitle>\fB]\fR   \fB[\fB-Z\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[,\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[, \ \fB...]]\fR
.br
(printcap :pdd=<ppdfile>)

.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB--ppd\fR \ \fI<ppdfile>\fR   \fB[\fB-J\fI<jobtitle>\fB]\fR \ \fB[\fB-Z\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[,\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fB[, \ \fB...]]\fR

.SS \fRLPD/GNUlpr filter:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB[\fB-w\fR\ \fI<number>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-l\fR\ \fI<number>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-x\fR\ \fI<number>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-y\fR\ \fI<number>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-i\fR\ \fI<number>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-c\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-n\fR\ \fI<string>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-h\fR\ \fI<string>\fB]\fR\ \fB[\fB-j|-J\fR\ \fI<jobtitle>\fB|\fI<options>\fB]\fR\ \fI<ppdfile>\fR

.SS \fRPPR RIP:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB[\fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR \ [...]]

.SS \fRPPR intercourse:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fI<queue>\fR \ \fI<destaddress>\fR \ \fI<options>\fR \ \fI<jobbreak>\fR \ \fI<feedback>\fR \ \fI<codes>\fR \ \fI<jobname>\fR \ \fI<routing>\fR \ \fI<for>\fR \ \fI<filetype>\fR \ \fB[\fI<file>\fB]\fR 

.SS \fRPDQ driver file generation:
.BI foomatic-rip\ \fB[\fB--ppd\fR \ \fI<ppdfile>\fB]\fR \ [\fB-o\fR \ \fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR \ [...]] \ \fB--genpdq|--appendpdq|--genrawpdq|--appendrawpdq\fR

.SS \fRPDQ filter:
.BI foomatic-rip\ \fB--pdq\fR\ \fB--ppd\fR \ \fI<ppdfile>\fR \fB]\fR \ [\fB-o\fR \ \fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR \ [...]] \ \fI<file>\fR

.SS \fRCPS (newer versions) filter:
.BI \fBfoomatic-rip\fR\ \fB--cps\fR\ \fB-P\fR \ \fI<printer>\fR \ [\fB-J\fR\ \fI<jobtitle>\fR ] \ [\fB-o\fR \ \fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR \ [...]] \ \fB[\fI<files>\fB]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
foomatic-rip be a universal print filta which works wit every last muthafuckin known free
software printa spoola n' shit. Well shiiiit, it has tha followin features:

.Topic 
It translates PostScript n' PDF (and also other file formats) from standard
input ta tha printerz natizzle language (usually put ta standard
output).

.Topic
Da translation is done wit a external renderer, probably Ghostscript
(\fBgs(1)\fR). If no translation is needed (PostScript printer) the
rendererz command line reduces ta \fBcat(1)\fR. Da way how tha fuck this
translation is done is busted lyrics bout up in a \fBPPD file\fR.

.Topic
Printa capabilities, how tha fuck ta handle user options, n' how tha fuck ta build the
renderer command line be always busted lyrics bout by \fBPPD files\fR, these
PPD filez probably come from \fBFoomatic\fR or can be tha ones supplied by
the manufacturerz of PostScript printers. Da PPD filez is tha same
for all spoolers.

.Topic
foomatic-rip works wit every last muthafuckin known spoola (\fBCUPS\fR, \fBLPRng\fR,
\fBLPD\fR, \fBGNUlpr\fR, \fBPPR\fR, \fBPDQ\fR, \fBCPS\fR, and
\fBwithout spooler\fR). Well shiiiit, it auto-detects tha spoola from which it was
called by tha command line options n' environment variablez which
were supplied by tha spooler.

.Topic
Non-PostScript/PDF filez is translated ta PostScript before they are
passed ta tha renderer n' shit. This is probably done by \fBa2ps(1)\fR,
\fBenscript(1)\fR, or \fBmpage(1)\fR. foomatic-rip auto-detects which
program is installed yo, but manual configuration be also possible.

.Topic
foomatic-rip do not only apply option settings supplied by tha user
all up in tha command line of tha printin command yo, but also searches
the entire thang fo' embedded option settings (only PostScript
jobs) yo. Here not only settings which affect tha whole thang is taken into
account yo, but also settings up in tha page headers, which is only valid
for tha page where they was found, so applications which produce
PostScript code wit page-specific printa option settings is fully
supported.

.SH SPOOLER-LESS PRINTING

.SS Options

.TP 10
.B \-v
\fRverbose mode fo' debugging.
.B WARNING:
This will create a gangbangin' file up in /tmp dat gotz nuff tha debuggin shiznit.
This opens a securitizzle loophole n' should not be used up in thang.

.TP 10
.B \-q
\fRquiet mode - minimal shiznit output

.TP 10
.BI \-P \ <printer>
\fI<printer>\fR is tha configured printa which should be used fo' dis thang.

.TP 10
.BI \--ppd \ <ppdfile>
Da PPD file \fI<ppdfile>\fR should be applied fo' processin dis thang.
.TP 10
.BI \-J \ <jobtitle>
Da \fI<jobtitle>\fR is ghon be printed up in tha head line of every last muthafuckin page of
a plain text thang.
.TP 10
.BI \-o \ \fI<option>\fB=\fI<value>\fR
Option settings fo' dis thang, do 

.B foomatic-rip -P \fI<printer>\fR \fB-o docs \fI<file>\fR 

(\fI<file>\fR can be a arbitrary existin file, as \fB.bashrc\fR,
will not be printed) ta print a list of available options fo' the
specified \fI<printer>\fR.
.TP 10
.BI \fI<files>\fR
Da file(s) ta be printed.

.P
\fBfoomatic-rip\fR will print from standard input unless at least one file to
be printed is specified on tha command line.
If yo' printa PPD file is stored as \fI/etc/direct/<printer>.ppd\fR
or \fI~/.foomatic/direct/<printer>.ppd\fR you can use it by simply specifyin "-P \fI<printer>\fR".

Put a line

\fB*FoomaticRIPPostPipe: "| \fI<command>\fB"\fR
.hy 0

into tha PPD file, right afta \fB*PPD-Adobe: "4.3"\fR, where
\fI<command>\fR be a cold-ass lil command tha fuck into which you wanna re-direct the
output data. Cuz of tha restrictionz of PPD filez \fB<\fR, \fB>\fR, and
\fB"\fR is not allowed up in tha \fI<command>\fR, replace dem as
bigs up:

.CodeSkip
.nf
.B Character	Replacement
.B ---------------------
.B		<	&lt;
.B		>	&gt;
.B		"	&quot;
.B		'	&apos;
.B		&	&amp;
.fi

This way you can print directly ta yo' printer, use

\fB*FoomaticRIPPostPipe: "| pussaaaaay &gt; /dev/lp0"\fR

or

\fB*FoomaticRIPPostPipe: "| pussaaaaay &gt; /dev/usb/lp0"\fR

for local parallel or STD printers. To make aiiight playas able ta print
this way add dem ta tha crew \fBlp\fR n' make shizzle dat the
appropriate printa thang file \fI/dev/...\fR is group-writable for
the \fBlp\fR group.

for a TCP/Socket/JetDirect printa wit tha host name \fBprinter\fR
listenin on port \fB9100\fR you need this:

\fB*FoomaticRIPPostPipe: "| /usr/bin/nc -w 1 printa 9100"\fR

Note tha "-w 1" up in tha "nc" command line, it make "nc" exiting
immediately afta tha data is transferred ta tha printer.

\fB*FoomaticRIPPostPipe: "| rlpr -Plp@printserver"\fR

directs yo' thangs ta tha LPD printa queue \fBlp\fR on tha machine
named \fBprintserver\fR.

See also http://www.openprinting.org/direct-doc.html

.SH "PRINTING WITH SPOOLER"

See tha documentation on tha OpenPrintin Web crib:
.ft CW
http://www.openprinting.org/
\fR

.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"

Da file \fB/etc/foomatic/filter.conf\fR is read whenever
foomatic-rip is executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Well shiiiit, it allows ta configure tha behavior of
foomatic-rip as bigs up (lines beginnin wit \fB#\fR is comments and
therefore git ignored):

.TP 10
.BI textfilter: \ <command>
\fRSelects tha filta fo' input filez which is not PostScript or PDF.
\fI<command>\fR is one of \fBa2ps\fR, \fBenscript\fR, or \fBmpage\fR.
foomatic-rip automatically selects tha needed command line options.

.TP 10
.B debug: 0|1
\fRTurns on (\fB1\fR) or off (\fB0\fR) tha debug mode. This is equivalent to
supplyin tha \fB--debug\fR command line option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default settin is \fB0\fR.

.TP 10
.B ps_accounting: 0|1
\fRTurns on (\fB1\fR) or off (\fB0\fR) insertin PostScript code fo' page
accountin tha fuck into PostScript thangs. Da banged PostScript code makes
Ghostscript generatin accountin output on stderr n' CUPS can dis way
log each page which gots printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da code will only be banged if CUPS
is tha spoola n' shit. Default settin is \fB1\fR.

.TP 10
.BI echo: \ [<path>/]<executable>
\fRSets tha path ta a \fBecho(1)\fR executable which supports \fB-n\fR.

.TP 10
.BI gspath: \ [<path>/]<executable>
\fRSets tha path ta tha Ghostscript (\fBgs(1)\fR) executable. To be used if
Ghostscript be at a non-standard location or if a alternatizzle Ghostscript
should be used.

.TP 10
.BI execpath: \ <path>[:<path>]...
\fRSets tha \fB$PATH\fR variable ta be used by foomatic-rip.

.TP 10
.BI cupsfilterpath: \ <path>[:<path>]...
\fRSets tha directories (colon-separated) up in which foomatic-rip searches for
CUPS filters.

.TP 10
.BI preferred_shell: \ [<path>/]<executable>
\fRSets tha preferred shell ta use when executin FoomaticRIPCommandLine and
friends. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Several PPD filez use shell constructs dat require a more
modern shell like \fBbash\fR, \fBzsh\fR, or \fBksh\fR.


.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 0
/etc/cups/ppd/<printer>.ppd
.TP 0
/etc/lpd/<printer>.ppd
.TP 0
/etc/ppr/<printer>.ppd
.TP 0
/etc/pdq/<printer>.ppd
.TP 8
/etc/direct/<printer>.ppd

Da PPD filez of tha currently defined printers

.TP 8
/etc/foomatic/filter.conf

Configuration file fo' foomatic-rip

.PD 0

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".IR foomatic-XXX (1),

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-rip
returns 0 unless suttin' unexpected happens.

.SH AUTHOR
Till Kamppeta <\fItill.kamppeter@gmail.com\fR> wit partz of Manfred
Wassmannss <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> playa pages fo' the
Foomatic 2.0.x filters.

.SH BUGS
None so far.

Please bust bug reports ta tha Foomatic mailin list:

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic
