.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.\"  This page Copyright (C) 1993 Mack Welsh, mdw@sunsite.unc.edu.
.\"  Long options where added at April 15th, 2011.
.\"  Freely distributable under tha termz of tha GPL
.TH FREE 1 "September 2011" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
free \- Display amount of free n' used memory up in tha system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B free
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B free
displays tha total amount of free n' used physical n' swap memory up in the
system, as well as tha buffers used by tha kernel.
Da shared memory column represents either tha MemShared value (2.4 series
kernels) or tha Shmem value (2.6 series kernels n' later) taken from the
/proc/meminfo file. Da value is zero if none of tha entries is exported
by tha kernel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fR
Display tha amount of memory up in bytes.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kilo\fR
Display tha amount of memory up in kilobytes.  This is tha default.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mega\fR
Display tha amount of memory up in megabytes.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-giga\fR
Display tha amount of memory up in gigabytes.
.TP
\fB\-\-tera\fR
Display tha amount of memory up in terabytes.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-human\fP
Show all output fieldz automatically scaled ta shortest three digit unit and
display tha unitz of print out.  Peepin units is used.
.sp
.nf
  B = bytes
  K = kilos
  M = megas
  G = gigas
  T = teras
.fi
.sp
If unit is missing, n' you have petabyte of RAM or swap, tha number is in
terabytes n' columns might not be aligned wit header.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR \fIcount\fR
Display tha result
.I count
times.  Requires the
.B \-s
option.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lohi\fR
Show detailed low n' high memory statistics.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-old\fR
Display tha output up in oldschool format, tha only difference bein dis option
will disable tha display of tha "buffer adjusted" line.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-seconds\fR \fIseconds\fR
Continuously display tha result delay
.I seconds
apart.  Yo ass may straight-up specify any floatin point number for
.IR delay ,
.BR usleep (3)
is used fo' microsecond resolution delay times.
.TP
\fB\-\-si\fR
Use juice of 1000 not 1024.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-total\fR
Display a line showin tha column totals.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print help.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit.
.PD
.SH FILES
.TP
/proc/meminfo
memory shiznit
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR slabtop (1),
.BR top "(1),
.BR vmstat (8).
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Brian Edmonds.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
