.\"  Copyright (c) 1990-2009 Info-ZIP.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  See tha accompanyin file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-02 or later
.\"  (the contentz of which is also included up in unzip.h) fo' termz of use.
.\"  If, fo' some reason, all these filez is missing, tha Info-ZIP license
.\"  also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\"
.\" funzip.1 by Greg Roelofs n' others.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" define .EX/.EE (for multiline user-command examples; aiiight Courier font)
.de EX
.in +4n
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft R
.fi
.in -4n
..
.\" =========================================================================
.TH FUNZIP 1L "20 April 2009 (v3.95)" "Info-ZIP"
.SH NAME
funzip \- filta fo' extractin from a ZIP archive up in a pipe
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfunzip\fP [\fB\-password\fP] [\fIinput[.zip|.gz]\fP]
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP [\fI\-password\fP]
Optionizzle password ta be used if ZIP archive is encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Decryption
may not be supported at some cribs.  See DESCRIPTION fo' mo' details.
.IP [\fIinput[.zip|.gz]\fP]
Optionizzle input archive file justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See DESCRIPTION fo' details.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I funzip
without a gangbangin' file argument acts as a gangbangin' filter; dat is, it assumes dat a
ZIP archive (or a \fIgzip\fP'd(1) file) is bein piped into
standard input, n' it extracts tha straight-up original gangsta member from tha archive ta stdout.
When stdin be reppin a tty device,
.I funzip
assumes dat dis cannot be a stream of (binary) compressed data and
shows a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text, instead.
If there be a gangbangin' file argument, then input is read from tha specified file
instead of from stdin.
.PP
A password fo' encrypted zip filez can be specified
on tha command line (precedin tha file name, if any) by prefixin the
password wit a thugged-out dash.  Note dat dis constitutes a securitizzle risk on many
systems; currently hustlin processes is often visible via simple commands
(e.g., \fIps\fP(1) under Unix), n' command-line histories can be read.
If tha straight-up original gangsta entry of tha zip file is encrypted and
no password is specified on tha command line, then tha user is prompted for
a password n' tha password aint echoed on tha console.
.PP
Given tha limitation on single-member extraction, \fIfunzip\fP is most
useful up in conjunction wit a secondary archiver program like fuckin \fItar\fP(1).
Da followin section includes a example illustratin dis usage up in the
case of disk backups ta tape.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
To use \fIfunzip\fP ta extract tha straight-up original gangsta member file of tha archive test.zip
and ta pipe it tha fuck into \fImore\fP(1):
.PP
.EX
funzip test.zip | more
.EE
.PP
To use \fIfunzip\fP ta test tha straight-up original gangsta member file of test.zip (any errors
will be reported on standard error):
.PP
.EX
funzip test.zip > /dev/null
.EE
.PP
To use \fIzip\fP n' \fIfunzip\fP up in place of \fIcompress\fP(1) and
\fIzcat\fP(1) (or \fIgzip\fP(1L) n' \fIgzcat\fP(1L)) fo' tape backups:
.PP
.EX
tar cf \- . | zip \-7 | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=8k
dd if=/dev/nrst0 ibs=8k | funzip | tar xf \-
.EE
.PP
(where, fo' example, nrst0 be a SCSI tape drive).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH BUGS
When pipin a encrypted file tha fuck into \fImore\fP n' allowin \fIfunzip\fP
to prompt fo' password, tha terminal may sometimes be reset ta a non-echo
mode.  This be apparently cuz of a race condizzle between tha two programs;
\fIfunzip\fP chizzlez tha terminal mode ta non-echo before \fImore\fP reads
its state, n' \fImore\fP then ``restores'' tha terminal ta dis mode before
exiting.  To recover, run \fIfunzip\fP on tha same file but redirect to
/dev/null rather than pipin tha fuck into more; afta promptin again n' again n' again fo' the
password, \fIfunzip\fP will reset tha terminal properly.
.PP
There is presently no way ta extract any member but tha straight-up original gangsta from a ZIP
archive.  This would be useful up in tha case where a ZIP archive is included
within another archive.  In tha case where tha straight-up original gangsta member be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory,
\fIfunzip\fP simply creates tha directory n' exits.
.PP
Da functionalitizzle of \fIfunzip\fP should be incorporated tha fuck into \fIunzip\fP
itself (future release).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIgzip\fP(1L), \fIunzip\fP(1L), \fIunzipsfx\fP(1L), \fIzip\fP(1L),
\fIzipcloak\fP(1L), \fIzipinfo\fP(1L), \fIzipnote\fP(1L), \fIzipsplit\fP(1L)
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH URL
Da Info-ZIP home page is currently at
.EX
\fChttp://www.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR
.EE
or
.EX
\fCftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR .
.EE
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Adla (Info-ZIP)
