.TH GEDIT 1 "17 May 2010"
.SH NAME
\fBgedit\fP \- text editor fo' tha GNOME Desktop

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B gedit
[\fIOPTION\fR...] [\fIFILE\fR...] [+\fILINE\fR[:\fICOLUMN\fR]]
.br
.B gedit
[\fIOPTION\fR...] -

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gedit
is tha straight-up legit text editor of tha GNOME desktop environment.

While aimin at simplicitizzle n' ease of use,
.B gedit
is a bangin general purpose text editor.
It can be used ta create n' edit all kindz of text files.

.B gedit
features a gangbangin' flexible plugin system which can be used ta dynamically add 
new advanced features to
.B gedit
itself.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
        
.TP
\fB\-\-encoding\fR
Set tha characta encodin ta be used fo' openin tha filez listed on tha command line.
.TP
\fB\-g, \-\-geometry=GEOMETRY\fR
Set tha X geometry window size (WIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y).
.TP
\fB\-\-list-encodings\fR
Display list of possible joints fo' tha encodin option n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-window\fR
Smoke a freshly smoked up toplevel window up in a existin instizzle of
.B gedit.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-document\fR
Smoke a freshly smoked up document up in a existin instizzle of
.B gedit.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-standalone\fR
Run
.B gedit
in standalone mode.
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-wait\fR
Open filez n' block the
.B gedit
process.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Prints tha command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fBFILE\fR
Specifies tha file ta open when
.B gedit
starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If dis aint specified,
.B gedit
will load a funky-ass blank file wit a "Unsaved Document" label. Multiple filez can be loaded if they are
separated by spaces.
.B gedit
also supports handlin of remote files. For example, you can pass tha location
of a webpage to
.B gedit
, like "http://www.gnome.org", or load a gangbangin' file from a FTP server,
like "ftp://ftp.gnome.org/robots.txt".
.TP
\fB-\fR
.B gedit will read from stdin
.TP
\fB+LINE\fR
For tha straight-up original gangsta file, git all up in tha line specified by LINE (do not bang a space between tha "+" sign n' tha number).
If LINE is missing, git all up in tha last line.
.TP
\fBCOLUMN\fR
For tha straight-up original gangsta file, git all up in tha column specified by COLUMN.
If COLUMN is missing, git all up in tha straight-up original gangsta column.

.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=gedit.
.SH AUTHORS
Paolo Maggi (paolo@gnome.org)
.TP
Paolo Borelli (pborelli@katamail.com)
.TP
Steve Frécinaux (code@istique.net)
.TP
Jizzy van den Kieboom (jessevdk@gnome.org)
.TP
Ignacio Casal Quinteiro <icq@gnome.org>
.TP
Jizzy Willcox (jwillcox@gnome.org)
.TP
Federico Mena Quintero (federico@novell.com)
.TP
Chema Celorio

