.TH GENDIFF 1 "Mon Jan 10 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
gendiff \- utilitizzle ta aid up in error-free diff file generation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgendiff\fR <directory> <diff-extension>
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgendiff\fR be a rather simple script which aidz up in generatin a
diff file from a single directory.  It takes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory name n' a
"diff-extension" as its only arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da diff extension should be
a unique sequence of charactas added ta tha end of all original,
unmodified files.  Da output of tha program be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diff file which may
be applied wit tha \fBpatch\fR program ta recreate tha chizzles.
.PP
Da usual sequence of events fo' bustin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diff is ta create two
identical directories, make chizzlez up in one directory, n' then use the
\fBdiff\fR utilitizzle ta create a list of differences between tha two.
Usin gendiff eliminates tha need fo' tha extra, original gangsta and
unmodified directory copy.  Instead, only tha individual filez that
are modified need ta be saved.
.PP
Before editin a gangbangin' file, copy tha file, appendin tha extension you have chosen
to tha filename.  I.e. if you was goin ta edit somefile.cpp n' have chosen
the extension "fix", copy it ta somefile.cpp.fix before editin dat shit.
Then edit tha straight-up original gangsta copy (somefile.cpp).
.PP
Afta editin all tha filez you need ta edit up in dis fashion, enta the
directory one level above where yo' source code resides, n' then type
.sp
.nf
    $ gendiff somedirectory .fix > mydiff-fix.patch
.fi
.PP
Yo ass should redirect tha output ta a gangbangin' file (as illustrated) unless you want to
see tha thangs up in dis biatch on stdout.

.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR diff (1),
.BR patch (1)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marc Ewin <marc@redhat.com>
.fi
