.TH genhtml 1 "LCOV 1.10" 2012\-10\-10 "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
genhtml \- Generate HTML view from LCOV coverage data files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genhtml
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.RS 8
.br
.RB [ \-q | \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-show\-details ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-frames ]
.br
.RB [ \-b | \-\-baseline\-file  ]
.IR baseline\-file
.br
.RB [ \-o | \-\-output\-directory
.IR output\-directory ]
.br
.RB [ \-t | \-\-title
.IR title ]
.br
.RB [ \-d | \-\-description\-file
.IR description\-file ]
.br
.RB [ \-k | \-\-keep\-descriptions ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-css\-file
.IR css\-file ]
.br
.RB [ \-p | \-\-prefix
.IR prefix ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-prefix ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-no\-source ]
.RB [ \-\-num\-spaces
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-\-highlight ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-legend ]
.RB [ \-\-html\-prolog
.IR prolog\-file ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-html\-epilog
.IR epilog\-file ]
.RB [ \-\-html\-extension
.IR extension ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-html\-gzip ]
.RB [ \-\-sort ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-sort ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-function\-coverage ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-function\-coverage ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-branch\-coverage ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-branch\-coverage ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-demangle\-cpp ]
.RB [ \-\-ignore\-errors
.IR errors  ]
.br
.RB [ \-\-config\-file
.IR config\-file ]
.RB [ \-\-rc
.IR keyword = value ]
.br
.IR tracefile(s)
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Smoke a HTML view of coverage data found in
.IR tracefile .
Note that
.I tracefile
may also be a list of filenames.

HTML output filez is pimped up in tha current hustlin directory unless the
\-\-output\-directory option is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I tracefile
endz wit ".gz", it be assumed ta be GZIP\-compressed n' tha gunzip tool
will be used ta decompress it transparently.

Note dat all source code filez gotta be present n' readable at the
exact file system location they was compiled.

Use option
.I \--css\-file
to modify layout n' flavaz of tha generated HTML output. Filez are
marked up in different flavas dependin on tha associated coverage rate. By
default, tha coverage limits fo' low, medium n' high coverage is set to
0\-75%, 75\-90% n' 90\-100% cement respectively. To chizzle these
values, use configuration file options
.IR genhtml_hi_limit " n' " genhtml_med_limit .

Also note dat when displayin cementages, 0% n' 100% is only printed when
the joints is exactly 0% n' 100% respectively. Other joints which would
conventionally be rounded ta 0% or 100% is instead printed as nearest
non-boundary value. This behavior is up in accordizzle wit dat of the
.BR gcov (1)
tool.

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-h
.br
.B \-\-help
.RS
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text, then exit.

.RE
.B \-v
.br
.B \-\-version
.RS
Print version number, then exit.

.RE
.B \-q
.br
.B \-\-quiet
.RS
Do not print progress lyrics.

Suppresses all shiznital progress output. When dis switch is enabled,
only error or warnin lyrics is printed.

.RE
.B \-f
.br
.B \-\-frames
.RS
Use HTML frames fo' source code view.

If enabled, a gangbangin' frameset is pimped fo' each source code file, providing
an overview of tha source code as a "clickable" image. Note dat this
option will slow down output creation noticeably cuz each source
code characta has ta be inspected once. Note also dat tha GD.pm Perl
module has ta be installed fo' dis option ta work (it may be obtained
from http://www.cpan.org).

.RE
.B \-s
.br
.B \-\-show\-details
.RS
Generate detailed directory view.

When dis option is enabled,
.B genhtml
generates two versionz of each
file view. One containin tha standard shiznit plus a link ta a
"detailed" version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da latta additionally gotz nuff shiznit about
which test case covered how tha fuck nuff linez of each source file.

.RE
.BI "\-b " baseline\-file
.br
.BI "\-\-baseline\-file " baseline\-file
.RS
Use data in
.I baseline\-file
as coverage baseline.

Da tracefile specified by
.I baseline\-file
is read n' all counts found up in tha original
.I tracefile
are decremented by tha correspondin counts up in 
.I baseline\-file
before bustin any output.

Note dat when a cold-ass lil count fo' a particular line in
.I baseline\-file
is pimped outa than tha count up in the
.IR tracefile ,
the result is zero.

.RE
.BI "\-o " output\-directory
.br
.BI "\-\-output\-directory " output\-directory
.RS
Smoke filez up in 
.I output\-directory.

Use dis option ta tell 
.B genhtml
to write tha resultin filez ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory other than
the current one. If 
.I output\-directory
does not exist, it is ghon be pimped.

It be advisable ta use dis option since dependin on the
project size, a shitload of filez n' subdirectories may be pimped.

.RE
.BI "\-t " title
.br
.BI "\-\-title " title
.RS
Display 
.I title
in header of all pages.

.I title
is freestyled ta tha header portion of each generated HTML page to
identify tha context up in which a particular output
was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. By default dis is tha name of tha tracefile.

.RE
.BI "\-d " description\-file
.br
.BI "\-\-description\-file " description\-file
.RS
Read test case descriptions from 
.IR description\-file .

All test case descriptions found in
.I description\-file
and referenced up in tha input data file is read n' freestyled ta a extra page
which is then incorporated tha fuck into tha HTML output.

Da file format of
.IR "description\-file " is:

for each test case:
.RS
TN:<testname>
.br
TD:<test description>

.RE

Valid test case names can consist of letters, numbers n' tha underscore
characta ('_').
.RE
.B \-k
.br
.B \-\-keep\-descriptions
.RS
Do not remove unused test descriptions.

Keep descriptions found up in tha description file even if tha coverage data
indicates dat tha associated test case did not cover any linez of code.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_keep_descriptions .

.RE
.BI "\-c " css\-file
.br
.BI "\-\-css\-file " css\-file
.RS
Use external steez shizzle file
.IR css\-file .

Usin dis option, a extra .css file may be specified which will replace
the default one. This may be helpful if tha default flavas make yo' eyes want
to jump outta they sockets :)

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_css_file .

.RE
.BI "\-p " prefix
.br
.BI "\-\-prefix " prefix
.RS
Remove 
.I prefix
from all directory names.

Because lists containin long filenames is hard as fuck ta read, there be a
mechanizzle implemented dat will automatically try ta shorten all directory
names on tha overview page beginnin wit a cold-ass lil common prefix. By default,
this is done rockin a algorithm dat tries ta find tha prefix which, when
applied, will minimize tha resultin sum of charactaz of all directory
names.

Use dis option ta specify tha prefix ta be removed by yo ass.

.RE
.B \-\-no\-prefix
.RS
Do not remove prefix from directory names.

This switch will straight-up disable tha prefix mechanizzle busted lyrics bout up in the
previous section.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_no_prefix .

.RE
.B \-\-no\-source
.RS
Do not create source code view.

Use dis switch if you don't wanna git a source code view fo' each file.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_no_source .

.RE
.BI "\-\-num\-spaces " spaces
.RS
Replace tabs up in source view with
.I num
spaces.

Default value is 8.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_num_spaces .

.RE
.B \-\-highlight
.RS
Highlight lines wit converted\-only coverage data.

Use dis option up in conjunction wit tha \-\-diff option of
.B lcov
to highlight dem lines which was only covered up in data sets which were
converted from previous source code versions.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_highlight .

.RE
.B \-\-legend
.RS
Include color legend up in HTML output.

Use dis option ta include a legend explainin tha meanin of color coding
in tha resultin HTML output.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_legend .

.RE
.BI "\-\-html\-prolog " prolog\-file
.RS
Read customized HTML prolog from 
.IR prolog\-file .

Use dis option ta replace tha default HTML prolog (the initial part of the
HTML source code leadin up ta n' includin tha <body> tag) wit tha contents
of
.IR prolog\-file .
Within tha prolog text, tha followin lyrics is ghon be replaced when a page is generated:

.B "@pagetitle@"
.br
Da title of tha page.

.B "@basedir@"
.br
A relatizzle path leadin ta tha base directory (e.g. fo' locatin css\-files).

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_html_prolog .

.RE
.BI "\-\-html\-epilog " epilog\-file
.RS
Read customized HTML epilog from 
.IR epilog\-file .

Use dis option ta replace tha default HTML epilog (the final part of tha HTML
source includin </body>) wit tha contents of
.IR epilog\-file .

Within tha epilog text, tha followin lyrics is ghon be replaced when a page is generated:

.B "@basedir@"
.br
A relatizzle path leadin ta tha base directory (e.g. fo' locatin css\-files).

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_html_epilog .

.RE
.BI "\-\-html\-extension " extension
.RS
Use customized filename extension fo' generated HTML pages.

This option is useful up in thangs where different filename extensions
are required ta render tha resultin pages erectly (e.g. php). Note that
a '.' is ghon be banged between tha filename n' tha extension specified by
this option.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_html_extension .
.RE

.B \-\-html\-gzip
.RS
Compress all generated html filez wit gzip n' add a .htaccess file specifying
gzip\-encodin up in tha root output directory.

Use dis option if you wanna save space on yo' webserver n' shit. Requires a
webserver wit .htaccess support n' a funky-ass browser wit support fo' gzip
compressed html.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_html_gzip .

.RE
.B \-\-sort
.br
.B \-\-no\-sort
.RS
Specify whether ta include sorted viewz of file n' directory overviews.

Use \-\-sort ta include sorted views or \-\-no\-sort ta not include em.
Sorted views are
.B enabled
by default.

When sorted views is enabled, each overview page will contain links to
viewz of dat page sorted by coverage rate.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_sort .

.RE
.B \-\-function\-coverage
.br
.B \-\-no\-function\-coverage
.RS
Specify whether ta display function coverage summaries up in HTML output.

Use \-\-function\-coverage ta enable function coverage summaries or
\-\-no\-function\-coverage ta disable dat shit. Function coverage summaries are
.B enabled
by default

When function coverage summaries is enabled, each overview page will contain
the number of functions found n' hit per file or directory, together with
the resultin coverage rate. In addition, each source code view will contain
a link ta a page which lists all functions found up in dat file plus the
respectizzle call count fo' dem functions.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_function_coverage .

.RE
.B \-\-branch\-coverage
.br
.B \-\-no\-branch\-coverage
.RS
Specify whether ta display branch coverage data up in HTML output.

Use \-\-branch\-coverage ta enable branch coverage display or
\-\-no\-branch\-coverage ta disable dat shit. Branch coverage data display is
.B enabled
by default

When branch coverage display is enabled, each overview page will contain
the number of branches found n' hit per file or directory, together with
the resultin coverage rate. In addition, each source code view will contain
an extra column which lists all branchez of a line wit indications of
whether tha branch was taken or not. Branches is shown up in tha followin format:

 ' + ': Branch was taken at least once
.br
 ' - ': Branch was not taken
.br
 ' # ': Da basic block containin tha branch was never executed
.br

Note dat it might not always be possible ta relate branches ta the
correspondin source code statements: durin compilation, GCC might shuffle
branches round or eliminizzle a shitload of dem ta generate betta code.

This option can also be configured permanently rockin tha configuration file
option
.IR genhtml_branch_coverage .

.RE
.B \-\-demangle\-cpp
.RS
Specify whether ta demangle C++ function names.

Use dis option if you wanna convert C++ internal function names to
human readable format fo' display on tha HTML function overview page.
This option requires dat tha c++filt tool is installed (see
.BR c++filt (1)).

.RE
.B \-\-ignore\-errors
.I errors
.br
.RS
Specify a list of errors afta which ta continue processing.

Use dis option ta specify a list of one or mo' classez of errors afta which
geninfo should continue processin instead of aborting.

.I errors
can be a cold-ass lil comma\-separated list of tha followin keywords:

.B source:
the source code file fo' a thugged-out data set could not be found.
.RE

.B \-\-config\-file
.I config\-file
.br
.RS
Specify a cold-ass lil configuration file ta use.

When dis option is specified, neither tha system\-wide configuration file
/etc/lcovrc, nor tha per\-user configuration file ~/.lcovrc is read.

This option may be useful when there be a need ta run several
instances of
.B genhtml
with different configuration file options up in parallel.
.RE

.B \-\-rc
.IR keyword = value
.br
.RS
Override a cold-ass lil configuration directive.

Use dis option ta specify a
.IR keyword = value
statement which overrides tha correspondin configuration statement in
the lcovrc configuration file. Yo ass can specify dis option mo' than once
to override multiple configuration statements.
See
.BR lcovrc (5)
for a list of available keywordz n' they meaning.
.RE

.SH FILES

.I /etc/lcovrc
.RS
Da system\-wide configuration file.
.RE

.I ~/.lcovrc
.RS
Da per\-user configuration file.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Peta Oberparleita <Peter.Oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lcov (1),
.BR lcovrc (5),
.BR geninfo (1),
.BR genpng (1),
.BR gendesc (1),
.BR gcov (1)
