.TH genpng 1 "LCOV 1.10" 2012\-10\-10 "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
genpng \- Generate a overview image from a source file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genpng
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.RS 7
.br
.RB [ \-t | \-\-tab\-size
.IR tabsize ]
.RB [ \-w | \-\-width
.IR width ]
.br
.RB [ \-o | \-\-output\-filename
.IR output\-filename ]
.br
.IR source\-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B genpng
creates a overview image fo' a given source code file of either
plain text or .gcov file format.

Note dat the
.I GD.pm
Perl module has ta be installed fo' dis script ta work
(it may be obtained from
.IR http://www.cpan.org ).

Note also that
.B genpng
is called from within
.B genhtml
so dat there is probably no need ta booty-call it directly.

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-h
.br
.B \-\-help
.RS
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text, then exit.
.RE

.B \-v
.br
.B \-\-version
.RS
Print version number, then exit.
.RE

.BI "\-t " tab\-size
.br
.BI "\-\-tab\-size " tab\-size
.RS
Use 
.I tab\-size
spaces up in place of tab.

All occurrencez of tabulator signs up in tha source code file is ghon be replaced
by tha number of spaces defined by
.I tab\-size
(default is 4).
.RE

.BI "\-w " width
.br
.BI "\-\-width " width
.RS
Set width of output image ta 
.I width
pixel.

Da resultin image is ghon be exactly
.I width
pixel wide (default is 80).

Note dat source code lines which is longer than
.I width
will be truncated.
.RE


.BI "\-o " filename
.br
.BI "\-\-output\-filename " filename
.RS
Write image to
.IR filename .

Specify a name fo' tha resultin image file (default is 
.IR source\-file .png).
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Peta Oberparleita <Peter.Oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lcov (1),
.BR genhtml (1),
.BR geninfo (1),
.BR gendesc (1),
.BR gcov (1)
