.\" @(#)geod.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.ad b
.hy 1
.TH GEOD 1 "2000/03/21 Rel. 4.4" 
.SH NAME
geod \- direct geodesic computations
.br
invgeod \- inverse geodesic computations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geod
.B +ellps=<ellipse>
[
.B \-afFIlptwW
[
.I args
] ] [
.B +args
]
file[s]
.br
.B invgeod
.B +ellps=<ellipse>
[
.B \-afFIlptwW
[
.I args
] ] [
.B +args
]
file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Geod
(direct) and
.I invgeod
(inverse)
perform geodesic (\(``Great Circle\('') computations fo' determining
latitude, longitude n' back azimuth of a terminus point
given a initial point latitude, longitude, azimuth n' distizzle (direct) or
the forward n' back azimuths n' distizzle between a initial and
terminus point latitudes n' longitudes (inverse).
.PP
Da followin runline control parametas can step tha fuck up in any order:
.TP
.B \-I
Specifies dat tha inverse geodesic computation is ta be performed.
May be used wit execution of
.B goed
as a alternatizzle to
.B invgeod
execution.
.TP
.B \-a
Latitude n' longitudez of tha initial n' terminal points,
forward n' back azimuths n' distizzle is output.
.TP
.BI \-t "a"
.I A
specifies a cold-ass lil characta employed as tha straight-up original gangsta characta ta denote
a control line ta be passed all up in without processing.
.TP
.BI \-le
Gives a listin of all tha ellipsoidz dat may be selected wit the
.B +ellps=
option.
.TP
.BI \-lu
Gives a listin of all tha units dat may be selected wit the
.B +units=
option.
.TP
.BI \-[f|F] " format"
.I Format
is a
.I printf
format strang ta control tha output form of tha geographic coordinizzle joints
(\fBf\fR) or distizzle value (\fBF\fR).
Da default mode is DMS fo' geographic coordinates n' "%.3f" fo' distance.
.TP
.BI \-[w|W] n
.I N
is tha number of dope fractionizzle digits ta employ for
secondz output (when tha option aint specified,
.B \-w3
is assumed).
When
.B \-W
is employed tha fieldz is ghon be constant width wit leadin zeroes.
.TP
.B \-p
This option causes tha azimuthal joints ta be output as unsigned
DMS numbers between 0 n' 360 degrees.  Also note -f.
.PP
The
.B +args
run-line arguments is associated wit geodetic parameters
for specifyin tha ellipsoidal or sphere ta use.
See
.B proj
documentation fo' full list of these parametas n' controls.
Da options is processed up in left ta right order
from tha run line.
Reentry of a option is ignored wit tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence assumed to
be tha desired value.
.PP
One or more
.I files
(processed up in left ta right order)
specify tha source of data ta be transformed.
A \- will specify tha location of processin standard input.
If no filez is specified, tha input be assumed ta be from
.I stdin.
.PP
For direct determinations input data must be up in latitude,
longitude, azimuth n' distizzle order n' output will be
latitude, longitude n' back azimuth of tha terminus point.
Latitude, longitude of tha initial n' terminus point are
input fo' tha inverse mode n' respectizzle forward n' back
azimuth from tha initial n' terminus points is output along
with tha distizzle between tha points.
.PP
Input geographic coordinates
(latitude n' longitude) n' azimuthal data must be up in DMS format n' input
distizzle data must be up in units consistent wit tha ellipsoid
major axis or sphere radius units.
Output geographic coordinates is ghon be up in DMS
(if the
.B \-f
switch aint employed) ta 0.001"
with trailing, zero-valued minute-second fieldz deleted.
Output distizzle data is ghon be up in tha same units as tha ellipsoid or
sphere radius.
.PP
Da Earthz ellipsoidal figure may be selected up in tha same
manner as program
.B proj
by using
.B "+ellps=, +a=, +es=,"
etc.
.PP
.I Geod
may also be used ta determine intermediate points along either
a geodesic line between two points or along a arc of specified distance
from a geographic point.
In both cases a initial point must be specified with
.BI +lat_1= lat
and
.BI +lon_1= lon
parametas n' either a terminus point
.BI +lat_2= lat
and
.BI +lon_2= lon
or a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distizzle n' azimuth from tha initial point with
.BI +S= distance
and
.BI +A= azimuth
must be specified.
.PP
If points along a geodesic is ta be determined then either
.BI +n_S= integer
specifyin tha number of intermediate points and/or
.BI +del_S= distance
specifyin tha incremenstrual distizzle between points must be specified.
.PP
To determine points along a arc equidistant from tha initial point both
.BI +del_A= angle
and
.BI +n_A= integer
must be specified which determine tha respectizzle angular increments
and number of points ta be determined.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin script determines tha geodesic azimuths n' distizzle in
U.S. stature milez from Boston, MA, ta Portland, OR:
.RS 5
 \f(CWgeod +ellps=clrk66 <<EOF -I +units=us-mi
 42d15'N 71d07'W 45d31'N 123d41'W
 EOF\fR
.RE
which gives tha thangs up in dis biatch:
.RS 5
 \f(CW-66d31'50.141"   75d39'13.083"   2587.504
.RE
where tha straight-up original gangsta two joints is the
azimuth from Boston ta Portland, tha back azimuth from Portland to
Boston followed by tha distance.
.PP
An example of forward geodesic use is ta use tha Boston location n' determine
Portlandz location by azimuth n' distance:
.RS 5
 \f(CWgeod +ellps=clrk66 <<EOF +units=us-mi
 42d15'N 71d07'W -66d31'50.141" 2587.504
 EOF\fR
.RE
which gives:
.RS 5
 \f(CW45d31'0.003"N   123d40'59.985"W 75d39'13.094"\fR
.RE
Note: lack of precision up in tha distizzle value compromises
the precision of tha Portland location.
.SH SEE ALSO
Thomas, P.D., 1970,
.I "Spheroidal Geodesics, Reference Systems & Local Geometry:"
U.S. Naval Oceanographic  Office, S-138.
.SH HOME PAGE
http://www.remotesensing.org/proj
