.TH GEOIPUPDATE 1 "5 Oct 2010"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
geoipupdate \- a program fo' uppimpin tha MaxMind GeoIP databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
geoipupdate [\-v] [\-f licensefile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
geoipupdate automatically thugged-out shiznit tha GeoIP database fo' GeoIP
subscribers.  It connects ta tha MaxMind GeoIP Update server
and checks fo' a updated database.  If it findz a updated
database, then it downloadz it, uncompresses it, n' installs dat shit.
If yo ass is hustlin a gangbangin' firewall, it requires dat tha DNS and
HTTP (80) ports be open.
.PP
For example
.PP
.I geoipupdate \-v
.PP
Performs tha update up in verbose mode.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-v"
Verbose mode, prints up tha steps dat geoipupdate takes.
.IP "\-d"
Specify a cold-ass lil custom directory target ta install tha GeoIP datafile(s).  By default geoipupdate installs ta /usr/share/GeoIP
.IP "\-f"
Specifies tha configuration file dat gotz nuff tha license key.
Defaults ta /etc/GeoIP.conf
.SH USAGE
Typically you gonna wanna write a weekly crontab dat will run geoipupdate.
Below be a sample crontab dat runs geoipupdate on each Wednesdizzle at noon:
.PP
.RS
# top of crontab
.PP
MAILTO=your@email.com
.PP
0 12 * * 3 BIN_DIR/geoipupdate
.PP
# end of crontab
.RE
To use wit a proxy server, set tha http_proxy environment variable.
E.g.
.RS
export http_proxy="http://proxy-hostname:port"
.RE
.SH RETURN CODES
geoipupdate returns 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH FILES
.PP
.I /etc/GeoIP.conf
.PP
Configuration file fo' GeoIP, should contain license key.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by T.J. Mather
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs ta <support@maxmind.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011 MaxMind LLC

This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Smoke up <http://www.maxmind.com/app/products> to
sign up fo' a GeoIP subscription.
.PP
geoiplookup(1), crontab(5)
