.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2007  Silicon Graphics, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2007  Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH GETFATTR 1 "Extended Attributes" "Dec 2001" "File Utilities"
.SH NAME
getfattr \- git extended attributez of filesystem objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-n name\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
\f3pathname\f1...
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-d\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
[\f3\-m pattern\f1] \f3pathname\f1...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each file,
.B getfattr
displays tha file name,
and tha set of extended attribute names (and optionally joints) which
are associated wit dat file.
.PP
Da output format of
.B "getfattr \-d"
is as bigs up:
.fam C
.RS
.nf
 1:  # file: somedir/
 2:  user.name0="value0"
 3:  user.name1="value1"
 4:  user.name2="value2"
 5:  ...
.fi
.RE
.fam T
.PP
Line 1 identifies tha file name fo' which the
followin lines is bein reported.
Da remainin lines (lines 2 ta 4 above) show the
.I name
and 
.I value
pairs associated wit tha specified file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-n " \f2name\f1, " \-\-name "=\f2name\f1"
Dump tha value of tha named extended attribute extended attribute.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dump
Dump tha jointz of all extended attributes associated with
.IR pathname .
.TP
.BR \-e " \f2en\f1, " \-\-encodin "=\f2en\f1"
Encode joints afta retrievin em.
Valid joints of
.I en
are "text", "hex", n' "base64".
Values encoded as text strings is enclosed up in double quotes ("),
while strings encoded as hexidecimal n' base64 is prefixed with
0x n' 0s, respectively.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-no-dereference
Do not dereference symlinks. Instead of tha file a symlink refers to, the
symlink itself is examined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Unless bustin a logical (\-L) traversal, do not
traverse symlinks ta directories.
.TP
.BR \-m " \f2pattern\f1, " \-\-match "=\f2pattern\f1"
Only include attributes wit names matchin tha regular expression
.IR pattern .
Da default value for
.I pattern
is "^user\\\\.", 
which includes all tha attributes up in tha user namespace. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify "\-" for
includin all attributes.  Refer to
.BR attr (5)
for a mo' detailed rap of namespaces.
.TP
.B \-\-absolute-names
Do not strip leadin slash charactas ('/').
Da default behaviour is ta strip leadin slash characters.
.TP
.B \-\-only-values
Dump up tha raw extended attribute value(s) without encodin em.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
List tha attributez of all filez n' directories recursively.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-logical
Logical strutt, follow symbolic links ta directories.
Da default behaviour is ta follow symbolic link arguments unless
\-\-no\-dereference is given, n' ta skip symbolic links encountered in
subdirectories.
Only effectizzle up in combination wit \-R.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-physical
Physical strutt, do not follow symbolic links ta directories.
This also skips symbolic link arguments.
Only effectizzle up in combination wit \-R.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print tha version of
.B getfattr
and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help explainin tha command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of command line options.
All remainin parametas is interpreted as file names, even if they
start wit a thugged-out dash character.
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Gruenbacher,
.RI < a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at >
and tha SGI XFS pimpment crew,
.RI < linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com >.
.P
Please bust yo' bug reports or comments ta these addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setfattr(1), n' attr(5).
