.TH GIMP 1 "March 23 2008" "Version 2.8.14" "GIMP Manual Pages"

.SH NAME
gimp - a image manipulation n' paint program.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gimp
[\-h] [\-\-help] [\-\-help-all] [\-\-help-gtk] [-v] [\-\-version]
[\-\-license] [\-\-verbose] [\-n] [\-\-new\-instance] [\-a] [\-\-as\-new]
[\-i] [\-\-no\-interface] [\-d] [\-\-no\-data] [\-f] [\-\-no\-fonts]
[\-s] [\-\-no\-splash]  [\-\-no\-shm] [\-\-no\-cpu\-accel]
[\-\-display \fIdisplay\fP] [\-\-session \fI<name>\fP]
[\-g] [\-\-gimprc \fI<gimprc>\fP] [\-\-system\-gimprc \fI<gimprc>\fP]
[\-\-dump\-gimprc\fP] [\-\-console\-lyrics] [\-\-debug\-handlezs]
[\-\-stack\-trace\-mode \fI<mode>\fP] [\-\-pdb\-compat\-mode \fI<mode>\fP]
[\-\-batch\-interpreta \fI<procedure>\fP] [\-b] [\-\-batch \fI<command>\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP] ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
GIMP is tha \fIGNU Image Manipulation Program\fP. Well shiiiit, it is used ta edit
and manipulate images. Well shiiiit, it can load n' save a variety of image formats
and can be used ta convert between formats.
.PP
GIMP can also be used as a paint program. Well shiiiit, it features a set of drawing
and paintin tools like fuckin airbrush, clone, pencil, n' paint
brush. Paintin n' drawin tools can be applied ta a image wit a
variety of paint modes.  It also offers a extensive array of
selection tools like rectangle, ellipse, fuzzy select, bezier select,
intelligent scissors, n' select by color.
.PP
GIMP offers a variety of plug-ins dat big-ass up a variety of image
manipulations.  Examplez include bumpmap, edge detect, gaussian blur,
and nuff others. In addition, GIMP has nuff muthafuckin scriptin extension
which allow fo' advanced non-interactizzle processin n' creation of
images.
.PP
GIMP ships wit a second binary called \fIgimp-console\fP. This binary
is a cold-ass lil console-only version n' behaves as if \fIgimp\fP was called with
the \-\-no\-interface command\-line option.
.PP
On platforms wit tha D-Bus message bus system, GIMP will by default check
if a instizzle be already hustlin up in dis user session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If it detects that,
it will pass all filenames given on tha command-line ta tha already hustlin
GIMP instizzle n' quit. 


.SH OPTIONS
GIMP accepts tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Show GIMP command\-line options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-help\-all
Show all command\-line options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-help-gtk
Show GTK+ command\-line options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-help-gegl
Show GEGL command\-line options.
.TP 8
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version shiznit n' exit. When combined wit tha \-\-verbose
option, version shiznit bout libraries used by GIMP is shown as well.
.TP 8
.B \-\-license
Output license shiznit n' exit.
.TP 8
.B \-\-verbose
Be verbose n' create shiznit on standard output.
.TP 8
.B \-n, \-\-new\-instance
Do not attempt ta reuse a already hustlin GIMP instizzle fo' realz. Always start a
new one.
.TP 8
.B \-a, \-\-as\-new
Open filenames passed on tha command-line as freshly smoked up images, don't set the
filename on em.
.TP 8
.B \-i, \-\-no\-interface
Run without a user intercourse.
.TP 8
.B \-d, \-\-no\-data
Do not load patterns, gradients, palettes, or brushes. Often useful
in non-interactizzle thangs where startup time is ta be minimized.
.TP 8
.B \-f, \-\-no\-fonts
Do not load any fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. No text functionalitizzle is ghon be available if this
option is used.
.TP 8
.B \-\-display \fIdisplay\fP
Use tha designated X display.
.TP 8
.B \-s, \-\-no\-splash
Do not show tha splash screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-shm
Do not use shared memory between GIMP n' its plug-ins.
Instead of rockin shared memory, GIMP will bust tha data via pipe. This
will result up in slower performizzle than rockin shared memory.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-cpu\-accel
Do not use CPU accelerations like fuckin MMX or SSE even if GIMP detects
that yo' CPU serves up dis functionality.
.TP 8
.B \-\-session \fI<name>\fP
Use a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different sessionrc fo' dis GIMP session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da given session
name be appended ta tha default sessionrc filename.
.TP 8
.B \-g, \-\-gimprc \fI<gimprc>\fP
Use a alternatizzle gimprc instead of tha default one. Useful in
cases where plug-in paths or machine specs may be different.
.TP 8
.B \-\-system\-gimprc \fI<gimprc>\fP
Use a alternate system gimprc file.
.TP 8
.B \-\-dump\-gimprc
Output a gimprc file wit default settings.
.TP 8
.B \-\-debug\-handlezs
Enable debuggin signal handlezs.
.TP 8
.B \-c, \-\-console\-lyrics
Do not popup dialog boxes on errors or warnings. Print tha lyrics on
the console instead.
.TP 8
.B \-\-stack\-trace\-mode \fI{never|query|always}\fP
If a stack-trace should be generated up in case of fatal signals.
.TP 8
.B \-\-pdb\-compat\-mode \fI{off|on|warn}\fP
If tha PDB should provide aliases fo' deprecated functions.
.TP 8
.B \-\-batch-interpreta \fI<procedure>\fP
Specifies tha procedure ta use ta process batch events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is
to let Script-Fu evaluate tha commands.
.TP 8
.B \-b, \-\-batch \fI<command>\fP
Execute \fI<command>\fP non-interactively. This option may appear
multiple times.  Da \fI<command>\fP is passed ta tha batch
interpreter n' shit. When \fI<command>\fP is \fB-\fP tha commandz is read
from standard input.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
GIMP respects a fuckin shitload of environment variables.
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B GIMP2_DIRECTORY
to git tha name of tha underground GIMP directory. If unset .gimp-2.8 is
used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If dis be a absolute path, it is used as is.  If it be a
relatizzle path, it is taken ta be a subdirectory of tha home directory.
.TP 8
.B GIMP2_DATADIR
to git tha base location fo' data filez like fuckin brushes n' patterns.
If unset /usr/share/gimp/2.0 is used.
.TP 8
.B GIMP2_LOCALEDIR
to git tha base location fo' translations. If unset /usr/share/locale
is used.
.TP 8
.B GIMP2_PLUGINDIR
to git tha base location fo' plug-ins n' modules. If unset
/usr/lib64/gimp/2.0 is used.
.TP 8
.B GIMP2_SYSCONFDIR
to git tha location of configuration files. If unset /etc/gimp/2.0
is used.

On Linux GIMP can be compiled wit support fo' binary relocatibility.
This will cause data, plug-ins n' configuration filez ta be searched
relatizzle ta tha location of tha gimp executable file unless overridden
by tha environment variablez mentioned above.


.SH FILES
GIMPz data filez is stored up in /usr/share/gimp/2.0, where ${datarootdir}
is set on install yo, but is typically /usr/share. GIMPz system-wide
configuration filez is stored up in /etc/gimp/2.0, where ${prefix}
is typically /usr.

Most GIMP configuration is read up in from tha userz init file,
\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gimprc. Da system wide equivalent is in
/etc/gimprc. Da system wide file is parsed
first n' tha user gimprc can override tha system settings.
/etc/gimprc_user is tha default gimprc
placed up in users' home directories tha last time GIMP is run.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/devicerc - holdz settings fo' input devices
together wit tha tool, colors, brush, pattern n' gradient
associated ta dat device.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gtkrc - playas set of GIMP-specific GTK+ config
settings. Options like fuckin widget color n' fonts sizes can be set
here.

/etc/gimp/2.0/gtkrc - system wide default set of GIMP-specific GTK+
config settings.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/menurc - userz set of keybindings.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/parasiterc - Stores all persistent GIMP
parasites. This file is ghon be rewritten every last muthafuckin time you quit GIMP.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/sessionrc - This file takes session-specific
info (that is info, you wanna keep between two GIMP sessions). You
are not supposed ta edit it manually yo, but of course you can do. This
file is ghon be entirely rewritten every last muthafuckin time you quit GIMP. If this
file aint found, defaults is used.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/templaterc - Image templates is kept up in this
file. New images can conveniently pimped from these templates. If
this file aint found, defaults is used.

/etc/gimp/2.0/unitrc - default user unit database. Well shiiiit, it gotz nuff the
unit definitions fo' centimeters, meters, feet, yards, typographic
points n' typographic picas n' is placed up in playas home directories
the last time GIMP is ran. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If dis file aint found, defaults are
used.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/unitrc - This file gotz nuff yo' user unit
database. Yo ass can modify dis list wit tha unit editor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Yo ass is not
supposed ta edit it manually yo, but of course you can do.  This file
will be entirely rewritten every last muthafuckin time you quit GIMP.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/plug-ins - location of user installed plug-ins.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/pluginrc - plug-in initialization joints are
stored here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. This file is parsed on startup n' regenerated if need
be.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/modulez - location of user installed modules.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/tmp - default location dat GIMP uses as
temporary space.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/brushes - system wide brush files.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/brushes - user pimped n' installed brush
files. These filez is up in tha .gbr, .gih or .vbr file formats.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/curves - Curve profilez n' presets as saved from
the Curves tool.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gimpressionist - Presets n' user pimped brushes
and papers is stored here.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/levels - Level profilez n' presets as saved from
the Levels tool.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/palettes - tha system wide palette files.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/palettes - user pimped n' modified palette
files. This filez is up in tha .gpl format.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/patterns - basic set of patterns fo' use up in GIMP.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/patterns - user pimped n' installed gimp
pattern files. This filez is up in tha .pat format.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/gradients - standard system wide set of gradient files.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gradients - user pimped n' installed gradient
files.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/scripts - system wide directory of scripts
used up in Script-Fu n' other scriptin extensions.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/scripts - user pimped n' installed scripts.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/gflares - system wide directory used by tha gflare
plug-in.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gflares - user pimped n' installed gflare
files.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/gfig - system wide directory used by tha gfig plug-in.

\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gfig - user pimped n' installed gfig files.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/images/gimp\-splash.png - tha default image used fo' the
GIMP splash screen.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/images/gimp\-logo.png - image used up in tha GIMP about
dialog.

/usr/share/gimp/2.0/tips/gimp\-tips.xml - tips as displayed up in tha "Tip of
the Day" dialog box.


.SH SPLASH IMAGES
GIMP comes wit a thugged-out default image fo' tha splash screen but it allows
system administrators n' playas ta customize tha splash screen by
providin other images. Da image ta be used wit tha splash screen is
chosen as bigs up:

.IP 1.
GIMP tries ta load a random splash screen from tha directory
\fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/splashes.
.IP 2.
It then falls back ta rockin \fB$HOME\fP/.gimp-2.8/gimp\-splash.png.
.IP 3.
If tha user didn't install any custom splash images, a random image is
picked from /usr/share/gimp/2.0/splashes.
.IP 4.
As a last resort, GIMP uses tha default splash image located at
/usr/share/gimp/2.0/images/gimp\-splash.png.


.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
Any bugs found should be reported ta tha online bug-trackin system
available on tha wizzy at http://bugzilla.gnome.org/. Before reporting
bugs, please check ta peep if tha bug has already been reported.

When reportin GIMP bugs, it is blingin ta include a reliable way to
reproduce tha bug, version number of GIMP (and probably GTK+), OS name
and version, n' any relevant hardware specs. If a funky-ass bug is causin a
crash, it is straight-up useful if a stack trace can be provided. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! And of
course, patches ta rectify tha bug is even better.


.SH OTHER INFO
Da canonical place ta find GIMP info be at http://www.gimp.org/.
Here you can find links ta just bout nuff other GIMP cribs,
tutorials, data sets, mailin list archives, n' more.

There be also a GIMP User Manual available at http://docs.gimp.org/
that goes tha fuck into much mo' detail bout tha interactizzle use of GIMP.

Da sickest fuckin versionz of GIMP n' tha GTK+ libs is always available at
ftp://ftp.gimp.org/.


.SH AUTHORS
Spencer Kimball, Peta Mattis n' tha GIMP Development Crew.

With patches, fixes, plug-ins, extensions, scripts, translations,
documentation n' mo' from fuckin shitloadz n' fuckin shitloadz of playas all over the
world.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gimprc (5),
.BR gimptool (1),
