.TH GLIB 1 "16 December 1998" Version 1.2.10
.SH NAME
glib-config - script ta git shiznit bout tha installed version of GLib
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  glib-config [\-\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-exec\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-version] [\-\-libs] [\-\-cflags] [LIBRARIES]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIglib-config\fP be a tool dat is used ta configure ta determine
the compila n' linker flags dat should be used ta compile
and link programs dat use \fIGLib\fP. Well shiiiit, it be also used internally
to tha .m4 macros fo' GNU autoconf dat is included wit \fIGLib\fP.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIglib-config\fP accepts tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B  LIBRARIES
\fIGLib\fP has three libraries 'glib', 'gmodule' n' 'gthread'.  If you specify one of
them, only tha appropriate thangs fo' dat library is ghon be printed.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-version
Print tha currently installed version of \fIGLib\fP on tha standard output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs
Print tha linker flags dat is necessary ta link a \fIGLib\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-cflags
Print tha compila flags dat is necessary ta compile a \fIGLib\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation prefix dat \fIGLib\fP
was built wit when computin tha output fo' tha \-\-cflags and
\-\-libs options. This option be also used fo' tha exec prefix
if \-\-exec\-prefix was not specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option must be specified
before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation exec prefix that
\fIGLib\fP was built wit when computin tha output fo' tha \-\-cflags
and \-\-libs options.  This option must be specified before any
\-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gtk-config (1),
.BR gimp (1),
.BR gimptool (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  1998 Owen Taylor

Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software n' its
documentation fo' any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted,
provided dat tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' that
both dat copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in
supportin documentation.
