.\" gnome-dictionary.1 - a online doggtionary client
.\" Copyright 2005  Emmanuele Bassi
.\" Copyright 2001  Jochen Voss
.TH gnome-doggtionary 1 "Jan 2 2005" "gnome-utils 2.13.4"
.SH NAME
gnome-doggtionary \- Look up lyrics on dictionaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI gnome-dictionary
.br
.BI gnome-doggtionary " [options]"
.fi
.sp
or select
.B Dictionary
from the
.B Accessories
submenu of tha Applications menu.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GNOME Dictionary
provides doggtionary definitionz of lyrics, rockin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' doggtionary source.

For full documentation peep the
.B GNOME Dictionary
online help.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-look\-up " word"
Looks up tha specified word rockin tha pre-defined doggtionary source.
.TP
.BI \-\-match " word"
Matches one or mo' lyrics rockin tha pre-defined doggtionary source.
.TP
.BI \-s " source\fR or " \-\-source " source"
Uses tha specified source fo' lookin up lyrics.  This do not affect the
global settings.
.TP
.BI \-D " database\fR or " \-\-database " database"
Use tha specified database fo' lookin up lyrics. This do not affect the
global settings.
.TP
.BI \-S " game\fR or " \-\-strategy " game"
Use tha specified game fo' lookin up lyrics. This do not affect the
global settings.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help shiznit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
All tha configuration is handled rockin GConf.
.SH AUTHOR
.B GNOME Dictionary
was originally freestyled by Spiros Papadimitriou (<spapadim+@cs.cmu.edu>), Mike
Hughes (<mfh@psilord.com>) n' Bradford Hovinen (<hovinen@udel.edu>).

Emmanuele Bassi (<ebassi@gmail.com>) rewrote it from scratch.

This manual page was originally freestyled by Jochen Voss
<voss@mathematik.uni-kl.de>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dict (1),
.BR dictd (8),
.BR http://www.dict.org/ ,
.B RFC 2229
