.TH "GNOME-SCREENSHOT" "1" "May 14, 2013" "" ""
.SH NAME
gnome-screenshot \- capture tha screen, a window, or a user-defined area n' save tha snapshot image ta a gangbangin' file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fBgnome-screenshot\fR [ \fB-c\fR ]  [ \fB-w\fR ]  [ \fB-a\fR ]  [ \fB-b\fR ]  [ \fB-B\fR ]  [ \fB-p\fR ]  [ \fB-d \fISECONDS\fB \fR ]  [ \fB-e \fIEFFECT\fB \fR ]  [ \fB-i\fR ]  [ \fB-f \fIFILENAME\fB \fR ]  [ \fB--display \fIDISPLAY\fB \fR ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBgnome-screenshot\fR be a GNOME utilitizzle fo' taking
screenshotz of tha entire screen, a window or a user-defined area of tha screen, wit optionizzle beautifying
border effects.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-c, --clipboard\fR
Send tha grab directly ta tha clipboard.
.TP
\fB-w, --window\fR
Grab tha current actizzle window instead of tha entire
screen.
.TP
\fB-a, --area\fR
Grab a area of tha screen instead of tha entire screen.
.TP
\fB-b, --include-border\fR
Include tha window border within tha screenshot.
.TP
\fB-B, --remove-border\fR
Remove tha window border from tha screenshot.
.TP
\fB-p, --include-pointer\fR
Include tha pointa wit tha screenshot.
.TP
\fB-d, --delay=\fISECONDS\fB,\fR
Take tha screenshot afta tha specified delay [in seconds].
.TP
\fB-e, --border-effect=\fIEFFECT\fB,\fR
Add a effect ta tha outside of tha screenshot border.
\fIEFFECT\fR can be ``shadow'' 
(addin drop shadow), ``border'' (addin rectangular
space round tha screenshot) or ``none'' (no effect).
Default is ``none''.
.TP
\fB-i, --interactive\fR
Interactively set options up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog.
.TP
\fB-f, --file=\fIFILENAME\fB\fR
Save screenshot directly ta dis file.
.TP
\fB--display=\fIDISPLAY\fB\fR
X display ta use.
.TP
\fB-?, -h, --help\fR
Show a summary of tha available options.
.PP
In addition, tha usual GTK+ command line options apply.
See tha output of --help fo' details.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Christian Marillat <marillat@debian.org> for
the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.PP
Updated by Theppitak Karoonboonyanan
<thep@linux.thai.net>, Tomothy Feiner <feiner.tom@gmail.com>, Cosimo Cecchi <cosimoc@gnome.org> n' others.
