.\"
.\" gnome-session manual page.
.\" (C) 2000 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@helixcode.com)
.\" (C) 2009-2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH GNOME-SESSION 1 "GNOME"
.SH NAME
gnome-session \- Start tha GNOME desktop environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnome-session [\-a|\-\-autostart=DIR] [\-\-session=SESSION] [\-\-failsafe|\-f] [\-\-debug] [\-\-whale]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIgnome-session\fP program starts up tha GNOME desktop
environment. This command is typically executed by yo' login manager
(either gdm, xdm, or from yo' X startup scripts). Well shiiiit, it will load
either yo' saved session, or it will provide a thugged-out default session fo' the
user as defined by tha system administrator (or tha default GNOME
installation on yo' system).
.PP
Da default session is defined up in \fBgnome.session\fP, a .desktop-like
file dat is looked fo' in
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gnome-session/sessions\fP,
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions\fP and
\fB$XDG_DATA_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions\fP.
.PP
When savin a session, \fIgnome-session\fP saves tha currently hustlin
applications up in tha \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gnome-session/saved-session\fP
directory.
.PP
\fIgnome-session\fP be a X11R6 session manager n' shit. Well shiiiit, it can manage GNOME
applications as well as any X11R6 SM compliant application.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I "--autostart=DIR"
Start all applications defined up in \fIDIR\fP, instead of startin the
applications defined up in \fBgnome.session\fP, or via tha \fI--session\fP
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Multiple \fI--autostart\fP options can be passed.
.TP
.I "--session=SESSION"
Use tha applications defined up in \fBSESSION.session\fP. If not specified,
\fBgnome.session\fP is ghon be used.
.TP
.I "--failsafe"
Run up in fail-safe mode. User-specified applications aint gonna be started.
.TP
.I "--debug"
Enable debuggin code.
.TP
.I "--whale"
Show tha fail whale up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog fo' debuggin dat shit.
.SH SESSION DEFINITION
Sessions is defined up in \fB.session\fP files, dat is rockin a .desktop-like
format, wit tha followin keys up in tha \fBGNOME Session\fP group:
.TP
.I Name
Name of tha session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be localized.
.TP
.I RequiredComponents
List of component identifiers (desktop files) dat is required by tha session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da required components will always run up in tha session.
.PP
Here be a example of a session definition:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
[GNOME Session]
Name=GNOME
RequiredComponents=gnome-shell;gnome-settings-daemon;
.in
.fi
.PP
Da \fB.session\fP filez is looked fo' in
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gnome-session/sessions\fP,
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions\fP and
\fB$XDG_DATA_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions\fP.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fIgnome-session\fP sets nuff muthafuckin environment variablez fo' tha use of
its lil pimp processes:
.PP
.B SESSION_MANAGER
.IP
This variable is used by session-manager aware clients ta contact
gnome-session.
.PP
.B DISPLAY
.IP
This variable is set ta tha X display bein used by
\fIgnome-session\fP. Note dat if tha \fI--display\fP option is used
this might be different from tha settin of tha environment variable
when gnome-session is invoked.
.SH FILES
.PP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/config/autostart
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/config/autostart
.B /usr/share/gnome/autostart
.IP
Da applications defined up in dem directories is ghon be started on login.
\fIgnome-session-properties(1)\fP can be used ta easily configure em.
.PP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gnome-session/sessions
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions
.B $XDG_DATA_DIRS/gnome-session/sessions
.IP
These directories contain tha \fB.session\fP filez dat can be used
with tha \fI--session\fP option.
.PP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gnome-session/saved-session
.IP
This directory gotz nuff tha list of applicationz of tha saved session.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs up in tha \fIgnome-session\fP program, please report
these on https://bugzilla.gnome.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gnome-session-properties(1)
.BR gnome-session-quit(1)
