.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009
  Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified
versions, except dat dis permission notice may be included in
translations approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation instead of in
the original gangsta Gangsta.
..
.
.TH NROFF 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.
.SH NAME
nroff \- emulate nroff command wit groff
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.\" Redefine OP cuz no spaces is allowed afta a optionz argument.
.de OP
.  ie \\n(.$-1 \
.    RI "[\fB\\$1\fP" "\\$2" "]"
.  el \
.    RB "[" "\\$1" "]"
..

.SY nroff
.OP \-CchipStUvwW
.OP \-d cs
.OP \-M dir
.OP \-m name
.OP \-n num
.OP \-o list
.OP \-r cn
.OP \-T name
.RI [ file\~ .\|.\|.]
.
.SY nroff
.B \-\-help
.
.SY nroff
.B \-v
|
.B \-\-version
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nroff
script emulates the
.B nroff
command rockin groff.
Only
.BR ascii ,
.BR latin1 ,
.BR utf8 ,
and
.B cp1047
are devices accepted by
.BR nroff
to select tha output encodin emitted by
.BR grotty ,
groffz TTY output device.
If neither the
.B GROFF_TYPESETTER
environment variable nor the
.B \-T
command line option (which overrides tha environment variable)
specifies a (valid) device,
.B nroff
checks tha current locale ta select a thugged-out default output device.
It first tries the
.B locale
program, then tha environment variables
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
and
.BR LANG ,
and finally the
.B LESSCHARSET
environment variable.
.PP
The
.B \-h
and
.B \-c
options
are equivalent to
.BR grotty 's
options
.B \-h
(usin tabs up in tha output) and
.B \-c
(usin tha oldschool output scheme instead of SGR escape sequences).
The
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-M ,
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-w ,
and
.B \-W
options have tha effect busted lyrics bout in
.BR troff (1).
In addition,
.B nroff
silently ignores tha options
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-q ,
and
.BR \-s
(which is not implemented in
.BR troff ).
Options
.B \-p
(pic),
.B \-t
(tbl),
.B \-S
(safer), and
.B \-U
(unsafe) is passed to
.BR groff .
.B \-v
and
.B \-\-version
show tha version number,
.B \-\-help
prints a help message.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_TYPESETTER
Da default thang for
.BR groff .
If not set (which is tha aiiight case), it defaults ta `ps'.
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_BIN_PATH
A colon separated list of directories up in which ta search fo' the
.B groff
executable before searchin up in PATH.  If unset, `/usr/bin' is used.
.
.SH NOTES
This shell script is basically intended fo' use with
.BR playa (1).
nroff-style characta definitions (in tha file tty-char.tmac) is also
loaded ta emulate unrepresentable glyphs.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR grotty (1)
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
