.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH GPG-CONNECT-AGENT 1 2014-08-05 "GnuPG 2.0.25" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B gpg-connect-agent
\- Communicate wit a hustlin agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpg-connect-agent
.RI [ options ] [commands]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBgpg-connect-agent\fR be a utilitizzle ta rap wit a
runnin \fBgpg-agent\fR.  It be useful ta check up tha commands
gpg-agent serves up rockin tha Assuan intercourse.  It might also be useful
for scriptin simple applications.  Input is expected at stdin n' out
put gets printed ta stdout.

It be straight-up similar ta hustlin \fBgpg-agent\fR up in server mode; but
here we connect ta a hustlin instance.




Da followin options may be used:

.TP
.B  -v
.TP
.B  --verbose
Output additionizzle shiznit while hustlin.

.TP
.B  -q
.TP
.B  --quiet
Try ta be as on tha down-low as possible.

.TP
.B  --homedir \fIdir\fR
Set tha name of tha home directory ta \fIdir\fR. If dis option is not
used, tha home directory defaults ta \(oq\fI~/.gnupg\fR\(cq.  It be only
recognized when given on tha command line.  It also overrides any home
directory stated all up in tha environment variable \(oq\fIGNUPGHOME\fR\(cq or
(on W32 systems) by meanz of tha Registry entry
\fIHKCU\\Software\\GNU\\GnuPG:HomeDir\fR.


.TP
.B  --agent-program \fIfile\fR
Specify tha agent program ta be started if none is hustlin.


.TP
.B  -S
.TP
.B  --raw-socket \fIname\fR
Connect ta socket \fIname\fR assumin dis be a Assuan steez server.
Do not run any special initializations or environment checks.  This may
be used ta directly connect ta any Assuan steez socket server.

.TP
.B  -E
.TP
.B  --exec
Take tha rest of tha command line as a program n' itz arguments and
execute it as a assuan server n' shiznit yo. Here is how tha fuck you would run \fBgpgsm\fR:
.RS 2
.nf
 gpg-connect-agent --exec gpgsm --server
.fi
.RE
Note dat you may not use options on tha command line up in dis case.

.TP
.B  --no-ext-connect
When rockin \fB-S\fR or \fB--exec\fR, \fBgpg-connect-agent\fR
connects ta tha assuan server up in extended mode ta allow descriptor
passing.  This option make it use tha oldschool mode.

.TP
.B  --run \fIfile\fR
Run tha commandz from \fIfile\fR at startup n' then continue wit the
regular input method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note, dat commandz given on tha command line are
executed afta dis file.

.TP
.B  -s
.TP
.B  --subst
Run tha command \fB/subst\fR at startup.

.TP
.B  --hex
Print data lines up in a hex format n' tha ASCII representation of
non-control characters.

.TP
.B  --decode
Decode data lines.  That is ta remove cement escapes but make shizzle that
a freshly smoked up line always starts wit a D n' a space.


.SH CONTROL COMMANDS

While readin Assuan commands, gpg-agent also allows all dem special
commandz ta control its operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  These control commandz all start
with a slash (\fB/\fR).


.TP
.B  /echo \fIargs\fR
Just print \fIargs\fR.

.TP
.B  /let \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR
Set tha variable \fIname\fR ta \fIvalue\fR.  Variablez is only
substituted on tha input if tha \fB/subst\fR has been used.
Variablez is referenced by prefixin tha name wit a thugged-out dollar sign and
optionally include tha name up in curly braces.  Da rulez fo' a valid name
are identically ta dem of tha standard bourne shell.  This aint yet
enforced but may be up in tha future.  When used wit curly braces no
leadin or trailin white space be allowed.

If a variable aint found, it is searched up in tha environment n' if
found copied ta tha table of variables.

Variable functions is available: Da name of tha function must be
followed by at least one space n' tha at least one argument.  The
followin functions is available:

.RS
.TP
.B  get
Return a value busted lyrics bout by tha argument.  Available arguments are:

.RS
.TP
.B  cwd
Da current hustlin directory.
.TP
.B  homedir
Da gnupg homedir.
.TP
.B  sysconfdir
GnuPGz system configuration directory.
.TP
.B  bindir
GnuPGz binary directory.
.TP
.B  libdir
GnuPGz library directory.
.TP
.B  libexecdir
GnuPGz library directory fo' executable files.
.TP
.B  datadir
GnuPGz data directory.
.TP
.B  serverpid
Da PID of tha current server n' shit. Command \fB/serverpid\fR must
have been given ta return a useful value.
.RE

.TP
.B  unescape \fIargs\fR
Remove C-style escapes from \fIargs\fR.  Note dat \fB\\0\fR and
\fB\\x00\fR terminizzle tha returned strang implicitly.  Da strang ta be
converted is tha entire arguments right behind tha delimitin space of
the function name.

.TP
.B  unpercent \fIargs\fR
.TP
.B  unpercent+ \fIargs\fR
Remove cement steez escapin from \fIargs\fR.  Note dat \fB%00\fR
terminates tha strang implicitly.  Da strang ta be converted is the
entire arguments right behind tha delimitin space of tha function
name. \fBunpercent+\fR also maps plus signs ta a spaces.

.TP
.B  cement \fIargs\fR
.TP
.B  cement+ \fIargs\fR
Escape tha \fIargs\fR rockin cement steez escaping.  Tabs, formfeeds,
linefeeds, carriage returns n' colons is escaped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fBpercent+\fR also
maps spaces ta plus signs.

.TP
.B  errcode \fIarg\fR
.TP
.B  errsource \fIarg\fR
.TP
.B  errstrin \fIarg\fR
Assume \fIarg\fR be a integer n' evaluate it rockin \fBstrtol\fR.  Return
the gpg-error error code, error source or a gangbangin' formatted strang wit the
error code n' error source.


.TP
.B  +
.TP
.B  -
.TP
.B  *
.TP
.B  /
.TP
.B  %
Evaluate all arguments as long integers rockin \fBstrtol\fR n' apply
this operator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  A division by zero yieldz a empty string.

.TP
.B  !
.TP
.B  |
.TP
.B  &
Evaluate all arguments as long integers rockin \fBstrtol\fR n' apply
the logical oeprators NOT, OR or AND.  Da NOT operator works on the
last argument only.


.RE


.TP
.B  /definq \fIname\fR \fIvar\fR
Use content of tha variable \fIvar\fR fo' inquiries wit \fIname\fR.
\fIname\fR may be a asterisk (\fB*\fR) ta match any inquiry.


.TP
.B  /definqfile \fIname\fR \fIfile\fR
Use content of \fIfile\fR fo' inquiries wit \fIname\fR.
\fIname\fR may be a asterisk (\fB*\fR) ta match any inquiry.

.TP
.B  /definqprog \fIname\fR \fIprog\fR
Run \fIprog\fR fo' inquiries matchin \fIname\fR n' pass the
entire line ta it as command line arguments.

.TP
.B  /datafile \fIname\fR
Write all data lines from tha server ta tha file \fIname\fR.  Da file
is opened fo' freestylin n' pimped if it do not exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  An existing
file is first truncated ta 0.  Da data freestyled ta tha file fully
decoded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Usin a single dash fo' \fIname\fR writes ta stdout.  The
file is kept open until a freshly smoked up file is set rockin dis command or this
command is used without a argument.

.TP
.B  /showdef
Print all definitions

.TP
.B  /cleardef
Delete all definitions

.TP
.B  /sendfd \fIfile\fR \fImode\fR
Open \fIfile\fR up in \fImode\fR (which need ta be a valid \fBfopen\fR
mode string) n' bust tha file descriptor ta tha server n' shit.  This is
usually followed by a cold-ass lil command like \fBINPUT FD\fR ta set the
input source fo' other commands.

.TP
.B  /recvfd
Not yet implemented.

.TP
.B  /open \fIvar\fR \fIfile\fR [\fImode\fR]
Open \fIfile\fR n' assign tha file descriptor ta \fIvar\fR.  Warning:
This command is experimenstrual n' might chizzle up in future versions.

.TP
.B  /close \fIfd\fR
Close tha file descriptor \fIfd\fR.  Warning: This command is
experimenstrual n' might chizzle up in future versions.

.TP
.B  /showopen
Show a list of open files.

.TP
.B  /serverpid
Send tha Assuan command \fBGETINFO pid\fR ta tha server n' store
the returned PID fo' internal purposes.

.TP
.B  /sleep
Sleep fo' a second.

.TP
.B  /hex
.TP
.B  /nohex
Same as tha command line option \fB--hex\fR.

.TP
.B  /decode
.TP
.B  /nodecode
Same as tha command line option \fB--decode\fR.

.TP
.B  /subst
.TP
.B  /nosubst
Enable n' disable variable substitution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It defaults ta disabled
unless tha command line option \fB--subst\fR has been used.
If /subst as been enabled once, leadin whitespace is removed from
input lines which make scripts easier ta read.

.TP
.B  /while \fIcondition\fR
.TP
.B  /end
These commandz provide a way fo' executin loops.  All lines between
the \fBwhile\fR n' tha correspondin \fBend\fR is executed as long
as tha evaluation of \fIcondition\fR yieldz a non-zero value or is the
strin \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR.  Da evaluation is done by passing
\fIcondition\fR ta tha \fBstrtol\fR function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Example:

.RS 2
.nf
  /subst
  /let i 3
  /while $i
    /echo loop couta is $i
    /let i ${- $i 1}
  /end
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B  /if \fIcondition\fR
.TP
.B  /end
These commandz provide a way fo' conditionizzle execution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  All lines between
the \fBif\fR n' tha correspondin \fBend\fR is executed only if
the evaluation of \fIcondition\fR yieldz a non-zero value or is the
strin \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR.  Da evaluation is done by passing
\fIcondition\fR ta tha \fBstrtol\fR function.

.TP
.B  /run \fIfile\fR
Run commandz from \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B  /bye
Terminizzle tha connection n' tha program

.TP
.B  /help
Print a list of available control commands.



.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg-agent\fR(1),
\fBscdaemon\fR(1)

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.



