.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH GPG-ZIP 1 2011-02-23 "GnuPG 1.4" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B gpg-zip \- Encrypt or sign filez tha fuck into a archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpg-zip
.RI [ options ]
.I filename1
.I [ filename2, ... ]
.I directory1
.I [ directory2, ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgpg-zip\fR encrypts or signs filez tha fuck into a archive.  It be an
gpg-ized tar rockin tha same format as used by PGPz PGP Zip.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBgpg-zip\fR understandz these options:


.TP
.B  --encrypt
.TP
.B  -e
Encrypt data.  This option may be combined wit \fB--symmetric\fR (for  output dat may be decrypted via a secret key or a passphrase).

.TP
.B  --decrypt
.TP
.B  -d
Decrypt data.

.TP
.B  --symmetric
.TP
.B  -c
Encrypt wit a symmetric cipher rockin a passphrase.  Da default
symmetric cipher used is CAST5 yo, but may be chosen wit the
\fB--cipher-algo\fR option ta \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --sign
.TP
.B  -s
Make a signature.  See \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --recipient \fIuser\fR
.TP
.B  -r \fIuser\fR
Encrypt fo' user id \fIuser\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --local-user \fIuser\fR
.TP
.B  -u \fIuser\fR
Use \fIuser\fR as tha key ta sign with.  See \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --list-archive
List tha contentz of tha specified archive.

.TP
.B  --output \fIfile\fR
.TP
.B  -o \fIfile\fR
Write output ta specified file \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B  --gpg \fIgpgcmd\fR
Use tha specified command \fIgpgcmd\fR instead of \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --gpg-args \fIargs\fR
Pass tha specified options ta \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --tar \fItarcmd\fR
Use tha specified command \fItarcmd\fR instead of \fBtar\fR.

.TP
.B  --tar-args \fIargs\fR
Pass tha specified options ta \fBtar\fR.

.TP
.B  --version
Print version of tha program n' exit.

.TP
.B  --help
Display a funky-ass brief help page n' exit.


.SH EXAMPLES

Encrypt tha contentz of directory \(oq\fImydocs\fR\(cq fo' user Bob ta file
\(oq\fItest1\fR\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpg-zip --encrypt --output test1 --gpg-args  -r Bob mydocs
.fi
.RE


List tha contentz of archive \(oq\fItest1\fR\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpg-zip --list-archive test1
.fi
.RE


.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Da program returns 0 if every last muthafuckin thang was fine, 1 otherwise.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fR(1),
\fBtar\fR(1),

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.
