.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH GPG-PRESET-PASSPHRASE 1 2014-08-05 "GnuPG 2.0.25" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B gpg-preset-passphrase
\- Put a passphrase tha fuck into gpg-agentz cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpg-preset-passphrase
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ command ]
.I cache-id

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBgpg-preset-passphrase\fR be a utilitizzle ta seed tha internal
cache of a hustlin \fBgpg-agent\fR wit passphrases.  It be mainly
useful fo' unattended machines, where tha usual \fBpinentry\fR tool
may not be used n' tha passphrases fo' tha ta be used keys is given at
machine startup.

Passphrases set wit dis utilitizzle don't expire unless the
\fB--forget\fR option is used ta explicitly clear dem from the
cache --- or \fBgpg-agent\fR is either restarted or reloaded (by
sendin a SIGHUP ta it).  Nite dat tha maximum cache time as set with
\fB--max-cache-ttl\fR is still honored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It be necessary ta allow
this passphrase presettin by startin \fBgpg-agent\fR wit the
\fB--allow-preset-passphrase\fR.




\fBgpg-preset-passphrase\fR is invoked dis way:

.RS 2
.nf
gpg-preset-passphrase [options] [command] \fIcacheid\fR
.fi
.RE

\fIcacheid\fR is either a 40 characta keygrip of hexadecimal
charactas identifyin tha key fo' which tha passphrase should be set
or cleared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da keygrip is listed along wit tha key when hustlin the
command: \fBgpgsm --dump-secret-keys\fR.  Alternatively a arbitrary
strin may be used ta identify a passphrase; it is suggested dat such
a strang is prefixed wit tha name of tha application (e.g
\fBfoo:12346\fR).


One of tha followin command options must be given:

.TP
.B  --preset
Preset a passphrase. This is what tha fuck you probably will
use. \fBgpg-preset-passphrase\fR will then read tha passphrase from
\fBstdin\fR.

.TP
.B  --forget
Flush tha passphrase fo' tha given cache ID from tha cache.



Da followin additionizzle options may be used:

.TP
.B  -v
.TP
.B  --verbose
Output additionizzle shiznit while hustlin.

.TP
.B  -P \fIstring\fR
.TP
.B  --passphrase \fIstring\fR
Instead of readin tha passphrase from \fBstdin\fR, use tha supplied
\fIstring\fR as passphrase.  Note dat dis make tha passphrase visible
for other users.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fR(1),
\fBgpgsm\fR(1),
\fBgpg-agent\fR(1),
\fBscdaemon\fR(1)

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.





