.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH GPGV 1 2014-10-17 "GnuPG 1.4.18" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B gpgv
\- Verify OpenPGP signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpgv
.RI [ options ]
.I signed_files




.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgpgv\fR be a OpenPGP signature verification tool.

This program is straight-up a stripped-down version of \fBgpg\fR which is
only able ta check signatures. Well shiiiit, it is somewhat smalla than tha fully-blown
\fBgpg\fR n' uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different (and simpler) way ta check that
the hood keys used ta make tha signature is valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! There are
no configuration filez n' only all dem options is implemented.

\fBgpgv\fR assumes dat all keys up in tha keyrin is trustworthy.
That do also mean dat it do not check fo' expired or revoked
keys.

By default a keyrin named \(oq\fItrustedkeys.gpg\fR\(cq is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
default keyrin be assumed ta be up in tha home directory of GnuPG,
either tha default home directory or tha one set by a option or an
environment variable.  Da option \fB--keyring\fR may be used to
specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different keyrin or even multiple keyrings.



.SH RETURN VALUE

Da program returns 0 if every last muthafuckin thang is fine, 1 if at least
one signature was bad, n' other error codes fo' fatal errors.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBgpgv\fR recognizes these options:


.TP
.B  --verbose
.TP
.B  -v
Gives mo' shiznit durin processing. If used
twice, tha input data is listed up in detail.

.TP
.B  --quiet
.TP
.B  -q
Try ta be as on tha down-low as possible.

.TP
.B  --keyrin \fIfile\fR
Add \fIfile\fR ta tha list of keyrings.
If \fIfile\fR begins wit a tilde n' a slash, these
are replaced by tha HOME directory. If tha filename
does not contain a slash, it be assumed ta be up in the
home-directory ("~/.gnupg" if --homedir aint used).

.TP
.B  --status-fd \fIn\fR
Write special status strings ta tha file descriptor \fIn\fR.  See the
file DETAILS up in tha documentation fo' a listin of em.

.TP
.B  --logger-fd \fBn\fR
Write log output ta file descriptor \fBn\fR n' not ta stderr.

.TP
.B  --ignore-time-conflict
GnuPG normally checks dat tha timestamps associated wit keys and
signatures have plausible joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat sometimes a signature seems to
be olda than tha key cuz of clock problems. This option turns these
checks tha fuck into warnings.

.TP
.B  --homedir \fIdir\fR
Set tha name of tha home directory ta \fIdir\fR. If dis option is not
used, tha home directory defaults ta \(oq\fI~/.gnupg\fR\(cq.  It be only
recognized when given on tha command line.  It also overrides any home
directory stated all up in tha environment variable \(oq\fIGNUPGHOME\fR\(cq or
(on Windows systems) by meanz of tha Registry entry
\fIHKCU\\Software\\GNU\\GnuPG:HomeDir\fR.

On Windows systems it is possible ta install GnuPG as a portable
application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In dis case only dis command line option is
considered, all other ways ta set a home directory is ignored.

To install GnuPG as a portable application under Windows, create an
empty file name \(oq\fIgpgconf.ctl\fR\(cq up in tha same directory as tha tool
\(oq\fIgpgconf.exe\fR\(cq.  Da root of tha installation is than that
directory; or, if \(oq\fIgpgconf.exe\fR\(cq has been installed directly below
a directory named \(oq\fIbin\fR\(cq, its parent directory.  Yo ass also need to
make shizzle dat tha followin directories exist n' is writable:
\(oq\fIROOT/home\fR\(cq fo' tha GnuPG home n' \(oq\fIROOT/var/cache/gnupg\fR\(cq
for internal cache files.


.SH EXAMPLES


.TP
.B  gpgv \fBpgpfile\fR
.TP
.B  gpgv \fBsigfile\fR [\fBdatafile\fR]
Verify tha signature of tha file. Da second form is used fo' detached
signatures, where \fBsigfile\fR is tha detached signature (either
ASCII-armored or binary) n' \fBdatafile\fR gotz nuff tha signed data;
if \fBdatafile\fR is "-" tha signed data is expected on
\fBstdin\fR; if \fBdatafile\fR aint given tha name of tha file
holdin tha signed data is constructed by cuttin off tha extension
(".asc", ".sig" or ".sign") from \fBsigfile\fR.


.SH FILES


.TP
.B  ~/.gnupg/trustedkeys.gpg
Da default keyrin wit tha allowed keys.


.SH ENVIRONMENT


.TP
.B  HOME
Used ta locate tha default home directory.

.TP
.B  GNUPGHOME
If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg".


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg2\fR(1)

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.

