.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH GPGV2 1 2014-08-05 "GnuPG 2.0.25" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B gpgv2
\- Verify OpenPGP signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpgv2
.RI [ options ]
.I signed_files



.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgpgv2\fR be a OpenPGP signature verification tool.

This program is straight-up a stripped-down version of \fBgpg\fR which is
only able ta check signatures. Well shiiiit, it is somewhat smalla than tha fully-blown
\fBgpg\fR n' uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different (and simpler) way ta check that
the hood keys used ta make tha signature is valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! There are
no configuration filez n' only all dem options is implemented.

\fBgpgv2\fR assumes dat all keys up in tha keyrin is trustworthy.
By default it uses a keyrin named \(oq\fItrustedkeys.gpg\fR\(cq which is
assumed ta be up in tha home directory as defined by GnuPG or set by an
option or a environment variable fo' realz. An option may be used ta specify
another keyrin or even multiple keyrings.


.SH RETURN VALUE

Da program returns 0 if every last muthafuckin thang is fine, 1 if at least
one signature was bad, n' other error codes fo' fatal errors.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBgpgv2\fR recognizes these options:


.TP
.B  --verbose
.TP
.B  -v
Gives mo' shiznit durin processing. If used
twice, tha input data is listed up in detail.

.TP
.B  --quiet
.TP
.B  -q
Try ta be as on tha down-low as possible.

.TP
.B  --keyrin \fIfile\fR
Add \fIfile\fR ta tha list of keyrings.
If \fIfile\fR begins wit a tilde n' a slash, these
are replaced by tha HOME directory. If tha filename
does not contain a slash, it be assumed ta be up in the
home-directory ("~/.gnupg" if --homedir aint used).

.TP
.B  --status-fd \fIn\fR
Write special status strings ta tha file descriptor \fIn\fR.  See the
file DETAILS up in tha documentation fo' a listin of em.

.TP
.B  --logger-fd \fBn\fR
Write log output ta file descriptor \fBn\fR n' not ta stderr.

.TP
.B  --ignore-time-conflict
GnuPG normally checks dat tha timestamps associated wit keys and
signatures have plausible joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat sometimes a signature seems to
be olda than tha key cuz of clock problems. This option turns these
checks tha fuck into warnings.

.TP
.B  --homedir \fIdir\fR
Set tha name of tha home directory ta \fIdir\fR. If dis option is not
used, tha home directory defaults ta \(oq\fI~/.gnupg\fR\(cq.  It be only
recognized when given on tha command line.  It also overrides any home
directory stated all up in tha environment variable \(oq\fIGNUPGHOME\fR\(cq or
(on W32 systems) by meanz of tha Registry entry
\fIHKCU\\Software\\GNU\\GnuPG:HomeDir\fR.



.SH EXAMPLES


.TP
.B  gpgv2 \fBpgpfile\fR
.TP
.B  gpgv2 \fBsigfile\fR [\fBdatafile\fR]
Verify tha signature of tha file. Da second form is used fo' detached
signatures, where \fBsigfile\fR is tha detached signature (either
ASCII-armored or binary) n' \fBdatafile\fR gotz nuff tha signed data;
if \fBdatafile\fR is "-" tha signed data is expected on
\fBstdin\fR; if \fBdatafile\fR aint given tha name of tha file
holdin tha signed data is constructed by cuttin off tha extension
(".asc", ".sig" or ".sign") from \fBsigfile\fR.


.SH FILES


.TP
.B  ~/.gnupg/trustedkeys.gpg
Da default keyrin wit tha allowed keys.


.SH ENVIRONMENT


.TP
.B  HOME
Used ta locate tha default home directory.

.TP
.B  GNUPGHOME
If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg".


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg2\fR(1)

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.




