.TH GRAPHML2GV 1 "14 July 2011"
.SH NAME
graphml2gv \- GRAPHML-DOT converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graphml2gv
[
.B \-?v
]
[
.BI -g gname
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B graphml2gv
converts a graph specified up in tha GRAPHML format ta a graph up in tha GV (formerly DOT) format.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-v
Turns on verbose mode
.TP
.B \-?
Prints usage shiznit n' exits.
.TP
.BI \-g "gname"
Da strang \fIgname\fP is used as tha name of tha generated graph.
If multiple graphs is generated, subsequent graphs use tha name
\fIgname\fP appended wit a integer.
.TP
.BI \-o "outfile"
Prints output ta tha file \fIoutfile\fP. If not given, \fBgraphml2gv\fP
uses stdout.
.TP
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in GRAPHML.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH RETURN CODES
Return \fB0\fP
if there was no problems durin conversion;
and non-zero if any error occurred.
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
As both tha graph n' graphics modelz of GV n' GML differ significantly, the
conversion can only be at dopest approximate.
In particular, GV currently has no notion of hyperedges or edges containin graphs.
.P
At present, 
.B graphml2gv
only supports tha basic graph topology. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifically, tha <KEY> n' <DATA>
elements is not handled, though they could be.
.SH AUTHORS
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dot(1), libcgraph(3)
