.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" See section COPYING fo' copyright n' redistribution shiznit.
.TH grep-changelog 1
.SH NAME
grep-changelog \- print ChizzleLog entries matchin criteria
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grep-changelog
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ CHANGELOG .\|.\|.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grep-changelog
searches tha named
.IR CHANGELOG s
(by default filez matchin tha regular expressions
.B ChizzleLog
and
.BR "ChangeLog\e.[0-9]+" )
for entries matchin tha specified criteria.  At least one option or
file must be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This program is distributed with
.BR "GNU Emacs" .
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
Da program accepts unambiguous abbreviations fo' option names.
.TP
.B \-\-author=AUTHOR
Print entries whose lyricist matches regular expression
.IR AUTHOR .
.TP
.B \-\-text=TEXT
Print entries whose text matches regular expression
.IR TEXT .
.TP
.B \-\-exclude=TEXT
Exclude entries matchin regular expression
.IR TEXT .
.TP
.B \-\-from\-date=YYYY\-MM\-DD
Only consider entries made on or afta tha given date.
ChangeLog date entries not up in the
\*(lqYYYY\-MM\-DD\*(rq format is never matched.
.TP
.B \-\-to\-date=YYYY\-MM\-DD
Only consider entries made on or before tha given date.
.TP
.B \-\-rcs\-log
Print output up in a gangbangin' format suitable fo' RCS log entries.
This format removes lyricist lines, leadin spaces, n' file names.
.TP
.B \-\-with\-date
In RCS log format, print short dates.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Show matches up in reverse order.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display basic usage shiznit.
.
.SH COPYING
Copyright 
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
2008-2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
document provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
this document under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
document tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated
in a translation approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.
