.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH grl-inspect 1 "June 28, 2011"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
grl-inspect \- show shiznit on some Grilo source or plugin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grl-inspect
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ source ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B grl-inspect
command.
.PP
\fBgrl-inspect\fP be a tool dat prints up shiznit on available Grilo
sources. When executed wit no SOURCE argument, grl-inspect will print
the list of all plugins n' sources. When executed wit a SOURCE,
grl-inspect will print shiznit bout dat source.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of grl-inspect options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-grl
Show summary of Grilo options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show summary of all options.
.TP
.BI \-d,\ \-\-delay " seconds"
Wait fo' some secondz before showin thangs up in dis biatch. Useful when plugins may
need some time fo' tha source discovery process (example: UPnP).
If not specified, by default it waits 1 second.
.TP
.BI \-c,\ \-\-config " config-file"
Configuration file ta use wit tha plugins.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Alberto Garcia <agarcia@igalia.com>.
