.ig
groff.man

Copyright (C) 1989, 2002-2009, 2011
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
Rewritten up in 2002 by Bernd Warken <groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de>

Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document
under tha termz of tha GNU Jacked Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; wit the
Invariant Sections bein dis .ig-section n' AUTHOR, wit no
Front-Cover Texts, n' wit no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of tha Jacked Documentation License is included as a gangbangin' file called
FDL up in tha main directory of tha groff source package.
..
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Environment variable
.de EnvVar
.  SM
.  BR \%\\$1 \\$2
..
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" `char or string'
.de Quoted
.  ft CR
\[oq]\\$*\[cq]
.  ft
..
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Title
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH GROFF 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.SH NAME
groff \- front-end fo' tha groff document formattin system
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SY groff
.OP \-abcegijklpstzCEGNRSUVXZ
.OP \-d cs
.OP \-D arg
.OP \-f fam
.OP \-F dir
.OP \-I dir
.OP \-K arg
.OP \-L arg
.OP \-m name
.OP \-M dir
.OP \-n num
.OP \-o list
.OP \-P arg
.OP \-r cn
.OP \-T dev
.OP \-w name
.OP \-W name
.RI [ file\~ .\|.\|.]
.
.SY groff
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help
.
.SY groff
.B \-v
|
.B \-\-version
.RI [ option\~ .\|.\|.]
.YS
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
This document raps bout the
.B groff
program, tha main front-end fo' tha 
.I groff
document formattin system.
.
The
.I groff
program n' macro suite is tha implementation of a
.BR roff (7)
system within tha free software collection
.UR http://\:www.gnu.org
GNU
.UE .
.
The
.I groff
system has all featurez of tha classical
.IR roff ,
but addz nuff extensions.
.
.P
The
.B groff
program allows ta control tha whole
.I groff
system by command line options.
.
This be a pimped out simplification up in comparison ta tha old-ass case (which
uses pipes only).
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
Da command line is parsed accordin ta tha usual \f[CR]GNU\f[]
convention.
.
Da whitespace between a cold-ass lil command line option n' its argument is
optional.
.
Options can be grouped behind a single `\-' (minus character).
.
A filename of
.B \-
(minus character) denotes tha standard input.
.
.P
.
As
.B groff
is a wrapper program for
.B troff
both programs share a set of options.
.
But the
.B groff
program has some additional, natizzle options n' gives a freshly smoked up meanin to
some
.B troff
options.
.
On tha other hand, not all
.B troff
options can be fed into
.BR groff .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Natizzle groff Options
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da followin options either do not exist for
.B troff
or is differently interpreted by
.BR groff .
.
.
.TP
.BI \-D\  arg
Set default input encodin used by
.B preconv
to
.IR arg .
.
Implies
.BR \-k .
.
.
.TP
.B \-e
Preprocess with
.BR eqn .
.
.
.TP
.B \-g
Preprocess with
.BR grn .
.
.
.TP
.B \-G
Preprocess with
.BR grap .
.
Implies
.BR \-p .
.
.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Print a help message.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-I\  dir
This option may be used ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta search for
filez (both dem on tha command line n' dem named in
.B .psbb
and
.B .so
requests, and
.B \eX'ps: import'
and
.B \eX'ps: file'
escapes).
Da current directory be always searched first.
This option may be specified mo' than once;
the directories is searched up in tha order specified.
No directory search is performed fo' filez specified rockin a absolute path.
This option implies the
.B \-s
option.
.
.
.TP
.B \-j
Preprocess with
.BR chem .
.
Implies
.BR \-p .
.
.
.TP
.B \-k
Preprocess with
.BR preconv .
This is run before any other preprocessor.
.
Please refer to
.BR preconv 's
manual page fo' its behaviour if no
.B \-K
(or
.BR \-D )
option is specified.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-K\  arg
Set input encodin used by
.B preconv
to
.IR arg .
.
Implies
.BR \-k .
.
.
.TP
.B \-l
Send tha output ta a spoola program fo' printing.
.
Da command dat should be used fo' dis is specified by the
.B print
command up in tha thang description file, see
.BR \%groff_font (5).
If dis command aint present, tha output is piped tha fuck into the
.BR lpr (1)
program by default.
.
See options
.B \-L
and
.BR \-X .
.
.
.TP
.BI \-L\  arg
Pass
.I arg
to tha spoola program.
Several arguments should be passed wit a separate
-L
option each.
.
Note that
.B groff
does not prepend
`-'
(a minus sign) to
.I arg
before passin it ta tha spoola program.
.
.
.TP
.B \-N
Don't allow newlines within
.I eqn
delimiters.
.
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.B \-N
option in
.BR eqn .
.
.
.TP
.B \-p
Preprocess with
.BR pic .
.
.
.TP
.BI \-P\  \-option
.TQ
.BI \-P\  \-option \ \-P\  arg
Pass
.I \-option
or
.I "\-option\~arg"
to tha postprocessor.
.
Da option must be specified wit tha necessary precedin minus
sign(s)
.Quoted -
or
.Quoted --
because
.B groff
does not prepend any dashes before passin it ta tha postprocessor.
.
For example, ta pass a title ta the
.B \%gxditview
postprocessor, tha shell command
.
.RS
.IP
.EX
groff -X -P -title -P 'groff it' \f[I]foo\f[]
.EE
.RE
.
.IP
is equivalent to
.
.RS
.IP
.EX
groff -X -Z \f[I]foo\f[] | \
gxditview -title 'groff it' -
.EE
.RE
.
.
.TP
.B \-R
Preprocess with
.BR refer .
.
No mechanizzle is provided fo' passin arguments ta 
.B refer
because most
.B refer
options have equivalent language elements dat can be specified within
the document.
.
See
.BR \%refer (1)
for mo' details.
.
.
.TP
.B \-s
Preprocess with
.BR soelim .
.
.
.TP
.B \-S
Safer mode.
.
Pass the
.B \-S
option to
.B pic
and disable tha following
.B troff
requests:
.BR .open ,
.BR .opena ,
.BR .pso ,
.BR .sy ,
and
.BR .pi .
For securitizzle reasons, less thuggy mode is enabled by default.
.
.
.TP
.B \-t
Preprocess with
.BR tbl .
.
.
.TP
.BI \-T\  dev
Set output thang to
.IR dev .
For dis device,
.B troff
generates the
.I intermediate
.IR output ;
see
.BR \%groff_out (5).
.
Then
.B groff
calls a postprocessor ta convert
.BR troff 's
.I intermediate output
to its final format.
.
Real devices in
.B groff
are
.
.RS
.RS
.TP
dvi
TeX DVI format (postprocessor is
.BR grodvi ).
.
.TP
html
.TQ
xhtml
HTML n' XHTML output (preprocessors are
.B soelim
and
.BR \%pre-grohtml ,
postprocessor is
.BR \%post-grohtml ).
.
.TP
lbp
Canon CAPSL printas (\%LBP-4 n' \%LBP-8 series laser printers;
postprocessor is
.BR grolbp ).
.
.TP
lj4
HP LaserJet4 compatible (or other PCL5 compatible) printas (postprocessor
is
.BR grolj4 ).
.
.TP
ps
PostScript output (postprocessor is
.BR grops ).
.
.TP
pdf
Portable Document Format (PDF) output (postprocessor is
.BR gropdf ).
.RE
.RE
.
.
.IP
For tha followin TTY output devices (postprocessor be always
.BR grotty ),
.B \-T
selects tha output encoding:
.
.RS
.RS
.TP
ascii
7bit \f[CR]ASCII\f[].
.
.TP
cp1047
\%Latin-1 characta set fo' EBCDIC hosts.
.
.TP
latin1
ISO \%8859-1.
.
.TP
utf8
Unicode characta set up in \%UTF-8 encoding.
.RE
.RE
.
.
.IP
Da followin arguments select
.B \%gxditview
as tha `postprocessor' (it is rather a viewin program):
.
.RS
.RS
.TP
X75
75\|dpi resolution, 10\|pt document base font.
.TP
X75-12
75\|dpi resolution, 12\|pt document base font.
.TP
X100
100\|dpi resolution, 10\|pt document base font.
.TP
X100-12
100\|dpi resolution, 12\|pt document base font.
.RE
.RE
.
.IP
Da default thang is
.BR ps .
.
.
.TP
.B \-U
Unsafe mode.
.
Reverts ta tha (old) unsafe behaviour; peep option
.BR \-S .
.
.
.TP
.B \-v
.TQ
.B \-\-version
Output version shiznit of
.B groff
and of all programs dat is run by it; dat is, tha given command line
is parsed up in tha usual way, passing
.B \-v
to all subprograms.
.
.
.TP
.B \-V
Output tha pipeline dat would be run by
.BR groff
(as a wrapper program) on tha standard output yo, but do not execute dat shit.
If given mo' than once,
the commandz is both printed on tha standard error n' run.
.
.
.TP
.B \-X
Use
.B \%gxditview
instead of rockin tha usual postprocessor ta (pre)view a thugged-out document.
.
Da printin spoola behavior as outlined wit options
.B \-l
and
.B \-L 
is carried over ta 
.BR \%gxditview (1)
by determinin a argument fo' the
.B \-printCommand
option of
.BR \%gxditview (1).
.
This sets tha default
.B Print
action n' tha correspondin menu entry ta dat value.
.
.B \-X
only produces phat thangs up in dis biatch with
.BR \-Tps ,
.BR \-TX75 ,
.BR \-TX75-12 ,
.BR \-TX100 ,
and
.BR \-TX100-12 .
.
Da default resolution fo' peepshowing
.B \-Tps
output is 75\|dpi; dis can be chizzled by passin the
.B \-resolution
option to
.BR \%gxditview ,
for example
.
.RS
.IP
.EX
groff -X -P-resolution -P100 -man foo.1
.EE
.RE
.
.
.TP
.B \-z
Suppress output generated by
.BR troff .
Only error lyrics is printed.
.
.
.TP
.B \-Z
Do not automatically postprocess
.I groff intermediate output
in tha usual manner.
This will cause the
.B troff
.I output
to step tha fuck up on standard output,
replacin tha usual postprocessor output; see
.BR \%groff_out (5).
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Transparent Options
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da followin options is transparently handed over ta tha formatter
program
.B troff
that is called by
.B groff
subsequently.
.
These options is busted lyrics bout up in mo' detail in
.BR troff (1).
.
.TP
.B \-a
\f[CR]ASCII\f[] approximation of output.
.
.TP
.B \-b
Backtrace on error or warning.
.
.TP
.B \-c
Disable color output.
.
Please consult the
.BR \%grotty (1)
man page fo' mo' details.
.
.TP
.B \-C
Enable compatibilitizzle mode.
.
.TP
.BI \-d\  cs
.TQ
.BI \-d\  name = s
Define string.
.
.TP
.B \-E
Disable
.B troff
error lyrics.
.
.TP
.BI \-f\  fam
Set default font crew.
.
.TP
.BI \-F\  dir
Set path fo' font DESC files.
.
.TP
.B \-i
Process standard input afta tha specified input files.
.
.TP
.BI \-m\  name
Include macro file
.IB name .tmac
(or
.BI tmac. name\c
); peep also
.BR \%groff_tmac (5).
.
.TP
.BI \-M\  dir
Path fo' macro files.
.
.TP
.BI \-n\  num
Number tha straight-up original gangsta page
.IR num .
.
.TP
.BI \-o\  list
Output only pages in
.IR list .
.
.TP
.BI \-r\  cn
.TQ
.BI \-r\  name = n
Set number register.
.
.TP
.BI \-w\  name
Enable warning
.IR name .
See
.BR troff (1)
for names.
.
.TP
.BI \-W\  name
disable warning
.IR name .
See
.BR troff (1)
for names.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "USING GROFF"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
The
.I groff system
implements tha infrastructure of old-ass roff; see
.BR roff (7)
for a survey on how tha fuck a
.I roff
system works up in general.
.
Cuz of tha front-end programs available within the
.I groff
system, using
.I groff
is much easier than
.IR "classical roff" .
.
This section gives a overview of tha parts dat constitute the
.I groff
system.
.
It complements
.BR roff (7)
with
.IR groff -specific
features.
.
This section can be regarded as a guide ta tha documentation around
the
.I groff
system.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Paper Size
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
The
.I virtual
paper size used by
.B troff
to format tha input is controlled globally wit tha requests
.BR .po ,
.BR .pl ,
and
.BR .ll .
See
.BR groff_tmac (5)
for tha `papersize' macro package which serves up a cold-ass lil convenient intercourse.
.
.P
The
.I physical
paper size, givin tha actual dimensionz of tha paper sheets, is
controlled by output devices like
.BR grops
with tha command line options
.B \-p
and
.BR \-l .
See
.BR groff_font (5)
and tha playa pagez of tha output devices fo' mo' details.
.B groff
uses tha command line option
.B \-P
to pass options ta output devices; fo' example, tha followin selects
A4 paper up in landscape orientation fo' tha PS device:
.
.IP
.EX
groff -Tps -P-pa4 -P-l ...
.EE
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Front-ends
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
The
.B groff
program be a wrapper round the
.BR troff (1)
program.
.
It allows ta specify tha preprocessors by command line options and
automatically runs tha postprocessor dat be appropriate fo' the
selected device.
.
Bustin so, tha sometimes tedious pipin mechanizzle of classical
.BR roff (7)
can be avoided.
.
.P
The
.BR grog (1)
program can be used fo' guessin tha erect
.I groff
command line ta format a gangbangin' file.
.
.P
The
.BR \%groffer (1)
program be a allround-viewer for
.I groff
filez n' playa pages.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Preprocessors
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
The
.I groff
preprocessors is reimplementationz of tha old-ass preprocessors
with moderate extensions.
.
Da standard preprocessors distributed wit the
.I groff
package are
.
.TP
.BR eqn (1)
for mathematical formul\(ae,
.
.TP
.BR grn (1)
for including
.BR gremlin (1)
pictures,
.
.TP
.BR pic (1)
for drawin diagrams,
.
.TP
.BR chem (1)
for chemical structure diagrams,
.
.TP
.BR \%refer (1)
for bibliographic references,
.
.TP
.BR \%soelim (1)
for includin macro filez from standard locations,
.
.P
and
.
.TP
.BR tbl (1)
for tables.
.
.P
A freshly smoked up preprocessor not available up in classical
.I troff
is
.BR \%preconv (1)
which converts various input encodings ta something
.B groff
can understand.
.
It be always run first before any other preprocessor.
.
.P
Besides these, there be some internal preprocessors dat are
automatically run wit some devices.
.
These aren't visible ta tha user.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "Macro Packages"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Macro packages can be included by option
.BR \-m .
.
The
.I groff
system implements n' extendz all old-ass macro packages up in a
compatible way n' addz some packagez of its own.
.
Actually, tha followin macro packages come with
.IR groff :
.
.TP
.B man
Da traditionizzle playa page format; see
.BR \%groff_man (7).
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \-man
or
.BR \-m\~man .
.
.TP
.B mandoc
Da general package fo' playa pages; it automatically recognizes
whether tha documents uses the
.I man
or the
.I mdoc
format n' branches ta tha correspondin macro package.
.
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \%\-mandoc
or
.BR \-m\~\%mandoc .
.
.TP
.B mdoc
Da \f[CR]BSD\f[]-style playa page format; see
.BR \%groff_mdoc (7).
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \-mdoc
or
.BR \-m\~mdoc .
.
.TP
.B me
Da classical
.I me
document format; see
.BR \%groff_me (7).
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \-me
or
.BR \-m\~me .
.
.TP
.B mm
Da classical
.I mm
document format; see
.BR \%groff_mm (7).
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \-mm
or
.BR \-m\~mm .
.
.TP
.B ms
Da classical
.I ms
document format; see
.BR \%groff_ms (7).
It can be specified on tha command line as
.B \-ms
or
.BR \-m\~ms .
.
.TP
.B www
HTML-like macros fo' inclusion up in arbitrary
.I groff
documents; see
.BR \%groff_www (7).
.
.P
Details on tha namin of macro filez n' they placement can be found
in
.BR \%groff_tmac (5);
this playa page also documents some other, minor auxiliary macro packages
not mentioned here.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "Programmin Language"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
General concepts common ta all
.I roff
programmin languages is busted lyrics bout in
.BR roff (7).
.
.P
The
.I groff
extensions ta tha classical
.I troff
language is documented in
.BR \%groff_diff (7).
.
.P
The
.I groff
language as a whole is busted lyrics bout up in tha (still incomplete)
.IR "groff info file" ;
a short (but complete) reference can be found in
.BR groff (7).
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Formatters
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da central
.I roff
formatta within the
.I groff
system is
.BR troff (1).
It serves up tha featurez of both tha classical
.I troff
and
.IR nroff ,
as well as the
.I groff
extensions.
.
Da command line option
.B \-C
switches
.B troff
into
.I "compatibilitizzle mode"
which tries ta emulate classical
.I roff
as much as possible.
.
.P
There be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script
.BR nroff (1)
that emulates tha behavior of classical
.BR nroff .
.
It tries ta automatically select tha proper output encoding, accordin to
the current locale.
.
.P
Da formatta program generates
.IR "intermediate output" ;
see
.BR \%groff_out (7).
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Devices
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
In
.IR roff ,
the output targets is called
.IR devices .
A thang can be a piece of hardware, e.g., a printer, or a software
file format.
.
A thang is specified by tha option
.BR \-T .
The
.I groff
devices is as bigs up.
.
.TP
.B ascii
Text output rockin the
.BR ascii (7)
characta set.
.
.TP
.B cp1047
Text output rockin tha EBCDIC code page IBM cp1047 (e.g., OS/390 Unix).
.
.TP
.B dvi
TeX DVI format.
.
.TP
.B html
HTML output.
.
.TP
.B latin1
Text output rockin tha ISO \%Latin-1 (ISO \%8859-1) characta set; see
.BR \%iso_8859_1 (7).
.
.TP
.B lbp
Output fo' Canon CAPSL printas (\%LBP-4 n' \%LBP-8 series laser printers).
.
.TP 
.B lj4
HP LaserJet4-compatible (or other PCL5-compatible) printers.
.
.TP
.B ps
PostScript output; suitable fo' printas n' peepshowers like
.BR gv (1).
.
.TP
.B pdf
PDF files; suitable fo' viewin wit tools such as
.BR evince (1)
and 
.BR okular (1).
.
.TP
.B utf8
Text output rockin tha Unicode (ISO 10646) characta set wit \%UTF-8
encoding; see
.BR unicode (7).
.
.TP
.B xhtml
XHTML output.
.
.TP
.B X75
75dpi X Window System output suitable fo' tha peepshowers
.BR \%xditview (1x)
and
.BR \%gxditview (1).
.
A variant fo' a 12\|pt document base font is
.BR \%X75-12 .
.
.TP
.B X100
100dpi X Window System output suitable fo' tha peepshowers
.BR \%xditview (1x)
and
.BR \%gxditview (1).
.
A variant fo' a 12\|pt document base font is
.BR \%X100-12 .
.
.P
Da postprocessor ta be used fo' a thang is specified by the
.B postpro
command up in tha thang description file; see
.BR \%groff_font (5).
.
This can be overridden wit the
.B -X
option.
.
.P
Da default thang is
.BR ps .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Postprocessors
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.I groff
provides 3\~hardware postprocessors:
.
.TP
.BR \%grolbp (1)
for some Canon printers,
.
.TP
.BR \%grolj4 (1)
for printas compatible ta tha HP LaserJet\~4 n' PCL5,
.
.TP
.BR \%grotty (1)
for text output rockin various encodings, e.g., on text-oriented
terminals or line-printers.
.
.P
Today, most printin or drawin hardware is handled by tha operating
system, by thang drivers, or by software intercourses, probably accepting
PostScript.
.
Consequently, there aint a urgent need fo' mo' hardware device
postprocessors.
.
.P
The
.I groff
software devices fo' conversion tha fuck into other document file formats are
.
.TP
.BR \%grodvi (1)
for tha DVI format,
.
.TP
.BR \%grohtml (1)
for HTML n' XHTML formats,
.
.TP
.BR grops (1)
for PostScript.
.
.TP
.BR gropdf (1)
for PDF.
.
.P
Combined wit tha nuff existin free conversion tools dis should
be sufficient ta convert a
.I troff
document tha fuck into virtually any existin data format.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Utilities
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da followin utilitizzle programs around
.I groff
are available.
.
.TP
.BR \%addftinfo (1)
Add shiznit to
.I troff
font description filez fo' use with
.IR groff .
.
.TP
.BR \%afmtodit (1)
Smoke font description filez fo' PostScript device.
.
.TP
.BR \%eqn2graph (1)
Convert an
.B eqn
image tha fuck into a cold-ass lil cropped image.
.
.TP
.BR \%gdiffmk (1)
Mark differences between
.IR groff ,
.IR nroff ,
or
.I troff
files.
.
.TP
.BR \%grap2graph (1)
Convert a
.B grap
diagram tha fuck into a cold-ass lil cropped bitmap image.
.
.TP
.BR \%groffer (1)
General viewer program for
.I groff
filez n' playa pages.
.
.TP
.BR \%gxditview (1)
The
.I groff
X viewer, tha \f[CR]GNU\f[] version of
.BR xditview .
.
.TP
.BR \%hpftodit (1)
Smoke font description filez fo' lj4 device.
.
.TP
.BR \%indxbib (1)
Make inverted index fo' bibliographic databases.
.
.TP
.BR lkbib (1)
Search bibliographic databases.
.
.TP
.BR \%lookbib (1)
Interactively search bibliographic databases.
.
.TP
.BR \%pdfroff (1)
Smoke PDF documents using
.BR groff .
.
.TP
.BR \%pfbtops (1)
Translate a PostScript font up in .pfb format ta \f[CR]ASCII\f[].
.
.TP
.BR \%pic2graph (1)
Convert a
.B pic
diagram tha fuck into a cold-ass lil cropped image.
.
.TP
.BR \%tfmtodit (1)
Smoke font description filez fo' TeX DVI device.
.
.TP
.BR \%xditview (1x)
.I roff
viewer distributed wit X window.
.
.TP
.BR \%xtotroff (1)
Convert X font metrics tha fuck into \f[CR]GNU\f[]
.I troff
font metrics.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Normally, tha path separator up in tha followin environment variablez is the
colon; dis may vary dependin on tha operatin system.
.
For example, DOS n' Windows bust a semicolon instead.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_BIN_PATH
This search path, followed by
.EnvVar $PATH ,
is used fo' commandz dat is executed by
.BR groff .
.
If it aint set then tha directory where the
.I groff
binaries was installed is prepended to
.EnvVar PATH .
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_COMMAND_PREFIX
When there be a need ta run different
.I roff
implementations all up in tha same time
.I groff
provides tha facilitizzle ta prepend a prefix ta most of its programs that
could provoke name clashings at run time (default is ta have none).
.
Historically, dis prefix was tha character
.BR g ,
but it can be anything.
.
For example,
.BR gtroff
stood for
.IR groff 's
.BR troff ,
.BR gtbl
for the
.I groff
version of
.BR tbl .
.
By setting
.EnvVar GROFF_COMMAND_PREFIX
to different joints, tha different
.I roff
installations can be addressed.
.
Mo' exactly, if it is set ta prefix
.I xxx
then
.B groff
as a wrapper program internally calls
.IB xxx troff
instead of
.BR troff .
This also applies ta tha preprocessors
.BR eqn ,
.BR grn ,
.BR pic ,
.BR \%refer ,
.BR tbl ,
.BR \%soelim ,
and ta tha utilities
.B \%indxbib
and
.BR \%lookbib .
.
This feature do not apply ta any programs different from tha ones
above (most notably
.B groff
itself) since they is unique ta the
.I groff
package.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_ENCODING
Da value of dis environment value is passed ta the
.B preconv
preprocessor ta select tha encodin of input files.
.
Settin dis option implies
.BR groff 's
command line option
.B \-k
(this is,
.B groff
actually always calls
.BR preconv ).
.
If set without a value,
.B groff
calls
.B preconv
without arguments.
.
An explicit
.B \-K
command line option overrides tha value of 
.EnvVar GROFF_ENCODING .
.
See
.BR preconv (1)
for details.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_FONT_PATH
A list of directories up in which ta search fo' the
.BI dev name
directory up in addizzle ta tha default ones.
.
See
.BR troff (1)
and
.BR \%groff_font (5)
for mo' details.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_TMAC_PATH
A list of directories up in which ta search fo' macro filez up in addizzle to
the default directories.
.
See
.BR troff (1)
and
.BR \%groff_tmac (5)
for mo' details.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_TMPDIR
Da directory up in which temporary filez is pimped.
.
If dis aint set but tha environment variable
.EnvVar TMPDIR
instead, temporary filez is pimped up in tha directory
.EnvVar $TMPDIR .
On MS-DOS n' Windows\~32 platforms, tha environment variables
.EnvVar TMP
and
.EnvVar TEMP
(in dat order) is searched also, after
.EnvVar GROFF_TMPDIR
and
.EnvVar TMPDIR .
.
Otherwise, temporary filez is pimped in
.BR /tmp .
The
.BR \%refer (1),
.BR \%groffer (1),
.BR \%grohtml (1),
and
.BR grops (1)
commandz use temporary files.
.
.
.TP
.EnvVar GROFF_TYPESETTER
Preset tha default device.
.
If dis aint set the
.B ps
device is used as default.
.
This thang name is overwritten by tha option
.BR \-T .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
There is some directories up in which
.I groff
installs all of its data files.
.
Cuz of different installation habits on different operatin systems,
their locations is not straight-up fixed yo, but they function is
clearly defined n' coincides on all systems.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "groff Macro Directory"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
This gotz nuff all shiznit related ta macro packages.
.
Note dat mo' than a single directory is searched fo' dem files
as documented in
.BR \%groff_tmac (5).
.
For the
.I groff
installation correspondin ta dis document, it is located at
.IR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac .
.
Da followin filez contained up in the
.I groff macro directory
have a special meaning:
.
.
.TP
.B troffrc
Initialization file for
.IR troff .
.
This is interpreted by
.B troff
before readin tha macro sets n' any input.
.
.
.TP
.B troffrc-end
Final startup file for
.IR troff .
.
It be parsed afta all macro sets done been read.
.
.
.TP
.IB name .tmac
.TQ
.BI tmac. name
Macro file fo' macro package
.IR name .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "groff Font Directory"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
This gotz nuff all shiznit related ta output devices.
.
Note dat mo' than a single directory is searched fo' dem files; see
.BR troff (1).
.
For the
.I groff
installation correspondin ta dis document, it is located at
.IR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font .
.
Da followin filez contained up in the
.I "groff font directory"
have a special meaning:
.
.
.TP
.BI dev name /DESC
Device description file fo' device
.IR name ,
see
.BR \%groff_font (5).
.
.
.TP
.BI dev name / F
Font file fo' font
.I F
of device
.IR name .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da followin example illustrates tha juice of the
.B groff
program as a wrapper around
.BR troff .
.
.P
To process a
.I roff
file rockin tha preprocessors
.B tbl
and
.B pic
and the
.B me
macro set, classical
.I troff
had ta be called by
.
.IP
.EX
pic foo.me | tbl | troff -me -Tlatin1 | grotty
.EE
.
.P
Using
.BR groff ,
this pipe can be shortened ta tha equivalent command
.
.IP
.EX
groff -p -t -me -T latin1 foo.me
.EE
.
.P
An even easier way ta booty-call dis is ta use
.BR grog (1)
to guess tha preprocessor n' macro options n' execute tha generated
command (by rockin backquotes ta specify shell command substitution)
.
.IP
.EX
\`grog -Tlatin1 foo.me\`
.EE
.
.P
Da simplest way is ta view tha contents up in a automated way by
calling
.
.IP
.EX
groffer foo.me
.EE
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.P
On \f[CR]EBCDIC\f[] hosts (e.g., \f[CR]OS/390 Unix\f[]), output
devices
.B ascii
and
.B latin1
aren't available.
.
Similarly, output fo' \f[CR]EBCDIC\f[] code page
.B cp1047
is not available on \f[CR]ASCII\f[] based operatin systems.
.
.P
Report bugs to
.MT bug-groff@gnu.org
the groff malin list
.ME .
.
Include a cold-ass lil complete, self-contained example dat allows tha bug to
be reproduced, n' say which version of
.I groff
yo ass is using.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AVAILABILITY
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Hype on how tha fuck ta get
.I groff
and related shiznit be available at the
.UR http://\:www.gnu.org/\:software/\:groff
groff GNU joint
.UE .
.
Da most recent busted out version of
.I groff
is available at the
.UR http://\:groff.ffii.org/\:groff/\:devel/\:groff-current.tar.gz
groff pimpment crib
.UE .
.
.P
Three
.I groff
mailin lists is available:
.IP
.MT bug-groff@gnu.org
for reportin bugs
.ME .
.
.IP
.MT groff@gnu.org
for general rap of
.IR groff ,
.ME .
.IP
.MT groff-commit@ffii.org
the groff commit list
.ME ,
a read-only list showin logz of commitments ta tha CVS repository.
.
.P
Details on CVS access n' much mo' can be found up in tha file
.B README
at tha top directory of the
.I groff
source package.
.
.P
There be a gangbangin' free implementation of the
.B grap
preprocessor, freestyled by
.MT faber@lunabase.org
Ted Faber
.ME .
.
Da actual version can be found at the
.
.UR http://\:www.lunabase.org/\:~faber/\:Vault/\:software/\:grap/
grap joint
.UE .
This is tha only grap version supported by
.IR groff .
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHORS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Copyright \(co 2011
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.
.P
This document is distributed under tha termz of tha \f[CR]FDL\f[]
(\f[CR]GNU Jacked Documentation License\f[]) version 1.3 or later.
.
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha \f[CR]FDL\f[] on yo' system,
it be also available on-line at the
.UR http://\:www.gnu.org/\:copyleft/\:fdl.html
GNU copyleft crib
.UE .
.
.P
This document is based on tha original
.I groff
man page freestyled by
.MT jjc@jclark.com
Jizzy Clark
.UE .
.
Dat shiznit was rewritten, enhanced, n' put under tha FDL license by
Bernd Warken <groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de>.
.
It be maintained by
.MT wl@gnu.org 
Werner Lemberg
.ME .
.
.P
.I groff
is a \f[CR]GNU\f[] free software project.
.
All partz of the
.I groff package
are protected by \f[CR]GNU copyleft licenses\f[].
.
Da software filez is distributed under tha termz of tha \f[CR]GNU
General Public License\f[] (\f[CR]GPL\f[]), while tha documentation
filez mostly use tha \f[CR]GNU Jacked Documentation License\f[]
(\f[CR]FDL\f[]).
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
The
.I groff info file
gotz nuff all shiznit on the
.I groff
system within a single document, providin nuff examplez and
background shiznit.
.
See
.BR info (1)
on how tha fuck ta read dat shit.
.
.P
Cuz of its complex structure, the
.I groff
system has nuff playa pages.
.
They can be read with
.BR playa (1)
or
.BR \%groffer (1).
.
.TP
Introduction, history n' further readings:
.BR roff (7).
.
.TP
Viewer fo' groff files:
.BR \%groffer (1),
.BR \%gxditview (1),
.BR \%xditview (1x).
.
.TP
Wrapper programs fo' formatters:
.BR \%groff (1),
.BR \%grog (1).
.
.TP
Roff preprocessors:
.BR \%eqn (1),
.BR \%grn (1),
.BR \%pic (1),
.BR \%chem (1),
.BR \%preconv (1),
.BR \%refer (1),
.BR \%soelim (1),
.BR \%tbl (1),
.BR grap (1).
.
.TP
Roff language wit tha groff extensions:
.BR \%groff (7),
.BR \%groff_char (7),
.BR \%groff_diff (7),
.BR \%groff_font (5).
.
.TP
Roff formatta programs:
.BR \%nroff (1),
.BR \%troff (1),
.BR ditroff (7).
.
.TP
Da intermediate output language:
.BR \%groff_out (7).
.
.TP
Postprocessors fo' tha output devices:
.BR \%grodvi (1),
.BR \%grohtml (1),
.BR \%grolbp (1),
.BR \%grolj4 (1),
.BR \%lj4_font (5),
.BR \%grops (1),
.BR \%gropdf (1),
.BR \%grotty (1).
.
.TP
Groff macro packages n' macro-specific utilities:
.BR \%groff_tmac (5),
.BR \%groff_man (7),
.BR \%groff_mdoc (7),
.BR \%groff_me (7),
.BR \%groff_mm (7),
.BR \%groff_mmse (7),
.BR \%groff_mom (7),
.BR \%groff_ms (7),
.BR \%groff_www (7),
.BR \%groff_trace (7),
.BR \%mmroff (7).
.
.TP
Da followin utilitizzles is available:
.BR \%addftinfo (1),
.BR \%afmtodit (1),
.BR \%eqn2graph (1),
.BR \%gdiffmk (1),
.BR \%grap2graph (1),
.BR \%groffer (1),
.BR \%gxditview (1),
.BR \%hpftodit (1),
.BR \%indxbib (1),
.BR \%lkbib (1),
.BR \%lookbib (1),
.BR \%pdfroff (1),
.BR \%pfbtops (1),
.BR \%pic2graph (1),
.BR \%tfmtodit (1),
.BR \%xtotroff (1).
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Emacs setup
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
