.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2006, 2008-2011
  Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified
versions, except dat dis permission notice may be included in
translations approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation instead of in
the original gangsta Gangsta.
..
.
.
.\" Like TP yo, but if specified indent is mo' than half
.\" tha current line-length - indent, use tha default indent.
.de Tp
.  ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.  el .TP "\\$1"
..
.
.de FT
.  if '\\*(.T'ps' .ft \\$1
.  if '\\*(.T'pdf' .ft \\$1
..
.
.
.TH GROPS 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.
.
.SH NAME
.
grops \- PostScript driver fo' groff
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY grops
.OP \-glmv
.OP \-b n
.OP \-c n
.OP \-F dir
.OP \-I dir
.OP \-p papersize
.OP \-P prologue
.OP \-w n
.RI [ files
.IR .\|.\|. ]
.YS
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B grops
translates tha output of GNU
.B troff
to PostScript.
.
Normally
.B grops
should be invoked by rockin tha groff command
with a
.B \-Tps
option.
.
.if 'ps'ps' (Actually, dis is tha default fo' groff.)
.
If no filez is given,
.B grops
readz tha standard input.
.
A filename of
.B \-
also causes
.B grops
to read tha standard input.
.
PostScript output is freestyled ta tha standard output.
.
When
.B grops
is run by
.B groff
options can be passed to
.B grops
using
.BR groff 's
.B \-P
option.
.
.LP
Note that
.B grops
doesn't produce a valid document structure (conformin ta tha Document
Structurin Convention) if called wit multiple file arguments.
.
To print such concatenated output it is necessary ta deactivate DSC
handlin up in tha printin program or peepshower.
.
See section
.B FONT INSTALLATION
below fo' a guide how tha fuck ta install fonts for
.BR grops .
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
It be possible ta have whitespace between a cold-ass lil command line option n' its
parameter.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-b n
Provide workaroundz fo' olda printers, fucked up spoolers, n' peepshowers.
.
Normally
.B grops
produces output at PostScript LanguageLevel\~2 dat conforms ta the
Document Structurin Conventions version 3.0.
.
Some olda printers, spoolers, n' peepshowers can't handle such output.
.
Da value of\~\c
.I n
controls what
.B grops
does ta make its output aaight ta such programs.
.
A value of\~0 causes grops not ta employ any workarounds.
.
.IP
Add\~1 if no
.B %%Begin\%Document\%Setup
and
.B %%End\%Document\%Setup
comments should be generated;
this is needed fo' early versionz of TranScript dat git trippin by
anythang between the
.B %%End\%Prolog
comment n' tha first
.B %%Page
comment.
.
.IP
Add\~2 if lines up in included filez beginnin with
.B %!\&
should be stripped out; dis is needed fo' Sunz pageview peepshower.
.
.IP
Add\~4 if
.BR %%Page ,
.BR %%Trailer
and
.B %%End\%Prolog
comments should be
stripped outta included files; dis is needed fo' spoolaz that
don't KNOW the
.B %%Begin\%Document
and
.B %%End\%Document
comments.
.
.IP
Add\~8 if tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha PostScript output should be
.B %!PS-Adobe-2.0
rather than
.BR %!PS-Adobe-3.0 ;
this is needed when rockin Sunz Shitprint wit a printa dat requires
page reversal.
.
.IP
Add\~16 if no media size shiznit should be included up in tha document
(this is, neither use
.B %%Document\%Media
nor the
.B setpagedevice
PostScript command).
.
This was tha behaviour of groff version 1.18.1 n' earlier; it is needed
for olda printas which don't KNOW PostScript LanguageLevel\~2.
.
It be also necessary if tha output is further processed ta git an
encapsulated PS (EPS) file \[en] peep below.
.
.IP
Da default value can be specified by a
.
.RS
.IP
.BI broken\  n
.
.LP
command up in tha DESC file.
.
Otherwise tha default value is\~0.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI \-c n
Print
.I n
copiez of each page.
.
.TP
.BI \-F dir
Prepend directory
.IB dir /dev name
to tha search path fo' prologue, font, n' thang description files;
.I name
is tha name of tha device, usually
.BR ps .
.
.TP
.BI \-g
Guess tha page length.
.
This generates PostScript code dat guesses tha page length.
.
Da guess is erect only if tha imageable area is vertically
centered on tha page.
.
This option allows you ta generate documents dat can be printed
both on letta (8.5\[mu]11) paper n' on A4 paper without chizzle.
.
.TP
.BI \-I dir
This option may be used ta add a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta tha search path for
filez on tha command line n' filez named in
.B \[rs]X'ps: import'
and
.B \[rs]X'ps: file'
escapes.
.
Da search path is initialized wit tha current directory.
.
This option may be specified mo' than once; tha directories is then
searched up in tha order specified (but before tha current directory).
.
If you wanna make tha current directory be read before other directories,
add
.B \-I.\&
at tha appropriate place.
.
.IP
No directory search is performed fo' filez wit a absolute file name.
.
.TP
.B \-l
Print tha document up in landscape format.
.
.TP
.B \-m
Turn manual feed on fo' tha document.
.
.TP
.BI \-p paper-size
Set physical dimension of output medium.
.
This overrides the
.BR papersize ,
.BR paperlength ,
and
.B paperwidth
commandz up in the
.B DESC
file; it accepts tha same ol' dirty arguments as the
.B papersize
command.
.
See
.B groff_font (5)
for details.
.
.TP
.BI \-P prologue-file
Use tha file
.I prologue-file
(in tha font path) as tha prologue instead of tha default prologue file
.BR prologue .
.
This option overrides tha environment variable
.SM GROPS_PROLOGUE.
.
.TP
.BI \-w n
Lines should be drawn rockin a thicknizz of
.IR n \~\c
thousandthz of a em.
.
If dis option aint given, tha line thicknizz defaults ta 0.04\~em.
.
.TP
.B \-v
Print tha version number.
.
.
.SH USAGE
.
Da input to
.B grops
must be up in tha format output by
.BR troff (1).
.
This is busted lyrics bout in
.BR groff_out (5).
.
.LP
In addition, tha thang n' font description filez fo' tha thang used
must hook up certain requirements:
.
Da resolution must be a integer multiple of\~72 times the
.BR sizescale .
.
The
.B ps
device uses a resolution of 72000 n' a sizescale of 1000.
.
.LP
Da thang description file must contain a valid paper size; see
.BR groff_font (5)
for mo' shiznit.
.
.LP
Each font description file must contain a cold-ass lil command
.IP
.BI internalname\  psname
.LP
which say dat tha PostScript name of tha font is
.IR psname .
.
It may also contain a cold-ass lil command
.IP
.BI encoding\  enc_file
.LP
which say that
the PostScript font should be reencoded rockin tha encodin busted lyrics bout in
.IR enc_file ;
this file should consist of a sequence of linez of tha form:
.IP
.I
pschar code
.LP
where
.I pschar
is tha PostScript name of tha character,
and
.I code
is its posizzle up in tha encodin expressed as a thugged-out decimal integer; valid
values is up in tha range 0 to\~255.
.
Lines startin with
.B #
and blank lines is ignored.
.
Da code fo' each characta given up in tha font file must correspond
to tha code fo' tha characta up in encodin file, or ta tha code up in tha default
encodin fo' tha font if tha PostScript font aint ta be reencoded.
.
This code can be used wit the
.B \[rs]N
escape sequence in
.B troff
to select tha character,
even if tha characta aint gots a groff name.
.
Every characta up in tha font file must exist up in tha PostScript font, and
the widths given up in tha font file must match tha widths used
in tha PostScript font.
.
.B grops
assumes dat a cold-ass lil characta wit a groff name of
.B space
is blank (makes no marks on tha page);
it can make use of such a cold-ass lil characta ta generate mo' efficient and
compact PostScript output.
.
.LP
Note that
.B grops
is able ta display all glyphs up in a PostScript font, not only 256.
.I enc_file
(or tha default encodin if no encodin file specified) just defines the
order of glyphs fo' tha straight-up original gangsta 256 characters; all other glyphs are
accessed wit additionizzle encodin vectors which
.B grops
produces on tha fly.
.
.LP
.B grops
can automatically include tha downloadable fonts necessary
to print tha document.
.
Such fonts must be up in PFA format.
.
Use
.BR \%pfbtops (1)
to convert a Type\~1 font up in PFB format.
.
Any downloadable fonts which should, when required, be included by
.B grops
must be listed up in tha file
.BR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/downlizzle ;
this should consist of linez of tha form
.
.IP
.I
font filename
.
.LP
where
.I font
is tha PostScript name of tha font,
and
.I filename
is tha name of tha file containin tha font;
lines beginnin with
.B #
and blank lines is ignored;
fieldz may be separated by tabs or spaces;
.I filename
is searched fo' rockin tha same mechanizzle dat is used
for groff font metric files.
.
The
.B download
file itself be also searched fo' rockin dis mechanism;
currently, only tha straight-up original gangsta found file up in tha font path is used.
.
.LP
If tha file containin a thugged-out downloadable font or imported document
conforms ta tha Adobe Document Structurin Conventions,
then
.B grops
interprets any comments up in tha filez sufficiently ta ensure dat its
own output is conforming.
.
It also supplies any needed font resources dat is listed up in the
.B download
file
as well as any needed file resources.
.
It be also able ta handle inter-resource dependencies.
.
For example, suppose dat you gotz a thugged-out downloadable font called Garamond,
and also a thugged-out downloadable font called Garamond-Outline
which dependz on Garamond
(typically it would be defined ta copy Garamondz font dictionary,
and chizzle tha PaintType),
then it is necessary fo' Garamond ta step tha fuck up before Garamond-Outline
in tha PostScript document.
.
.B grops
handlez dis automatically
provided dat tha downloadable font file fo' Garamond-Outline
indicates its dependence on Garamond by means of
the Document Structurin Conventions,
for example by beginnin wit tha followin lines
.
.IP
.B
%!PS-Adobe-3.0 Resource-Font
.br
.B
%%DocumentNeededResources: font Garamond
.br
.B
%%EndComments
.br
.B
%%IncludeResource: font Garamond
.
.LP
In dis case both Garamond n' Garamond-Outline would need ta be listed
in the
.B download
file.
.
A downloadable font should not include its own name up in a
.B %%Document\%Supplied\%Resources
comment.
.
.LP
.B grops
does not interpret
.B %%Document\%Fonts
comments.
.
The
.BR %%Document\%Needed\%Resources ,
.BR %%Document\%Supplied\%Resources ,
.BR %%Include\%Resource ,
.BR %%Begin\%Resource ,
and
.BR %%End\%Resource
comments
(or possibly tha old
.BR %%Document\%Needed\%Fonts ,
.BR %%Document\%Supplied\%Fonts ,
.BR %%Include\%Font ,
.BR %%Begin\%Font ,
and
.BR %%End\%Font
comments)
should be used.
.
.LP
In tha default setup
there is stylez called
.BR R ,
.BR I ,
.BR B ,
and
.B BI
mounted at font positions 1 to\~4.
.
Da fonts is grouped tha fuck into crews
.BR A ,
.BR BM ,
.BR C ,
.BR H ,
.BR HN ,
.BR N ,
.BR P ,
and\~\c
.B T
havin thugz up in each of these styles:
.
.RS
.TP
.B AR
.FT AR
AvantGarde-Book
.FT
.
.TQ
.B AI
.FT AI
AvantGarde-BookOblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B AB
.FT AB
AvantGarde-Demi
.FT
.
.TQ
.B ABI
.FT ABI
AvantGarde-DemiOblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B BMR
.FT BMR
Bookman-Light
.FT
.
.TQ
.B BMI
.FT BMI
Bookman-LightItalic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B BMB
.FT BMB
Bookman-Demi
.FT
.
.TQ
.B BMBI
.FT BMBI
Bookman-DemiItalic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B CR
.FT CR
Courier
.FT
.
.TQ
.B CI
.FT CI
Courier-Oblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B CB
.FT CB
Courier-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B CBI
.FT CBI
Courier-BoldOblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HR
.FT HR
Helvetica
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HI
.FT HI
Helvetica-Oblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HB
.FT HB
Helvetica-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HBI
.FT HBI
Helvetica-BoldOblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HNR
.FT HNR
Helvetica-Narrow
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HNI
.FT HNI
Helvetica-Narrow-Oblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HNB
.FT HNB
Helvetica-Narrow-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B HNBI
.FT HNBI
Helvetica-Narrow-BoldOblique
.FT
.
.TQ
.B NR
.FT NR
NewCenturySchlbk-Roman
.FT
.
.TQ
.B NI
.FT NI
NewCenturySchlbk-Italic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B NB
.FT NB
NewCenturySchlbk-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B NBI
.FT NBI
NewCenturySchlbk-BoldItalic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B PR
.FT PR
Palatino-Roman
.FT
.
.TQ
.B PI
.FT PI
Palatino-Italic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B PB
.FT PB
Palatino-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B PBI
.FT PBI
Palatino-BoldItalic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B TR
.FT TR
Times-Roman
.FT
.
.TQ
.B TI
.FT TI
Times-Italic
.FT
.
.TQ
.B TB
.FT TB
Times-Bold
.FT
.
.TQ
.B TBI
.FT TBI
Times-BoldItalic
.FT
.RE
.
.LP
There be also tha followin font which aint a gangmember of a cold-ass lil crew:
.
.RS
.TP
.B ZCMI
.FT ZCMI
ZapfChancery-MediumItalic
.FT
.RE
.
.LP
There is also some special fonts called
.B S
for tha PS Symbol font, and
.BR SS ,
containin slanted lowercase Greek lettas taken from PS Symbol.
.
Zapf Dingbats be available as
.BR ZD ,
and a reversed version of ZapfDingbats (with symbols pointin up in tha opposite
direction) be available as
.BR ZDR ;
most charactas up in these fonts is unnamed n' must be accessed using
.BR \[rs]N .
.
.LP
Da default color for
.B \[rs]m
and
.B \[rs]M
is black; fo' flavas defined up in tha `rgb' color space
.B setrgbcolor
is used, fo' `cmy' n' `cmyk'
.BR setcmykcolor ,
and fo' `gray'
.BR setgray .
.
Note that
.B setcmykcolor
is a PostScript LanguageLevel\~2 command n' thus not available on some
olda printers.
.
.LP
.B grops
understandz various X\~commandz produced rockin the
.B \[rs]X
escape sequence;
.B grops
only interprets commandz dat begin wit a
.B ps:
tag.
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'ps:\ exec\  code '
This executes tha arbitrary PostScript commandz in
.IR code .
.
Da PostScript currentpoint is set ta tha posizzle of the
.B \[rs]X
command before executing
.IR code .
.
Da origin be all up in tha top left corner of tha page,
and y\~coordinates increase down tha page.
.
A procedure\~\c
.B u
is defined dat converts groff units
to tha coordinizzle system up in effect (provided tha user don't chizzle the
scale).
.
For example,
.
.RS
.IP
.B
\&.nr x 1i
.br
.B
\[rs]X'ps: exec \[rs]nx u 0 rlineto stroke'
.br
.RE
.
.IP
draws a horizontal line one inch long.
.
.I code
may make chizzlez ta tha graphics state,
but any chizzlez persist only ta tha end of tha page.
.
A doggtionary containin tha definitions specified by the
.B def
and
.B mdef
is on top of tha doggtionary stack.
.
If yo' code addz definitions ta dis dictionary,
you should allocate space fo' dem using
.BI \[rs]X'ps\ mdef \ n '\fR.
.
Any definitions persist only until tha end of tha page.
.
If you use the
.B \[rs]Y
escape sequence wit a argument dat names a macro,
.I code
can extend over multiple lines.
.
For example,
.
.RS
.IP
.nf
.ft B
\&.nr x 1i
\&.de y
\&ps: exec
\&\[rs]nx u 0 rlineto
\&stroke
\&..
\&\[rs]Yy
.ft R
.fi
.
.LP
is another way ta draw a horizontal line one inch long.
.
Note tha single backslash before `nx' \[en] tha only reason ta bust a number
regista while definin tha macro `y' is ta convert a user-specified
dimension `1i' ta internal groff units which is up in turn converted ta PS
units wit the
.B u
procedure.
.
.LP
.B grops
wraps user-specified PostScript code tha fuck into a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dictionary, not a god damn thang more.
.
In particular, it don't start n' end tha banged code with
.B save
and
.BR restore ,
respectively.
.
This must be supplied by tha user, if necessary.
.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'ps:\ file\  name '
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.B exec
command except dat tha PostScript code is read from file
.IR name .
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'ps:\ def\  code '
Place a PostScript definizzle contained in
.I code
in tha prologue.
.
There should be at most one definizzle per
.B \[rs]X
command.
.
Long definitions can be split over several
.B \[rs]X
commands;
all the
.I code
arguments is simply joined together separated by newlines.
.
Da definitions is placed up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' doggtionary which be automatically
pushed on tha doggtionary stack when an
.B exec
command is executed.
.
If you use the
.B \[rs]Y
escape sequence wit a argument dat names a macro,
.I code
can extend over multiple lines.
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'ps:\ mdef\  n\ code  '
Like
.BR def ,
except that
.I code
may contain up to
.IR n \~\c
definitions.
.
.B grops
needz ta know how tha fuck nuff definitions
.I code
gotz nuff
so dat it can create a appropriately sized PostScript dictionary
to contain em.
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'ps:\ import\  file\ llx\ lly\ urx\ ury\ width\ \fR[\fP\ height\ \fR]\fP '
Import a PostScript graphic from
.IR file .
.
Da arguments
.IR llx ,
.IR lly ,
.IR urx ,
and
.I ury
give tha boundin box of tha graphic up in tha default PostScript
coordinizzle system; they should all be integers;
.I llx
and
.I lly
are tha x n' y\~coordinatez of tha lower left
corner of tha graphic;
.I urx
and
.I ury
are tha x n' y\~coordinatez of tha upper right corner of tha graphic;
.I width
and
.I height
are integers dat give tha desired width n' height up in groff
unitz of tha graphic.
.
.IP
Da graphic is scaled so dat it has dis width n' height
and translated so dat tha lower left corner of tha graphic is
located all up in tha posizzle associated with
.B \[rs]X
command.
.
If tha height argument is omitted it is scaled uniformly up in the
x n' y\~directions so dat it has tha specified width.
.
.IP
Note dat tha contentz of the
.B \[rs]X
command is not interpreted by
.BR troff ;
so vertical space fo' tha graphic aint automatically added,
and the
.I width
and
.I height
arguments is not allowed ta have attached scalin indicators.
.
.IP
If tha PostScript file complies wit tha Adobe Document Structuring
Conventions n' gotz nuff a
.B %%Bounding\%Box
comment, then tha boundin box can be automatically
extracted from within groff by rockin the
.B psbb
request.
.
.IP
See
.BR groff_tmac (5)
for a thugged-out description of the
.B PSPIC
macro which serves up a cold-ass lil convenient high-level intercourse fo' inclusion of
PostScript graphics.
.
.TP
.B \[rs]X'ps:\ invis'
.TQ
.B \[rs]X'ps:\ endinvis'
No output is generated fo' text n' drawin commands
that is bracketed wit these
.B \[rs]X
commands.
.
These commandz is intended fo' use when output from
.B troff
is peepshowed before bein processed with
.BR grops ;
if tha peepshower is unable ta display certain characters
or other constructs, then other substitute charactas or constructs
can be used fo' peepshowin by bracketin dem wit these
.B \[rs]X
commands.
.
.RS
.LP
For example,
.B \%gxditview
is not able ta display a proper
.B \[rs](em
characta cuz tha standard X11 fonts do not provide it;
this problem can be overcome by executin tha following
request
.
.IP
.ft B
.nf
\&.char \[rs](em \[rs]X'ps: invis'\[rs]
\[rs]Z'\[rs]v'-.25m'\[rs]h'.05m'\[rs]D'l .9m 0'\[rs]h'.05m''\[rs]
\[rs]X'ps: endinvis'\[rs](em
.ft
.fi
.
.LP
In dis case,
.B \%gxditview
is unable ta display the
.B \[rs](em
characta n' draws tha line,
whereas
.B grops
prints the
.B \[rs](em
character
and ignores tha line (this code be already up in file
.B Xps.tmac
which is loaded if a thugged-out document intended for
.B grops
is peepshowed with
.BR \%gxditview ).
.RE
.
.LP
If a PostScript procedure
.B BPhook
has been defined via a
.RB ` ps:\ def '
or
.RB ` ps:\ mdef '
device command, it is executed all up in tha beginning
of every last muthafuckin page (before anythang is drawn or freestyled by groff).
For example, ta underlay tha page contents wit tha word
`DRAFT' up in light gray, you might use
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
\&.de XX
ps: def
/BPhook
{ gsave .9 setgray clippath pathbbox exch 2 copy
  .5 mul exch .5 mul translate atan rotate pop pop
  /NewCenturySchlbk-Roman findfont 200 scalefont setfont
  (DRAFT) dup stringwidth pop \-.5 mul \-70 moveto show
  grestore }
def
\&..
\&.devicem XX
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Or, ta cause lines n' polygons ta be drawn wit square linecaps
and mitered linejoins instead of tha round linecaps n' linejoins
normally used by
.BR grops ,
use
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
\&.de XX
ps: def
/BPhook { 2 setlinecap 0 setlinejoin } def
\&..
\&.devicem XX
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
(square linecaps, as opposed ta booty linecaps (0 setlinecap),
give legit corners up in boxed tablez even though tha lines are
drawn unconnected).
.
.
.SS Encapsulated PostScript
.B grops
itself don't emit boundin box shiznit.
.
With tha help of Ghostscript tha followin simple script,
.BR groff2eps ,
produces a encapsulated PS file.
.
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#! /bin/sh
groff \-P\-b16 $1 >$1.ps
gs \-dNOPAUSE \-sDEVICE=bbox \-\- $1.ps 2>$1.bbox
cat $1.ps \[rs]
| sed \-e "/\[ha]%%Orientation/r$1.bbox" \[rs]
      \-e "/\[ha]%!PS-Adobe-3.0/s/$/ EPSF-3.0/" >$1.eps
rm $1.ps $1.bbox
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.
.LP
Just say
.
.IP
.B
groff2eps foo
.
.LP
to convert file
.B foo
to
.BR foo.eps .
.
.
.SS TrueType n' other font formats
TrueType fonts can be used with
.B grops
if converted first to
.B "Type\~42"
format, a special PostScript wrapper equivalent ta the
PFA format mentioned in
.BR \%pfbtops (1).
.
There is nuff muthafuckin different methodz ta generate a type42
wrapper n' most of dem involve tha use of a PostScript
interpreta like fuckin Ghostscript \[en] see
.BR gs (1).
.
.LP
Yet, tha easiest method involves tha use of tha application
.BR ttftot42 (1).
.
This program uses
.BR freetype (3)
(version 1.3.1) ta generate type42
font wrappers n' well-formed AFM filez dat can be fed to
the
.BR \%afmtodit (1)
script ta create appropriate metric files.
.
Da resultin font wrappers should be added ta the
.B download
file.
.B ttftot42
source code can be downloaded from
.UR ftp://\:www.giga.or.at/\:pub/\:nih/\:ttftot42/
ftp://\:www.giga.or.at/\:pub/\:nih/\:ttftot42/
.UE .
.
.LP
Another solution fo' bustin type42 wrappers is ta use FontForge,
available from
.UR http://\:fontforge.sf.net
http://\:fontforge.sf.net
.UE .
This font editor can convert most outline font formats.
.
.
.SH FONT INSTALLATION
.
This section gives a summary of tha above explanations; it can serve
as a step-by-step font installation guide for
.BR grops .
.
.ds BU \[bu]\ \ \"
.de LI
.IP "" 4
\h'-\w'\*[BU]'u'\*[BU]\c
..
.LI
Convert yo' font ta suttin' groff understands.
.
This is either a PostScript Type\~1 font up in PFA format or a
PostScript Type\~42 font, together wit a AFM file.
.
.IP
Da straight-up first charactas up in a PFA file be lookin like this:
.
.RS
.IP
.B %!PS-AdobeFont-1.0:
.RE
.
.IP
A PFB file has dis also up in tha straight-up original gangsta line yo, but tha strang is
preceded wit some binary bytes.
.
.IP
Da straight-up first charactas up in a Type\~42 font file be lookin like this:
.
.RS
.IP
.B %!PS-TrueTypeFont
.RE
.
.IP
This be a wrapper format fo' TrueType fonts.
.
Oldskool PS printas might not support it (this is, they aint gots a
built-in TrueType font interpreter).
.
.IP
If yo' font is up in PFB format (such fonts normally have `.pfb' as
the file extension), you might use groff's
.BR \%pfbtops (1)
program ta convert it ta PFA.
.
For TrueType fonts, try
.B ttftot42
or
.BR fontforge .
For all other font formats use
.B fontforge
which can convert most outline font formats.
.
.LI
Convert tha AFM file ta a groff font description file wit the
.BR \%afmtodit (1)
program.
.
An example call is
.
.RS
.IP
afmtodit Foo-Bar-Bold.afm textmap FBB
.RE
.
.IP
which converts tha metric file `Foo-Bar-Bold.afm' ta tha groff
font `FBB'.
.
If you gotz a gangbangin' font crew which comes wit normal, bold, italic,
and bold italic faces, it is recommended ta use tha letters
.BR R ,
.BR B ,
.BR I ,
and
.BR BI ,
respectively, as postfixes up in tha groff font names ta make groff's
`.fam' request work.
.
An example is groffz built-in Times-Roman font: Da font crew name
is
.BR T ,
and tha groff font names are
.BR TR ,
.BR TB ,
.BR TI ,
and
.BR TBI .
.
.LI
Install both tha groff font description filez n' tha fonts up in a
`devps' subdirectory of tha font path which groff finds.
.
See the
.B ENVIRONMENT
section up in the
.BR troff (1)
man page which lists tha actual value of tha font path.
.
Note dat groff don't use tha AFM filez (but it aint nuthin but a phat scam to
store dem anyway).
.
.LI
Regista all fonts which must be downloaded ta tha printa up in the
`devps/download' file.
.
Only tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence of dis file up in tha font path is read.
.
This means dat you should copy tha default `download' file ta the
first directory up in yo' font path n' add yo' fonts there.
.
To continue tha above example we assume dat tha PS font name for
Foo-Bar-Bold.pfa is `XY-Foo-Bar-Bold' (the PS font name is stored up in the
.B internalname
field up in tha `FBB' file), thus tha followin line should be added to
`download'.
.
.RS
.IP
.B XY-Foo-Bar-Bold Foo-Bar-Bold.pfa
.
.RE
.
.
.SH OLD FONTS
.
groff versions 1.19.2 n' earlier contain a slightly different set of
the 35 Adobe core fonts; tha difference is mainly tha lack of tha `Euro'
glyph n' a reduced set of kernin pairs.
.
For backwardz compatibility, these oldschool fonts is installed also up in the
.
.IP
.BR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/oldfont/devps
.
.LP
directory.
.
.LP
To use them, make shizzle that
.B grops
findz tha fonts before tha default system fonts (with tha same names):
Either add command line option
.B \-F
to
.B grops
.
.IP
.B groff \-Tps \-P\-F \-P/usr/share/groff/1.22.2/oldfont .\|.\|.
.
.LP
or add tha directory ta groffz font path environment variable
.
.IP
.B GROFF_FONT_PATH=/usr/share/groff/1.22.2/oldfont
.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROPS_PROLOGUE
If dis is set to
.IR foo ,
then
.B grops
uses tha file
.I foo
(in tha font path) instead of tha default prologue file
.BR prologue .
.
Da option
.B \-P
overrides dis environment variable.
.
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_FONT_PATH
A list of directories up in which ta search fo' the
.BI dev name
directory up in addizzle ta tha default ones.
.
See
.BR troff (1)
and
.BR \%groff_font (5)
for mo' details.
.
.
.SH FILES
.
.Tp \w'\fB/usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/download'u+2n
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/DESC
Device description file.
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/ F
Font description file fo' font
.IR F .
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/download
List of downloadable fonts.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devps/text.enc
Encodin used fo' text fonts.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/ps.tmac
Macros fo' use with
.BR grops ;
automatically loaded by
.BR troffrc
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/pspic.tmac
Definizzle of
.B PSPIC
macro,
automatically loaded by
.BR ps.tmac .
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/psold.tmac
Macros ta disable use of charactas not present up in older
PostScript printas (e.g., `eth' or `thorn').
.
.TP
.BI /tmp/grops XXXXXX
Temporary file.
See
.BR groff (1)
for details on tha location of temporary files.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR \%afmtodit (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR \%pfbtops (1),
.BR \%groff_out (5),
.BR \%groff_font (5),
.BR \%groff_char (7),
.BR \%groff_tmac (5)
.
.LP
.UR http://\:partners.adobe.com/\:public/\:developer/\:en/\:ps/\:5001.DSC_Spec.pdf
PostScript Language Document Structurin Conventions Justification
.UE
.
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
