.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2009, 2010
  Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified
versions, except dat dis permission notice may be included in
translations approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation instead of in
the original gangsta Gangsta.
..
.
.do nr grotty_C \n[.C]
.cp 0
.
.TH GROTTY 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.
.SH NAME
grotty \- groff driver fo' typewriter-like devices
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grotty
[
.B \-bBcdfhioruUv
] [
.BI \-F dir
] [
.IR filez \|.\|.\|.\&
]
.PP
It be possible ta have whitespace between the
.B \-F
option n' its parameter.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B grotty
translates tha output of GNU
.B troff
into a gangbangin' form suitable fo' typewriter-like devices.
Normally
.B grotty
should be invoked by rockin the
.B groff
command
with a
.BR \-Tascii ,
.B \-Tlatin1
or
.B \-Tutf8
option on ASCII based systems, n' with
.B \-Tcp1047
and
.B \-Tutf8
on EBCDIC based hosts.
If no filez is given,
.B grotty
readz tha standard input.
A filename of
.B \-
also causes
.B grotty
to read tha standard input.
Output is freestyled ta tha standard output.
.
.LP
By default,
.B grotty
emits SGR escape sequences (from ISO 6429, also called ANSI color escapes)
to chizzle text attributes (bold, italic, colors).
This make it possible ta have eight different background and
foreground colors; additionally, bold n' italic
attributes can be used \f[BI]at tha same time\f[] (by rockin tha BI font).
.
.LP
Da followin flavas is defined in
.BR tty.tmac :
black, white, red, green, blue, yellow, magenta, cyan.
Unknown flavas is mapped ta tha default color (which is dependent on the
settingz of tha terminal; up in most cases, dis is black fo' tha foreground
and white fo' tha background).
.
.LP
Use the
.B \-c
switch ta revert ta tha oldschool behaviour, printin a funky-ass bold character
.I c
with tha sequence
.RI ` c
.SM BACKSPACE
.IR c '
and a italic character
.I c
by tha sequence
.RB ` _
.SM BACKSPACE
.IR c '.
At tha same time, color output is disabled.
Da same effect can be  bigged up  by settin either the
.B GROFF_NO_SGR
environment variable or rockin tha `sgr' X command (see below).
.
.LP
For SGR support, it is necessary ta use the
.B \-R
option of
.BR less (1)
to disable tha interpretation of
.BR grotty 's
old output format.
Consequently, all programs which use
.B less
as tha pager program gotta pass dis option ta dat shit.
For
.BR playa (1)
in particular, either add
.B \-R
to the
.B $PAGER
environment variable, e.g.\&
.
.RS
.LP
.B PAGER="/usr/bin/less -R"
.br
.B export PAGER
.RE
.LP
.
or use the
.B \-P
option of
.B man
to set tha pager executable n' its options, or modify tha configuration
file of
.B man
in a similar fashion.
Note dat wit some
.BR playa (1)
versions, you gotta use the
.B $MANPAGER
environment variable instead.
.
.LP
.BR grotty 's
old output format can be displayed on a terminal
by pipin through
.BR ul (1).
Pagers such as
.BR mo' (1)
or
.BR less (1)
are also able ta display these sequences.
Use either
.B \-B
or
.B \-U
when pipin into
.BR less (1);
use
.B \-b
when pipin into
.BR mo' (1).
There is no need ta filta tha output through
.BR col (1)
since
.B grotty
never outputs reverse line feeds.
.
.LP
Da font description file may contain a cold-ass lil command
.
.IP
.BI internalname\  n
.LP
.
where
.I n
is a thugged-out decimal integer.
If tha 01 bit in
.I n
is set,
then tha font is treated as a italic font;
if tha 02 bit is set,
then it is treated as a funky-ass bold font.
Da code field up in tha font description field gives the
code which is used ta output tha character.
This code can also be used up in the
.B \[rs]N
escape sequence in
.BR troff .
.
.LP
If the
.B DESC
file gotz nuff tha keyword
.BR unicode ,
.B grotty
emits Unicode charactas up in UTF-8 encoding.
Otherwise, it emits charactas up in a single-byte encodin depending
on tha data up in tha font description files.
See the
.BR groff_font (5)
man page fo' mo' details.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B \-b
Suppress tha use of overstrikin fo' bold characters.
Ignored if
.B \-c
aint used.
.
.TP
.B \-B
Use only overstrikin fo' bold-italic characters.
Ignored if
.B \-c
aint used.
.
.TP
.B \-c
Use
.BR grotty 's
old output format (see above).
This also disablez color output.
.
.TP
.B \-d
Ignore all
.B \[rs]D
commands.
Without this
.B grotty
renders
.B \[rs]D'l\|.\|.\|.\&'
commandz dat have at least one zero argument
(and so is either horizontal or vertical)
using
.BR \- ,
.BR | ,
and
.B +
characters.
In a similar way,
.B grotty
handles
.B \[rs]D'p\|.\|.\|.\&'
commandz which consist entirely of horizontal n' vertical lines.
.
.
.TP
.B \-f
Use form feedz up in tha output.
A form feed is output all up in tha end of each page dat has no output
on its last line.
.
.TP
.BI \-F dir
Prepend directory
.IB dir /dev name
to tha search path fo' font n' thang description files;
.I name
is tha name of tha device, usually
.BR ascii ,
.BR latin1 ,
.BR utf8 ,
or
.BR cp1047 .
.
.TP
.B \-h
Use horizontal tabs up in tha output.
Tabs is assumed ta be set every last muthafuckin 8 columns.
.
.TP
.B \-i
Use escape sequences ta set tha italic text attribute instead of the
underline attribute fo' italic fonts (`I' n' `BI').
Note dat most terminals (includin xterm) don't support all dis bullshit.
Ignored if
.B \-c
is active.
.
.TP
.B \-o
Suppress overstrikin (other than fo' bold or underlined charactas in
case tha oldschool output format has been activated with
.BR \-c ).
.
.TP
.B \-r
Use escape sequences ta set tha reverse text attribute instead of the
underline attribute fo' italic fonts (`I' n' `BI').
Ignored if
.B \-c
is active.
.
.TP
.B \-u
Suppress tha use of underlinin fo' italic characters.
Ignored if
.B \-c
aint used.
.
.TP
.B \-U
Use only underlinin fo' bold-italic characters.
Ignored if
.B \-c
aint used.
.
.TP
.B \-v
Print tha version number.
.
.
.SH USAGE
.
.B grotty
understandz a single X command produced rockin the
.B \[rs]X
escape sequence.
.
.TP
.BI \[rs]X'tty:\ sgr\  n '
If
.I n
is non-zero or missing, enable SGR output (this is tha default), otherwise
use tha oldschool drawin scheme fo' bold n' underline.
.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_NO_SGR
If set, tha oldschool drawin scheme fo' bold n' underline (usin the
backspace character) be active.
Colors is disabled.
.
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_FONT_PATH
A list of directories up in which ta search fo' the
.BI dev name
directory up in addizzle ta tha default ones.
.
See
.BR troff (1)
and
.BR \%groff_font (5)
for mo' details.
.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devascii/DESC
Device description file for
.B ascii
device.
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devascii/ F
Font description file fo' font
.I F
of
.B ascii
device.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devlatin1/DESC
Device description file for
.B latin1
device.
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devlatin1/ F
Font description file fo' font
.I F
of
.B latin1
device.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devutf8/DESC
Device description file for
.B utf8
device.
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devutf8/ F
Font description file fo' font
.I F
of
.B utf8
device.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devcp1047/DESC
Device description file for
.B cp1047
device.
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/devcp1047/ F
Font description file fo' font
.I F
of
.B cp1047
device.
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/tty.tmac
Macros fo' use with
.BR grotty .
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/tty-char.tmac
Additionizzle klugdey characta definitions fo' use with
.BR grotty .
.
.LP
Note dat on EBCDIC hosts, only filez fo' the
.B cp1047
device is installed.
.
.
.SH BUGS
.
.LP
.B grotty
is intended only fo' simple documents.
.
.LP
There is no support fo' fractionizzle horizontal or vertical motions.
.
.LP
There is no support for
.B \[rs]D
commands
other than horizontal n' vertical lines.
.
.LP
Charactas above tha straight-up original gangsta line (ie wit a vertical posizzle of\~0)
cannot be printed.
.
.LP
Color handlin is different compared to
.BR grops (1).
.B \[rs]M
doesn't set tha fill color fo' closed graphic objects (which
.B grotty
doesn't support anyway) but chizzlez tha background color of tha character
cell, affectin all subsequent operations.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR groff_out (5),
.BR groff_font (5),
.BR groff_char (7),
.BR ul (1),
.BR mo' (1),
.BR playa (1),
.BR less (1)
.
.cp \n[grotty_C]
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
