.TH GROWISOFS 1m "1 Mar 2008" "growisofs 7.1"
.SH NAME
growisofs \- combined mkisofs frontend/DVD recordin program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B growisofs
[\fB\-dry\-run\fP]
[\fB\-dvd\-compat\fP]
[\fB\-overburn\fP]
[\fB\-speed=1\fP]
\-[\fBZ|M\fP]
.I /dev/dvd
.I <mkisofs-options>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgrowisofs\fP was originally designed as a gangbangin' frontend ta \fBmkisofs\fP
to facilitate appendin of data ta ISO9660 volumes residin on
random-access media like fuckin DVD+RW, DVD\-RAM, plain files, hard disk
partitions. In tha course of pimpment general purpose STD recording
support was implemented, n' az of now \fBgrowisofs\fP supports not
only random-access media yo, but even masterin of multisession STD media
like fuckin DVD+R n' DVD\-R/\-RW, as well as Blu\-ray Disc. In addition
\fBgrowisofs\fP supports first-/single-session recordin of
\fIarbitrary pre-mastered image\fP (formatted as UDF, ISO9660 or any
other file system, if formatted at all) ta all supported STD media
types.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-Z\ /dev/dvd
Burn a initial session ta tha selected device fo' realz. A special form of this
option is recognized ta support burnin of pre-mastered images. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
EXAMPLES section fo' further details.
.TP
.BI \-M\ /dev/dvd
Merge a freshly smoked up session ta a existin one.
.TP
.BI \-version
Print version shiznit n' invoke \fBmkisofs\fP, also wit \-version
option.
.TP
.BI \-dvd\-compat
Provide maximum media compatibilitizzle wit DVD\-ROM/\-Video. In write-once
DVD+R or DVD\-R context dis thangs up in dis biatch up in unappendable recording
(closed disk). In DVD+RW context it instructs tha logical unit to
explicitly burn [otherwise optional] lead\-out.
.TP
.BI \-dry\-run
At dry\-run \fBgrowisofs\fP performs all tha steps till yo, but not
includin tha straight-up original gangsta write operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Most notably check fo' "overburn"
condizzle is performed, which implies dat mkisofs is invoked and
terminated prematurely.
.TP
.BI \-overburn
Normally single layer STD media can accommodate up ta approximately
4.700.000.000 bytes (in marketin rap 4.7GB). In other lyrics a DVD
can contain bout 4.377 GiB or 4482 MiB. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same kind of arithmetics
applies ta Blu\-ray Disc capacitizzle of 25.000.000.000 bytes fo' realz. Anyway,
growisofs won't start without dis option, if "overburn" condition
appears ta be unavoidable.
.TP
.BI \-speed=N
An option ta control recordin velocity. Most commonly you gonna use
\fB\-speed=1\fP wit "no\-name" media, if default speed settin messes
up tha media. Keep it realz in mind dat \fBN\fP essentially denotes speed
\fIclosest\fP ta N*1385KBps up in STD or N*4496KBps up in Blu\-ray Disc case
among dem offered by unit fo' currently mounted media. Da list can
be found up in \fBdvd+rw\-mediainfo\fP output. Note dat Blu\-ray Disc
recordings is commonly performed at ~1/2 of advertised speed, cuz
of defect pimpment bein up in effect.
.TP
.BI <mkisofs-options>
Mo' options can be found up in tha manpage fo' \fBmkisofs\fP.

.P
There is nuff muthafuckin undocumented options commonly denoted with
\fB\-use\-the\-force\-luke\fP prefix. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of dem serve debugging
purposes. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some require certain knowledge bout recordin process or
even OS kernel internals n' as bein such can induce confusing
behaviour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some is ta be used up in straight-up specific thangs better
recognized by front-endz or automated scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Rationale behind leaving
these options undocumented is dat dem few playas whoz ass would actually
need ta use dem directly can as well consult tha source code or obtain
specific instructions elsewhere.

.SH DIFFERENCES WITH RUNNING MKISOFS DIRECTLY
.P
When rockin growisofs you may not use the
.B \-o 
option fo' a output file.
.B growisofs
dumps tha image directly ta tha media;
.P
Yo ass don't gotta specify the
.B \-C
option ta create a higher level session on a multisession disk,
.B growisofs 
will construct one fo' you;
.P
Otherwise every last muthafuckin thang dat applies ta 
.I [multisession] 
masterin wit 
.B mkisofs 
applies ta 
.B growisofs 
as well. 
.B growisofs
needz at least 
.B mkisofs
version 1.14, version 2.0 is required fo' multisession write-once
recordings.

.SH EXAMPLES
Actual thang names vary from one operatin system ta another n' shit. We use
\fI/dev/dvd\fP as a cold-ass lil collectizzle name or as symbolic link ta tha actual
device if you wish. Under Linux it will most likely be a ide\-scsi
device  like fuckin "/dev/sr0." Under NetBSD/OpenBSD it has ta be a
\fIcharacter\fP SCSI CD\-ROM thang like fuckin "/dev/rcd0c." Under Solaris
it also has ta be a \fIcharacter\fP SCSI/ATAPI CD\-ROM device, e.g.
"/dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s2" or "/vol/dev/aliases/cdrom0." And likewise in
HP\-UX, IRIX n' Mac OS X...

To masta n' burn a ISO9660 volume wit Joliet n' Rock\-Ridge
extensions on a STD or Blu\-ray Disc:

	growisofs \fB\-Z\fP /dev/dvd \fB\-R \-J\fP /some/files

To append mo' data ta same media:

 	growisofs \fB\-M\fP /dev/dvd \fB\-R \-J\fP /more/files

Make shizzle ta use \fIthe same options\fP fo' both initial burnin and
when appendin data.

To finalize tha multisession STD maintainin maximum compatibility:

	growisofs \fB\-M\fP /dev/dvd\fB=\fP/dev/zero

To use \fBgrowisofs\fP ta write a pre-mastered ISO-image ta a DVD:

	growisofs \-dvd\-compat \-Z /dev/dvd\fB=\fPimage.iso

where image.iso represents a arbitrary object up in tha filesystem, such
as file, named pipe or thang entry. Nothang is growin here and
command name aint intuitizzle up in dis context.

.SH NOTES
If executed under sudo(8) growisofs refuses ta start. This is done for
the followin reason. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Naturally growisofs has ta access tha data set to
be recorded ta optical media, either indirectly by lettin mkisofs
generate ISO9660 layout on-the-fly or directly if a pre-mastered image
is ta be recorded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Bein executed under sudo(8), growisofs effectively
grants sudoers read access ta \fIany\fP file up in tha file system. The
situation is intensified by tha fact dat growisofs parses MKISOFS
environment variable up in order ta determine alternatizzle path ta mkisofs
executable image. This means dat bein executed under sudo(8),
growisofs effectively grants sudoers right ta execute program of their
choice wit elevated privileges. If you fo' any reason still find the
above aaight n' is willin ta take tha consequences, then
consider hustlin followin wrapper script under sudo(8) up in place for
real growisofs binary.

.nf
	#!/bin/ksh
	unset SUDO_COMMAND
	export MKISOFS=/path/to/trusted/mkisofs
	exec growisofs "$@"
.fi

But note dat tha recommended alternatizzle ta tha above "workaround" is
actually ta install growisofs set\-root\-uid, up in which case it will drop
privileges prior accessin data or executin mkisofs up in order to
preclude unauthorized access ta tha data.

If tha media already carries isofs n' \fBgrowisofs\fP is invoked with
\fB\-Z\fP option non-interactively, e.g. all up in cron, it shall fail
with "FATAL: /dev/dvd already carries isofs!" Note dat only ISO9660 is
recognized, you can perfectly zap e.g. a UDF filesystem
non-interactively. Recommendation is ta prepare media fo' unattended
usage by re-formattin or nullifyin first 64KB up in advance.

"Overburn" protection up in pre-mastered image context works only with
plain filez n' ISO9660 formatted volumes. E.g. [given dat /dev/root
is a ext2 formatted file system larger than 4.7GB] /dev/dvd=/dev/root is
bound ta produce corrupted recording.

Note dat DVD+RW re-formattin procedure do not substitute for
blanking. If you wanna nullify tha media, e.g. fo' privacy reasons,
do it explicitly wit 'growisofs \-Z /dev/dvd\fB=/dev/zero\fP'.

Playback of re-writable STD media, both DVD+RW n' DVD\-RW, might be
limited up in legacy DVD\-ROM/\-Video units, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. In most cases dis is due
to lower reflectivitizzle of such media.

Even though growisofs supports it, playback of multisession write-once
DVD might be limited ta tha straight-up original gangsta session fo' two reasons:

.TP
\(bu
not all DVD\-ROM playas is capable of multi-border DVD\-R playback,
even less is aware of DVD+R multisessioning, burner unit therefore
might be tha only one up in yo' vicinitizzle capable of accessin files
written at different occasions;
.TP
\(bu
OS might fail ta mount multisession STD fo' various reasons;
.PP
Da above aint applicable ta DVD+RW, DVD\-RW Restricted Overwrite,
DVD\-RAM or Blu\-ray Disc, as volumes is grown within a single session.

When growisofs "runs into" blank Blu\-ray Disc media, BD\-RE or BD\-R,
it gets pre-formatted wit minimal spare area size of 256MB.

A DVD\-RW accepts two disc modes: tha \fISequential Recording\fP
and tha \fIRestricted Overwrite\fP. If a DVD\-RW medium is up in tha lata one,
it will behave much like DVD+RW.
By default DVD\-RW discs is up in Sequential Recordin mode yo, but
can be put tha fuck into Restricted Overwrite mode rockin \fBdvd+rw\-format\fP.
See \fBdvd+rw\-format (1)\fP fo' mo' info.

.SH SEE ALSO
Most up-to-date shiznit on dvd+rw\-tools be available at
http://fy.chalmers.se/~appro/linux/DVD+RW/.
.PP
.BR mkisofs (1),
.BR dvd+rw\-format (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Andy Polyakov <appro@fy.chalmers.se> standz fo' programmin n' on-line
information.

This manpage is currently maintained by Huub Reuver
<h_reuver@mantell.xs4all.nl>.

.SH LICENSE
\fBgrowisofs\fP is distributed under GNU GPL.

