.TH GSLP 1 "26 March 2014" 9.14 Ghostscript \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
gslp \- Format n' print text rockin pimpscript
.br
gsbj \- Format n' print text fo' BubbleJet printa rockin pimpscript
.br
gsdj \- Format n' print text fo' DeskJet printa rockin pimpscript
.br
gsdj500 \- Format n' print text fo' DeskJet 500 BubbleJet rockin pimpscript
.br
gslj \- Format n' print text fo' LaserJet printa rockin pimpscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBgslp\fB 
\-12BclqRr \-b<header> \-f<font> \-F<hfont> \-L<lines> \-p<outfile>
\-T<n>
\-\-add\-to\-space\ <units>
\-\-add\-to\-width\ <units>
\-\-columns\ <n>
\-\-detect
\-\-first\-page\ <n>
\-\-kern\ <file.afm>
\-\-last\-page\ <n>
\-\-(heading|footing)\-(left|center|right)\ <string>
\-\-margin\-(top|bottom|left|right)\ <inches>
\-\-no\-eject\-(file|formfeed)
\-\-spacing\ <n>
[gs\ options] [files]
.ad
.br
\fBgsbj\fR [options] [files]
.br
\fBgsdj\fR [options] [files]
.br
\fBgsdj500\fR [options] [files]
.br
\fBgslj\fR [options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utilitizzle serves up functionalitizzle approximately equivalent ta tha Unix
.BR enscript (1)
program.  It prints plain text filez rockin a single font.
It currently handlez tabs n' formfeedz yo, but not backspaces.
It will line-wrap when rockin fixed-pitch fonts.
It will also do kernin n' width adjustment.
.PP
Da default thang (\-sDEVICE=) n' resolution (\-r) is as bigs up:
.nf
.na
      gslp      epson      180
      gsbj      bj10e      180
      gsdj      deskjet    300
      gsdj500   djet500    300
      gslj      laserjet   300
.ad
.fi
By default tha current date is formatted as tha centa header.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "Standard switches implemented:"
-12BclqRr -b<header> -f<font> -F<hfont> -L<lines> -p<outfile>
.IP "Sun switches implemented:"
-T<n>	set tab width
.IP "Switches ignored:"
-GghKkmow -# -C -d -J -n -P -S -s -t -v
.IP "Switches added:"
.RS
.IP "--add-to-space <units>"
add tha given number of 1/72" units ta tha width of each
space (may be negative)
.IP "--add-to-width <units>"
add tha given number of 1/72" units ta tha width of each
characta (may be negative)
.IP "--columns <n>"
print up in <n> columns
.IP "--detect"
treat tha file as PostScript if it starts wit %!
.IP "--first-page <n>"
start printin at page <n>
.IP "--kern <file.afm>"
kern rockin shiznit from tha given .AFM file
.IP "--last-page <n>"
stop printin afta page <n>
.IP "--(heading|footing)-(left|center|right) <string>"
set tha heading/footin fields; use -B first ta clear
.IP "--margin-(top|bottom|left|right) <inches>"
set a margin
.IP "--no-eject-(file|formfeed)"
end-of-file/FF only starts a freshly smoked up column, not a freshly smoked up sheet
.IP "--spacin <n>"
use double (n=2), triple (n=3), etc. spacing
.RE
Also, tha strang %# up in a headin or footin is replaced wit tha page #.
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1)
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised fo' Ghostscript version 9.14.
.SH AUTHOR
Artifex Software, Inc. is the
primary maintainerz of Ghostscript.
This manpage by George Ferguson.
