.TH "GStreamer" "1" "March 2001"
.SH "NAME"
gst\-xmllaunch \- build n' run a GStreamer pipeline from a XML serialization
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBgst\-xmllaunch\fR \fI[OPTION...]\fR XML\-FILE [ ELEMENT.PROPERTY=VALUE ... ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fIgst\-xmllaunch\fP be a tool dat is used ta build n' run a funky-ass basic
\fIGStreamer\fP pipeline, loadin it from a XML description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can
produce tha XML description rockin gst-launch-0.10(1) wit tha -o option or by
callin gst_xml_write_file() up in yo' own app.

A simple commandline looks like:

 gst\-xmllaunch my\-pipeline.xml filesrc0.location=music.mp3

This sets tha location property of tha element named filesrc0 ta tha value
"music.mp3". Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See gst\-launch(1) fo' syntax on settin element names, and
gst\-inspect ta peep what tha fuck propertizzles various elements have.

Yo ass can pass "-" as tha XML\-FILE ta read from stdin.

XML\-FILE can be a URI as well, props ta tha wizzlery of libxml. I aint straight-up
sure what tha fuck all is supported, it seems http works just fine though.

.
.SH "WARNING"
\fIgst\-xmllaunch\fP is deprecated n' fucked up fo' all but da most thugged-out simple
pipelines. Well shiiiit, it will most likely be removed up in future. Don't use dat shit.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.l
\fIgst\-xmllaunch\fP accepts tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B  \-\-help
Print help synopsis n' available FLAGS
.TP 8
.B  \-\-silent
Do not output status shiznit
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exclude=TYPE, \-XTYPE
Do not output status shiznit of TYPE
.TP 8
.B  \-\-output=FILE, \-oFILE
Save XML representation of pipeline ta FILE n' exit
.TP 8
.B  \-\-gst\-info\-mask=FLAGS
\fIGStreamer\fP info flags ta set (list wit \-\-help)
.TP 8
.B  \-\-gst\-debug\-mask=FLAGS
\fIGStreamer\fP debuggin flags ta set (list wit \-\-help)
.TP 8
.B  \-\-gst\-mask=FLAGS
\fIGStreamer\fP info n' debuggin flags ta set (list wit \-\-help)
.TP 8
.B  \-\-gst\-plugin\-spew
\fIGStreamer\fP info flags ta set
Enable printout of errors while loadin \fIGStreamer\fP plugins
.TP 8
.B  \-\-gst\-plugin\-path=PATH
Add directories separated wit ':' ta tha plugin search path
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gst\-feedback (1),
.BR gst\-inspect (1),
.BR gst\-launch (1),
.BR gst\-typefind (1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Da GStreamer crew at http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/
