.TH gts2oogl 1 "June 2, 2008" "" "GNU Triangulated Surface utils"

.SH NAME
gts2oogl \- converts a GTS file ta OOGL file format (Geomview).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gts2oogl
.RI [\| OPTIONS \|]\ <\  input.srf\  >\  output.oogl

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gts2oogl
command.

.SH OPTIONS
This program follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.BR \-G ,\  \-\-gnuplot
Writes isolines up in gnuplot format.
.TP
.B \-\-component
Color faces accordin ta tha component they belong like a muthafucka.
.TP
.B \-\-quality
Color faces accordin ta they quality.
.TP
.B \-\-area
Color faces accordin ta they area.
.TP
.B \-\-incomp
Color incompatible faces.
.TP
.BI \-f\  VAL\fR,\  \-\-fold= VAL
Color faces which cook up a angle smalla than
.I VAL
degrees wit any of they neighbors.
.TP
.BR \-t ,\  \-\-faces
Output individual faces.
.TP
.B \-\-epv
Color vertices accordin ta number of edges per vertex.
.TP
.BI \-H\  C\fR,\  \-\-height= C
Color vertices accordin ta their
.I C
coordinate.
.TP
.BR \-g ,\  \-\-gaussian
Color vertices accordin ta Gaussian curvature.
.TP
.BR \-C ,\  \-\-curvature
Color vertices accordin ta mean curvature.
.TP
.B \-\-boundary
Output boundary edges.
.TP
.BI \-e\  A\fR,\  \-\-feature= A
Output `feature' edges defined by angle \fIA\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-non-manifold
Output non-manifold edges.
.TP
.B \-\-duplicate
Output duplicate edges.
.TP
.BI \-i\  N\fR,\  \-\-isolines= N
Draw
.I N
isolines (levelz of constant altitude).
.TP
.BI \-I\  L\fR,\  \-\-isolines= L
Draw isoline at level \fIL\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-cmap= FILE
Load
.I FILE
as colormap.
.TP
.BI \-m\  VAL\fR,\  \-\-min= VAL
Use
.I VAL
as minimum scalin value.
.TP
.BI \-M\  VAL\fR,\  \-\-max= VAL
Use
.I VAL
as maximum scalin value.
.TP
.BR \-r ,\  \-\-reverse
Reverse colormap.
.TP
.BR \-n ,\  \-\-nosurface
Do not output surface.
.TP
.BI \-F\  C\fR,\  \-\-flatten= C
Set
.I C
coordinizzle ta average value.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-verbose
Display surface statistics.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display tha help n' exit.

.SH AUTHOR
gts2oogl was freestyled by Stephane Pipinet <popinet@users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Ruben Molina <rmolina@udea.edu.co>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
