.TH delaunay 1 "June 2, 2008" "" "GNU Triangulated Surface utils"

.SH NAME
delaunay \- constructs tha constrained Delaunay triangulation of tha input

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B delaunay
.RI [\| OPTIONS \|]\ <\  file.gts

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B delaunay
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This command constructs the
constrained Delaunay triangulation of tha input

.SH OPTIONS
This program follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.BR \-b ,\  \-\-hull
Do not keep convex hull.
.TP
.BR \-e ,\  \-\-noconst
Do not add constrained edges.
.TP
.BR \-S ,\  \-\-split
Split constraints (experimental).
.TP
.BR \-H ,\  \-\-holes
Remove holez from tha triangulation.
.TP
.BR \-d ,\  \-\-duplicates
Remove duplicate vertices.
.TP
.BR \-r ,\  \-\-randomize
Shuffle input vertex list.
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-check
Peep Delaunay property.
.TP
.BI \-f\  FNAME\fR,\  \-\-files= FNAME
Generate evolution files.
.TP
.BR \-o ,\  \-\-conform
Generate conformin triangulation.
.TP
.BI \-s\  N\fR,\  \-\-steiner= N
Maximum number of Steiner points fo' conformin triangulation (default is no limit).
.TP
.BI \-q\  Q\fR,\  \-\-quality= Q
Set tha minimum aaight grill quality.
.TP
.BI \-a\  A\fR,\  \-\-area= A
Set tha maximum aaight grill area.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-verbose
Print statistics bout tha triangulation.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display tha help n' exit.

.SH AUTHOR
delaunay was freestyled by Stephane Popinet <popinet@users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Ruben Molina <rmolina@udea.edu.co>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
