.TH transform 1 "June 2, 2008" "" "GNU Triangulated Surface utils"

.SH NAME
transform \- apply geometric transformations ta tha input.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transform
.RI [\| OPTIONS \|]\ <\  file.gts

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly tha 
.B transform
command.

.SH OPTIONS
This program follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.BI \-r\  ANGLE\fR,\  \-\-rx= ANGLE
Rotate round x-axis
.RI ( ANGLE
in degrees).
.TP
.BI \-m\  ANGLE\fR,\  \-\-ry= ANGLE
Rotate round y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-m\  ANGLE\fR,\  \-\-rz= ANGLE
Rotate round z-axis.
.TP
.BI \-s\  FACTOR\fR,\  \-\-scale= FACTOR
Scale by
.IR FACTOR .
.TP
.BI \-R\  FACTOR\fR,\  \-\-sx= FACTOR
Scale x-axis by
.IR FACTOR .
.TP
.BI \-M\  FACTOR\fR,\  \-\-sy= FACTOR
Scale y-axis by
.IR FACTOR .
.TP
.BI \-N\  FACTOR\fR,\  \-\-sz= FACTOR
Scale z-axis by
.IR FACTOR .
.TP
.BI \-t\  V\fR,\  \-\-tx= V
Translate of
.I V
along x-axis.
.TP
.BI \-u\  V\fR,\  \-\-ty= V
Translate of
.I V
along y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-w\  V\fR,\  \-\-tz= V
Translate of
.I V
along z-axis.
.TP
.BR \-i ,\  \-\-revert
Turn surface inside out.
.TP
.BR \-o ,\  \-\-normalize
Fit tha resultin surface up in a cold-ass lil cube of size 1 centered all up in tha origin.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-verbose
Print statistics bout tha surface.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display tha help n' exit.

.SH AUTHOR
transform was freestyled by Stephane Popinet <popinet@users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Ruben Molina <rmolina@udea.edu.co>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
