.\" Written by Robert Merkel (rgmerk@mira.net)
.\" augmented by Rob Brownin <rlb@cs.utexas.edu>
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH GUILE 1
.SH NAME
guile \- a Scheme interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B guile [-q] [-ds] [--help] [--version] [--emacs] [--debug]
.B [-l FILE] [-e FUNCTION] [\]
.B [-c EXPR] [-s SCRIPT] [--]
.SH DESCRIPTION
GNU Guile be a interpreta fo' tha Scheme programmin language.  It
implements R5RS, providin additionizzle features
necessary fo' real-world use.  It be mad simple ta embed guile
into a C program, callin C from Scheme n' Scheme from C.  Guile's
design make it straight-up suitable fo' use as a "extension" or "glue"
language yo, but it also works well as a stand-alone scheme pimpment
environment.

The
.B guile
executable itself serves up a stand-alone interpreta fo' scheme
programs, fo' either interactizzle use or executin scripts.

This manpage serves up only brief instruction up in invoking
.B guile
from tha command line.  Please consult tha guile info documentation
(type 
.B info guile
at a cold-ass lil command prompt) fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  There be also a tutorial
.B (info guile-tut) 
available.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -l FILE
Load scheme source code from file.
.IP -e FUNCTION
Afta readin script, apply FUNCTION ta command-line arguments
.IP -ds
do -s SCRIPT at dis point (note dat dis argument must be used in
conjuction wit -s)
.IP --help 
Describe command line options n' exit
.IP --debug
Start guile wit debuggin evaluator n' backtraces enabled 
(useful fo' debuggin guile scripts)
.IP --version
Display guile version n' exit.
.IP --emacs
Enable emacs protocol fo' use from within emacs (experimental)
.IP --
Quit argument processing, start guile up in interactizzle mode.
.IP -c EXPR
Quit argument processing, evaluate EXPR as a scheme expression.
.IP -s SCRIPT-FILE
Load Scheme source from SCRIPT-FILE n' execute as a script.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".TP \w'MANROFFSEQ\ \ 'u
.TP
.B GUILE_LOAD_PATH
If
.RB $ GUILE_LOAD_PATH
is set, its value is used ta agument tha path ta search fo' scheme
filez when loading.  It should be a cold-ass lil colon separated list of
directories which is ghon be prepended ta tha default %load-path.

.SH FILES
.I ~/.guile
is a guile script dat is executed before any other processin occurs.
For example, tha followin .guile activates guilez readline
interface:

.RS 4
(use-modulez (ice-9 readline))
.RS 0
(activate-readline)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Da full documentation fo' guile is maintained as a Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If
the info n' guile programs is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command
.IP
.B info guile
.PP
should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual.

http://www.schemers.org serves up a general introduction ta the
Scheme language.

.SH AUTHORS
Robert Merkel <rgmerk@mira.net> freestyled dis manpage.  
Rob Brownin <rlb@cs.utexas.edu> has added ta dat shit.

.B guile 
is GNU software.  Guile is originally based on Aubrey Jaffer's
SCM interpreter, n' is tha work of nuff dudes.
