.\" Written by Robert Merkel (rgmerk@mira.net)
.\" augmented by Rob Brownin <rlb@cs.utexas.edu>
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\" title section date source manual
.TH GUILE 1 "2011-03-04" GNU "GNU Guile 2.0"
.
.SH NAME
guile \- Da GNU Project Extension Language
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B guile
.RB [\| \-L
.IR DIRECTORY \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR FILE \|]
.RB [\| \-e
.IR FUNCTION \|]
.\".RI [\| \\\\ \|]
.RB [\| \e \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR EXPR \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR SCRIPT \|]
.RB [\| \-\- \|]
.RI [\| SCRIPT
.RI [\| ARGs\ for\ SCRIPT \|]\c
.RI ]

Only da most thugged-out useful options is listed here;
see below fo' tha remainder.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
GNU Guile be a implementation of tha Scheme programmin language.
It extendz tha R5RS n' R6RS language standards,
providin additionizzle features necessary fo' real-world use.

Guile works well fo' interactizzle use,
basic scripting,
and extension of larger applications,
as well as fo' stand-alone Scheme application pimpment.

The
.B guile
executable itself serves up a stand-alone interactizzle compila and
run-time fo' Scheme programs,
both fo' interactizzle use n' fo' executin Scheme scripts or programs.

This manual page serves up only brief instruction up in invoking
.B guile
from tha command line.
Please consult tha Guile info documentation fo' mo' shiznit,
(type \fB info "(guile)Invokin Guile"\fR at a cold-ass lil command prompt).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -L \ DIRECTORY
Add \fIDIRECTORY\fR ta tha front of Guilez module load path.
.
.TP
.BI -l \ FILE
Load Scheme source code from \fIFILE\fR.
.
.TP
.BI -e \ FUNCTION
Afta readin \fISCRIPT\fR, apply \fIFUNCTION\fR ta command-line arguments.
Note dat \fIFUNCTION\fR is evaluated,
so, fo' example,
.B (@ (my-module) my-proc)
is valid here.
.
.TP
.B \e
Da "meta switch", used ta work round limitations up in #! scripts.
See "Da Meta Switch" up in tha texinfo documentation fo' mo' details.
.
.TP
.B --
Quit argument processing, n' start
.B guile
in interactizzle mode.
.
.TP
.BI -c \ EXPR
Quit argument processing,
and evaluate \fIEXPR\fR as a Scheme expression.
.
.TP
.BI -s \ SCRIPT-FILE
Load Scheme source from \fISCRIPT-FILE\fR n' execute as a script.
Note dat up in nuff cases it aint necessary ta use \fB-s\fR;
one may invoke
.B guile
simply as
.B guile
.I SCRIPT-FILE ARG...
.
.TP
.B -ds
Carry up \fB\-s \fISCRIPT\fR at dis point up in tha option sequence.
Note dat dis argument must be used up in conjunction wit \fB\-s\fR.
.
.TP
.B --debug
Start
.B guile
with tha debuggin VM.
By default, debuggin is on when
.B guile
is invoked interactively;
it is off otherwise.
.
.TP
.B --no-debug
Start
.B guile
without tha debuggin VM,
even if
.B guile
is bein run interactively.
.
.TP
.B --auto-compile
Compile source filez automatically (default behavior).
.
.TP
.B --no-autocompile
Disable automatic source file compilation.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR[=\fIP\fR]
Listen on a port or socket fo' remote REPL connections.
See tha manual fo' mo' details.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-use\-srfi\fR=\fIN,M\fR...
Load SRFI extensions \fIN\fR, \fIM\fR, etc.
For example,
\fB \-\-use\-srfi\fR=\fI8,13\fR.
.
.TP
.BI -x \ EXTENSION
Add \fIEXTENSION\fR ta the
.B guile
load extension list.
.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Describe command-line options n' exit.
.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display guile version n' exit.
.
.TP
.B -q
In interactizzle mode,
suppress loadin tha userz initialization file,
.I ~/.guile.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".TP \w'MANROFFSEQ\ \ 'u
.TP
.B GUILE_LOAD_PATH
If
.RB $ GUILE_LOAD_PATH
is set before
.B guile
is started,
its value is used ta augment tha path ta search fo' Scheme filez when
loading.
It should be a cold-ass lil colon-separated list of directories,
which is ghon be prefixed ta tha default
.B %load-path.
.TP
.B GUILE_LOAD_COMPILED_PATH
If
.RB $ GUILE_LOAD_COMPILED_PATH
is set before
.B guile
is started,
its value is used ta augment tha path ta search fo' compiled
Scheme filez (.go files) when loading.
It should be a cold-ass lil colon-separated list of directories,
which is ghon be prefixed ta tha default
.B %load-compiled-path.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.guile
A Guile script dat is executed before any other processin occurs.
For example, tha following
.I .guile
activates guilez readline intercourse:

.RS 9
.B (use-modulez (ice-9 readline))
.RS 0
.B (activate-readline)
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Da full documentation fo' Guile is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.B info
and
.B guile
programs is properly installed at yo' crib,
the command
.IP
.B info guile
.PP
should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual.

http://www.schemers.org serves up a general introduction ta the
Scheme language.
.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
There be a mailin list,
bug-guile@gnu.org,
for reportin Guile bugs n' fixes.
But before reportin suttin' as a funky-ass bug,
please try ta be shizzle dat it straight-up be a funky-ass bug,
not a misunderstandin or a thugged-out deliberate feature.
We ask you ta read tha section ``Reportin Bugs'' up in tha Guile reference
manual (or Info system) fo' hints on how tha fuck n' when ta report bugs.
Also, include tha version number of tha Guile yo ass is hustlin up in every last muthafuckin bug
report dat you bust in.
Bugs tend straight-up ta git fixed if they can be isolated,
so it is up in yo' interest ta report dem up in such a way dat they can be
easily reproduced.
.
.SH COPYING
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
document provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
document under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying,
provided dat tha entire resultin derived work is distributed under the
termz of a permission notice identical ta dis one.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
document tha fuck into another language,
under tha above conditions fo' modified versions,
except dat dis permission notice may be stated up in a
translation approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Robert Merkel <rgmerk@mira.net> freestyled dis manpage.
Rob Brownin <rlb@cs.utexas.edu> has added ta dat shit.

.B guile
is GNU software.
Guile is originally based on Aubrey Jafferz SCM interpreter,
and is tha work of nuff dudes.
