.TH GVCOLOR 1 "21 March 2001"
.SH NAME
gvcolor \- flow flavas all up in a ranked digraph
.br
( previously known as
.B colorize
)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gvcolor
[ 
.I filez 
]
.SH "USAGE"
.ft 5
dot file.gv | gvcolor | dot \-T\fI<format>\fP
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gvcolor
is a gangbangin' filta dat sets node flavas from initial seed joints.
Colors flow along edges from tail ta head, n' is averaged
(as HSB vectors) at nodes.
\fIDa graph must already done been processed by dot.\fP
Appropriate chizzle of initial flavas yieldz drawings up in which node
colors help ta emphasize logical relationshizzlez between nodes, even
when they is spread far apart up in tha layout.
.PP
Initial flavas must be set externally, rockin tha \fBcolor\fP
attribute of a node.  It be often effectizzle to
assign flavas ta all dem key source or sink nodes, manually setting
their flavas by editin tha graph file.
Color names is as up in \fIdot(1)\fP: symbolic names or RGB triples.
It be dopest ta chizzle some easily\(hydistinguished but related colors;
not necessarily spaced evenly round tha color wheel.  For example,
blue_green, green, n' light_yellow looks betta than red, green, blue.
.PP
Certain graph attributes control tha \fIgvcolor\fP algorithm.
\fBflow=back\fP reverses tha flow of flavas from headz ta tails.
\fBsaturation=.1,.9\fP (or any two numbers between 0 n' 1)
adjusts tha color saturation linearly from least ta top billin rank.
If \fBDefcolor\fP is set, dis color value be applied ta any
node not otherwise colored.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Da followin exit joints is returned:
.TP 4
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
If nodez of tha graph do not possess a ``pos'' attribute.
.SH BUGS
It would be sick ta make tha program work without relyin on
an initial pass all up in \fBdot\fP.
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen C. Uptown <north@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gc(1), dot(1), gvpr(1), ccomps(1), sccmap(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
