.de TQ
.  br
.  ns
.  TP \\$1
..
.TH GVMAP.SH 1 "31 March 2011"
.SH NAME
gvmap.sh \- pipeline fo' hustlin gvmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gvmap.sh
[\fB\-vV?\fP]
[
.I options
]
[
.BI \-o
.I outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gvmap.sh
takes as input a graph up in DOT format, performs a layout, runs tha output through
gvmap n' rendaz tha output fo' realz. At some point, it is hoped ta integrate all of these
tasks tha fuck into gvmap.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.BI \-a " k"
Da integer k specifies tha average number of artificial points added along 
the boundin box of tha labels. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such artificial points is added ta avoid 
a ghetto boundary cuttin all up in tha boundary box of tha labels. Computin 
time is proportionizzle ta k; hence, fo' big-ass graphs, a lil' small-ass value of k is 
suggested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If k = -1, a suitable value of k be automatically selected based on 
the graph size. By default k = -1.
.TP
.BI \-K " layout" 
specifies which program should be use fo' tha initial layout. By default,
sfdp is run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Also by default, tha layout is passed tha flag -Goverlap=prism. This can be
overridden rockin a -g flag.
.TP
.BI \-T " format" 
specifies tha final output format. This works tha same ol' dirty way as tha -T flag fo' any
Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-N " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a thugged-out default node attribute durin tha renderin phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -N flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-G " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a graph attribute durin tha renderin phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -G flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-E " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a thugged-out default edge attribute durin tha renderin phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -E flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-n " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a thugged-out default node attribute durin tha layout phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -N flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-g " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a graph attribute durin tha layout phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -G flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-e " attr=val"
specifies tha settin of a thugged-out default edge attribute durin tha layout phase. This works tha same ol' dirty way as 
the -E flag fo' any Graphviz layout program.
.TP
.BI \-A " flag"
specifies a gangbangin' flag ta be passed ta gvmap. For example, gvmap.sh -Ae -As3 causes gvmap -e -s3 ta be run.
.TP
.BI \-v
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-V
Print version shiznit n' exit. 
.TP
.BI \-?
Print usage shiznit n' exit. 

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Da followin invocation
creates a map wit edges up in semi-transparent light gray n' nodes laid 
out rockin sfdp:
.PP
gvmap.sh -Ae -Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng foo.gv > foo.png
.PP
It be equivalent ta hustlin tha pipeline
.PP
sfdp -Goverlap=prizzle foo.gv | gvmap -e | neato -n2 -Ecolor=#55555522 -Tpng > foo.png

.SH AUTHOR
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
gvmap(1), sfdp(1), neato(1), gvpr(1)
.PP
E. R. Gansner, Y yo. Hu, S. G. Kobourov, "GMap: Visualizin graphs n' clustas as maps," Proc. Pacific Vis. 2010, pp. 201\(hy208.
