.TH GXL2GV,GV2GXL 1 "20 December 2002"
.SH NAME
gxl2gv,gv2gxl \- GXL-GV converters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gxl2gv
[
.B \-gd?
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.br
.B gv2gxl
[
.B \-gd?
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gxl2gv
converts between graphs represented up in GXL n' up in the
GV language. Unless a cold-ass lil conversion type is specified using
a flag,
.B gxl2gv
will deduce tha type of conversion from tha suffix of
the input file, a ".gv" suffix causin a cold-ass lil conversion from GV
to GXL, n' a ".gxl" suffix causin a cold-ass lil conversion from GXL ta GV.
If no suffix be available, e.g. when tha input is from a pipe,
and no flags is used then
.B gxl2gv
assumes tha type of tha input file from its executable name
so that
.B gxl2gv
converts from GXL ta GV, and
.B gv2gxl
converts from GV ta GXL.
.PP
GXL supports a much richer graph model than GV. \fBgxl2gv\fP
will attempt ta map GXL constructs tha fuck into tha analogous GV construct
when dis is possible. If not, tha GXL shiznit is stored as
an attribute. Da intention is dat applyin \fBgxl2gv|gv2gxl\fP
is semantically equivalent ta tha identitizzle operator.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-g
Da command name n' input file extensions is ignored, the
input is taken as a GV file n' a GXL file is generated.
.TP
.B \-d
Da command name n' input file extensions is ignored, the
input is taken as a GXL file n' a GV file is generated.
.TP
.B \-?
Prints usage shiznit n' exits.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, tha output is ghon be freestyled tha fuck into tha file
\fIoutfile\fP. Otherwise, output is freestyled ta standard out.
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in GXL or GV.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH RETURN CODES
Both \fBgxl2gv\fP n' \fBgv2gxl\fP return \fB0\fP
if there was no problems durin conversion;
and non-zero if any error occurred.
.SH "BUGS"
\fBgxl2gv\fP will only convert up in one erection even if given multiple files
with varyin suffixes.
.PP
Da conversion can only handle one graph per GXL file.
.PP
There is some GXL constructs which \fBgxl2gv\fP cannot handle.
.SH AUTHORS
Krishnam Pericherla <kp@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dot(1), libgraph(3), libagraph(3), neato(1), twopi(1)
