.TH GZIP 1 local
.SH NAME
gzip, gunzip, zcat \- compress or expand files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +8
.B gzip
.RB [ " \-acdfhklLnNrtvV19 " ]
.RB [ \-S\ suffix ]
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.ll -8
.br
.B gunzip
.RB [ " \-acfhklLnNrtvV " ]
.RB [ \-S\ suffix ]
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.br
.B zcat
.RB [ " \-fhLV " ]
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gzip
reduces tha size of tha named filez rockin Lempel-Ziv codin (LZ77).
Whenever possible,
each file is replaced by one wit tha extension
.BR "\&.gz" ,
while keepin tha same ballershizzle modes, access n' modification times.
(Da default extension is
.B "\-gz"
for VMS,
.B "z"
for MSDOS, OS/2 FAT, Windows NT FAT n' Atari.)
If no filez is specified, or if a gangbangin' file name is "-", tha standard input is
compressed ta tha standard output.
.I Gzip
will only attempt ta compress regular files.
In particular, it will ignore symbolic links.
.PP
If tha compressed file name is too long fo' its file system,
.I gzip
truncates dat shit.
.I Gzip
attempts ta truncate only tha partz of tha file name longer than 3 characters.
(A part is delimited by dots.) If tha name consistz of lil' small-ass parts only,
the longest parts is truncated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For example, if file names is limited
to 14 characters, gzip.msdos.exe is compressed ta gzi.msd.exe.gz.
Names is not truncated on systems which aint gots a limit on file name
length.
.PP
By default,
.I gzip
keeps tha original gangsta file name n' timestamp up in tha compressed file. These
are used when decompressin tha file wit the
.B \-N
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is useful when tha compressed file name was truncated or
when tha time stamp was not preserved afta a gangbangin' file transfer.
.PP
Compressed filez can be restored ta they original gangsta form using
.I gzip -d
or
.I gunzip
or
.IR zcat .
If tha original gangsta name saved up in tha compressed file aint suitable fo' its
file system, a freshly smoked up name is constructed from tha original gangsta one ta make it
legal.
.PP
.I gunzip
takes a list of filez on its command line n' replaces each
file whose name endz wit .gz, -gz, .z, -z, or _z (ignorin case)
and which begins wit tha erect magic number wit a uncompressed
file without tha original gangsta extension.
.I gunzip
also recognizes tha special extensions
.B "\&.tgz"
and
.B "\&.taz"
as shorthandz for
.B "\&.tar.gz"
and
.B "\&.tar.Z"
respectively.
When compressing,
.I gzip
uses the
.B "\&.tgz"
extension if necessary instead of truncatin a gangbangin' file wit a
.B "\&.tar"
extension.
.PP
.I gunzip
can currently decompress filez pimped by
.IR gzip ,
.IR zip ,
.IR compress ,
.I "compress -H"
or
.IR pack .
Da detection of tha input format be automatic.  When using
the first two formats,
.I gunzip
checks a 32 bit CRC. For
.I pack
and
.I gunzip
checks tha uncompressed length. Da standard
.I compress
format was not designed ta allow consistency checks yo. However
.I gunzip
is sometimes able ta detect a wack .Z file. If you git a error
when uncompressin a .Z file, do not assume dat tha .Z file is
correct simply cuz tha standard
.I uncompress
does not complain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This generally means dat tha standard
.I uncompress
does not check its input, n' happily generates garbage output.
Da SCO compress -H format (lzh compression method) do not include a CRC
but also allows some consistency checks.
.PP
Filez pimped by
.I zip
can be uncompressed by gzip only if they gotz a single member compressed
with tha 'deflation' method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This feature is only intended ta help
conversion of tar.zip filez ta tha tar.gz format.  To extract a
.I zip
file wit a single member, bust a cold-ass lil command like
.I "gunzip <foo.zip"
or
.IR "gunzip -S .zip foo.zip" .
To extract zip files
with nuff muthafuckin members, use
.I unzip
instead of
.IR gunzip .
.PP
.I zcat
is identical to
.I gunzip
.BR \-c .
(On some systems,
.I zcat
may be installed as
.I gzcat
to preserve tha original gangsta link to
.IR compress .)
.I zcat
uncompresses either a list of filez on tha command line or its
standard input n' writes tha uncompressed data on standard output.
.I zcat
will uncompress filez dat have tha erect magic number whether
they have a
.B "\&.gz"
suffix or not.
.PP
.I Gzip
uses tha Lempel-Ziv algorithm used in
.I zip
and PKZIP.
Da amount of compression obtained dependz on tha size of the
input n' tha distribution of common substrings.
Typically, text like fuckin source code or Gangsta
is reduced by 60\-70%.
Compression is generally much betta than dat  bigged up  by
LZW (as used in
.IR compress ),
Huffman codin (as used in
.IR pack ),
or adaptizzle Huffman coding
.RI ( compact ).
.PP
Compression be always performed, even if tha compressed file is
slightly larger than tha original. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Da most shitty case expansion is
a few bytes fo' tha gzip file header, plus 5 bytes every last muthafuckin 32K block,
or a expansion ratio of 0.015% fo' big-ass files. Note dat tha actual
number of used disk blocks almost never increases.
.I gzip
preserves tha mode, ballershizzle n' timestampz of filez when compressing
or decompressing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a --ascii
Ascii text mode: convert end-of-lines rockin local conventions. This option
is supported only on some non-Unix systems. For MSDOS, CR LF is converted
to LF when compressing, n' LF is converted ta CR LF when decompressing.
.TP
.B \-c --stdout --to-stdout
Write output on standard output; keep original gangsta filez unchanged.
If there be nuff muthafuckin input files, tha output consistz of a sequence of
independently compressed members. To obtain betta compression,
concatenate all input filez before compressin em.
.TP
.B \-d --decompress --uncompress
Decompress.
.TP
.B \-f --force
Force compression or decompression even if tha file has multiple links
or tha correspondin file already exists, or if tha compressed data
is read from or freestyled ta a terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If tha input data aint in
a format recognized by
.IR gzip ,
and if tha option --stdout be also given, copy tha input data without chizzle
to tha standard output: let
.I zcat
behave as
.IR pussaaaaay .
If
.B \-f
is not given,
and when not hustlin up in tha background,
.I gzip
prompts ta verify whether a existin file should be overwritten.
.TP
.B \-h --help
Display a help screen n' quit.
.TP
.B \-k --keep
Keep (don't delete) input filez durin compression or decompression.
.TP
.B \-l --list
For each compressed file, list tha followin fields:

    compressed size: size of tha compressed file
    uncompressed size: size of tha uncompressed file
    ratio: compression ratio (0.0% if unknown)
    uncompressed_name: name of tha uncompressed file

Da uncompressed size is given as -1 fo' filez not up in gzip format,
like fuckin compressed .Z files. To git tha uncompressed size fo' such a gangbangin' file,
you can use:

    zcat file.Z | wc -c

In combination wit tha --verbose option, tha followin fieldz is also
displayed:

    method: compression method
    crc: tha 32-bit CRC of tha uncompressed data
    date & time: time stamp fo' tha uncompressed file

Da compression methodz currently supported is deflate, compress, lzh
(SCO compress -H) n' pack.  Da crc is given as ffffffff fo' a gangbangin' file
not up in gzip format.

With --name, tha uncompressed name,  date n' time  are
those stored within tha compress file if present.

With --verbose, tha size totals n' compression ratio fo' all files
is also displayed, unless some sizes is unknown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With --quiet,
the title n' totals lines is not displayed.
.TP
.B \-L --license
Display the
.I gzip
license n' quit.
.TP
.B \-n --no-name
When compressing, do not save tha original gangsta file name n' time stamp by
default. (Da original gangsta name be always saved if tha name had ta be
truncated.) When decompressing, do not restore tha original gangsta file name
if present (remove only the
.I gzip
suffix from tha compressed file name) n' do not restore tha original
time stamp if present (copy it from tha compressed file). This option
is tha default when decompressing.
.TP
.B \-N --name
When compressing, always save tha original gangsta file name n' time stamp; this
is tha default. When decompressing, restore tha original gangsta file name and
time stamp if present. This option is useful on systems which have
a limit on file name length or when tha time stamp has been lost after
a file transfer.
.TP
.B \-q --quiet
Suppress all warnings.
.TP
.B \-r --recursive
Travel tha directory structure recursively. If any of tha file names
specified on tha command line is directories,
.I gzip
will descend tha fuck into tha directory n' compress all tha filez it findz there
(or decompress dem up in tha case of
.I gunzip
).
.TP
.B \-S .suf   --suffix .suf
When compressing, use suffix .suf instead of .gz.
Any non-empty suffix can be given yo, but suffixes
other than .z n' .gz should be avoided ta avoid mad drama when files
are transferred ta other systems.

When decompressing, add .suf ta tha beginnin of tha list of
suffixes ta try, when derivin a output file name from a input file name.
.TP
.B \-t --test
Test. Peep tha compressed file integrity.
.TP
.B \-v --verbose
Verbose. Display tha name n' cementage reduction fo' each file compressed
or decompressed.
.TP
.B \-V --version
Version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Display tha version number n' compilation options then quit.
.TP
.B \-# --fast --best
Regulate tha speed of compression rockin tha specified digit
.IR # ,
where
.B \-1
or
.B \-\-fast
indicates tha fastest compression method (less compression)
and
.B \-9
or
.B \-\-best
indicates tha slowest compression method (best compression).
Da default compression level is
.BR \-6
(that is, biased towardz high compression at expense of speed).
.SH "ADVANCED USAGE"
Multiple compressed filez can be concatenated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In dis case,
.I gunzip
will extract all thugz at once. For example:

      gzip -c file1  > foo.gz
      gzip -c file2 >> foo.gz

Then

      gunzip -c foo

is equivalent to

      pussaaaaay file1 file2

In case of damage ta one gangmember of a .gz file, other thugz can
still be recovered (if tha damaged member is removed) yo. However,
you can git betta compression by compressin all thugz at once:

      pussaaaaay file1 file2 | gzip > foo.gz

compresses betta than

      gzip -c file1 file2 > foo.gz

If you wanna recompress concatenated filez ta git betta compression, do:

      gzip -cd old.gz | gzip > new.gz

If a cold-ass lil compressed file consistz of nuff muthafuckin members, tha uncompressed
size n' CRC reported by tha --list option applies ta tha last member
only. If you need tha uncompressed size fo' all members, you can use:

      gzip -cd file.gz | wc -c

If you wish ta create a single archive file wit multiple thugz so
that thugz can lata be extracted independently, use a archiver
like fuckin tar or zip. GNU tar supports tha -z option ta invoke gzip
transparently. gzip is designed as a cold-ass lil complement ta tar, not as a
replacement.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
Da environment variable
.B GZIP
can hold a set of default options for
.IR gzip .
These options is interpreted first n' can be overwritten by
explicit command line parameters. For example:
      fo' sh:    GZIP="-8v --name"; export GZIP
      fo' csh:   setenv GZIP "-8v --name"
      fo' MSDOS: set GZIP=-8v --name

On Vax/VMS, tha name of tha environment variable is GZIP_OPT, to
avoid a cold-ass lil conflict wit tha symbol set fo' invocation of tha program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
znew(1), zcmp(1), zmore(1), zforce(1), gzexe(1), zip(1), unzip(1), compress(1)
.PP
The
.I gzip
file format is specified up in P. Deutsch, \s-1GZIP\s0 file format
specification version 4.3,
.BR <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1952.txt> ,
Internizzle RFC 1952 (May 1996).
The
.I zip
deflation format is specified up in P. Deutsch, \s-1DEFLATE\s0 Compressed
Data Format Justification version 1.3,
.BR <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1951.txt> ,
Internizzle RFC 1951 (May 1996).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Exit status is normally 0;
if a error occurs, exit status is 1. If a warnin occurs, exit status is 2.
.TP
Usage: gzip [-cdfhklLnNrtvV19] [-S suffix] [file ...]
Invalid options was specified on tha command line.
.TP
\fIfile\fP\^: not up in gzip format
Da file specified to
.I gunzip
has not been compressed.
.TP
\fIfile\fP\^: Corrupt input. Use zcat ta recover some data.
Da compressed file has been damaged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da data up ta tha deal wit failure
can be recovered using

      zcat \fIfile\fP > recover
.TP
\fIfile\fP\^: compressed wit \fIxx\fP bits, can only handle \fIyy\fP bits
.I File
was compressed (usin LZW) by a program dat could deal with
more
.I bits
than tha decompress code on dis machine.
Recompress tha file wit gzip, which compresses betta n' uses
less memory.
.TP
\fIfile\fP\^: already has .gz suffix -- no chizzle
Da file be assumed ta be already compressed.
Rename tha file n' try again.
.TP
\fIfile\fP already exists; do you wish ta overwrite (y or n)?
Respond "y" if you want tha output file ta be replaced; "n" if not.
.TP
gunzip: corrupt input
A SIGSEGV violation was detected which probably means dat tha input file has
been corrupted.
.TP
\fIxx.x%\fP Cementage of tha input saved by compression.
(Relevant only for
.BR \-v
and
.BR \-l \.)
.TP
-- not a regular file or directory: ignored
When tha input file aint a regular file or directory,
(e.g. a symbolic link, socket, FIFO, thang file), it is
left unaltered.
.TP
-- has \fIxx\fP other links: unchanged
Da input file has links; it is left unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
.IR ln "(1)"
for mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use the
.B \-f
flag ta force compression of multiply-linked files.
.SH CAVEATS
When freestylin compressed data ta a tape, it is generally necessary to
pad tha output wit zeroes up ta a funky-ass block boundary. When tha data is
read n' tha whole block is passed to
.I gunzip
for decompression,
.I gunzip
detects dat there is extra trailin garbage afta tha compressed data
and emits a warnin by default. Yo ass gotta use tha --quiet option to
suppress tha warning. This option can be set up in the
.B GZIP
environment variable as in:
  fo' sh:  GZIP="-q"  tar -xfz --block-compress /dev/rst0
  fo' csh: (setenv GZIP -q; tar -xfz --block-compr /dev/rst0

In tha above example, gzip is invoked implicitly by tha -z option of
GNU tar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Make shizzle dat tha same block size (-b option of tar) is used
for readin n' freestylin compressed data on tapes.  (This example
assumes yo ass is rockin tha GNU version of tar.)
.SH BUGS
Da gzip format represents tha input size modulo 2^32, so the
--list option reports incorrect uncompressed sizes n' compression
ratios fo' uncompressed filez 4 GB n' larger n' shit.  To work round this
problem, you can use tha followin command ta discover a large
uncompressed filez legit size:

      zcat file.gz | wc -c

Da --list option reports sizes as -1 n' crc as ffffffff if the
compressed file is on a non seekable media.

In some rare cases, tha --best option gives worse compression than
the default compression level (-6). On some highly redundant files,
.I compress
compresses betta than
.IR gzip .
.SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
Copyright \(co 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
Copyright \(co 1992, 1993 Jean-loup Gailly
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat tha entire
resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a permission
notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of dis manual
into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified versions,
except dat dis permission notice may be stated up in a translation approved
by tha Foundation.
