.TH "hardlink" "1"
.SH "NAME"
hardlink \- Consolidate duplicate filez via hardlinks
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBhardlink\fP [\fB-c\fP] [\fB-n\fP] [\fB-v\fP] [\fB-vv\fP] [\fB-h\fP] directory1 [ directory2 ... ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This manual page documents \fBhardlink\fP, a
program which consolidates duplicate filez up in one or mo' directories
usin hardlinks.
.PP
\fBhardlink\fP traverses one
or mo' directories searchin fo' duplicate files.  When it findz duplicate
files, it uses one of dem as tha masta n' shit.  It then removes all other
duplicates n' places a hardlink fo' each one pointin ta tha masta file.
This allows fo' conservation of disk space where multiple directories
on a single filesystem contain nuff duplicate files.
.PP
Since hard links can only span a single filesystem, \fBhardlink\fP
is only useful when all directories specified is on tha same filesystem.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.IP "\fB-c\fP" 10
Compare only tha contentz of tha filez bein considered fo' consolidation.
Disregardz permission, ballershizzle n' other differences.
.IP "\fB-f\fP" 10
Force hardlinkin across file systems.
.IP "\fB-n\fP" 10
Do not big-ass up tha consolidation; only print what tha fuck would be chizzled.
.IP "\fB-v\fP" 10
Print summary afta hardlinking.
.IP "\fB-vv\fP" 10
Print every last muthafuckin hardlinked file n' bytes saved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Also print summary afta hardlinking.
.IP "\fB-h\fP" 10
Show help.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
\fBhardlink\fP was freestyled by Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>.
.PP
Man page freestyled by Brian Long.
.PP
Man page updated by Jindrich Novy <jnovy@redhat.com>
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
\fBhardlink\fP assumes dat its target directory trees do not chizzle from under
it.  If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory tree do chizzle, dis may result up in \fBhardlink\fP
accessin filez and/or directories outside of tha intended directory tree.
Thus, you must avoid hustlin \fBhardlink\fP on potentially changin directory
trees, n' especially on directory trees under control of another user.
