.TH HCIATTACH 1 "Jan 22 2002" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
hciattach \- attach serial devices via UART HCI ta BlueZ stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hciattach
.RB [\| \-b \|]
.RB [\| \-n \|]
.RB [\| \-p \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR timeout \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR speed \|]
.RB [\| \-l \|]
.RB [\| \-r \|]
.I tty
.IR type \||\| id
.I speed
.I flow
.I bdaddr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Hciattach is used ta attach a serial UART ta tha Bluetooth stack as HCI
transhiznit intercourse.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Send break.
.TP
.B \-n
Don't detach from controllin terminal.
.TP
.B \-p
Print tha PID when detaching.
.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
Specify a initialization timeout.  (Default is 5 seconds.)
.TP
.BI \-s " speed"
Specify a initial speed instead of tha hardware default.
.TP
.B \-l
List all available configurations.
.TP
.B \-r
Set tha HCI thang tha fuck into raw mode (the kernel n' bluetoothd will ignore it).
.TP
.I tty
This specifies tha serial thang ta attach fo' realz. A leading
.B /dev
can be omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Examples:
.B /dev/ttyS1
.B ttyS2
.TP
.IR type \||\| id
The
.I type
or
.I id
of tha Bluetooth thang dat is ta be attached, i.e. vendor or other device
specific identifier n' shit. Currently supported types are
.RS
.TP
.B type
.B description
.TP
.B any
Unspecified HCI_UART intercourse, no vendor specific options
.TP
.B ericsson
Ericsson based modules
.TP
.B digi
Digianswer based cards
.TP
.B xircom
Xircom PCMCIA cards: Credit Card Adapta n' Real Port Adapter
.TP
.B csr
CSR Casira serial adapta or DomeBoxes serial dongle (BL642)
.TP
.B bboxes
DomeBoxes PCMCIA card (BL620)
.TP
.B swave
Silicon Wave kits
.TP
.B bcsp
Serial adaptas rockin CSR chips wit BCSP serial protocol
.TP
.B ath3k
Atheros AR300x based serial Bluetooth device
.TP
.B intel
Intel Bluetooth device
.RE

Supported IDs is (manufacturer id, thang id)
.RS
.TP
.B 0x0105, 0x080a
Xircom PCMCIA cards: Credit Card Adapta n' Real Port Adapter
.TP
.B 0x0160, 0x0002
DomeBoxes PCMCIA card (BL620)
.RE

.TP
.I speed
The
.I speed
specifies tha UART speed ta use. Baudrates higher than 115.200bps require
vendor specific initializations dat is not implemented fo' all types of
devices. In general tha followin speedz is supported:

.B 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200, 230400, 460800, 921600

Supported vendor devices is automatically initialised ta they respective
best settings.
.TP
.I flow
If tha keyword
.I flow
is appended ta tha list of options then hardware flow control is forced on
the serial link (
.B CRTSCTS
) fo' realz. All above mentioned thang types have
.B flow
set by default. To force no flow control use
.B noflow
instead.
.TP
.I chill
Enablez hardware specific juice pimpment feature. If
.I chill
is appended ta tha list of options then dis feature is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To disable
this feature use
.B nosleep
instead.
All above mentioned thang types have
.B nosleep
set by default.

Note: This option will only be valid fo' hardware which support
hardware specific juice pimpment enable option from host.
.TP
.I bdaddr
The
.I bdaddr
specifies tha Bluetooth Address ta use.  Some devices (like tha STLC2500)
do not store tha Bluetooth address up in hardware memory.  Instead it must
be uploaded durin tha initialization process.  If dis argument
is specified, then tha address is ghon be used ta initialize tha device.
Otherwise, a thugged-out default address is ghon be used.

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
.PP
Manual page by Nils Faerber <nils@kernelconcepts.de>
