.TH HCICONFIG 1 "Nov 11 2002" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
hciconfig \- configure Bluetooth devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hciconfig
.B \-h
.br
.B hciconfig
.RB [\| \-a \|]
.br
.B hciconfig
.RB [\| \-a \|]
.B hciX
.RI [\| command
.RI [\| "command parameters" \|]\|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B hciconfig
is used ta configure Bluetooth devices.
.I hciX
is tha name of a Bluetooth thang installed up in tha system. If
.I hciX
is not given,
.B hciconfig
prints name n' basic shiznit bout all tha Bluetooth devices installed in
the system. If
.I hciX
is given but no command is given, it prints basic shiznit on device
.I hciX
only. Basic shiznit is
interface type, BD address, ACL MTU, SCO MTU, flags (up, init, hustlin, raw,
page scan enabled, inquiry scan enabled, inquiry, authentication enabled,
encryption enabled).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Gives a list of possible commands.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Other than tha basic info, print features, packet type, link policy, link mode,
name, class, version.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B up
Open n' initialize HCI device.
.TP
.B down
Close HCI device.
.TP
.B reset
Reset HCI device.
.TP
.B rstat
Reset statistic counters.
.TP
.B auth
Enable authentication (sets thang ta securitizzle mode 3).
.TP
.B noauth
Disable authentication.
.TP
.B encrypt
Enable encryption (sets thang ta securitizzle mode 3).
.TP
.B noencrypt
Disable encryption.
.TP
.B secmgr
Enable securitizzle manager (current kernel support is limited).
.TP
.B nosecmgr
Disable securitizzle manager.
.TP
.B piscan
Enable page n' inquiry scan.
.TP
.B noscan
Disable page n' inquiry scan.
.TP
.B iscan
Enable inquiry scan, disable page scan.
.TP
.B pscan
Enable page scan, disable inquiry scan.
.TP
\fBptype\fP [\fItype\fP]
With no
.I type
, displays tha current packet types. Otherwise, all tha packet types specified
by
.I type
are set.
.I type
is a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of packet types, where tha possible packet types are
.BR DM1 ,
.BR DM3 ,
.BR DM5 ,
.BR DH1 ,
.BR DH3 ,
.BR DH5 ,
.BR HV1 ,
.BR HV2 ,
.BR HV3 .
.TP
.BI name " [name]"
With no
.IR name ,
prints local name. Otherwise, sets local name to
.IR name .
.TP
.BI class " [class]"
With no
.IR class ,
prints class of device. Otherwise, sets class of thang to
.IR class .
.I
class
is a 24-bit hex number describin tha class of device, as specified up in section
1.2 of tha Bluetooth Assigned Numers document.
.TP
.BI voice " [voice]"
With no
.IR voice ,
prints voice setting. Otherwise, sets voice settin to
.IR voice .
.I voice
is a 16-bit hex number describin tha voice setting.
.TP
.BI iac " [iac]"
With no
.IR iac ,
prints tha current IAC setting. Otherwise, sets tha IAC to
.IR iac .
.TP
.BI inqtpl " [level]"
With no
.IR level ,
prints up tha current inquiry transmit juice level. Otherwise, sets
inquiry transmit juice level to
.IR level .
.TP
.BI inqmode " [mode]"
With no
.IR mode ,
prints up tha current inquiry mode. Otherwise, sets inquiry mode to
.IR mode .
.TP
.BI inqdata " [data]"
With no
.IR name ,
prints up tha current inquiry data. Otherwise, sets inquiry data to
.IR data .
.TP
.BI inqtype " [type]"
With no
.IR type ,
prints up tha current inquiry scan type. Otherwise, sets inquiry scan type to
.IR type .
.TP
\fBinqparams\fP [\fIwin\fP:\fIint\fP]
With no
.IR win : int ,
prints inquiry scan window n' interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Otherwise, sets inquiry scan window
to
.I win
slots n' inquiry scan interval to
.I int
slots.
.TP
\fBpageparms\fP [\fIwin\fP:\fIint\fP]
With no
.IR win : int ,
prints page scan window n' interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Otherwise, sets page scan window to
.I win
slots n' page scan interval to
.I int
slots.
.TP
.BI pageto " [to]"
With no
.IR ta ,
prints page timeout. Otherwise, sets page timeout
to .I
to
slots.
.TP
.BI afhmode " [mode]"
With no
.IR mode ,
prints up tha current AFH mode. Otherwise, sets AFH mode to
.IR mode .
.TP
.BI sspmode " [mode]"
With no
.IR mode ,
prints up tha current Simple Pairin mode. Otherwise, sets Simple Pairin mode to
.IR mode .
.TP
\fBaclmtu\fP \fImtu\fP:\fIpkt\fP
Sets ACL MTU to
to
.I mtu
bytes n' ACL buffer size to
.I pkt
packets.
.TP
\fBscomtu\fP \fImtu\fP:\fIpkt\fP
Sets SCO MTU to
.I mtu
bytes n' SCO buffer size to
.I pkt
packets.
.TP
.BI delkey " <bdaddr>"
This command deletes tha stored link key for
.I bdaddr
from tha device.
.TP
.BI oobdata
Git local OOB data (invalidates previously read data).
.TP
.BI commands
Display supported commands.
.TP
.BI features
Display thang features.
.TP
.BI version
Display version shiznit.
.TP
.BI revision
Display revision shiznit.
.TP
.BI lm " [mode]"
With no
.I mode
, prints link mode.
.B MASTER
or
.B SLAVE
mean, respectively, ta ask ta become masta or ta remain slave when a
connection request comes in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da additionizzle keyword
.B ACCEPT
means dat baseband  connections is ghon be accepted even if there be no
listening
.I AF_BLUETOOTH
sockets.
.I mode
is
.B NONE
or a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of keywords, where possible keywordz are
.B MASTER
and
.B "ACCEPT" .
.B NONE
sets link policy ta tha default behaviour of remainin slave n' not accepting
baseband connections when there be no listening
.I AF_BLUETOOTH
sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If
.B MASTER
is present, tha thang will ask ta become masta if a cold-ass lil connection request comes
in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If
.B ACCEPT
is present, tha thang will accept baseband connections even when there be no
listening
.I AF_BLUETOOTH
sockets.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com> n' Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
.PP
man page by Fabrizio Gennari <fabrizio.gennari@philips.com>
