.TH HCIDUMP 1 "Nov 12 2002" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
hcidump \- Parse HCI data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hcidump [-h]
.br
.B hcidump [option [option...]] [filter]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B
hcidump
readz raw HCI data comin from n' goin ta a Bluetooth thang (which can be
specified wit tha option
.BR -i ,
default is tha straight-up original gangsta available one) n' prints ta screen commands, events and
data up in a human-readable form. Optionally, tha dump can be freestyled ta a gangbangin' file
rather than parsed, n' tha dump file can be parsed up in a subsequent moment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -h
Prints usage info n' exits
.TP
.BI -i " <hciX>"
Data is read from
.IR hciX ,
which must be tha name of a installed Bluetooth device. If not specified,
and if
.B
-r
option aint set, data is read from tha straight-up original gangsta available Bluetooth device.
.TP
.BI -l " <len>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-snap-len=" "<len>"
Sets max length of processed packets to
.IR len .
.TP
.BI -p " <psm>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-psm=" "<psm>"
Sets default Protocol Service Multiplexer to
.IR psm .
.TP
.BI -m " <compid>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-manufacturer=" "<compid>"
Sets default company id fo' manufacturer to
.IR compid .
.TP
.BI -w " <file>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-save-dump=" "<file>"
Parse output aint printed ta screen, instead data read from thang is saved up in file
.IR file .
Da saved dump file can be subsequently parsed wit option
.BR -r .
.TP
.BI -r " <file>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-read-dump=" "<file>"
Data aint read from a Bluetooth device yo, but from file
.IR file .
.I
file
is pimped wit option
.BR -t ", " "\-\^\-timestamp"
Prepend a time stamp ta every last muthafuckin packet.
.TP
.BR -a ", " "\-\^\-ascii"
For every last muthafuckin packet, not only is tha packet type displayed yo, but also all data up in ASCII.
.TP
.BR -x ", " "\-\^\-hex"
For every last muthafuckin packet, not only is tha packet type displayed yo, but also all data up in hex.
.TP
.BR -X ", " "\-\^\-ext"
For every last muthafuckin packet, not only is tha packet type displayed yo, but also all data up in hex n' ASCII.
.TP
.BR -R ", " "\-\^\-raw"
For every last muthafuckin packet, only tha raw data is displayed.
.TP
.BR -C ", " "\-\^\-cmtp=" "<psm>"
Sets tha PSM value fo' tha CAPI Message Transhiznit Protocol.
.TP
.BR -H ", " "\-\^\-hcrp=" "<psm>"
Sets tha PSM value fo' tha Hardcopy Control Channel.
.TP
.BR -O ", " "\-\^\-obex=" "<channel>"
Sets tha RFCOMM channel value fo' tha Object Exchange Protocol.
.TP
.BR -P ", " "\-\^\-ppp=" "<channel>"
Sets tha RFCOMM channel value fo' tha Point-to-Point Protocol.
.TP
.BR -D ", " "\-\^\-pppdump=" "<file>"
Extract PPP traffic wit pppdump format.
.TP
.BR -A ", " "\-\^\-audio=" "<file>"
Extract SCO audio data.
.TP
.BR -Y ", " "\-\^\-novendor"
Don't display any vendor commandz or events n' don't show any pin code or link key up in plain text.
.SH FILTERS
.B
filter
is a space-separated list of packet categories: available categories are
.IR lmp ,
.IR hci ,
.IR sco ,
.IR l2cap ,
.IR rfcomm ,
.IR sdp ,
.IR bnep ,
.IR cmtp ,
.IR hidp ,
.IR hcrp ,
.IR avdtp ,
.IR avctp ,
.IR obex ,
.IR capi
and
.IR ppp .
If filtas is used, only packets belongin ta tha specified categories are
dumped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! By default, all packets is dumped.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
and Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
.PP
man page by Fabrizio Gennari <fabrizio.gennari@philips.com>
