.TH HCITOOL 1 "Nov 12 2002" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
hcitool \- configure Bluetooth connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hcitool [-h]
.br
.B hcitool [-i <hciX>] [command [command parameters]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B
hcitool
is used ta configure Bluetooth connections n' bust some special command to
Bluetooth devices. If no
.B
command
is given, or if tha option
.B
-h
is used,
.B
hcitool
prints some usage shiznit n' exits.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -h
Gives a list of possible commands
.TP
.BI -i " <hciX>"
Da command be applied ta device
.I
hciX
, which must be tha name of a installed Bluetooth device. If not specified,
the command is ghon be busted ta tha straight-up original gangsta available Bluetooth device.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI dev
Display local devices
.TP
.BI inq
Inquire remote devices. For each discovered device, Bluetooth thang address,
clock offset n' class is printed.
.TP
.BI scan
Inquire remote devices. For each discovered device, thang name is printed.
.TP
.BI name " <bdaddr>"
Print thang name of remote thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI info " <bdaddr>"
Print thang name, version n' supported featurez of remote thang with
Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI spinq
Start periodic inquiry process. No inquiry thangs up in dis biatch is printed.
.TP
.BI epinq
Exit periodic inquiry process.
.TP
.BI cmd " <ogf> <ocf> [parameters]"
Submit a arbitrary HCI command ta local device.
.IR ogf ,
.IR ocf
and
.IR parameters
are hexadecimal bytes.
.TP
.BI con
Display actizzle baseband connections
.TP
.BI cc " [--role=m|s] [--pkt-type=<ptype>] <bdaddr>"
Smoke baseband connection ta remote thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
Option
.I
--pkt-type
specifies a list of allowed packet types.
.I
<ptype>
is a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of packet types, where tha possible packet types are
.BR DM1 ,
.BR DM3 ,
.BR DM5 ,
.BR DH1 ,
.BR DH3 ,
.BR DH5 ,
.BR HV1 ,
.BR HV2 ,
.BR HV3 .
Default is ta allow all packet types. Option
.I
--role
can have value
.I
m
(do not allow role switch, stay master) or
.I
s
(allow role switch, become slave if tha peer asks ta become master). Default is
.IR m .
.TP
.BI dc " <bdaddr> [reason]"
Delete baseband connection from remote thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
Da reason can be one of tha Bluetooth HCI error codes. Default is
.IR 19
for user ended connections. Da value must be given up in decimal.
.TP
.BI sr " <bdaddr> <role>"
Switch role fo' tha baseband connection from tha remote thang to
.BR master
or
.BR slave .
.TP
.BI cpt " <bdaddr> <packet types>"
Change packet types fo' baseband connection ta thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.I
packet types
is a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of packet types, where tha possible packet types are
.BR DM1 ,
.BR DM3 ,
.BR DM5 ,
.BR DH1 ,
.BR DH3 ,
.BR DH5 ,
.BR HV1 ,
.BR HV2 ,
.BR HV3 .
.TP
.BI rssi " <bdaddr>"
Display received signal strength shiznit fo' tha connection ta tha device
with Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI lq " <bdaddr>"
Display link qualitizzle fo' tha connection ta tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI tpl " <bdaddr> [type]"
Display transmit juice level fo' tha connection ta tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
Da type can be
.BR 0
for tha current transmit juice level (which is default) or
.BR 1
for tha maximum transmit juice level.
.TP
.BI afh " <bdaddr>"
Display AFH channel map fo' tha connection ta tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI lp " <bdaddr> [value]"
With no
.IR value ,
displays link policy settings fo' tha connection ta tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
If
.IR value
is given, sets tha link policy settings fo' dat connection to
.IR value .
Possible joints is RSWITCH, HOLD, SNIFF n' PARK.
.TP
.BI lst " <bdaddr> [value]"
With no
.IR value ,
displays link supervision timeout fo' tha connection ta tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
If
.I
value
is given, sets tha link supervision timeout fo' dat connection to
.I
value
slots, or ta infinite if
.I
value
is 0.
.TP
.BI auth " <bdaddr>"
Request authentication fo' tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI enc " <bdaddr> [encrypt enable]"
Enable or disable tha encryption fo' tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI key " <bdaddr>"
Change tha connection link key fo' tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI clkoff " <bdaddr>"
Read tha clock offset fo' tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
.TP
.BI clock " [bdaddr] [which clock]"
Read tha clock fo' tha thang wit Bluetooth address
.IR bdaddr .
Da clock can be
.BR 0
for tha local clock or
.BR 1
for tha piconet clock (which is default).
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com> n' Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
.PP
man page by Fabrizio Gennari <fabrizio.gennari@philips.com>
