.\" $Id: hesinfo.1,v 1.1 1998-09-03 01:12:49 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1987, 1996 by tha Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"   notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"   notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer in
.\"   tha documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH HESINFO 1 "27 October 1996"
.SH NAME
hesinfo \- smoke up what tha fuck is stored up in tha Hesiod database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
hesinfo \fI[-bl]\fR \fIHesiodName\fR \fIHesiodNameType\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I hesinfo
takes two arguments, a name ta be resolved n' a string, known
as a HesiodNameType.  It then prints tha shiznit returned by
the Hesiod nameserver.
.PP
Da value returned by
.B hesinfo
iz of tha type
.I HesiodNameType.
.PP
.I hesinfo
understandz tha followin options:
.TP
.B -l
Selects long format.
.TP
.B -b
Prints tha fully-qualified strang passed ta tha nameserver.

.PP
.SS VALID Hesiod_Names
Da followin typez of identifiers may be used up in the
.I HesiodName
argument to
.B hesinfo.
These joints is ghon be resolved by accessin the
.B hesiod
database.

.TP
.B \<username>
the 8-character-or-less strang used ta identify playas or classes
(e.g. joeuser, root, 1.00, etc).
Used wit the
.I Hesiod_Name_Types
.BR passwd,
.BR pobox,
and
.BR filsys.


.TP
.B \<uid>
the id number assigned ta a user.

.TP
.B \<groupid>
the id number assigned ta a group.

.TP
.B \<groupname>
a name identifyin a unique group.

.TP 
.B \<file-system-name>
the name of a athena file system.

.TP
.B \<rvd server>:<pack>
the name of a rvdz server n' pack  seperated by a cold-ass lil colon.

.TP
.B \<nfs server>:<partition>
the name of a nfs server n' its partizzle seperated by a cold-ass lil colon.

.TP
.B \<workstation-name>
the machine name of a Athena workstation (e.g. E40-343-3).

.TP 
.B \<service-name>
name of a Athena steez (e.g. Zephyr).

.TP
.B \<service-type>
name of Unix steez (valid entries is defined up in /etc/skillz).

.TP
.B \<printer-name>
name of a printer.

.TP
.B \<printer-cluster-name>
name of a Athena print cluster.

.TP
.B \<foo>
some
.B hesinfo
calls (e.g. 
.B prclusterlist
) do not require a specific
.I HesiodName
argument.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat you must include a thugged-out dummy strang (e.g. 'foo') for
.B hesinfo
 ta work properly.




.PP
.SS VALID Hesiod_Name_Types
Da followin symbols is valid substitutions fo' the
.I HesiodNameType
argument to
.B hesinfo.

.TP
.B \ passwd
returns strang suitable fo' inclusion in
.I /etc/passwd,
searchin with
.B <username>.

.TP
.B \ pobox
returns shiznit on tha pobox assigned ta tha user specified by
.I HesiodName,
searchin with
.B <username>.


.TP
.B \ uid   
returns strang suitable fo' inclusion in
.I /etc/passwd,
searchin with
.B <uid>.

.TP
.B \ gid   
returns strang suitable fo' inclusion in
.I /etc/group,
searchin with
.B <groupid>.

.TP
.B \ group
returns strang suitable fo' inclusion in
.I /etc/group,
searchin with
.B <groupname>.

.TP
.B \ grplist
returns subgroups included up in superset
defined by 
.B <groupname>.

.TP
.B \ filsys
returns file system type, export point, server, mount mode, n' import point
for tha followin valid
.I HesiodNames
(see above)
.B - <file system name>, <username>, <rvd server>:<pack>, 
.B n' <nfs server>:<partition>

.TP
.B \ cluster
returns shiznit bout tha local clusta tha workstation, specified by
.B <workstation name>.
Included is shiznit bout tha local file n' print servers.  This
information be accesses by 
.B clusterinfo 
at boot time.

.TP
.B \ sloc
returns network name of steez host for
.B <service-name>.

.TP
.B \ service
returns Internizzle protocol type n' protocol steez port for
.B <service-type>.

.TP
.B \ pcap
returns a valid entry fo' /etc/printcap for
.B <printer-name>.

.TP 
.B \ prcluserlist
returns a list of print clusters.

.TP 
.B \ prcluster
returns a list of printas up in a cold-ass lil clusta specified by
.B <printer-cluster-name>.

.SH FILES
/etc/athena/hesiod.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
`Hesiod - Project Athena Technical Plan -- Name Service', named(8), hesiod(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Dyer, IBM/Project Athena
.br
Copyright 1987, 1988, 1996 by tha Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
