.TH "HTOP" "1" "2011" "htop 1.0.3" "Utils"
.SH "NAME"
htop \- interactizzle process viewer
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
.B htop [\fI\-dChusv\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Htop be a gangbangin' free (GPL) ncurses-based process viewer fo' Linux.
.LP
It be similar ta top yo, but allows you ta scroll vertically n' horizontally,
so you can peep all tha processes hustlin on tha system, along wit they full
command lines.
.LP
Tasks related ta processes (killing, renicing) can be done without
enterin they PIDs.
.br 
.SH "COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS"
.LP
Mandatory arguments ta long options is mandatory fo' short options like a muthafucka.
.LP 
.TP
\fB\-d \-\-delay=DELAY\fR
Delay between thugged-out shit, up in tenthz of seconds
.TP
\fB\-C \-\-no-color \-\-no-colour\fR
Start htop up in monochrome mode
.TP
\fB\-h \-\-help
Display a help message n' exit
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-pid=PID,PID...\fR
Show only tha given PIDs
.TP
\fB\-s \-\-sort\-key COLUMN\fR
Sort by dis column (use \-\-sort\-key help fo' a cold-ass lil column list)
.TP
\fB\-u \-\-user=USERNAME\fR
Show only tha processez of a given user
.TP
\fB\-v \-\-version
Output version shiznit n' exit
.PP
.br 
.SH "INTERACTIVE COMMANDS"
.LP 
Da followin commandz is supported while up in htop:
.LP 
.TP 5
.B Arrows, PgUP, PgDn, Home, End
Scroll tha process list.
.TP
.B Space
Tag or untag a process. Commandz dat can operate on multiple processes,
like "kill", will then apply over tha list of tagged processes, instead
of tha currently highlighted one.
.TP
.B U
Untag all processes (remove all tags added wit tha Space key).
.TP
.B s
Trace process system calls: if strace(1) is installed, pressin dis key
will attach it ta tha currently selected process, presentin a live
update of system calls issued by tha process.
.TP
.B l
Display open filez fo' a process: if lsof(1) is installed, pressin dis key
will display tha list of file descriptors opened by tha process.
.TP
.B F1, h, ?
Go ta tha help screen
.TP
.B F2, S
Go ta tha setup screen, where you can configure tha metas displayed all up in tha top
of tha screen, set various display options, chizzle among color schemes, and
select which columns is displayed, up in which order.
.TP
.B F3, /
Incrementally search tha command linez of all tha displayed processes. The
currently selected (highlighted) command will update as you type. While in
search mode, pressin F3 will cycle all up in matchin occurrences.
.TP
.B F4, \\\\
Incremenstrual process filtering: type up in part of a process command line and
only processes whose names match is ghon be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To quit filtering,
enta tha Filta option again n' again n' again n' press Esc.
.TP
.B F5, t
Tree view: organize processes by parenthood, n' layout tha relations
between dem as a tree. Togglin tha key will switch between tree and
your previously selected sort view. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Selectin a sort view will exit
tree view.
.TP
.B F6
On sorted view, select a gangbangin' field fo' sorting, also accessible all up in < n' >.
Da current sort field is indicated by a highlight up in tha header.
On tree view, expand or collapse tha current subtree fo' realz. A "+" indicator up in the
tree node indicates dat it is collapsed.
.TP
.B F7, ]
Increase tha selected processs prioritizzle (subtract from 'nice' value).
This can only be done by tha superuser.
.TP
.B F8, [
Decrease tha selected processs prioritizzle (add ta 'nice' value)
.TP
.B F9, k
"Kill" process: sendz a signal which is selected up in a menu, ta one or a group
of processes. If processes was tagged, sendz tha signal ta all tagged processes.
If none is tagged, sendz ta tha currently selected process.
.TP
.B F10, q
Quit
.TP
.B I
Invert tha sort order: if sort order is increasing, switch ta decreasing, and
vice-versa.
.TP
.B +, \- 
When up in tree view mode, expand or collapse subtree. When a subtree is collapsed
a "+" sign shows ta tha left of tha process name.
.TP
.B a (on multiprocessor machines)
Set CPU affinity: mark which CPUs a process be allowed ta use.
.TP
.B u
Show only processes owned by a specified user.
.TP
.B M
Sort by memory usage (top compatibilitizzle key).
.TP
.B P
Sort by processor usage (top compatibilitizzle key).
.TP
.B T
Sort by time (top compatibilitizzle key).
.TP
.B F
"Follow" process: if tha sort order causes tha currently selected process
to move up in tha list, make tha selection bar follow dat shit. This is useful for
monitorin a process: dis way, you can keep a process always visible on
screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When a movement key is used, "follow" loses effect.
.TP
.B K
Hide kernel threads: prevent tha threadz belongin tha kernel ta be
displayed up in tha process list. (This be a toggle key.)
.TP
.B H
Hide user threads: on systems dat represent dem differently than ordinary
processes (like fuckin recent NPTL-based systems), dis can hide threadz from
userspace processes up in tha process list. (This be a toggle key.)
.TP
.B Ctrl-L
Refresh: redraw screen n' recalculate joints.
.TP
.B Numbers
PID search: type up in process ID n' tha selection highlight is ghon be moved ta dat shit.
.PD

.SH "COLUMNS"
.LP 
Da followin columns can display data bout each process fo' realz. A value of '\-' in
all tha rows indicates dat a cold-ass lil column is unsupported on yo' system, or
currently unimplemented up in htop. Da names below is tha ones used up in the
"Available Columns" section of tha setup screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different name is
shown up in htopz main screen, it is shown below up in parenthesis.
.LP 
.TP 5
.B Command
Da full command line of tha process (i.e program name n' arguments).
.TP 
.B PID
Da process ID.
.TP
.B PPID
Da parent process ID.
.TP
.B PGRP
Da processs crew ID.
.TP
.B SESSION (SESN)
Da processs session ID.
.TP 
.B TTY_NR (TTY)
Da controllin terminal of tha process.
.TP
.B TPGID
Da process ID of tha foreground process crew of tha controllin terminal.
.TP
.B STATE (S)
Da state of tha process:
   \fBS\fR fo' chillin (idle)
   \fBR\fR fo' hustlin
   \fBD\fR fo' disk chill (uninterruptible)
   \fBZ\fR fo' zombie (waitin fo' parent ta read its exit status)
   \fBT\fR fo' traced or suspended (e.g by SIGTSTP)
   \fBW\fR fo' paging
.TP
.B PROCESSOR (CPU)
Da ID of tha CPU tha process last executed on.
.TP
.B NLWP
Da number of threadz up in tha process.
.TP
.B NICE (NI)
Da sick value of a process, from 19 (low priority) ta -20 (high priority) fo' realz. A
high value means tha process is bein sick, lettin others gotz a higher
relatizzle priority. Only root can lower tha value.
.TP
.B PERCENT_CPU (CPU%)
Da cementage of tha CPU time dat tha process is currently using.
.TP
.B UTIME (UTIME+)
Da user CPU time, which is tha amount of time tha process has dropped executing
on tha CPU up in user mode (i.e every last muthafuckin thang but system calls), measured up in clock
ticks.
.TP
.B STIME (STIME+)
Da system CPU time, which is tha amount of time tha kernel has spent
executin system calls on behalf of tha process, measured up in clock ticks.
.TP
.B TIME (TIME+)
Da time, measured up in clock ticks dat tha process has dropped up in user n' system
time (see UTIME, STIME above).
.TP
.B CUTIME
Da childrenz user CPU time, which is tha amount of time tha process's
waited-for lil pimps have dropped executin up in user mode (see UTIME above).
.TP
.B CSTIME
Da childrenz system CPU time, which is tha amount of time tha kernel has spent
executin system calls on behalf of all tha processs waited-for lil pimps (see
STIME above).
.TP
.B PRIORITY (PRI)
Da kernelz internal prioritizzle fo' tha process, probably just its sick value
plus twenty. Different fo' real-time processes.
.TP
.B PERCENT_MEM
Da cementage of memory tha process is currently rockin (based on tha process's
resident memory size, peep M_RESIDENT below).
.TP
.B M_SIZE (VIRT)
Size up in memory of tha total program size.
.TP
.B M_RESIDENT (RES)
Da resident set size, i.e tha size of tha text n' data sections, plus stack
usage.
.TP
.B M_SHARE (SHR)
Da size of tha processs shared pages
.TP
.B M_TRS (CODE)
Da size of tha text segment of tha process (i.e tha size of tha processes
executable instructions).
.TP
.B M_LRS (LIB)
Da library size of tha process.
.TP
.B M_DRS (DATA)
Da size of tha data segment plus stack usage of tha process.
.TP
.B M_DT (DIRTY)
Da size of tha dirty pagez of tha process.
.TP
.B ST_UID (UID)
Da user ID of tha process baller.
.TP
.B USER
Da username of tha process baller, or tha user ID if tha name can't be
determined.
.TP
.B STARTTIME
Da time tha process was started.
.TP
.B RCHAR (RD_CHAR)
Da number of bytes tha process has read.
.TP
.B WCHAR (WR_CHAR)
Da number of bytes tha process has written.
.TP
.B SYSCR (RD_SYSC)
Da number of read(2) syscalls fo' tha process.
.TP
.B SYSCW (WR_SYSC)
Da number of write(2) syscalls fo' tha process.
.TP
.B RBYTES (IO_RBYTES)
Bytez of read(2) I/O fo' tha process.
.TP
.B WBYTES (IO_WBYTES)
Bytez of write(2) I/O fo' tha process.
.TP
.B IO_READ_RATE (IORR)
Da I/O rate of read(2) up in bytes per second, fo' tha process.
.TP
.B IO_WRITE_RATE (IOWR)
Da I/O rate of write(2) up in bytes per second, fo' tha process.
.TP
.B IO_RATE (IO)
Da I/O rate, IO_READ_RATE + IO_WRITE_RATE (see above).
.TP
.B CNCLWB (IO_CANCEL)
Bytez of shut down write(2) I/O.
.TP
.B CGROUP
Which cgroup tha process is in.
.TP
.B CTID
OpenVZ container ID, a.k.a virtual environment ID.
.TP
.B VPID
OpenVZ process ID.
.TP
.B VXID
VServer process ID.
.TP
.B OOM
OOM killa score.
.TP
.B All other flags
Currently unsupported (always displays '-').

.SH "SEE ALSO"
proc(5), top(1), free(1), ps(1), uptime(1)

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
htop is pimped by Hisham Muhammad <hisham@gobolinux.org>.
.LP
This playa page was freestyled by Bartoss Fenski <fenio@o2.pl> fo' tha Debian
GNU/Linux distribution (but it may be used by others). Dat shiznit was updated by Hisham
Muhammad, n' lata by Vincent Launchbury, whoz ass freestyled tha 'Columns' section.
