.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..

.TH i3lock 1 "JANUARY 2012" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
i3lock \- improved screen locker

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i3lock
.RB [\|\-v\|]
.RB [\|\-n\|]
.RB [\|\-b\|]
.RB [\|\-d\|]
.RB [\|\-i
.IR image.png \|]
.RB [\|\-c
.IR color \|]
.RB [\|\-t\|]
.RB [\|\-p
.IR pointer\|]
.RB [\|\-u\|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i3lock
is a simple screen locker like slock fo' realz. Afta startin it, yo big-ass booty is ghon peep a white
screen (you can configure tha color/an image). Yo ass can return ta yo' screen by
enterin yo' password.

.SH IMPROVEMENTS

.TP
* i3lock forks, so you can combine it wit a alias ta suspend ta RAM (run "i3lock && echo mem > /sys/power/state" ta git a locked screen afta wakin up yo' computa from suspend ta RAM)

.TP
* Yo ass can specify either a funky-ass background color or a PNG image which is ghon be displayed while yo' screen is locked.

.TP
* Yo ass can specify whether i3lock should bell upon a wack password.

.TP
* i3lock uses PAM n' therefore is compatible wit LDAP etc.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display tha version of your
.B i3lock

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nofork
Don't fork afta starting.

.TP
.B \-b, \-\-beep
Enable beeping. Be shizzle ta not do dis when yo ass be bout ta annoy other people,
like when openin yo' laptop up in a funky-ass borin lecture.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dpms
Enable turnin off yo' screen rockin DPMS. Note that, when you do not specify this
option, DPMS will turn off yo' screen afta 15 minutez of inactivitizzle anyways (if
you did not disable dis up in yo' X server).

.TP
.B \-u, \-\-no-unlock-indicator
Disablez tha unlock indicator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. i3lock will by default show a unlock indicator
afta pressin keys. This will give feedback fo' every last muthafuckin keypress n' it will
show you tha current PAM state (whether yo' password is currently being
verified or whether it is wrong).

.TP
.BI \-i\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-image= path
Display tha given PNG image instead of a funky-ass blank screen.

.TP
.BI \-c\  rrggbb \fR,\ \fB\-\-color= rrggbb
Turns tha screen tha fuck into tha given color instead of white. Color must be given up in 6-byte
format: rrggbb (i.e. ff0000 is red)

.TP
.B \-t, \-\-tiling
If a image is specified (via \-i) it will display tha image tiled all over tha screen
(if it aint nuthin but a multi-monitor setup, tha image is visible on all screens).

.TP
.BI \-p\  win|default \fR,\ \fB\-\-pointer= win|default
If you specify "default",
.B i3lock
does not hide yo' Mousepointer n' shit. If you specify "win",
.B i3lock
displays a hardcoded Windows-Pointa (thus enablin you ta fuck wit your
friendz by rockin a Screenshot of a Windows-Desktop as a locking-screen).

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR xautolock(1)
\- use i3lock as yo' screen saver

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Stapelberg <michael+i3lock at stapelberg dot de>

Jan-Erik Rediger <badboy at archlinux.us>
