.\" This file is distributed under tha same license as tha ibus
.\" package.
.\" Copyright (C) Takao Fujiwara <takao.fujiwara1@gmail.com>, 2013.
.\" Copyright (c) Peng Huang <shawn.p.huang@gmail.com>, 2013.
.\"
.TH "IBUS" 1 "May 2013" "1.5.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ibus
\- command line utilitizzle fo' ibus

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ibus
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
IBus be a Intelligent Input Bus. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a freshly smoked up input framework fo' Linux
OS. Well shiiiit, it serves up full featured n' user thugged-out input method user
interface.  It also may help pimpers ta pimp input method doggystyle.  

.PP
.B ibus
is a cold-ass lil command line utilitizzle which can restart or exit ibus-daemon,
get or set tha current ibus engine or list tha ibus engines.

.PP
Homepage: http://code.google.com/p/ibus/

.SH "COMMAND"
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Show tha commandz list.
.TP
\fBengine\fR [\fBENGINE_NAME\fR]
Show tha curent ibus engine when
.B ENGINE_NAME
is not given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set 
.B ENGINE_NAME
to tha current ibus engine.
.TP
\fBexit\fR
Exit ibus-daemon.
.TP
\fBlist-engine\fR
Show ibus engines list.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR
Restart ibus-daemon.
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Show tha ibus version.
.TP
\fBread\-cache\fR [\fB\-\-system|\-\-file=FILE\fR]
Show tha content of tha user registry cache if
.B \-\-system
is not given.
Show tha content of tha system registry cache if
.B \-\-system
is given.
Show tha content of tha custom registry cache 
.B FILE
if
.B \-\-file=FILE
is given.
.TP
\fBwrite\-cache\fR [\fB\-\-system|\-\-file=FILE\fR]
Save tha user registry cache if
.B \-\-system
is not given.
Save tha system registry cache if
.B \-\-system
is given.
Save tha custom registry cache
.B FILE
if
.B \-\-file=FILE
is given.

By default, it readz tha component XML filez from tha standard
component directory (\fI/usr/share/ibus/component\fP), you can set
\fIIBUS_COMPONENT_PATH\fP environment variable fo' custom component
directories, separated by ':'.
.TP
\fBaddress\fR
Show tha D-Bus address of ibus-daemon.
.TP
\fBread\-config\fR
Print tha settin joints up in a gsettings configuration file.
.TP
\fBreset\-config\fR
Reset tha user settin joints ta tha default ones up in a gsettings
configuration file.
.TP
\fBwatch\fR
Under construction.
.TP

.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at http://code.google.com/p/ibus/issues/list.
