.\" This file is distributed under tha same license as tha ibus
.\" package.
.\" Copyright (C) Takao Fujiwara <takao.fujiwara1@gmail.com>, 2013.
.\" Copyright (c) Peng Huang <shawn.p.huang@gmail.com>, 2013.
.\"
.TH IBUS-DAEMON "1" "April 2010" "1.5.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ibus\-daemon
\- daemon program fo' ibus

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ibus\-daemon
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
IBus be a Intelligent Input Bus. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a freshly smoked up input framework fo' Linux
OS. Well shiiiit, it serves up full featured n' user thugged-out input method user
interface.  It also may help pimpers ta pimp input method doggystyle.

.PP
.B ibus\-daemon
is a thugged-out daemon program fo' ibus n' it be also a start up program fo' users
to activate ibus daemon, engines n' panel.

.SS "Help Options:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help options

.SS "Application Options:"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-daemonize\fR
run ibus as background process.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-single\fR
do not execute panel n' config module.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xim\fR
execute ibus XIM server.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-desktop\fR=\fIname\fR
specify tha name of desktop session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. [default=gnome]
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-panel\fR=\fIcmdline\fR
specify tha cmdline of panel program.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR=\fIcmdline\fR
specify tha cmdline of config program.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-address\fR=\fIaddress\fR
specify tha address of ibus daemon.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-replace\fR
if there be a oldschool ibus\-daemon is hustlin, it is ghon be replaced.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-cache\fR=\fImode\fR [default be auto]
force ta re\-scan components, n' re\-create registry cache.
auto, refresh, none be available.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fItimeout\fR [default is 2000]
dbus reply timeout up in milliseconds.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-monitor\-timeout\fR=\fItimeout\fR [default is 0]
timeout of poll chizzlez of engines up in seconds. 0 ta disable dat shit.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mem\-profile\fR
enable memory profile, bust SIGUSR2 ta print up tha memory profile.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose.

.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at http://code.google.com/p/ibus/issues/list

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibus (1)
