.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH ICEAUTH 1 "iceauth 1.0.6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
iceauth \- ICE authoritizzle file utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iceauth
[ \fB\-f\fP \fIauthfile\fP ] [ \fB\-vqib\fP ] [ \fIcommand arg ...\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da \fIiceauth\fP program is used ta edit n' display tha authorization
information used up in connectin wit ICE.  This program is usually
used ta extract authorization recordz from one machine n' merge dem up in on
another (as is tha case when rockin remote logins or grantin access to
other users).  Commandz (busted lyrics bout below) may be entered interactively,
on tha \fIiceauth\fP command line, or up in scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-f\fP \fIauthfile\fP  Name of tha authoritizzle file ta use. Will default to
             tha file currently up in use by tha session.
.PP
\fB\-v\fP           Turns on extra lyrics (verbose mode)
.PP
\fB\-q\fP           Turns off extra lyrics (quiet mode)
.PP
\fB\-i\fP           Ignore tha locks on tha authoritizzle file
.PP
\fB\-b\fP           Break tha locks on tha authoritizzle file
.PP
\fB\-u\fP           Print basic usage instructions
.PP
.SH USAGE
.PP
When \fIiceauth\fP is run it will allow tha followin set of commands
to be entered interactively or up in scripts.
.PP
\fB?\fP
.PP
List available commands.
.PP
\fBhelp\fP
.PP
Print help shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass may supply a cold-ass lil command name ta \fIhelp\fP to
get specific shiznit bout dat shit.
.PP
\fBinfo\fP
.PP
Print shiznit bout tha entries up in tha authoritizzle file.
.PP
\fBlist\fP
.PP
List (print) entries up in tha authoritizzle file. Yo ass may specify optional
modifiers as below ta specify which entries is listed.
.PP
\fIlist\fP [ \fIprotocol_name\fP ] [ \fIprotocol_data\fP ] [
\fInetid\fP ] [ \fIauthname\fP ]
.PP
\fBadd\fP
.PP
Add a entry ta tha authoritizzle file. This must be up in tha format
.PP
\fIadd\fP \fIprotocol_name\fP \fIprotocol_data\fP \fInetid\fP \fIauthname\fP \fIauthdata\fP
.PP
\fBremove\fP
.PP
Remove entries from tha authoritizzle file.
.PP
\fIremove\fP [ \fIprotocol_name\fP ] [ \fIprotocol_data\fP ] [
\fInetid\fP ] [ \fIauthname\fP ]
.PP
\fBextract\fP
.PP
Extract entries from tha authoritizzle file up in ta a thugged-out destination file. You
must supply tha path ta tha destination ta dis command as up in the
followin format. Optionizzle specifiers allow you ta narrow which
entries is extracted.
.PP
\fIextract\fP \fIfilename\fP [ \fIprotocol_name\fP ] [ \fIprotocol_data\fP ]
[ \fInetid\fP ] [ \fIauthname\fP ]
.PP
\fBmerge\fP
.PP
Merge entries from other filez up in ta tha authoritizzle file selected by tha program. Yo ass may supply any number of file paths ta dis command as bigs up:
.PP
\fImerge\fP \fIfilename1\fP [ \fIfilename2\fP ] [ \fIfilename3\fP ] ...
.PP
\fBexit\fP
.PP
Save chizzlez n' exit tha program.
.PP
\fBquit\fP
.PP
Abort chizzlez n' exit tha program without saving.
.PP
\fBsource\fP
.PP
Read n' execute commandz from a gangbangin' file.
.PP
\fIsource\fP \fIfilename\fP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph Mor, X Consortium
