.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH icecc-schedula 1 "April 21th, 2005" "" ""
.SH NAME
icecc-schedula \- Icecream scheduler
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBicecc-scheduler\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[-d] [-l \fIlog-file\fR] [-n \fInet-name\fR] [-p \fIport\fR] [-u \fIuser\fR] [-v[v[v]]]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Icecream schedula is tha central instizzle of a Icecream compile
network. Well shiiiit, it distributes tha compile thangs n' serves up tha data fo' the
monitors.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-d\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-daemonize\fR\*(T>
Detach daemon from shell.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T>
Print help message n' exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-log\-file\fR\*(T> \*(T<log\-file\*(T>
Name of file where log output is freestyled to.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-n\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-netname\fR\*(T> \*(T<net\-name\*(T>
Da name of tha Icecream network tha scheduler
controls.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-p\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-port\fR\*(T> \*(T<port\*(T>
IP port tha schedula uses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-u\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-user\-uid\fR\*(T> \*(T<user\*(T>
Specifiy tha system user used by tha daemon, which must be
different than \(oqroot\(cq. If not specified, tha daemon defaults
to tha \(oqicecc\(cq system user if available, or \(oqnobody\(cq
if not.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-v\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-vv\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-vvv\fR\*(T>
Control verbositizzle of daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da mo' v tha more
verbose.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
icecream(7), iceccd(1), icemon(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Cornelius Schumacher
