.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH icecc-create-env 1 "June 5rd, 2013" "" ""
.SH NAME
icecc-create-env \- Smoke a Icrecream environment tarball
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBicecc-create-env\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
--gcc \fIgcc-path\fR \fIg++-path\fR [--addfile \fIfile\fR]\&...
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBicecc-create-env\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
--clang \fIclang-path\fR \fIcompiler-wrapper\fR [--addfile \fIfile\fR]\&...
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
icecc-create-env be a Icecream helper dat creates a freshly smoked up \*(T<.tar.gz\*(T>
archive wit all tha filez (compiler, tools n' libraries) needed ta setup a
build environment.
.PP
Specifyin \*(T<\fB\-\-gcc\fR\*(T> or \*(T<\fB\-\-clang\fR\*(T> as first
argument decides which compila (GCC or Clang) is copied up in tha archive.
.PP
Da resultin archive has a random file name like
\*(T<\fIddaea39ca1a7c88522b185eca04da2d8.tar.gz\fR\*(T>, which can
then be renamed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See icecream(7) fo' mo' shiznit on rockin tha environment
tarballs.
.PP
Note dat up in tha usual case it aint necessary ta invoke icecc-create-env manually, as it will be
called automatically fo' tha natizzle compila used whenever necessary.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-gcc\fR\*(T> \*(T<gcc\-path\*(T> \*(T<g++\-path\*(T>
GCC is used up in tha archive.

\*(T<gcc\-path\*(T>
and \*(T<g++\-path\*(T> represent respectively tha paths ta the
\*(T<\fIgcc\fR\*(T> n' \*(T<\fIg++\fR\*(T> executables.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-clang\fR\*(T> \*(T<clang\-path\*(T> \*(T<compiler\-wrapper\*(T>
Clang is used up in tha archive.

\*(T<clang\-path\*(T> represents tha path ta the
\*(T<\fIclang\fR\*(T> executable; \*(T<compiler\-wrapper\*(T>
is tha path ta a cold-ass lil compila wrapper, probably \*(T<\fI/usr/lib/icecc/compilerwrapper\fR\*(T>,
used wit oldschool Icecream clients which hardcode \*(T<\fI/usr/bin/gcc\fR\*(T>
and \*(T<\fI/usr/bin/g++\fR\*(T> n' thus would not use Clang.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-addfile\fR\*(T> \*(T<file\*(T>
Add \fIfile\fR ta tha environment
archive; can be specified multiple times.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
icecream(7), icecc-scheduler(1), iceccd(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pino Toscano
