.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH iceccd 1 "April 21th, 2005" "" ""
.SH NAME
iceccd \- Icecream daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBiceccd\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[-b \fIenv-basedir\fR] [--cache-limit \fIMB\fR] [-d] [-l \fIlog-file\fR] [-m \fImax-processes\fR] [-N \fIhostname\fR] [-n \fInode-name\fR] [--nice \fIlevel\fR] [--no-remote] [-s \fIscheduler-host\fR] [-u \fIuser\fR] [-v[v[v]]]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Icecream daemon has ta run on all nodes bein part of tha Icecream
compile clusta n' shit. Well shiiiit, it receives compile thangs n' executes dem up in a cold-ass lil chroot
environment. Da compile clients bust they compile environment tha last time
they bust a thang ta a particular daemon, so dat tha environment of tha daemon
does not gotta match tha one of tha client.
.PP
Da daemon also has ta run on clients bustin  compile thangs ta tha Icecream
network. If a node should be able ta bust compile thangs yo, but never receive any,
start tha daemon wit tha option \*(T<\fB\-m 0\fR\*(T>.
.PP
All Icecream daemons need ta have contact ta tha Icecream schedula which
controls tha distribution of data between compile nodes. Normally tha daemon
will automatically find tha right schedula n' shit. If dis aint tha case you can
explicitly specify tha name of tha Icecream network n' tha host hustlin the
scheduler.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-b\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-env\-basedir\fR\*(T> \*(T<env\-basedir\*(T>
Base directory fo' storin compile environments busted ta the
daemon by tha compile clients.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-cache\-limit\fR\*(T> \*(T<MB\*(T>
Maximum size up in Mega Bytez of cache used ta store compile
environmentz of compile clients.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-d\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-daemonize\fR\*(T>
Detach daemon from shell.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T>
Print help message n' exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-log\-file\fR\*(T> \*(T<log\-file\*(T>
Name of file where log output is freestyled to.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-m\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-max\-processes\fR\*(T> \*(T<max\-processes\*(T>
Maximum number of compile thangs started up in parallel on machine
runnin tha daemon.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-N\fR\*(T> \*(T<hostname\*(T>
Da name of tha icecream host on tha network.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-n\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-name\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-netname\fR\*(T> \*(T<net\-name\*(T>
Da name of tha icecream network tha daemon should connect to.
There has ta be a schedula hustlin fo' tha network under tha same network
name.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-nice\fR\*(T> \*(T<level\*(T>
Da level of sicknizz ta use. Default is 5.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-no\-remote\fR\*(T>
Prevents thangs from other nodes bein scheduled on dis one.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-s\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-scheduler\-host\fR\*(T> \*(T<scheduler\-host\*(T>
Name of host hustlin tha schedula fo' tha network tha daemon
should connect to. This option might help if tha schedula cannot broadcast its
presence ta tha clients cuz of firewall settings or similar
reasons.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-u\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-user\-uid\fR\*(T> \*(T<user\*(T>
Specifiy tha system user used by tha daemon, which must be
different than \(oqroot\(cq. If not specified, tha daemon defaults
to tha \(oqicecc\(cq system user if available, or \(oqnobody\(cq
if not.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-v\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-vv\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-vvv\fR\*(T>
Control verbositizzle of daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da mo' v tha more
verbose.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
icecream(7), icecc-scheduler(1), icemon(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Cornelius Schumacher
