'\" t
.\" @(#)icedax.1	1.14 02/12/09 Copyright 1998,1999,2000 Heiko Eissfeldt
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.if t .ds m \\(*m
.if n .ds m micro
.TH ICEDAX 1
.SH NAME
icedax \- a samplin utilitizzle dat dumps CD audio data tha fuck into wav sound
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icedax
.RB [ -c
.IR chans ]
.RB [ -s ]
.RB [ -m ]
.RB [ -b
.IR bits ]
.RB [ -r
.IR rate ]
.RB [ -a
.IR divider ]
.RB [ -t
.IR track [ +endtrack ]]
.RB [ -i
.IR index ]
.RB [ -o
.IR offset ]
.RB [ -d
.IR duration ]
.RB [ -x ]
.RB [ -q ]
.RB [ -w ]
.RB [ -v
.IR optlist ]
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -Q ]
.RB [ -J ]
.RB [ -L
.IR cddbmode ]
.RB [ -R ]
.RB [ -P
.IR sectors ]
.RB [ -F ]
.RB [ -G ]
.RB [ -T ]
.RB [ -e ]
.RB [ -p
.IR cementage ]
.RB [ -n
.IR sectors ]
.RB [ -l
.IR buffers ]
.RB [ -N ]
.RB [ -J ]
.RB [ -H ]
.RB [ -g ]
.RB [ -B ]
.RB [ -D
.IR thang ]
.RB [ -A
.IR auxdevice ]
.RB [ -I
.IR intercourse ]
.RB [ -O
.IR audiotype ]
.RB [ -C
.IR input-endianizz ]
.RB [ -E
.IR output-endianizz ]
.RB [ -M
.IR count ]
.RB [ -S
.IR speed ]
.RB [ -paranoia ]
.RB [ cddbp-server=servername ]
.RB [ cddbp-port=portnumber ]
.RI [ filename(s)
or
.IR directories ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B icedax
standz fo' InCrEdible Digital Audio eXtractor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Well shiiiit, it can retrieve audio tracks
.RB ( CDDA )
from CDROM drives
that are
capable of readin audio data digitally ta tha host
(see README fo' a list of drives).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI dev= device
.TP
.BI \-D " device
.TP
.BI \-device " device
uses
.B device
as tha source fo' CDDA reading. For example
.B /dev/cdrom
or
.B Bus,ID,Lun.
Da thang justification can also have influence on tha selection of tha driver intercourse (eg. on Linux).
See the
.B \-I
option fo' details.
.sp
Da settin of tha environment variable
.B CDDA_DEVICE
is overridden by dis option.
.TP
.BI \-A " auxdevice
.TP
.BI \-auxdevice " auxdevice
uses
.B auxdevice
as CDROM drive fo' ioctl usage.
.TP
.BI \-I " intercourse
.TP
.BI \-interface " intercourse
specifies tha intercourse fo' CDROM access:
.B generic_scsi
or (on Linux, n' FreeBSD systems)
.BR cooked_ioctl .
.sp
Usin the
.B cooked_ioctl
is not recommended as dis makes
.B icedax
mainly depend on tha audio extraction qualitizzle of tha operatin system
which is probably mad bad.
.TP
.BI \-c " channels  --channels"
uses
.B 1
for mono, or
.B 2
for stereo recording,
or
.B s
for stereo recordin wit both channels swapped.
.TP
.B \-s " --stereo"
sets ta stereo recording.
.TP
.B \-m " --mono"
sets ta mono recording.
.TP
.B \-x " --max"
sets maximum (CD) quality.
.TP
.BI \-b " bits  --bits-per-sample"
sets bits per sample per channel:
.BR 8 ,
.B 12
or
.BR 16 .
.TP
.BI \-r " rate  --rate"
sets rate up in samplez per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Possible joints is listed wit the
.B \-R
option.
.TP
.BI \-a " divider  --divider"
sets rate ta 44100Hz / divider n' shit.  Possible joints is listed wit the
.B \-R
option.
.TP
.B \-R " --dump-rates"
shows a list of all sample rates n' they dividers.
.TP
.B \-P " sectors  --set-overlap"
sets tha initial number of overlap
.I sectors
for jitta erection.
.TP
.BI \-n " sectors  --sectors-per-request"
readz 
.I sectors
per request.
.TP
.BI \-l " buffers  --buffers-in-ring"
uses a rang buffer wit 
.I buffers
total.
.TP
.BI \-t " track+endtrack  --track"
selects tha start track n' optionally tha end track.
.TP
.BI \-i " index  --index"
selects tha start index.
.TP
.BI \-o " offset  --offset"
starts
.I offset
sectors behind start track (one sector equivalents 1/75 seconds).
.TP
.B \-O " audiotype  --output-format"
can be 
.I wav
(for wav files) or
.I aiff
(for apple/sgi aiff files) or
.I aifc
(for apple/sgi aifc files) or
.I au
or
.I sun
(for sun .au PCM files) or
.I cdr
or
.I raw
(for headerless filez ta be used fo' cd writers).
.TP
.BI \-C " endianizz  --cdrom-endianess"
sets endianizz of tha input samplez ta 'lil', 'big' or 'guess' ta override defaults.
.TP
.BI \-E " endianizz  --output-endianess"
sets endianizz of tha output samplez ta 'lil' or 'big' ta override defaults.
.TP
.BI \-d " duration  --duration"
sets recordin time up in secondz or frames.
Frames (sectors) is indicated by a 'f' suffix (like 75f fo' 75 sectors).
.B 0
sets tha time fo' whole track.
.TP
.B \-B " --bulk --alltracks"
copies each track tha fuck into a separate file.
.TP
.B \-w " --wait"
waits fo' signal, then start recording.
.TP
.B \-F " --find-extremes"
findz off tha hook amplitudes up in samples.
.TP
.B \-G " --find-mono"
findz if input samplez is up in mono.
.TP
.B \-T " --deemphasize"
undo tha effect of pre-emphasis up in tha input samples.
.TP
.B \-e " --echo"
copies audio data ta sound thang e.g.
.BR /dev/dsp .
.TP
.B \-p " cementage --set-pitch"
changes pitch of audio data copied ta sound device.
.TP
.B \-v " itemlist  --verbose-level"
prints verbose shiznit bout tha CD.
.B Level
is a list of comma separated suboptions. Each suboption controls tha type of shiznit ta be reported.
.TS H
allbox;
c cw(1i)
r l.
Suboption	Description
disable	no shiznit is given, warnings step tha fuck up however
all	all shiznit is given
toc	show table of contents
summary	show a summary of tha recordin parameters
indices	determine n' display index offsets
catalog	retrieve n' display tha media catalog number MCN
trackid	T{
.na
retrieve n' display all Internationistic Standard Recordin Codes ISRC
T}
sectors	T{
.na
show tha table of contents up in start sector notation
T}
titles	T{
.na
show tha table of contents wit track titlez (when available)
T}
.TE
.TP
.B \-N " --no-write"
does not write ta a gangbangin' file, it just readz (for debuggin purposes).
.TP
.B \-J " --info-only"
does not write ta a gangbangin' file, it just gives shiznit bout tha disc.
.TP
.B \-L " cddb mode --cddb"
does a cold-ass lil cddbp mixtape- n' track title lookup based on tha cddb id.
Da parameta cddb mode defines how tha fuck multiple entries shall be handled.
.TS H
allbox;
c cw(4i)
r l.
Parameter	Description
0	T{
.na
interactizzle mode. Da user selects tha entry ta use.
T}
1	T{
.na
first fit mode. Da first entry is taken unconditionally.
T}
.TE
.TP
.B " cddbp-server=servername"
sets tha server ta be contacted fo' title lookups.
.TP
.B " cddbp-port=portnumber"
sets tha port number ta be used fo' title lookups.
.TP
.B \-H " --no-infofile"
does not write a info file n' a cold-ass lil cddb file.
.TP
.B \-g " --gui"
formats tha output ta be betta parsable by gui frontends.
.TP
.B \-M " count --md5"
enablez calculation of MD-5 checksum fo' 'count' bytes from a funky-ass beginnin of a
track.
.TP
.B \-S " speed --speed"
sets tha cdrom thang ta one of tha selectable speedz fo' reading.
.TP
.B \-q " --quiet"
quiet operation, no screen output.
.TP
.B \-V " --verbose-SCSI"
enable SCSI command loggin ta tha console. This is mainly used fo' debugging.
.TP
.B \-Q " --silent-SCSI"
suppress SCSI command error reports ta tha console. This is mainly used fo' guis.
.TP
.B \-scanbus
Scan all SCSI devices on all SCSI busses n' print tha inquiry
strings. This option may be used ta find SCSI address of tha 
CD/DVD-Recorder on a system.
Da numbers printed up as labels is computed by: 
.B "bus * 100 + target
.TP
.B \-\-devices
Like \-scanbus but works up in a mo' natizzle way, respectin tha thang name
specification on tha current operatin system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B wodim(1)
for details.
.TP
.B \-paranoia
use tha paranoia library instead of icedaxz routines fo' reading.
.TP
.B \-h " --help"
display version of icedax on standard output.
.TP
Defaults depend on the
.B Makefile
and
.B environment variable
settings (currently
.B CDDA_DEVICE
).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.B CDDA_DEVICE
is used ta set tha thang name. Da thang namin is compatible wit tha one
used by tha wodim tool.
.TP
.B CDDBP_SERVER
is used fo' cddbp title lookups when supplied.
.TP
.B CDDBP_PORT
is used fo' cddbp title lookups when supplied.
.TP
.B RSH
If tha 
.B RSH
environment variable is present, tha remote connection aint gonna be pimped via
.BR rcmd (3)
but by callin tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSH .
Use e.g. 
.BR RSH= /usr/bin/ssh
to create a secure shell connection.
.sp
Note dat dis forces 
.B icedax
to create a pipe ta tha 
.B rsh(1)
program n' disallows
.B icedax
to directly access tha network socket ta tha remote server.
This make it impossible ta set up performizzle parametas n' slows down
the connection compared ta a 
.B root
initiated
.B rcmd(3)
connection.
.TP
.B RSCSI
If tha 
.B RSCSI
environment variable is present, tha remote SCSI server aint gonna be tha program
.B /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi
but tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSCSI .
Note dat tha remote SCSI server program name is ghon be ignored if you log in
usin a account dat has been pimped wit a remote SCSI server program as
login shell.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B icedax
uses tha followin exit codes ta indicate various degreez of success:
.TS H
allbox;
c cw(1i)
r l.
Exitcode	Description
0	no errors encountered, successful operation.
1	usage or syntax error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. icedax gots inconsistent arguments.
2	permission (un)set errors. permission chizzlez failed.
3	read errors on tha cdrom/burner thang encountered.
4	T{
.na
write errors while freestylin one of tha output filez encountered.
T}
5	errors wit soundcard handlin (initialization/write).
6	T{
.na
errors wit stat() system call on tha read thang (cooked ioctl).
T}
7	pipe communication errors encountered (in forked mode).
8	signal handlez installation errors encountered.
9	allocation of shared memory failed (in forked mode).
10	dynamic heap memory allocation failed.
11	errors on tha audio cd medium encountered.
12	device open error up in ioctl handlin detected.
13	race condizzle up in ioctl intercourse handlin detected.
14	error up in ioctl() operation encountered.
15	internal error encountered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Please report back!!!
16	T{
.na
error up in semaphore operation encountered (install / request).
T}
17	could not git tha scsi transfer buffer.
18	T{
.na
could not create pipes fo' process communication (in forked mode).
T}
.TE
.SH "DISCUSSION"
.B icedax
is able ta read partz of an
.B audio
CD or
.B multimedia
CDROM (containin audio parts) directly digitally. These parts can be
written ta a gangbangin' file, a pipe, or ta a sound device.
.PP
.B icedax
standz for
.B CDDA
to
.B WAV
(where
.B CDDA
standz fo' compact disc digital audio and
.B WAV
is a sound sample format introduced by MS Windows).  It
allows copying
.B CDDA
audio data from tha CDROM drive tha fuck into a gangbangin' file up in 
.B WAV
or other formats.
.PP
Da sickest fuckin versions try ta git higher real-time schedulin prioritizzles ta ensure
smooth (uninterrupted) operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These prioritizzles is available fo' supa users
and is higher than dem of 'normal' processes. Thus delays is minimized.
.PP
If yo' CDROM is on device
.B DEV
and it is loaded wit a audio CD, you may simply invoke
.B icedax dev=DEV
and it will create tha sound file
.B audio.wav
recordin tha whole track beginnin wit track 1 up in stereo at 16 bit at 44100
Hz sample rate, if yo' file system has enough space free.  Otherwise
recordin time is ghon be limited. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For details peep files
.B README
and
.B README.INSTALL
.
.SH "HINTS ON OPTIONS"
.IP "Options"
Most of tha options is used ta control tha format of tha WAV file. In
the followin text all of dem is busted lyrics about.
.IP "Select Device"
.BI \-D " device"
selects tha CDROM drive thang ta be used.
Da specifier given should correspond ta tha selected intercourse (see below).
.B CHANGE!
For tha cooked_ioctl intercourse dis is tha cdrom thang descriptor as before.
.B Da SCSI devices used wit tha generic SCSI intercourse however is now
.B addressed wit they SCSI-Bus, SCSI-Id, n' SCSI-Lun instead of tha generic
.B SCSI thang descriptor!!!
One example fo' a SCSI CDROM drive on bus 0 wit SCSI ID 3 n' lun 0 is -D0,3,0.
.IP "Select Auxiliary device"
.BI \-A " auxdevice"
is necessary fo' CD-Extra handling. For Non-SCSI-CDROM drives dis is the
same thang as given by -D (see above). For SCSI-CDROM drives it is the
CDROM drive (SCSI) thang (i.e.  
.B /dev/sr0
) correspondin ta tha SCSI thang (i.e.
.B 0,3,0
). Well shiiiit, it has ta match tha thang used fo' sampling.
.IP "Select Interface"
.BI \-I " intercourse"
selects tha CDROM drive intercourse. For SCSI drives use generic_scsi
(cooked_ioctl may not yet be available fo' all devices):
.B generic_scsi
and
.BR cooked_ioctl .
Da first uses tha generic SCSI intercourse, tha latta uses tha ioctl of
the CDROM driver n' shit. Da latta variant works only when tha kernel driver supports
.B CDDA
reading. This entry has ta match tha selected CDROM thang (see above).
.IP "Enable echo ta soundcard"
.B \-e
copies audio data ta tha sound card while recording, so you hear it nearly
simultaneously. Da soundcard gets tha same ol' dirty data dat is recorded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This
is time critical, so it works dopest wit the
.B \-q
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  To use
.B icedax
as a pseudo CD playa without recordin up in a gangbangin' file you could use
.B "icedax \-q \-e \-t2 \-d0 \-N"
to play tha whole second track. This feature reduces tha recordin speed
to at most onefold speed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass cannot make betta recordings than yo' sound card
can play (since tha same data is used).
.IP "Change pitch of echoed audio"
.B "\-p cementage"
changes tha pitch of all audio echoed ta a sound card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only tha copy
to tha soundcard be affected, tha recorded audio samplez up in a gangbangin' file
remain tha same.
Normal pitch, which is tha default, is given by 100%.
Lower cementages correspond ta lower pitches, i.e.
-p 50 transposes tha audio output one octave lower.
See also tha script
.B pitchplay
as a example. This option was contributed by Raul Sobon.
.IP "Select mono or stereo recording"
.B \-m
or
.B "\-c 1"
selects mono recordin (both stereo channels is mixed),
.B \-s
or
.B "\-c 2"
or
.B "\-c s"
selects stereo recording. Parameta s
will swap both sound channels.
.IP "Select maximum quality"
.B \-x
will set stereo, 16 bits per sample at 44.1 KHz (full CD quality).  Note
that other format options given lata can chizzle dis setting.
.IP "Select sample quality"
.B "\-b 8"
specifies 8 bit (1 Byte) fo' each sample up in each channel;
.B "\-b 12"
specifies 12 bit (2 Byte) fo' each sample up in each channel;
.B "\-b 16"
specifies 16 bit (2 Byte) fo' each sample up in each channel (Ensure that
your sample playa or sound card is capable of playin 12-bit or 16-bit
samples). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Selectin 12 or 16 bits doublez file size.  12-bit samplez are
aligned ta 16-bit samples, so they waste some disk space.
.IP "Select sample rate"
.BI \-r " samplerate"
selects a sample rate.
.I samplerate
can be up in a range between 44100 n' 900. Option
.B \-R
lists all available rates.
.IP "Select sample rate divider"
.BI \-a " divider"
selects a sample rate divider.
.I divider
can be minimally 1 n' maximally 50.5 n' every last muthafuckin thang between up in stepz of 0.5.
Option
.B \-R
lists all available rates.
.IP
To make tha sound smoother at lower samplin rates,
.B icedax
sums over
.I n
samplez (where
.I n
is tha specific dividend). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So fo' 22050 Hertz output we gotta sum over
2 samples, fo' 900 Hertz we gotta sum over 49 samples.  This cancels
higher frequencies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Standard sector size of a audio CD (ignoring
additionizzle shiznit) is 2352 Bytes. In order ta finish summing
for a output sample at sector boundaries tha rates above gotta be
chosen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Arbitrary samplin rates up in high qualitizzle would require some
interpolation scheme, which needz much mo' sophisticated programming.
.IP "List a table of all samplin rates"
.BI \-R
shows a list of all sample rates n' they dividers. Dividaz can range
from 1 ta 50.5 up in stepz of 0.5.
.IP "Select start track n' optionally end track"
.BI \-t " n+m"
selects
.B n
as tha start track n' optionally
.B m
as tha last track of a range ta be recorded.
These tracks must be from tha table of contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This sets
the track where recordin begins. Recordin can advizzle all up in the
followin tracks as well (limited by tha optionizzle end track or otherwise
dependin on recordin time). Whether one file or different filez are
then pimped dependz on the
.B \-B
option (see below).
.IP "Select start index"
.BI \-i " n"
selects tha index ta start recordin with.  Indices other than 1 will
invoke tha index scanner, which will take some time ta find tha erect
start position. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An offset may be given additionally (see below).
.IP "Set recordin time"
.B \-d " n"
sets recordin time to
.I n
secondz or set recordin time fo' whole track if
.I n
is zero. In order ta specify tha duration up in frames (sectors) also, the
argument can have a appended 'f'. Then tha numerical argument is ta be
taken as frames (sectors) rather than seconds.
Please note dat if track ranges is bein used they define tha recording
time as well thus overridin any
.BR \-d " option"
specified times.
.IP
Recordin time is defined as tha time tha generated sample will play (at
the defined sample rate). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since itz related ta tha amount of generated
samples, it aint tha time of tha samplin process itself (which can be
less or more).  It aint nuthin but neither strictly coupled wit tha time shiznit on
the audio CD (shown by yo' hifi CD playa).
Differences can occur by tha usage of the
.B \-o
option (see below). Notice dat recordin time is ghon be shortened, unless
enough disk space exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Recordin can be aborted at anytime by
pressin tha break characta (signal SIGQUIT).
   .IP "Record all trackz of a cold-ass lil complete audio CD up in separate files"
.B \-B
copies each track tha fuck into a separate file fo' realz. A base name can be given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. File names
have a appended track number n' a extension correspondin ta tha audio
format. To record all audio trackz of a CD, bust a sufficient high duration
(i.e. -d99999).
.IP "Set start sector offset"
.BI \-o " sectors"
increments start sector of tha track by
.IR sectors .
By dis option yo ass be able ta skip a cold-ass lil certain amount all up in tha beginnin of
a track so you can pick exactly tha part you want. Each sector runs fo' 1/75
seconds, so you have straight-up fine control. If yo' offset is so high that
it would not fit tha fuck into tha current track, a warnin message is issued
and tha offset is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Recordin time aint reduced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (To skip
introductory on tha down-low passages automagically, use the
.B \-w
option peep below.)
.IP "Wait fo' signal option"
.B \-w
Turnin on dis option will suppress all silent output at startup,
reducin possibly file size.
.B icedax
will peep fo' any signal up in tha output signal n' switches on writing
to file.
.IP "Find off tha hook samples"
.B \-F
Turnin on dis option will display da most thugged-out wack n' da most thugged-out positive
sample value found durin recordin fo' both channels. This can be useful
for readjustin tha volume. Da joints shown is not reset at track
boundaries, they cover tha complete samplin process. They is taken from
the original gangsta samplez n' have tha same format (i.e. they is independent
of tha selected output format).
.IP "Find if input samplez is up in mono"
.B \-G
If dis option is given, input samplez fo' both channels is ghon be compared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! At
the end of tha program tha result is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Differences up in tha channels
indicate stereo, otherwise when both channels is equal it will indicate mono.
.IP "Undo tha pre-emphasis up in tha input samples"
.B \-T
Some olda audio CDs is recorded wit a modified frequency response called
pre-emphasis. This is found mostly up in old-ass recordings. Da erection
can be peeped up in tha flagz of tha Table Of Contents often. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But there are
recordings, dat show dis settin only up in tha subchannels. If dis option
is given, tha index scanner is ghon be started, which readz tha q-subchannel
of each track. If pre-emphasis is indicated up in tha q-subchannel of a track,
but not up in tha TOC, pre-emphasis is ghon be assumed ta be present, and
subsequently a reverse filterin is done fo' dis track before tha samples
are freestyled tha fuck into tha audio file.
.IP "Set audio format"
.B \-O " audiotype"
can be 
.I wav
(for wav files) or
.I au
or
.I sun
(for sun PCM files) or
.I cdr
or
.I raw
(for headerless filez ta be used fo' cd writers).
All file samplez is coded up in linear pulse code modulation (as done
in tha audio compact disc format). This holdz fo' all audio formats.
Wav filez is compatible ta Wind*ws sound files, they have lsb,msb byte order
as bein used on tha audio cd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default filename extension is '.wav'.
Sun type filez is not like tha olda common logarithmically coded .au files,
but instead as mentioned above linear PCM is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da byte order is msb,lsb
to be compatible. Da default filename extension is '.au'.
Da AIFF n' tha newer variant AIFC from tha Apple/SGI ghetto store they samples
in bigendian format (msb,lsb). In AIFC no compression is used.
Finally tha easiest 'format',
the cdr aka raw format. Well shiiiit, it is done per default up in msb,lsb byte order ta satisfy
the order wanted by most cd writers. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since there is no header shiznit up in this
format, tha sample parametas can only be identified by playin tha samples
on a soundcard or similar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da default filename extension is '.cdr' or '.raw'.
.IP "Select cdrom drive readin speed"
.B \-S " speed"
allows ta switch tha cdrom drive ta a cold-ass lil certain level of speed up in order to
reduce read errors. Da argument is transfered verbatim ta tha drive.
Details depend straight-up much on tha cdrom drives.
An argument of 0 fo' example is often tha default speed of tha drive,
a value of 1 often selects single speed.
.IP "Enable MD5 checksums"
.B \-M " count"
enablez calculation of MD-5 checksum fo' 'count' bytes from tha beginnin of a
track. This was introduced fo' quick comparisonz of tracks.
.IP "Use Montyz libparanoia fo' readin of sectors"
.B \-paranoia
selects a alternate way of extractin audio sectors. Montyz library is used
with tha followin default options:
.sp
PARANOIA_MODE_FULL yo, but without PARANOIA_MODE_NEVERSKIP
.sp
for details peep Montyz libparanoia documentation.
In dis case tha option
.B \-P
has no effect.
.IP "Do linear or overlappin readin of sectors"
(This applies unless option
.B \-paranoia
is used.)
.B \-P " sectors"
sets tha given number of sectors fo' initial overlap samplin fo' jitter
correction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Two cases is ta be distinguished. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For nonzero joints,
some sectors is read twice ta enable icedaxz jitta erection.
If a argument of zero is given, no overlap samplin is ghon be used.
For nonzero overlap sectors icedax dynamically adjusts tha settin during
samplin (like cdparanoia do).
If no match can be found, icedax retries tha read wit a increased overlap.
If tha amount of jitta is lower than tha current overlapped samples, icedax
reduces tha overlap setting, resultin up in a higher readin speed.
Da argument given has ta be lower than tha total number of sectors per request
(see option
.I -n
below).
Icedax will check dis settin n' thangs a error message otherwise.
Da case of zero sectors is sick on low load thangs or errorfree (perfect)
cdrom drives n' slick (not scratched) audio cds.
.IP "Set tha transfer size"
.B \-n " sectors"
will set tha transfer size ta tha specified sectors per request.
.IP "Set number of rang buffer elements"
.B \-l " buffers"
will allocate tha specified number of rang buffer elements.
.IP "Set endianizz of input samples"
.B \-C " endianess"
will override tha default settingz of tha input format.
Endianizz can be set explicitly ta "lil" or "big" or ta tha automatic
endianizz detection based on votin wit "guess".
.IP "Set endianizz of output samples"
.B \-E " endianess"
(endianizz can be "lil" or "big") will override tha default settings 
of tha output format.
.IP "Verbose option"
.B \-v " itemlist"
prints mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A list allows selection of different
information items.
.sp
.B "disable"
keeps on tha fuckin' down-low
.sp
.B "toc"
displays tha table of contents
.sp
.B "summary"
displays a summary of recordin parameters
.sp
.B "indices"
invokes tha index scanner n' displays start positionz of indices
.sp
.B "catalog"
retrieves n' displays a media catalog number
.sp
.B "trackid"
retrieves n' displays internationistic standard recordin codes
.sp
.B "sectors"
displays track start positions up in absolute sector notation
.sp
To combine nuff muthafuckin requests just list tha suboptions separated wit commas.
.IP "Da table of contents"
Da display will show tha table of contents wit number of tracks and
total time (displayed in
.IR mm : ss . hh
format,
.IR mm =minutes,
.IR ss =seconds,
.IR hh "=rounded 1/100 seconds)."
Da followin list displays track number n' track time fo' each entry.
Da summary gives a line per track describin tha type of tha track.
.sp
.ce 1
.B "track preemphasis copypermitted tracktype chans"
.sp
The
.B track
column holdz tha track number.
.B preemphasis
shows if dat track has been given a non linear frequency response.
NOTE: Yo ass can undo dis effect wit the
.B \-T
option.
.B "copy-permitted"
indicates if dis track be allowed ta copy.
.B "tracktype"
can be data or audio. On multimedia CDs (except hidden track CDs) 
both of dem should be present.
.B "channels"
is defined fo' audio tracks only. There can be two or four channels.
.IP "No file output"
.B \-N
this debuggin option switches off freestylin ta a gangbangin' file.
.IP "No infofile generation"
.B \-H
this option switches off creation of a info file n' a cold-ass lil cddb file.
.IP "Generation of simple output fo' gui frontends"
.B \-g
this option switches on simple line formatting, which is needed ta support
gui frontendz (like xcd-roast).
.IP "Verbose SCSI logging"
.B \-V
this option switches on loggin of SCSI commands. This will produce
a shitload of output (when SCSI devices is bein used).
This is needed fo' debuggin purposes. Da format
is tha same ol' dirty as bein used wit tha cdrecord program from J\*org Schillin or
the wodim tool. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See there fo' details.
.IP "Quiet option"
.B \-q
suppresses all screen output except error lyrics.
That reduces cpu time resources.
.IP "Just show shiznit option"
.B \-J
does not write a gangbangin' file, it only prints shiznit bout tha disc (depending
on the
.B \-v
option). This is just fo' shiznit purposes.
.SH "CDDBP support"
.IP "Lookup mixtape n' track titlez option"
.B \-L " cddbp mode"
Icedax tries ta retrieve muthafucka, mixtape-, n' track titlez from a cold-ass lil cddbp
server n' shit. Da default server right now is 'freedb.freedb.org'.
It be planned ta have mo' control over tha server handlin later.
Da parameta defines how tha fuck multiple entries is handled:
.PP
0	interactizzle mode, tha user chizzlez one of tha entries.
.PP
1	take tha straight-up original gangsta entry without asking.
.IP "Set server fo' title lookups"
.B cddbp-server " servername"
When rockin \-L or --cddb, tha server bein contacted can be set with
this option.
.IP "Set portnumber fo' title lookups"
.B cddbp-port " portnumber"
When rockin \-L or --cddb, tha server port bein contacted can be set with
this option.
.SH "HINTS ON USAGE"
Don't create samplez you cannot read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! First check yo' sample playa
software n' sound card hardware. I experienced problems wit straight-up low
sample rates (stereo <= 1575 Hz, mono <= 3675 Hz) when tryin ta play
them wit standard WAV playas fo' sound blasta (maybe they is not
legal in
.B WAV
format). Most CD-Writas insist on audio samplez up in a funky-ass bigendian format.
Now icedax supports tha 
.B \-E " endianess"
option ta control tha endianizz of tha freestyled samples.
.PP
If yo' hardware is fast enough ta run icedax
uninterrupted n' yo' CD drive is one of tha 'perfect' ones, you will
gain speed when switchin all overlap samplin off wit the
.B \-P " 0"
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Further fine tunin can be done wit the
.B \-n " sectors"
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can specify how tha fuck much sectors should be axed up in one go.
.PP
Icedax supports
.B pipes
now. Use a gangbangin' filename of
.B \-
to let icedax output its samplez ta standard output.
.PP
Conversion ta other sound formats can be done rockin the
.B sox
program package (although tha use of
.B sox -x
to chizzle tha byte order of samplez should be no mo' necessary; peep option
.B \-E
to chizzle tha output byteorder).
.PP
If you wanna sample mo' than one track into
different filez up in one run, dis is currently possible wit the
.B \-B
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When recordin time exceedz tha track limit a freshly smoked up file will
be opened fo' tha next track.
.SH FILES
Icedax can generate a shitload of filez fo' various purposes.
.sp
Audio files:
.sp
There is audio filez containin samplez wit default extensions
.wav, .au, .aifc, .aiff, n' .cdr accordin ta tha selected sound format.
These filez is not generated when option (-N) is given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Multiple filez may
be freestyled when tha bulk copy option (-B) is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Individual file names
can be given as arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha number of file names given is sufficient
to cover all included audio tracks, tha file names is ghon be used verbatim.
Otherwise, if there be less file names than filez needed ta write the
included tracks, tha part of tha file name before tha extension is extended
with '_dd' where dd represents tha current track number.
.sp
Cddb n' Cdindex files:
.sp
If icedax detects cd-extra or cd-text (album/track) title shiznit,
then .cddb n' .cdindex filez is generated unless suppressed by the
option -H. They contain suitable formatted entries fo' submission to
audio cd track title databases up in tha internet. Da CDINDEX n' CDDB(tm)
systems is currently supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For mo' shiznit please visit
www.musicdomez.org n' www.freedb.com.
.sp
Inf files:
.sp
Da inf filez is describin tha sample filez n' tha part from tha audio cd,
it was taken from. They is a means ta transfer shiznit ta a cold-ass lil cd burning
program like wodim. For example, if tha original gangsta audio cd had pre-emphasis
enabled, n' icedax -T did remove tha pre-emphasis, then tha inf file has
pre-emphasis not set (since tha audio file aint gots it no mo'), while
the .cddb n' tha .cdindex have pre-emphasis set as tha original gangsta do.
.SH WARNING
.B IMPORTANT:
it is prohibited ta push copiez of copyrighted material by noncopyright
holders. This program may not be used ta circumvent copyrights.
Da user acknowledges dis constraint when rockin tha software.
.SH BUGS
Generation of md5 checksums is currently broken.
.sp
Performizzle may not be optimal on slower systems.
.sp
Da index scanner may give timeouts.
.sp
Da resamplin (rate conversion code) uses polynomial interpolation, which
is not optimal.
.sp
Icedax should use threads.
.sp
Icedax currently cannot sample hidden audio tracks (track 1 index 0).
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Thanks goto Project MODE (http://www.mode.net/) n' Fraunhofer Institut f\*ur
integrierte Schaltungen (FhG-IIS) (http://www.iis.fhg.de/) fo' financial
support.
Plextor Europe n' Ricoh Japan provided cdrom disk drives n' cd burners
which helped a shitload ta pimp dis software.
Rammi has helped a shitload wit tha debuggin n' flossed a shitload of stamina when
hearin 100 times tha straight-up original gangsta 16 secondz of tha straight-up original gangsta track of tha Krupps CD.
Libparanoia contributed by Monty (Christopher Montgomery) xiphmont@mit.edu.
.SH AUTHOR
Heiko Eissfeldt heiko@colossus.escape.de
.PP
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
icedax
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program cdda2wav as distributed
in tha cdrtools package [1]. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools pimpers is not involved
in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore shall not be made responsible
for any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support fo' dis program by
contactin tha original gangsta authors.
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.

.SH DATE
26 Sep 2006

.SH SOURCES
.PP
.br
[1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de

