.TH iecset 1 "23 Oct 2003"
.SH NAME
iecset \- Set or dump IEC958 status bits

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBiecset\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIcmd\fP \fIarg\fP...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBiecset\fP be a lil' small-ass utilitizzle ta set or dump tha IEC958 (or so-called
"S/PDIF") status bitz of tha specified sound card via ALSA control API.

When \fBiecset\fP is started without arguments except fo' options,
it will show tha current IEC958 status up in a human-readable form.
When tha commandz is given up in tha arguments, they is parsed
and tha IEC958 status bits is updated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da resultant status is
shown as well.

Da commandz consist of tha command directizzle n' tha argument.
As tha boolean argument, \fIyes\fP, \fIno\fP, \fItrue\fP, \fIfalse\fP,
or a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit number be allowed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI iecset\ \-Dhw:1
Displays tha current IEC958 status bits on tha second card.
This is equivalent wit \fI\-c 1\fP.
.TP
.BI iecset\ \-x
Displays tha current IEC958 status bits up in a steez of tha arguments
for tha PCM stream.  Da output strang can be passed ta tha \fIiec958\fP
(or \fIspdif\fP) PCM type as tha optionizzle argument.
.TP
.BI iecset\ pro\ off\ audio\ off
Sets tha current status ta tha thug-mode n' turns on the
non-audio bit.  Da modified status is ghon be shown, like a muthafucka.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fI\-D\fP device
Specifies tha thang name of tha control ta open
.TP
\fI\-c\fP card
Specifies tha card index ta open. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Equivalent wit \fI\-Dhw:x\fP.
.TP
\fI\-n\fP index
Specifies tha IEC958 control element index, up in case you have multiple
IEC958 devices n' need ta chizzle one of em.
.TP
\fI\-x\fP
Dumps tha status up in tha form of AESx bytes.
.TP
\fI\-i\fP
Readz tha command sequences from stdin.
Each line has single command.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fIprofessional\fP <bool>
Da professionizzle mode (true) or thug mode (false).

.TP
\fIaudio\fP <bool>
Da audio mode (true) or non-audio mode (false).

.TP
\fIrate\fP <int>
Da sample rate up in Hz.

.TP
\fIemphasis\fP <int>
Da emphasis: 0 = none, 1 = 50/15us, 2 = CCITT.

.TP
\fIlock\fP <bool>
Rate lock: locked (true), unlocked (false).
This command is fo' tha professionizzle mode only.

.TP
\fIsbits\fP <int>
Sample bits:  2 = 20bit, 4 = 24bit, 6 = undefined.
This command is fo' tha professionizzle mode only.

.TP
\fIwordlength\fP <int>
Wordlength: 0 = Fuck dat shit, 2 = 22-18 bit, 4 = 23-19 bit, 5 = 24-20 bit, 6 = 20-16 bit.
This command is fo' tha professionizzle mode only.

.TP
\fIcategory\fP <int>
Category: tha value is from 0 ta 0x7f.
This command is fo' tha thug mode only.

.TP
\fIcopyright\fP <bool>
Copyright: copyrighted (true), non-copyrighted (false).
This command is fo' tha thug mode only.

.TP
\fIoriginal\fP <boo>
Original Gangsta flag: original gangsta (true), 1st generation (false).
This command is fo' tha thug mode only.

.SH AUTHOR
Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
