.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH IJS-CONFIG 1 "5 Feb, 2004"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
ijs-config \- script ta git shiznit bout tha installed version of ijs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ijs-config
[\-\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-exec\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-version] [\-\-libs] [\-\-cflags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIijs-config\fP be a program dat is used ta determine tha compila and
linker flags dat should be used ta compile n' link programs dat use
\fIIJS\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
This program bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.  This may list additionizzle advanced package
configuration options not detailed up in dis manual page.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show installed libijs version.
.TP
.B  \-\-libs
Print tha linker flags dat is necessary ta link a \fIIJS\fP program.
.TP
.B  \-\-cflags
Print tha compila flags dat is necessary ta compile a \fIIJS\fP program.
.TP
.B  \-\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation prefix dat \fIIJS\fP
was built wit when computin tha output fo' tha \-\-cflags and
\-\-libs options. This option be also used fo' tha exec prefix
if \-\-exec\-prefix was not specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option must be specified
before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of tha installation exec prefix that
\fIIJS\fP was built wit when computin tha output fo' tha \-\-cflags
and \-\-libs options.  This option must be specified before any
\-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gtk-config (1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Roger Leigh
\fI<rleigh@debian.org>\fP, originally for
the Debian GNU/Linux system.
