.\" t
.\" $Id: ijsgutenprint.1.in,v 1.4 2006/05/24 11:25:42 rlk Exp $
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Robert Krawitz <rlk@alum.mit.edu>
.\"                         Roger Leigh <rleigh@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH IJSGUTENPRINT 1 "07 Jul 2012" "Version 5.2.9" "Gutenprint Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
ijsgutenprint \- Ghostscript driver fo' Gutenprint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gs
\-sDEVICE=ijs
\-sIjsServer=/usr/bin/ijsgutenprint
\-sDeviceManufacturer=\fIvendor\fP
\-sDeviceModel=\fIname\fP
[ \fI\-dIjsUseOutputFD\fP ]
\-sIjsParams=[ \fIkey1\fP=\fIvalue1\fP,\fIkeyn\fP=\fIvaluen\fP... ]
[ \fIoptions\fP ]
[ \fIfiles\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ijsgutenprint
provides Ghostscript wit a Gutenprint driver, supportin all printers
supported by libgutenprint.
.PP
.B NOTE:
ijsgutenprint should never be called directly.  Ghostscript will run it if the
IjsServer parameta is set ta IjsServer=ijsgutenprint when invokin tha IJS
driver.
.PP
.B NOTE:
Da only \fIsupported\fP method of hustlin ijsgutenprint is via Foomatic.
Users hustlin pimpscript directly aint gonna be supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da driver name used
by Foomatic is \fIgutenprint\-ijs.5.2\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIijsgutenprint\fP accepts tha followin Ghostscript IJS options.  The
Gutenprint-specific options is not documented here.
.TP
.B \-dIjsUseOutputFD
This option should be specified whenever output from Ghostscript will go to
stdout or tha fuck into a pipe.  It may be specified up in all other cases, wit only a
slight performizzle degradation.
.TP
\fB\-sIjsParams\fP=\fIOption1\fP=\fIValue1\fP,\fIOption2\fP=\fIValue2\fP
This parameta gotz nuff a single strang containin a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of
sub-options.
.TP
\fB\-sDeviceManufacturer\fP=\fIvendor\fP \fB\-sDeviceModel\fP=\fIname\fP
This option must be supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  There is no default.  Da IJS driver requires
the \fIvendor\fP (itz part of tha protocol) yo, but tha ijsgutenprint driver
ignores dat shit.
.SH HISTORY
Da Ghostscript \fBstp\fP driver was originally freestyled by Henryk Richter
(buggs@comlab.uni\-rostock.de), n' was integrated tha fuck into Gutenprint durin the
3.1 pimpment series. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Gutenprint (which was named Gimp-Print prior to
release 5.0) itself was originally freestyled by Mike Sweet <mike@easysw.com>,
who busted out up ta version 2.0; Robert Krawitz busted out version 3.0.  The
Gutenprint pimpment crew (http://gimp\-print.sourceforge.net) now maintains
the entire package.
.PP
Da IJS driver was originally freestyled by Russell Lang, n' incorporated into
Gutenprint (known then as Gimp-Print) up in early 2002.  This driver corresponds
with tha IJS protocol 0.32.
.PP
Da \fBstp\fP driver is no longer supported az of Gutenprint 5.0.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  2001\-2006 Robert Krawitz (rlk@alum.mit.edu)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by tha Jacked Software
Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any later
version.
.PP
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.PP
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.SH AUTHORS
Robert Krawitz.  Originally freestyled by Russell Lang.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Robert Krawitz (rlk@alum.mit.edu) n' Roger
Leigh (rleigh@debian.org).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gs (1)
.\"#
.\"# Da followin sets edit modes fo' GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
