.TH ImageMagick 1 "Date: 2009/01/10 01:00:00" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
ImageMagick \- be a gangbangin' free software suite fo' tha creation, modification n' display of bitmap images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBconvert\fP \fIinput-file\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIoutput-file\fP
.SH OVERVIEW

ImageMagick\[rg], be a software suite ta create, edit, n' compose bitmap images. Well shiiiit, it can read, convert n' write images up in a variety of formats (about 100) includin GIF, JPEG, JPEG-2000, PNG, PDF, PhotoCD, TIFF, n' DPX. Use ImageMagick ta translate, flip, mirror, rotate, scale, shear n' transform images, adjust image colors, apply various special effects, or draw text, lines, polygons, ellipses n' B\\['e]zier curves.

ImageMagick is free software served up as a ready-to-run binary distribution or as source code dat you can freely use, copy, modify, n' distribute. Its license is compatible wit tha GPL. Well shiiiit, it runs on all major operatin systems.

Da functionalitizzle of ImageMagick is typically utilized from tha command line or you can use tha features from programs freestyled up in yo' straight-up programmin language. Chizzle from these intercourses: MagickCore (C), MagickWand (C), ChMagick (Ch), Magick++ (C++), JMagick (Java), L-Magick (Lisp), PascalMagick (Pascal), PerlMagick (Perl), MagickWand fo' PHP (PHP), PythonMagick (Python), RMagick (Ruby), or TclMagick (Tcl/TK). With a language intercourse, use ImageMagick ta modify or create images automagically n' dynamically.

ImageMagick includes a fuckin shitload of command-line utilitizzles fo' manipulatin images. Most of yo ass is probably accustom ta editin images one at a time wit a graphical user intercourse (GUI) wit such programs as gimp or Photoshop. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat a GUI aint always convenient. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Suppose you wanna process a image dynamically from a wizzy script or you wanna apply tha same operations ta nuff images or repeat a specific operation at different times ta tha same or different image. For these typez of operations, tha command-line image processin utilitizzle be appropriate.

In tha paragraphs below, find a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description fo' each command-line tool.Cl
ick on tha program name ta git details on tha program usage n' a list of comman
d-line options dat altas how tha fuck tha program performs. If yo ass is just gettin acq
uainted wit ImageMagick, start all up in tha top of tha list, tha convert program, and
 work yo' way down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Also be shizzle ta peruse Anthony Thyssenz tutorial on how tha fuck to
 use ImageMagick utilitizzles ta convert, compose, or edit images from tha command-
line.
.TP
.B convert

convert between image formats as well as resize a image, blur, crop, despeckle, dither, draw on, flip, join, re-sample, n' much more.
.TP
.B identify

raps bout tha format n' characteristics of one or mo' image files.
.TP
.B mogrify

resize a image, blur, crop, despeckle, dither, draw on, flip, join, re-sample, n' much mo' n' mo' n' mo'. Mogrify overwrites tha original gangsta image file, whereas, convert writes ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different image file.
.TP
.B composite

overlaps one image over another.
.TP
.B montage

create a cold-ass lil composite image by combinin nuff muthafuckin separate images. Da images is tiled on tha composite image optionally adorned wit a funky-ass border, frame, image name, n' more.
.TP
.B compare

mathematically n' visually annotate tha difference between a image n' its reconstruction..

.TP
.B stream

is a lightweight tool ta stream one or mo' pixel componentz of tha image or portion of tha image ta yo' chizzle of storage formats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Well shiiiit, it writes tha pixel components as they is read from tha input image a row at a time makin stream desirable when hustlin wit big-ass images or when you require raw pixel components.

.TP
.B display

displays a image or image sequence on any X server.
.TP
.B animate

animates a image sequence on any X server.
.TP
.B import

saves any visible window on a X server n' outputs it as a image file. Yo ass can capture a single window, tha entire screen, or any rectangular portion of tha screen.
.TP
.B conjure

interprets n' executes scripts freestyled up in tha Magick Scriptin Language (MSL).
.PP
For mo' shiznit bout tha ImageMagick, point yo' browser ta file:///usr/share/doc/ImageMagick-6/index.html or http://www.imagemagick.org/.
.SH SEE ALSO
convert(1), identify(1), composite(1), montage(1), compare(1), display(1), animate(1), import(1), conjure(1), quantize(5), miff(4)

.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBCopyright (C) 1999-2013 ImageMagick Studio LLC fo' realz. Additionizzle copyrights n' licenses apply ta dis software, peep file:///usr/share/doc/ImageMagick-6/www/license.html or http://www.imagemagick.org/script/license.php\fP
