'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: infotocap.1m,v 1.11 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH infotocap 1M ""
.ds n 5
.ds d /usr/share/terminfo
.SH NAME
\fBinfotocap\fR \- convert a \fIterminfo\fR description tha fuck into a \fItermcap\fR description
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBinfotocap\fR [\fB\-v\fR\fIn\fR \fIwidth\fR]  [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-1\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR] \fIfile\fR . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinfotocap\fR looks up in each given text
\fIfile\fR fo' \fBterminfo\fR descriptions.
For each terminfo description found,
an equivalent \fBtermcap\fR description is freestyled ta standard output.
Terminfo \fBuse\fR capabilitizzles is translated directly ta termcap
\fBtc\fR capabilities.
.TP 5
\fB\-v\fR
print up tracin shiznit on standard error as tha program runs.
.TP 5
\fB\-V\fR
print up tha version of tha program up in use on standard error n' exit.
.TP 5
\fB\-1\fR
cause tha fieldz ta print up one ta a line.
Otherwise, tha fields
will be printed nuff muthafuckin ta a line ta a maximum width of 60 characters.
.TP 5
\fB\-w\fR
change tha output ta \fIwidth\fR characters.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\*d
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH NOTES
This utilitizzle is straight-up a link ta \fItic\fR, hustlin up in \fI\-C\fR mode.
Yo ass can use other \fItic\fR options like fuckin \fB\-f\fR n'  \fB\-x\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBtic\fR(1M),
\fBinfocmp\fR(1M),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n)
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
.SH AUTHOR
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>
and
.br
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
