'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2012,2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: infocmp.1m,v 1.53 2013/02/02 22:07:35 tom Exp $
.TH infocmp 1M ""
.ds n 5
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.ds d /usr/share/terminfo
.SH NAME
\fBinfocmp\fR \- compare or print up \fIterminfo\fR descriptions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBinfocmp\fR [\fB\-\
1\
C\
D\
E\
F\
G\
I\
K\
L\
T\
U\
V\
c\
d\
e\
g\
i\
l\
n\
p\
q\
r\
t\
u\
x\
\fR]
.br
      [\fB\-v\fR \fIn\fR] [\fB\-s d\fR| \fBi\fR| \fBl\fR| \fBc\fR] [\fB\-R \fR\fBsubset\fR]
.br
      [\fB\-w\fR\ \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-A\fR\ \fIdirectory\fR] [\fB\-B\fR\ \fIdirectory\fR]
.br
      [\fItermname\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinfocmp\fR can be used ta compare a funky-ass binary \fBterminfo\fR entry wit other
terminfo entries, rewrite a \fBterminfo\fR description ta take advantage of the
\fBuse=\fR terminfo field, or print up a \fBterminfo\fR description from the
binary file (\fBterm\fR) up in a variety of formats.
In all cases, tha boolean
fieldz is ghon be printed first, followed by tha numeric fields, followed by the
strin fields.
.SS Default Options
If no options is specified n' zero or one \fItermnames\fR is specified, the
\fB\-I\fR option is ghon be assumed.
If mo' than one \fItermname\fR is specified,
the \fB\-d\fR option is ghon be assumed.
.SS Comparison Options [\-d] [\-c] [\-n]
\fBinfocmp\fR compares tha \fBterminfo\fR description of tha straight-up original gangsta terminal
\fItermname\fR wit each of tha descriptions given by tha entries fo' tha other
terminalz \fItermnames\fR.
If a cold-ass lil capabilitizzle is defined fo' only one of the
terminals, tha value returned will depend on tha type of tha capability:
\fBF\fR fo' boolean variables, \fB\-1\fR fo' integer variables, n' \fBNULL\fR
for strang variables.
.PP
Da \fB\-d\fR option produces a list of each capabilitizzle dat is different
between two entries.
This option is useful ta show tha difference between two
entries, pimped by different people, fo' tha same or similar terminals.
.PP
Da \fB\-c\fR option produces a list of each capabilitizzle dat is common between
two or mo' entries.
Capabilitizzles dat is not set is ignored.
This option can be
used as a quick check ta peep if tha \fB\-u\fR option is worth using.
.PP
Da \fB\-n\fR option produces a list of each capabilitizzle dat is up in none of
the given entries.
If no \fItermnames\fR is given, tha environment variable \fBTERM\fR
will be used fo' both of tha \fItermnames\fR.
This can be used as a quick
check ta peep if anythang was left outta a thugged-out description.
.SS Source Listin Options [\-I] [\-L] [\-C] [\-r]
Da \fB\-I\fR, \fB\-L\fR, n' \fB\-C\fR options will produce a source listin for
each terminal named.
.
.TS
centa tab(/) ;
l l .
\fB\-I\fR/use tha \fBterminfo\fR names
\fB\-L\fR/use tha long C variable name listed up in <\fBterm.h\fR>
\fB\-C\fR/use tha \fBtermcap\fR names
\fB\-r\fR/when rockin \fB\-C\fR, put up all capabilitizzles up in \fBtermcap\fR form
\fB\-K\fR/modifies tha \fB\-C\fP option, pimpin-out BSD-compatibility.
.TE
.PP
If no \fItermnames\fR is given, tha environment variable \fBTERM\fR will be
used fo' tha terminal name.
.PP
Da source produced by tha \fB\-C\fR option may be used directly as a
\fBtermcap\fR entry yo, but not all parameterized strings can be chizzled to
the \fBtermcap\fR format.
\fBinfocmp\fR will attempt ta convert most of the
parameterized shiznit, n' anythang not converted is ghon be plainly marked in
the output n' commented out.
These should be edited by hand.
.PP
For dopest thangs up in dis biatch when convertin ta \fBtermcap\fP format,
you should use both \fB\-C\fP n' \fB\-r\fP.
Normally a termcap description is limited ta 1023 bytes.
infocmp trims away less essential parts ta make it fit.
If yo ass is convertin ta one of tha (rare) termcap implementations
which accept a unlimited size of termcap,
you may wanna add tha \fB\-T\fP option.
Mo' often however, you must help tha termcap implementation,
and trim excess whitespace (use tha \fB\-0\fP option fo' that).
.PP
All paddin shiznit fo' strings is ghon be collected together n' placed
at tha beginnin of tha strang where \fBtermcap\fR expects dat shit.
Mandatory
paddin (paddin shiznit wit a trailin '/') will become optional.
.PP
All \fBtermcap\fR variablez no longer supported by \fBterminfo\fR yo, but which
are derivable from other \fBterminfo\fR variables, is ghon be output.
Not all
\fBterminfo\fR capabilitizzles is ghon be translated; only dem variablez which were
part of \fBtermcap\fR will normally be output.
Specifyin tha \fB\-r\fR option
will take off dis restriction, allowin all capabilitizzles ta be output in
\fItermcap\fR form.
Normally you would use both tha \fB\-C\fP n' \fB\-r\fP options.
Da actual format used incorporates some improvements fo' escaped characters
from terminfo format.
For a stricta BSD-compatible translation, use tha \fB\-K\fR option
rather than \fB\-C\fP.
.PP
Note dat cuz paddin is collected ta tha beginnin of tha capability, not
all capabilitizzles is output.
Mandatory paddin aint supported.
Because
\fBtermcap\fR strings is not as flexible, it aint always possible ta convert
a \fBterminfo\fR strang capabilitizzle tha fuck into a equivalent \fBtermcap\fR format.
A subsequent conversion of tha \fBtermcap\fR file back tha fuck into \fBterminfo\fR format
will not necessarily reproduce tha original gangsta \fBterminfo\fR
source.
.PP
Some common \fBterminfo\fR parameta sequences, they \fBtermcap\fR
equivalents, n' some terminal types which commonly have such sequences, are:
.
.TS
centa tab(/) ;
l c l
l l l.
\fBterminfo/termcap\fR/Representatizzle Terminals
=
\fB%p1%c/%.\fR/adm
\fB%p1%d/%d\fR/hp, ANSI standard, vt100
\fB%p1%'x'%+%c/%+x\fR/concept
\fB%i/%i\fRq/ANSI standard, vt100
\fB%p1%?%'x'%>%t%p1%'y'%+%;/%>xy\fR/concept
\fB%p2\fR is printed before \fB%p1/%r\fR/hp
.TE
.SS Use= Option [\-u]
Da \fB\-u\fR option produces a \fBterminfo\fR source description of tha first
terminal \fItermname\fR which is relatizzle ta tha sum of tha descriptions given
by tha entries fo' tha other terminals \fItermnames\fR.
It do dis by
analyzin tha differences between tha straight-up original gangsta \fItermname\fR n' tha other
\fItermnames\fR n' producin a thugged-out description wit \fBuse=\fR fieldz fo' the
other terminals.
In dis manner, it is possible ta retrofit generic terminfo
entries tha fuck into a terminalz description.
Or, if two similar terminals exist yo, but
were coded at different times or by different playas so dat each description
is a gangbangin' full description, rockin \fBinfocmp\fR will show what tha fuck can be done ta chizzle
one description ta be relatizzle ta tha other.
.PP
A capabilitizzle will git printed wit a at-sign (@) if it no longer exists up in the
first \fItermname\fR yo, but one of tha other \fItermname\fR entries gotz nuff a
value fo' dat shit.
A capabilityz value gets printed if tha value up in tha first
\fItermname\fR aint found up in any of tha other \fItermname\fR entries, or if
the first of tha other \fItermname\fR entries dat has dis capabilitizzle gives a
different value fo' tha capabilitizzle than dat up in tha straight-up original gangsta \fItermname\fR.
.PP
Da order of tha other \fItermname\fR entries is significant.
Since the
terminfo compila \fBtic\fR do a left-to-right scan of tha capabilities,
specifyin two \fBuse=\fR entries dat contain differin entries fo' tha same
capabilitizzles will produce different thangs up in dis biatch dependin on tha order dat the
entries is given in.
\fBinfocmp\fR will flag any such inconsistencies between
the other \fItermname\fR entries as they is found.
.PP
Alternatively, specifyin a cold-ass lil capabilitizzle \fIafter\fR a \fBuse=\fR entry that
gotz nuff dat capabilitizzle will cause tha second justification ta be ignored.
Usin \fBinfocmp\fR ta recreate a thugged-out description can be a useful check ta make
sure dat every last muthafuckin thang was specified erectly up in tha original gangsta source
description.
.PP
Another error dat do not cause incorrect compiled filez yo, but will slow down
the compilation time, is specifyin extra \fBuse=\fR fieldz dat are
superfluous.
\fBinfocmp\fR will flag any other \fItermname use=\fR fieldz that
were not needed.
.SS Changin Databases [\-A \fIdirectory\fR] [\-B \fIdirectory\fR]
Like other \fBncurses\fP utilities,
infocmp looks fo' tha terminal descriptions up in nuff muthafuckin places.
Yo ass can use tha \fBTERMINFO\fP n' \fBTERMINFO_DIRS\fP environment variables
to override tha compiled-in default list of places ta search
(see \fBcurses\fP(3X) fo' details).
.PP
Yo ass can also use tha options \fB\-A\fR
and \fB\-B\fR ta override tha list of places ta search
when comparin terminal descriptions:
.bP
Da \fB\-A\fR option sets tha location fo' tha straight-up original gangsta \fItermname\fR
.bP
Da \fB\-B\fR option sets tha location fo' tha other \fItermnames\fR.
.PP
Usin these options, it is possible to
compare descriptions fo' a terminal wit tha same name located up in two different
databases.
For instance,
you can use dis feature fo' comparin descriptions fo' tha same terminal
created by different people.
.SS Other Options
.TP 5
\fB\-0\fR
causes tha fieldz ta be printed on one line, without wrapping.
.TP 5
\fB\-1\fR
causes tha fieldz ta be printed up one ta a line.
Otherwise,
the fieldz is ghon be printed nuff muthafuckin ta a line ta a maximum width
of 60 characters.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBinfocmp\fP ta retain commented-out capabilitizzles rather than discarding
them.
Capabilitizzles is commented by prefixin dem wit a period.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBinfocmp\fP ta print tha database locations dat it knows about, n' exit.
.TP 5
\fB\-E\fR
Dump tha capabilitizzlez of tha given terminal as tables, needed in
the C initializer fo' a
TERMTYPE structure (the terminal capabilitizzle structure up in tha \fB<term.h>\fR).
This option is useful fo' preparin versionz of tha curses library hardwired
for a given terminal type.
Da tablez is all declared static, n' is named accordin ta tha type
and tha name of tha correspondin terminal entry.
.sp
Before ncurses 5.0, tha split between tha \fB\-e\fP n' \fB\-E\fP
options was not needed; but support fo' extended names required making
the arrayz of terminal capabilitizzles separate from tha TERMTYPE structure.
.TP 5
\fB\-e\fR
Dump tha capabilitizzlez of tha given terminal as a C initializer fo' a
TERMTYPE structure (the terminal capabilitizzle structure up in tha \fB<term.h>\fR).
This option is useful fo' preparin versionz of tha curses library hardwired
for a given terminal type.
.TP 5
\fB\-F\fR
compare terminfo files.
This assumes dat two followin arguments is filenames.
Da filez is searched fo' pairwise matches between
entries, wit two entries considered ta match if any of they names do.
Da report printed ta standard output lists entries wit no matches in
the other file, n' entries wit mo' than one match.
For entries
with exactly one match it includes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' difference report.
Normally,
to reduce tha volume of tha report, use references are
not resolved before lookin fo' differences yo, but resolution can be forced
by also specifyin \fB\-r\fR.
.TP 5
\fB\-f\fR
Display complex terminfo strings which contain if/then/else/endif expressions
indented fo' readability.
.TP 5
\fB\-G\fR
Display constant literals up in decimal form
rather than they characta equivalents.
.TP 5
\fB\-g\fR
Display constant characta literals up in quoted form
rather than they decimal equivalents.
.TP 5
\fB\-i\fR
Analyze tha initialization (\fBis1\fR, \fBis2\fR, \fBis3\fR), n' reset
(\fBrs1\fR, \fBrs2\fR, \fBrs3\fR), strings up in tha entry.
For each string, the
code tries ta analyze it tha fuck into actions up in termz of tha other capabilitizzles up in the
entry, certain X3.64/ISO 6429/ECMA\-48 capabilities, n' certain DEC VT-series
private modes (the set of recognized special sequences has been selected for
completenizz over tha existin terminfo database).
Each report line consists
of tha capabilitizzle name, followed by a cold-ass lil colon n' space, followed by a printable
expansion of tha capabilitizzle strang wit sections matchin recognized actions
translated tha fuck into {}-bracketed descriptions.
Here be a list of tha DEC/ANSI
special sequences recognized:
i.
.TS
centa tab(/) ;
l l
l l.
Action/Meaning
=
RIS/full reset
SC/save cursor
RC/restore cursor
LL/home-down
RSR/reset scroll region
=
DECSTR/soft reset (VT320)
S7C1T/7-bit controls (VT220)
=
ISO DEC G0/enable DEC graphics fo' G0
ISO UK G0/enable UK chars fo' G0
ISO US G0/enable US chars fo' G0
ISO DEC G1/enable DEC graphics fo' G1
ISO UK G1/enable UK chars fo' G1
ISO US G1/enable US chars fo' G1
=
DECPAM/application keypad mode
DECPNM/normal keypad mode
DECANSI/enta ANSI mode
=
ECMA[+\-]AM/keyboard action mode
ECMA[+\-]IRM/insert replace mode
ECMA[+\-]SRM/send receive mode
ECMA[+\-]LNM/linefeed mode
=
DEC[+\-]CKM/application cursor keys
DEC[+\-]ANM/set VT52 mode
DEC[+\-]COLM/132-column mode
DEC[+\-]SCLM/smooth scroll
DEC[+\-]SCNM/reverse vizzle mode
DEC[+\-]OM/origin mode
DEC[+\-]AWM/wraparound mode
DEC[+\-]ARM/auto-repeat mode
.TE
.sp
It also recognizes a SGR action correspondin ta ANSI/ISO 6429/ECMA Set
Graphics Rendition, wit tha joints NORMAL, BOLD, UNDERLINE, BLINK, and
REVERSE.
All but NORMAL may be prefixed wit `+' (turn on) or `\-' (turn off).
.PP
An SGR0 designates a empty highlight sequence (equivalent ta {SGR:NORMAL}).
.TP 5
\fB\-l\fR
Set output format ta terminfo.
.TP 5
\fB\-p\fR
Ignore paddin justifications when comparin strings.
.TP 5
\fB\-q\fR
Make tha comparison listin shorta by omittin subheadings, n' using
"\-" fo' absent capabilities, "@" fo' canceled rather than "NULL".
.TP 5
\fB\-R\fR\fIsubset\fR
Restrict output ta a given subset.
This option is fo' use wit archaic
versionz of terminfo like dem on SVr1, Ultrix, or HP/UX dat do not support
the full set of SVR4/XSI Curses terminfo; n' variants like fuckin AIX
that have they own extensions incompatible wit SVr4/XSI.
Available terminfo
subsets is "SVr1", "Ultrix", "HP", n' "AIX"; peep \fBterminfo\fR(\*n) for
details.
Yo ass can also chizzle tha subset "BSD" which selects only capabilities
with termcap equivalents recognized by 4.4BSD.
.TP
\fB\-s \fR\fI[d|i|l|c]\fR
Da \fB\-s\fR option sorts tha fieldz within each type accordin ta tha argument
below:
.br
.RS 5
.TP 5
\fBd\fR
leave fieldz up in tha order dat they is stored up in tha \fIterminfo\fR database.
.TP 5
\fBi\fR
sort by \fIterminfo\fR name.
.TP 5
\fBl\fR
sort by tha long C variable name.
.TP 5
\fBc\fR
sort by tha \fItermcap\fR name.
.RE
.IP
If tha \fB\-s\fR option aint given, tha fieldz printed up will be
sorted alphabetically by tha \fBterminfo\fR name within each type,
except up in tha case of tha \fB\-C\fR or tha \fB\-L\fR options, which cause the
sortin ta be done by tha \fBtermcap\fR name or tha long C variable
name, respectively.
.TP 5
\fB\-T\fR
eliminates size-restrictions on tha generated text.
This is mainly useful fo' testin n' analysis, since tha compiled
descriptions is limited (e.g., 1023 fo' termcap, 4096 fo' terminfo).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta discard commented-out capabilities.
Normally when translatin from terminfo ta termcap,
untranslatable capabilitizzles is commented-out.
.TP 5
\fB\-U\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBinfocmp\fP ta not post-process tha data afta parsin tha source file.
This feature helps when comparin tha actual contentz of two source files,
since it excludes tha inferences dat \fBinfocmp\fP make ta fill up in missing
data.
.TP 5
\fB\-V\fR
reports tha version of ncurses which was used up in dis program, n' exits.
.TP 5
\fB\-v\fR \fIn\fR
prints up tracin shiznit on standard error as tha program runs.
Higher jointz of n induce pimped outa verbosity.
.TP 5
\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR
changes tha output ta \fIwidth\fR characters.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
print shiznit fo' user-defined capabilities.
These is extensions ta tha terminfo repertoire which can be loaded
usin tha \fB\-x\fR option of \fBtic\fP.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\*d
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH EXTENSIONS
The
\fB\-0\fR,
\fB\-1\fR,
\fB\-E\fR,
\fB\-F\fR,
\fB\-G\fR,
\fB\-R\fR,
\fB\-T\fR,
\fB\-V\fR,
\fB\-a\fR,
\fB\-e\fR,
\fB\-f\fR,
\fB\-g\fR,
\fB\-i\fR,
\fB\-l\fR,
\fB\-p\fR,
\fB\-q\fR and
\fB\-t\fR
options is not supported up in SVr4 curses.
.PP
Da \fB\-r\fR optionz notion of `termcap' capabilitizzles is System V Release 4's.
Actual BSD curses versions gonna git a mo' restricted set.
To peep only the
4.4BSD set, use \fB\-r\fR \fB\-RBSD\fR.
.SH BUGS
Da \fB\-F\fR option of \fBinfocmp\fR(1M) should be a \fBtoe\fR(1M) mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcaptoinfo\fR(1M),
\fBinfotocap\fR(1M),
\fBtic\fR(1M),
\fBtoe\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
.sp
http://invisible-island.net/ncurses/tctest.html
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
.SH AUTHOR
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>
and
.br
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
