.TH inputattach 1 "August 9, 2011" inputattach
.SH NAME
inputattach \- attach a serial line ta a input-layer device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR inputattach " [" \-\-daemon "] [" \-\-always "] [" \-\-noinit "] [" \-\-baud
.IR baud ">] <" mode "> <" thang ">"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B inputattach
attaches a serial line ta a input-layer thang via a line
discipline.
.PP
Exactly one of tha available modes must be specified on tha command
line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-daemon
Forks tha fuck into tha background.
.TP
.B \-\-always
Ignore initialization failures when attachin tha device.
.TP
.B \-\-noinit
Skip thang initialization.
.TP
.B \-\-baud
Specify tha baud rate ta use. (This is only necessary if tha default
rate is incorrect.)
.SS Modes
.TP
.BR \-dump ", " \-\-dump
Just enable thang .
.TP
.BR \-elo3b ", " \-\-elo261-280
ELO Touchscreen, 3-byte mode.
.TP
.BR \-elo4b ", " \-\-elo271-140
ELO touchscreen, 4-byte mode.
.TP
.BR \-elo6b ", " \-\-elo4002
ELO touchscreen, 6-byte mode.
.TP
.BR \-elo ", " \-\-elotouch
ELO touchscreen, 10-byte mode.
.TP
.BR \-fjt ", " \-\-fujitsu
Fujitsu serial touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-ipaq ", " \-\-h3600ts
Ipaq h3600 touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-ifor ", " \-\-iforce
I-Force joystick or wheel.
.TP
.BR \-ms3 ", " \-\-intellimouse
Microsizzlez IntelliMouse.
.TP
.BR \-lk ", " \-\-lkkbd
DEC LK201 / LK401 keyboards.
.TP
.BR \-mag ", " \-\-magellan
Magellan / SpaceMouse.
.TP
.BR \-bare ", " \-\-microsoft
2-button Microsizzlez mouse.
.TP
.BR \-mmw ", " \-\-mmwheel
Logitech mouse wit 4-5 buttons or a wheel.
.TP
.BR \-mman ", " \-\-mouseman
3-button Logitech / Genius mouse.
.TP
.BR \-msc ", " \-\-mousesystems
3-button Mouse Systems mouse.
.TP
.BR \-ms ", " \-\-mshack
3-button mouse up in Microsizzlez mode.
.TP
.BR \-mtouch ", " \-\-mtouch
MicroTouch (3M) touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-newt ", " \-\-newtonkbd
Newton keyboard.
.TP
.BR \-pm3k ", " \-\-penmount3000
Penmount 3000 touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-pm6k ", " \-\-penmount6000
Penmount 6000 touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-pmm1 ", " \-\-penmount6250
Penmount 6250 touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-pm9k ", " \-\-penmount9000
Penmount 9000 touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-ps2ser ", " \-\-ps2serkbd
PS/2 via serial keyboard.
.TP
.BR \-sbl ", " \-\-spaceball
SpaceBall 2003 / 3003 / 4000 FLX.
.TP
.BR \-orb ", " \-\-spaceorb
SpaceOrb 360 / SpaceBall Avenger.
.TP
.BR \-stin ", " \-\-stinger
Gravis Stinger.
.TP
.BR \-ipaqkbd ", " \-\-stowawaykbd
Stowaway keyboard.
.TP
.BR \-skb ", " \-\-sunkbd
Sun Type 4 n' Type 5 keyboards.
.TP
.BR \-sun ", " \-\-sunmouse
3-button Sun mouse.
.TP
.BR \-taos ", " \-\-taos\-evm
TAOS evaluation module.
.TP
.BR \-tsc ", " \-\-tsc
TSC-10/25/40 bust a nut on screen.
.TP
.BR \-t213 ", " \-\-touchit213
Sahara Touch-iT213 Tablet PC.
.TP
.BR \-tr ", " \-\-touchright
Touchright serial touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-tw ", " \-\-touchwin
Touchwindow serial touchscreen.
.TP
.BR \-twidjoy ", " \-\-twiddler-joy
Handykey Twiddla used as a joystick.
.TP
.BR \-twid ", " \-\-twiddler
Handykey Twiddla chordin keyboard.
.TP
.BR \-vs ", " \-\-vsxxx-aa
DEC VSXXX-AA / VSXXX-GA mouse n' VSXXX-A tablet.
.TP
.BR \-w8001 ", " \-\-w8001
Wacom W8001 pen and/or bust a nut on devices. Da default baud rate, 38400bps,
allows fo' touch-only or pen n' bust a nut on devices; fo' pen-only devices,
"\fB\-\-baud 19200\fP" must be specified.
.TP
.BR \-war ", " \-\-warrior
WingMan Warrior.
.TP
.BR \-zhen ", " \-\-zhen-hua
Zhen Hua 5-byte protocol.
.SH AUTHORS
.B inputattach
was freestyled by Vojtech Pavlik n' Arndt Schoenewald, n' improved by
many others; peep tha linuxconsole tools documentation fo' details.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Stephen Kitt <steve@sk2.org>, fo' tha Debian
GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
