.nh
.TH iodbctest 1 "3 August 2005" "3.52.7" "iODBC Driver Manager"

.SH NAME
iodbctest, iodbctestw \- iODBC Demonstration programs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iodbctest
.RB [ \(dqDSN=xxxx[;UID=xxxx][;PWD=xxxx][;OPT=value]\(dq ]
.br
.B iodbctestw
.RB [ \(dqDSN=xxxx[;UID=xxxx][;PWD=xxxx][;OPT=value]\(dq ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBiodbctest\fR program n' \fBiodbtestw\fR programs is simple ODBC
sample programs, showin tha strength of tha ODBC API ta connect ta any
ODBC enabled database, issue SQL commandz n' retrieve tha query thangs up in dis biatch.

Da \fBiodbctest\fR program uses tha standard ODBC API calls ta connect
usin any DSN yo, but retrieves all thangs up in dis biatch up in ASCII mode.

Da \fBiodbctestw\fR program uses tha ODBC Unicode API calls ta connect
usin any DSN, n' retrieves all thangs up in dis biatch up in Unicode mode.

.SH OPTIONS
Da \fBiodbctest\fR program uses tha SQLDriverConnect function ta make
a connection rockin any available ODBC compliant driver n' shit. This allows the
user ta override any ODBC connect attribute up in tha DSN string.

Connect strings should start wit either a \fIDSN=xxx\fR or a
\fIDRIVER=xxxx\fR attribute optionally followed by other DSN attributes
separated by a semicolon e.g:

.nf
	DSN=ora9;UID=scott;PWD=tiger;DATABASE=ora9u
.fi

Any attributes required fo' a proper connection dat is not entered in
the DSN connect string, must be present up in tha odbc.ini file.

If tha connect strang is passed as a argument ta tha \fBiodbctest\fR
program, tha strang should be quoted as most shells use tha semicolon
as they command separator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If tha connect strang is entered on the
interactizzle prompt, no quotes should be used.

Afta a successful connection has been established, tha user is prompted
for a SQL command ta be bust ta tha database fo' realz. A SQL command cannot span
multiple lines.

If tha SQL command returns one or mo' result sets, each result set is
fetched rockin characta buffers n' displayed up in a table.

Additionally, tha \fBiodbctest\fR program understandz all dem special
commands:

.TP 8
.B qualifiers
.br
Show a list of qualifiers rockin tha SQLTablez catalog call.

.TP 8
.B ballers
.br
Show a list of ballaz rockin tha SQLTablez catalog call.

.TP 8
.B tables
.br
Show a list of tablez rockin tha SQLTablez catalog call.

.TP 8
.B types
.br
Show a list of tablez types rockin tha SQLTablez catalog call.

.TP 8
.B datatypes
.br
Show a list of data types rockin tha SQLGetTypeInfo catalog call.

.TP 8
.B reconnect
.br
Perform a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disconnect/rehook tha fuck up wit tha shiznit saved durin the
first SQLDriverConnect.

.TP 8
.B quit (or exit)
.br
Exit tha program n' return ta tha shell.

.SH EXAMPLES
Start tha iodbctest program n' git a list of DSNs before makin a
connection:

.nf
    $ iodbctest
    OpenLink ODBC Demonstration program
    This program shows a interactizzle SQL processor

    Enta ODBC connect strang (, biatch? shows list): ?

    DSN                              | Driver
    -----------------------------------------------------------------
    ora9                             | OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver
    mysql                            | OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver
    mysqllite                        | OpenLink Lite fo' MySQL
    myodbc                           | MyODBC Driver
    pgsql                            | OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver
    tdz                              | OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver

    Enta ODBC connect strang (, biatch? shows list): DSN=ora9;PWD=tiger
    Driver: 05.20.0316 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (oplodbc.so)

    SQL>
.fi

Connect ta a Oracle 9 instizzle which has been previously setup up in the
odbc.ini file:

.nf
    $ iodbctest "DSN=ora9;UID=scott;PWD=tiger"
    iODBC Demonstration program
    This program shows a interactizzle SQL processor
    Driver: 05.20.0316 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (oplodbc.so)

    SQL>select * from emp

    ID               |NAME
    -----------------+-------------------------------------------
    1                |Record 1
    2                |Record 2
    2                |Record 3

     result set 1 returned 3 rows.

    SQL> quit
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1996-2009 by OpenLink Software

.SH AUTHOR
iODBC Administrator <iodbc@openlinksw.com>
