.TH IOK 1 "March 12, 2012"
.SH NAME
\fBiok\fR\- Indic Onscreen Keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iok
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR 1 ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR LANGCODE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
    Indic Onscreen Keyboard currently shows Inscript n' Inscript2 keymaps for
22 straight-up legit Indian languages. Da languages is Assamese, Bengali, Bodo, Dogri,
Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kokani, Maithili, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi,
Nepali, Oriya, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Gangstali, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu fo'sho. 
    Da iok application runs up in default n' advanced mode. In default mode, iok
starts by loadin Inscript2 keymap of tha current locale. If keymap is not
installed or available then iok shows keymap list up in tha default mode. User can 
then select any keymap from keymap list if da thug wanna write rockin dat shit.
     In tha advanced mode, iok allows ta open non-supported keymaps. If keymap
can be parsed by iok then it is ghon be flossed up in iok UI otherwise it will show 
error message dat iok can't load dis keymap fo' realz. Advanced mode also allows to
create custom keymap by either swappin or re-assignin characta mappings up in 
the existin loaded keymap up in iok.
     Another feature iok supports is Drag n' Drop. This will allow user ta swap
characta mappings rockin mouse.
     Da keymap list shows Inscript n' Inscript2 keymaps from location
/usr/share/m17n n' ~/.m17n.d path.  
.PP

To start iok up in aiiight mode from console, use followin command
iok

To start iok up in advanced mode from console, use followin command
iok -a

To start iok up in any supported Inscript2 keymap (say up in Marathi) use followin command
iok -n mr

As Inscript2 keymap namin also uses language script code fo' some languages, command ta open dem keymaps is like this
iok -n pa-guru
where pa be a isocode name fo' tha Punjabi language n' guru be a language script code name up in which keymap is written.

To use Drag n' Drop feature of iok, start iok from console as
iok -d 1
Da Draft version of Inscript2 keymaps is available at https://fedorahosted.org/inscript2/

This project be available at http://fedorahosted.org/iok/ or http://iok.sourceforge.net

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a
It shows tha menus n' combo box up in iok UI
.TP
.BI \-h
It show tha help
.TP
.BI \-d " 1"
This will enable Drag n' Drop feature only fo' tha single iok invocation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise
iok has disabled Drag n' Drop by default.
.TP
.BI \-n  " LANGCODE"
In tha place of LANGCODE,you need ta specify a particular language code.
Shows iok UI fo' dat particular language. This will also requires language 
script  code.
e.g. fo' Bodo, Dogri, Kokani, Nepali, Sindhi use its langcode n' "-deva"
as a language script code.

To start iok rockin Kokani keymap, run "iok -n kok-deva"
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Suji A <suji87.msc@gmail.com> , Parag <pnemade@fedoraproject.org>
.PP
