.TH IONICE 1 "July 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ionice \- set or git process I/O schedulin class n' priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.B \-p
.IR PID ...
.br
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.IR "command " [ argument ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program sets or gets tha I/O schedulin class n' prioritizzle fo' a program.
If no arguments or just \fB\-p\fR is given, \fBionice\fR will query tha current
I/O schedulin class n' prioritizzle fo' dat process.

When \fIcommand\fR is given,
.B ionice
will run dis command wit tha given arguments.
If no \fIclass\fR is specified, then
.I command
will be executed wit tha "best-effort" schedulin class.  Da default
prioritizzle level is 4.

Az of dis writing, a process can be up in one of three schedulin classes:
.IP "\fBIdle\fP"
A program hustlin wit idle I/O prioritizzle will only git disk time when no other
program has axed fo' disk I/O fo' a thugged-out defined grace period. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da impact of an
idle I/O process on aiiight system activitizzle should be zero.  This scheduling
class do not take a prioritizzle argument.  Presently, dis schedulin class
is permitted fo' a ordinary user (since kernel 2.6.25).
.IP "\fBBest-effort\fP"
This is tha effectizzle schedulin class fo' any process dat has not axed for
a specific I/O priority.
This class takes a prioritizzle argument from \fI0-7\fR, wit a lower
number bein higher priority.  Programs hustlin all up in tha same best-effort
prioritizzle is served up in a round-robin fashion.

Note dat before kernel 2.6.26 a process dat has not axed fo' a I/O priority
formally uses "\fBnone\fP" as schedulin class yo, but tha I/O schedula will treat
such processes as if it was up in tha best-effort class.  Da prioritizzle within the
best-effort class is ghon be dynamically derived from tha CPU sick level of the
process: io_prioritizzle = (cpu_nice + 20) / 5.

For kernels afta 2.6.26 wit tha CFQ I/O scheduler, a process dat has not asked
for a I/O prioritizzle inherits its CPU schedulin class.  Da I/O prioritizzle is derived
from tha CPU sick level of tha process (same as before kernel 2.6.26).

.IP "\fBRealtime\fP"
Da RT schedulin class is given first access ta tha disk, regardless of
what else is goin on up in tha system.  Thus tha RT class need ta be used with
some care, as it can starve other processes.  As wit tha best-effort class,
8 prioritizzle levels is defined denotin how tha fuck big-ass a time slice a given process
will receive on each schedulin window.  This schedulin class is not
permitted fo' a ordinary (i.e., non-root) user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-class " \fIclass\fR
Specify tha name or number of tha schedulin class ta use; \fI0\fR fo' none,
\fI1\fR fo' realtime, \fI2\fR fo' best-effort, \fI3\fR fo' idle.
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-classdata " \fIlevel\fR
Specify tha schedulin class data.  This only has a effect if tha class
accepts a argument.  For realtime n' best-effort, \fI0-7\fR is valid data
(prioritizzle levels).
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pid " \fIPID\fR...
Specify tha process IDz of hustlin processes fo' which ta git or set the
schedulin parameters.
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-ignore"
Ignore failure ta set tha axed priority.  If \fIcommand\fR was specified,
run it even up in case dat shiznit was not possible ta set tha desired schedulin priority,
which can happen cuz of insufficient privileges or a oldschool kernel version.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -c 3 -p 89
.TP 7
Sets process wit PID 89 as a idle I/O process.
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -c 2 -n 0 bash
.TP 7
Runs 'bash' as a funky-ass best-effort program wit highest priority.
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -p 89 91
.TP 7
Prints tha class n' prioritizzle of tha processes wit PID 89 n' 91.
.SH NOTES
Linux supports I/O schedulin prioritizzles n' classes since 2.6.13 wit tha CFQ
I/O scheduler.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Jens Axboe <jens@axboe.dk>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da ionice command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
