.TH IPCALC 1 "April 30 2001" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
ipcalc \- big-ass up simple manipulation of IP addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipcalc
[\fIOPTION\fR]... <\fBIP address\fR>[\fI/prefix\fR] [\fInetmask\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBipcalc\fR serves up a simple way ta calculate IP shiznit fo' a host.
Da various options specify what tha fuck shiznit \fBipcalc\fR should display
on standard out. Multiple options may be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  An IP address to
operate on must always be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Most operations also require a
netmask or a CIDR prefix as well.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
Validate tha IP address under tha specified crew.  If no address
family is specified, IPv4 be assumed.

.TP
\fB\-4\fR, \fB\-\-ipv4\fR
Specify IPv4 address crew (default).

.TP
\fB\-6\fR, \fB\-\-ipv6\fR
Specify IPv6 address crew.

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-broadcast\fR
Display tha broadcast address fo' tha given IP address n' netmask.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-hostname\fR
Display tha hostname fo' tha given IP address.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-netmask\fR
Calculate tha netmask fo' tha given IP address. Well shiiiit, it assumes dat tha IP
address is up in a cold-ass lil complete class A, B, or C network. Many networks do
not use tha default netmasks, up in which case a inappropriate value will
be returned.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-prefix\fR
Show tha prefix fo' tha given mask/IP address.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-network\fR 
Display tha network address fo' tha given IP address n' netmask.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR 
Don't eva display error lyrics.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
.nf
Preston Brown <pbrown@redhat.com>

.TP
IPv6 supported wedged up in by Dizzy Cantrell <dcantrell@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://bugzilla.redhat.com/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997-2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
