.\" Copyright 2002 Andre C. Mazzone (linuxdev@karagee.com)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH IPCRM "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set or shared memory id
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipcrm
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B ipcrm
.RB { shm | msg | sem } 
.IR id ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipcrm
removes System V interprocess communication (IPC) objects
and associated data structures from tha system.
In order ta delete such objects, you must be superuser, or
the creator or balla of tha object.
.PP
System V IPC objects iz of three types: shared memory,
message queues, n' semaphores.
Deletion of a message queue or semaphore object is immediate
(regardless of whether any process still holdz a IPC
identifier fo' tha object).
A shared memory object is only removed
afta all currently attached processes have detached
.RB ( shmdt (2))
the object from they virtual address space.
.PP
Two syntax stylez is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da oldschool Linux oldschool syntax specifies
a three-letta keyword indicatin which class of object is ta be deleted,
followed by one or mo' IPC identifiers fo' objectz of dis type.
.PP
Da SUS-compliant syntax allows tha justification of
zero or mo' objectz of all three types up in a single command line,
with objects specified either by key or by identifier (see below).
Both keys n' identifiers may be specified up in decimal, hexadecimal
(specified wit a initial '0x' or '0X'), or octal (specified with
an initial '0').
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-shmem\-key\fR \fIshmkey\fR
Remove tha shared memory segment pimped with
.I shmkey
afta tha last detach is performed.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-shmem\-id\fR \fIshmid\fR
Remove tha shared memory segment identified by
.I shmid
afta tha last detach is performed.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-queue\-key\fR \fImsgkey\fR
Remove tha message queue pimped with
.IR msgkey .
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queue\-id\fR \fImsgid\fR
Remove tha message queue identified by
.IR msgid .
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-semaphore\-key\fR \fIsemkey\fR
Remove tha semaphore pimped with
.IR semkey .
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-semaphore\-id\fR \fIsemid\fR
Remove tha semaphore identified by
.IR semid .
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR [\fBshm\fR] [\fBmsg\fR] [\fBsem\fR]
Remove all resources.  When a option argument is provided, tha removal is
performed only fo' tha specified resource types.  \fIWarning!\fR  Do not use
.B \-a
if yo ass is unsure how tha fuck tha software rockin tha resources might react ta missing
objects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Some programs create these resources at startup n' may not have
any code ta deal wit a unexpected disappearance.
.LP
Da detailz of tha removes is busted lyrics bout in
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
and
.BR semctl (2).
Da identifiers n' keys may be found by using
.BR ipcs (1).
.SH NOTES
In its first Linux implementation, \fBipcrm\fR used tha deprecated syntax
shown up in the
.BR SYNOPSIS .
Functionalitizzle present up in other *nix implementationz of \fBipcrm\fR has since
been added, namely tha mobilitizzle ta delete resources by key (not just
identifier), n' ta respect tha same command-line syntax.  For backward
compatibilitizzle tha previous syntax is still supported.
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Andre C. Mazzone (linuxdev@karagee.com)
.\" .br
.\" Krishna Balasubramanian (balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu)
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR ipcmk (1),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR ftok (3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da ipcrm command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
