.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH IPCS "1" "January 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ipcs \- provide shiznit on IPC facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipcs
.RB [ resource\-option "] [" output\-format ]
.br
.B ipcs
.RB [ resource\-option ]
.BI \-i " id"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipcs
provides shiznit on tha inter-process communication facilities
for which tha callin process has read access.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-id\fR \fIid\fR
Print details only on tha resource identified by
.IR id .
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SS "Resource options"
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queues\fR
Write shiznit bout actizzle message queues.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-shmems\fR
Write shiznit bout actizzle shared memory segments.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-semaphores\fR
Write shiznit bout actizzle semaphore sets.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Write shiznit bout all three resources (default).
.SS "Output formats"
Of these options only one takes effect: tha last one specified.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-creator\fR
Show creator n' baller.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-limits\fR
Show resource limits.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR
Show PIDz of creator n' last operator.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
Write time shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da time of tha last control operation dat chizzled
the access permissions fo' all facilities, tha time of tha last
.I msgsnd()
and
.I msgrcv()
operations on message queues, tha time of tha last
.I shmat()
and
.I shmdt()
operations on shared memory, n' tha time of tha last
.I semop()
operation on semaphores.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-summary\fR
Show status summary.
.SS "Representation"
These affect only tha \fB\-l\fR (\fB\-\-limits\fR) option.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fR
Print sizes up in bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-human
Print sizes up in human-readable format.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR ipcmk (1),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmat (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2)
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da Linux ipcs utilitizzle aint straight-up compatible ta tha POSIX ipcs utility.
Da Linux version do not support tha POSIX
.BR \-a ,
.B \-b
and
.B \-o
options yo, but do support the
.B \-l
and
.B \-u
options not defined by POSIX.  A portable application shall not use the
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-l ,
and
.B \-u
options.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu
Krishna Balasubramanian
.UE
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da ipcs command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
