.\"
.\" "$Id: ippfind.man 11027 2013-06-07 01:45:14Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   ippfind playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ippfind 1 "CUPS" "6 June 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
ippfind - find internizzle printin protocol printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ippfind
[
.I options
] regtype[,subtype][.domain.] ... [
.I expression ...
]
.B ippfind
[
.I options
] name[.regtype[.domain.]] ... [
.I expression ...
]
.B ippfind
--help
.B ippfind
--version
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
--help
Show program help
.TP 5
--version
Show program version
.TP 5
-4
Use IPv4 when listing
.TP 5
-6
Use IPv6 when listing
.TP 5
-T seconds
Specify find timeout up in seconds. If 1 or less, \fIippfind\fR stops as soon as it be thinkin it has found every last muthafuckin thang. Da default is 1 second.
.TP 5
-V version
Specifies tha IPP version when listing. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Supported joints is 1.1, 2.0, 2.1, n' 2.2.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIippfind\fR findz skillz registered wit a DNS server or available all up in local devices. Its primary purpose is ta find IPP printas n' show they URIs, show they current status, or run commands. For example, ta show tha statuz of all registered IPP printas on yo' network, run:
.nf
    ippfind --ls
.fi
Similarly, ta bust a PostScript test page ta every last muthafuckin PostScript printer, run:
.nf
    ippfind --txt-pdl application/postscript --exec ipptool \\
        -f onepage-letter.ps '{}' print-job.test \\;
.fi

.SH REGISTRATION TYPES
\fIippfind\fR supports tha followin registration types:
.TP 5
_http._tcp
HyperText Transhiznit Protocol (HTTP, RFC 2616)
.TP 5
_https._tcp
Secure HyperText Transhiznit Protocol (HTTPS, RFC 2818)
.TP 5
_ipp._tcp
Internizzle Printin Protocol (IPP, RFC 2911)
.TP 5
_ipps._tcp
Secure Internizzle Printin Protocol (IPPS, draft)
.TP 5
_printer._tcp
Line Printa Daemon (LPD, RFC 1179)

.SH EXPRESSIONS
\fIippfind\fR supports expressions much like tha \fIfind(1)\fR utility. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat unlike \fIfind\fR, \fIippfind\fR uses POSIX regular expressions instead of shell filename matchin patterns. If --exec, -l, --ls, -p, --print, --print-name, -q, --quiet, -s, or -x aint specified, \fIippfind\fR addz --print ta print tha steez URI of anythang it finds. Da followin expressions is supported:
.TP 5
-d regex
.TP 5
--domain regex
True if tha domain matches tha given regular expression.
.TP 5
--false
Always false.
.TP 5
-h regex
.TP 5
--host regex
True is tha hostname matches tha given regular expression.
.TP 5
-l
.TP 5
--ls
Lists attributes returned by Get-Printer-Attributes fo' IPP printas n' traditionizzle \fIfind\fR "-ls" output fo' HTTP URLs. Da result is legit if tha URI be accessible, false otherwise.
.TP 5
--local
True if tha steez is local ta dis computer.
.TP 5
-n regex
.TP 5
--name regex
True if tha steez instizzle name matches tha given regular expression.
.TP 5
--path regex
True if tha URI resource path matches tha given regular expression.
.TP 5
-P number[-number]
.TP 5
--port number[-number]
True if tha port matches tha given number or range.
.TP 5
-p
.TP 5
--print
Prints tha URI if tha result of previous expressions is true. Da result be always true.
.TP 5
-q
.TP 5
--quiet
Quiet mode - just returns tha exit codes below.
.TP 5
-r
.TP 5
--remote
True if tha steez aint local ta dis computer.
.TP 5
-s
.TP 5
--print-name
Prints tha steez instizzle name if tha result of previous expressions is true. Da result be always true.
.TP 5
--true
Always true.
.TP 5
-t key
.TP 5
--txt key
True if tha TXT record gotz nuff tha named key.
.TP 5
--txt-\fIkey\fR regex
True if tha TXT record gotz nuff tha named key n' matches tha given regular
expression.
.TP 5
-u regex
.TP 5
--uri regex
True if tha URI matches tha given regular expression.
.TP 5
-x utilitizzle [argument ...] ;
.TP 5
--exec utilitizzle [argument ...] ;
Executes tha specified program if tha current result is true. "{foo}" arguments is replaced wit tha correspondin value - peep SUBSTITUTIONS below.
.PP
Expressions may also contain modifiers:
.TP 5
( expression )
Group tha result of expressions.
.TP 5
! expression
.TP 5
--not expression
Unary NOT of tha expression.
.TP 5
expression expression
.TP 5
expression --and expression
Logical AND of expressions.
.TP 5
expression --or expression
Logical OR of expressions.

.SH SUBSTITUTIONS
Da substitutions fo' "{foo}" up in -e n' --exec are:
.TP 5
{}
URI
.TP 5
{service_domain}
Domain name, e.g., "example.com.", "local.", etc.
.TP 5
{service_hostname}
Fully-qualified domain name, e.g., "printer.example.com.", "printer.local.", etc.
.TP 5
{service_name}
Service instizzle name, e.g., "My fuckin Fine Printer".
.TP 5
{service_port}
Port number fo' server, typically 631 fo' IPP n' 80 fo' HTTP.
.TP 5
{service_regtype}
DNS-SD registration type, e.g., "_ipp._tcp", "_http._tcp", etc.
.TP 5
{service_scheme}
URI scheme fo' DNS-SD registration type, e.g., "ipp", "http", etc.
.TP 5
{service_uri}
URI fo' service, e.g., "ipp://printer.local./ipp/print", "http://printer.local./", etc.
.TP 5
{txt_\fIkey\fR}
Value of TXT record \fIkey\fR (lowercase).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
When executin a program, \fIippfind\fR sets tha followin environment variablez fo' tha matchin steez registration:
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_DOMAIN
Domain name, e.g., "example.com.", "local.", etc.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_HOSTNAME
Fully-qualified domain name, e.g., "printer.example.com.", "printer.local.", etc.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_NAME
Service instizzle name, e.g., "My fuckin Fine Printer".
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_PORT
Port number fo' server, typically 631 fo' IPP n' 80 fo' HTTP.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_REGTYPE
DNS-SD registration type, e.g., "_ipp._tcp", "_http._tcp", etc.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_SCHEME
URI scheme fo' DNS-SD registration type, e.g., "ipp", "http", etc.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_SERVICE_URI
URI fo' service, e.g., "ipp://printer.local./ipp/print", "http://printer.local./", etc.
.TP 5
IPPFIND_TXT_\fIKEY\fR
Valuez of TXT record \fIKEY\fR (uppercase).

.SH EXIT CODES
\fIippfind\fR returns 0 if tha result fo' all processed expressions is true, 1 if tha result of any processed expression is false, 2 if browsin or any query or resolution failed, 3 if a undefined option or invalid expression was specified, n' 4 if it ran outta memory.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIipptool(1)\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ippfind.man 11027 2013-06-07 01:45:14Z msweet $".
.\"
