.TH IPTABLES-XML 8 "Jul 16, 2007" "" ""
.\"
.\" Man page freestyled by Sam Liddicott <azez@ufomechanic.net>
.\" It be based on tha iptables-save playa page.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"	(at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"	Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"	along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
iptables-xml \(em Convert iptables-save format ta XML
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBiptables\-xml\fP [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-v\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B iptables-xml
is used ta convert tha output of iptables-save tha fuck into a easily manipulatable
XML format ta STDOUT.  Use I/O-redirection provided by yo' shell ta write ta 
a file.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-combine\fR
combine consecutizzle rulez wit tha same matches but different targets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. iptables
does not currently support mo' than one target per match, so dis simulates 
that by collectin tha targets from consecutizzle iptablez rulez tha fuck into one action
tag yo, but only when tha rule matches is identical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Terminatin actions like
RETURN, DROP, ACCEPT n' QUEUE is not combined wit subsequent targets.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Output xml comments containin tha iptablez line from which tha XML is derived

.PP
iptables-xml do a mechanistic conversion ta a straight-up expressive xml
format; tha only semantic considerations is fo' \-g n' \-j targets in
order ta discriminizzle between <call> <goto> n' <nane-of-target> as it
helps xml processin scripts if they can tell tha difference between a
target like SNAT n' another chain.

Some sample output is:

<iptables-rules>
  <table name="mangle">
    <chain name="PREROUTING" policy="ACCEPT" packet-count="63436"
byte-count="7137573">
      <rule>
       <conditions>
        <match>
          <p>tcp</p>
        </match>
        <tcp>
          <sport>8443</sport>
        </tcp>
       </conditions>
       <actions>
        <call>
          <check_ip/>
        </call>
        <ACCEPT/>
       </actions>
      </rule>
    </chain>
  </table>
</iptables-rules>

.PP
Conversion from XML ta iptables-save format may be done rockin tha 
iptables.xslt script n' xsltproc, or a cold-ass lil custom program using
libxsltproc or similar; up in dis fashion:

xsltproc iptables.xslt my-iptables.xml | iptables-restore

.SH BUGS
None known az of iptables-1.3.7 release
.SH AUTHOR
Sam Liddicott <azez@ufomechanic.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBiptables\-save\fP(8), \fBiptables\-restore\fP(8), \fBiptables\fP(8)
