.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH IPYTHON 1 "July 15, 2011"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7) n' groff_man(7)
.\" .SH        section heading
.\" .SS        secondary section heading
.\"
.\"
.\" To peepshow dis page as plain text: nroff -man ipython.1
.\"
.SH NAME
ipython \- Tools fo' Interactizzle Computin up in Python.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipython
.RI [ options ] " files" ...

.B ipython subcommand
.RI [ options ] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
An interactizzle Python shell wit automatic history (input n' output), dynamic
object introspection, easier configuration, command completion, access ta the
system shell, integration wit numerical n' scientistical computin tools,
web notebook, Qt console, n' more.

For mo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta use IPython, peep 'ipython \-\-help',
or 'ipython \-\-help\-all' fo' all available command\(hyline options.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.sp
.PP
\fIIPYTHONDIR\fR
.RS 4
This is tha location where IPython stores all its configuration files.  Da default
on most platforms is $HOME/.ipython yo, but on Linux IPython respects tha XDG config
specification, which will put IPYTHONDIR up in $HOME/.config/ipython by default.

Yo ass can peep tha computed value of IPYTHONDIR wit `ipython locate`.

.SH FILES

IPython uses various configuration filez stored up in profilez within IPYTHONDIR.
To generate tha default configuration filez n' start configurin IPython,
do 'ipython flava create', n' edit '*_config.py' filez located in
IPYTHONDIR/profile_default.

.SH AUTHORS
IPython is freestyled by tha IPython Development Crew <https://github.com/ipython/ipython>.
