.
.Dd November 7, 2012
.Dt IRB(1) "" "Ruby Programmers Reference Guide"
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm irb
.Nd Interactizzle Ruby Shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl dfm
.Op Fl I Ar directory
.Op Fl r Ar library
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns inspect
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns readline
.Op Fl -prompt Ar mode
.Op Fl -prompt-mode Ar mode
.Op Fl -inf-ruby-mode
.Op Fl -simple-prompt
.Op Fl -noprompt
.Op Fl -tracer
.Op Fl -back-trace-limit Ar n
.Op Fl -irb_debug Ar n
.Op Fl -
.Op program_file
.Op argument ...
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is tha REPL(read-eval-print loop) environment fo' Ruby programs.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl -version
Prints tha version of
.Nm .
.Pp
.It Fl E Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
.It Fl -encodin Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
Same as `ruby -E' .
Specifies tha default value(s) fo' external encodings n' internal encoding. Values should be separated wit colon (:).
.Pp
Yo ass can omit tha one fo' internal encodings, then tha value
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) is ghon be nil.
.Pp
.It Fl I Ar path
Same as `ruby -I' .
Specifies
.Li $LOAD_PATH
directory
.Pp
.It Fl U
Same as `ruby -U' .
Sets tha default value fo' internal encodings
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) ta UTF-8.
.Pp
.It Fl d
Same as `ruby -d' .
Sets
.Li $DEBUG
to true.
.Pp
.It Fl f
Suppresses read of
.Pa ~/.irbrc .
.Pp
.It Fl h
.It Fl -help
Prints a summary of tha options.
.Pp
.It Fl m
Bc mode (load mathn, fraction or matrix is available)
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar library
Same as `ruby -r'.
Causes irb ta load tha library rockin require.
.Pp
.It Fl -inspect
Uses `inspect' fo' output (default except fo' bc mode)
.Pp
.It Fl -noinspect
Doesn't use inspect fo' output
.Pp
.It Fl -readline
Uses Readline extension module.
.Pp
.It Fl -noreadline
Doesn't use Readline extension module.
.Pp
.It Fl -prompt Ar mode
.It Fl -prompt-mode Ar mode
Switch prompt mode. Pre-defined prompt modes are
`default', `simple', `xmp' n' `inf-ruby'.
.Pp
.It Fl -inf-ruby-mode
Uses prompt appropriate fo' inf-ruby-mode on emacs.
Suppresses --readline.
.Pp
.It Fl -simple-prompt
Makes prompts simple.
.Pp
.It Fl -noprompt
No prompt mode.
.Pp
.It Fl -tracer
Displays trace fo' each execution of commands.
.Pp
.It Fl -back-trace-limit Ar n
Displays backtrace top
.Ar n
and tail
.Ar n Ns .
Da default value is 16.
.Pp
.It Fl -irb_debug Ar n
Sets internal debug level ta n (not fo' ghettofab use)
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "RUBYLIB_PREFIX" -compact
.It Ev IRBRC
.Pp
.El
.Pp
Also
.Nm
dependz on same variablez as
.Xr ruby 1 .
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "RUBYLIB_PREFIX" -compact
.It Pa ~/.irbrc
Personal irb initialization.
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl % irb
.Dl irb(main):001:0> Ic 1 + 1
.Dl 2
.Dl irb(main):002:0> Ic def t(x)
.Dl irb(main):003:1> Ic   x+1
.Dl irb(main):004:1> Ic end
.Dl => nil
.Dl irb(main):005:0> Ic t(3)
.Dl => 4
.Dl irb(main):006:0> Ic if t(3) == 4
.Dl irb(main):007:1> Ic p :ok
.Dl irb(main):008:1> Ic end
.Dl :ok
.Dl => :ok
.Dl irb(main):009:0> Ic quit
.Dl %
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ruby 1 .
.Pp
.Sh REPORTING BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.Li Securitizzle vulnerabilitizzles should be reported via a email to
.Aq security@ruby-lang.org Ns
.Li .
Reported problems is ghon be published afta bein fixed.
.Pp
.Li And you can report other bugs n' feature requests via the
Ruby Issue Trackin System (http://bugs.ruby-lang.org).
Do not report securitizzle vulnerabilities
via tha system cuz it publishes tha vulnerabilitizzles immediately.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Keiju ISHITSUKA.
