.\" $Id: isdnconf.1.in,v 1.1 1998/12/29 14:51:46 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 1998/12/29 14:51:46 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii isdnconf.1 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps isdnconf.1 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH ISDNCONF 1 "1998/12/29" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Utilities"
.SH NAME
isdnconf \- manipulate or read ISDN beeper number config files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI isdnconf 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I isdnconf
can manipulate or read tha file 
.I /etc/isdn/callerid.conf
as well as \fI~/.isdn\fR.
Entries can be added or removed from these filez fo' realz. Additionally, entries
can be searched fo' n' displayed up in a way similar ta \fBgrep\fR.
An entry can be a own MSN (\fB[MSN]\fR) or a funky-ass beeper number
(\fB[NUMBER]\fR).

Yo ass can use dis program ta build yo' own phonebook. These filez are
used by nuff of tha other ISDN utilitizzles dat use beeper numbers, to
display a number symbolically instead of as a plain number.

.SH OPTIONS
Note: use of tha options -A n' -D is dangerous muthafucka! The
complete structure of tha file may be chizzled, n' all comments are
removed hommie! Make backupz of yo' data filez before tryin these.

.B COMMAND OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-A
Add a freshly smoked up entry, which is read from standard input. Da following
values is axed fo' (shown here wit examples):
.RS
.nf

Alias:          Fred
Number:         0815/441777
SI:             0
Zone:           4
Interface:      -
Flags:          I|O
Program:        /usr/local/bin/ring
User:           uucp
Group:          user
Interval:
Time:           8-20
Flags:          (control-D here indicates end of flags)

Alias:          (control-D here indicates end of entries)

.fi
If you want another [Flags] entry, simply enta tha data fo' another
program fo' dis number all up in tha point where tha control-D was given
above.

If you wanna add another number, simply enta tha data fo' tha next
number all up in tha Alias prompt.

Yo ass can also pipe tha data tha fuck into tha program; tha input data must
correspond ta tha prompts dat tha program gives muthafucka! Note dat you can
only add one number at a time then (therez no way of telling
.I isdnconf
that you wanna stop givin Flags info n' start givin tha next
Alias info).

.RE

.TP
.B \-D
Delete one or mo' entries which match tha data options given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch yo. How tha fuck to
supply tha data ta match is discussed below (see \fBDATA OPTIONS\fR).

.TP
.B \-V
version: display tha programz version n' terminate.

.PP

If both -A n' -D is given together,
.I isdnconf
will terminate, as dis aint a valid combination.

If neither -A nor -D is given, then
.I isdnconf
will display entries which match tha data given.

.B DATA OPTIONS:
(not applicable fo' -A)
.TP 4
.B \-n 'number'
number: match tha given number n' shit. Well shiiiit, it can contain wildcards.

.TP
.B \-a 'alias'
alias: match tha given alias name. Da name can contain wildcards.
Note: cuz of a funky-ass bug, use '?' instead of '-'.

.TP
.B \-t 'SI'
SI: match tha given steez indicator.

.TP
.B \-c 'code'
code: match tha area code of tha beeper number n' shit. Only usable fo' displaying
(not fo' -A nor -D).

.TP
.B \-i
ignore case fo' tha -n n' -a options.

.TP
.B \-w
word: tha parametas fo' -n n' -a must match the
.B whole
value, not just a substring.
.RS
Examplez (here fo' -n):
.nf

"*34*" matches 123456, 345677, 1234
"34*"  matches 34567, 34111 but not 1234
"34??" matches 3411, 3456
"34"   matches only 34

.fi
Without tha -w option, these would match:
.nf

"*34*" matches 123456, 345677, 1234
"34*"  matches 123456, 345677, 1234, 34567, 34111
"34??" matches 123456, 345677, 1234, 3411, 3456
"34"   matches 123456, 345677, 1234, 3411, 3456, 34567

.fi
.RE

.TP
.B \-d
and: by default tha joints given ta options -n, -a n' -t is ghon be combined
with a logical OR. If these should be combined wit a logical AND
(which is probably what tha fuck most playas expect!) you must use dis -d option.
In dis case you can only supply each of tha -n, -a n' -t options
exactly once.

.TP
.B OTHER OPTIONS:
.TP
.B \-q
quiet: when rockin tha -A or -D commands, tha output is suppressed.
When not rockin tha -A or -D commands, only tha aliaz of tha matching
number is shown, or just tha number up in case tha alias aint found.

.TP
.B \-m
MSN: when used up in combination wit tha -A command, instructs
.B isdnconf
to create a freshly smoked up MSN entry; tha default is ta create a freshly smoked up NUMBER
entry. Only tha joints alias, number, SI, unit n' intercourse are
applicable ta a MSN entry.

.PP
Da followin two options do not apply ta tha -A n' -D commands. They
only chizzle tha output format.

.TP 4
.B \-s
short: only display tha alias n' tha number.

.TP
.B \-l
long: also display tha programs ta run (\fB[START]\fR).

.TP
.B \-f 'filename'
file: usually
.B isdnconf
uses the
.I /etc/isdn/callerid.conf
and the
.I ~/.isdn
files. If
.B isdnconf
should be applied ta another file, use dis option.

.TP
.B \-g
global: only applies ta tha -A n' -D commands. Instead of editing
\fI~/.isdn\fR,
.I /etc/isdn/callerid.conf
is edited.

.TP
.B \-1
first: only delete or display tha straight-up original gangsta entry.

.TP
.B \-M
isdnmon: used internally by isdnmon ta git alias info.


.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Kool <akool@isdn4linux.de>
.br
manpage adapted from tha README by Pizzle Slootman <paul@isdn4linux.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I callerid.conf\c
\&(5),
.I isdnlog\c
\&(8)
