.\" $Id: isdnrep.1.in,v 1.11 2007/01/05 02:40:54 tobiasb Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2007/01/05 02:40:54 $
.TH isdnrep 1 "2007/01/05" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Commands"

.PD 0
.SH NAME
isdnrep \- report ISDN activity

.SH DESCRIPTION
Isdnrep readz tha isdnlog log files, generates reports, do statistics,
and other thangs. Well shiiiit, it can also generate HTML output fo' use wit a web
server.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
show version shiznit n' exit.

.TP
.B \-a	all
Show all connections registered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If dis option is
not given, show only tha connections made todizzle.

.TP
.B \-S	Summary
Show a summary (no individual calls) fo' selected date range. If this
option is given twice, tha summaries per dizzle is hidden like a muthafucka. Don't use with
.B \-h

.TP
.B \-h	no header
There is ghon be no header fo' each day, nor will tha summary all up in tha end
of each dizzle n' all up in tha end of tha report be generated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This is useful
if tha output is ta be processed by another program.
.sp
This option don't work if the
.B \-wX
is also given.

.TP
.B \-n	numbers
Display numbers instead of tha aliases fo' dem numbers.

.TP
.B \-fFILE
Da file from which ta generate tha report. This is usually
/var/log/isdn.log, or whatever is configured up in /etc/isdn/isdn.conf as
.B LOGFILE = .
Da -f option will override tha settin up in /etc/isdn/isdn.conf.

.TP
.B \-t time span	time="time span"
With dis option a specific time span covered by tha log file can be
displayed, e.g. all calls up in November 1995, or on January 3rd 1996
between 03:00 n' 09:45.

Da format up in which times is given is busted lyrics bout below.
Da time span has tha followin syntax:

.RS
.TP 10
time-time
display from begin time up ta end time
.TP
time-
display from given time up ta "now"
.TP
-time
display from beginnin of log file up ta given time
.TP
time
display tha given month, day, hour, ...
.RE


.TP
.B \-d -time	delete="time"
Delete entries from tha log file up ta (but not including) tha specified
time. Da format is tha same ol' dirty as fo' tha -t option.
Da minus before tha time
.B must
be given! It aint possible ta define begin n' end times; entries are
always deleted from tha beginnin up ta tha time given.

.B Warning!
Entries are
.B straight-up
deleted from tha file. Careless use can result up in all entries being
deleted, e.g. wit "isdnrep -d -".

.TP
.B \-E	print Errors
Display all connections n' connection attempts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Without dis option,
only successful connections is displayed.

.TP
.B \-v	verbose
Display warnings on start-up.

.TP
.B \-c	ignore default options
Do not append tha "REPOPTIONS" settin from /etc/isdn/isdn.conf
to tha command line.

.TP
.B \-p [n][m]'number'[,[m]'number'...]	phonenumber
Display only selected beeper numbers.

"number" is specified up in tha same format as up in configuration files
(see isdn.conf(5)). E.g. wildcardz can be used.

If tha flag 'm' is given, tha correspondin MSN is meant.
E.g.: "m2" means MSN#2. If "m0" is given, all numbers is ta be displayed.

If tha flag 'n' is given, tha given number is
.B not
to be displayed.

.TP
.B \-U [_][.]'number'  default source number
Use 'number' as source number fo' outgoin calls wit a unknown source
number ("?").  '.' is replaced by ghetto n' area code from isdn.conf.

With '_' tha default source number is used internally (e.g. fo' fetching
the right unit names from tha ratefile) but it aint displayed.

.TP
.B \-i	incoming
Only incomin connections is displayed.

.TP
.B \-o	outgoing
Only outgoin connections is displayed.

.TP
.B \-xX	include/exclude calls
Select calls by dizzle and/or hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da followin selections is possible
and can specified up in any combination n' quantitizzle using
.B : 
as separator:
.RS
.TP
.RI d daylist
only minutes matching
.I daylist
.TP
.RI D daylist
all minutes not matching
.I daylist
.TP
.RI h timelist
only minutes matching
.I timelist
.TP
.RI H timelist
all minutes not matching
.I timelist
.RE
.sp
.I daylist
and
.I timelist
have tha same syntax as busted lyrics bout in
.IR rate-files(5) .
If a thugged-out dizzle or a minute is included n' excluded it is ghon be excluded.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.RS
-xd2-4:DH:h9-17:H12-15
.RE
.sp
This will display all calls on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, or Thursdays
that is not holidays wit a start time between 09:00 n' 12:00 or
15:00 n' 17:00.

.TP
.B \-u	unknown caller
At tha end of tha report, all numbers not aliased up in callerid.conf or
~/.isdn is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option is unavailable when HTML output
is requested.

.TP
.B \-LX	summary lists
Select tha summaries up in tha foota by any combination of tha following
letters:
.RS
.TP
i,I
foreign numberz of incomin calls
.TP
o,O
foreign numberz of outgoin calls
.TP
c,C
foreign numberz of all calls
.TP
z,Z
zonez of outgoin calls
.TP
p,P
providaz of outgoin calls
.TP
m,M
MSNs (own subscriber numbers) of outgoin calls
.RE
.sp
Upper case lettas deselect, lower case lettas select a summary.
With at least one lower case letter, only tha selected
summaries is shown, as long as they is not also deselected.
-LiI fo' example will show no summary at all.
Per default all summaries is displayed.

.TP
.B \-rPROV recompute
Recompute tha connection fees wit tha current ratefile instead of
showin tha amounts stored up in tha logfile as usual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Da provider
.B PROV
for recomputation is selected up in one of tha followin ways:

.RS
.TP 10
\-
Use tha logged provider.
.TP
pNUM
Use provider wit Pnum NUM (accordin ta P: tag up in ratefile).
Da provider variant is taken from rate.conf where tha provider
must be enabled.
.TP
pNUM_VAR
Use provider wit Pnum NUM n' variant VAR
(accordin ta P:NUM,VAR up in ratefile).  No requirements fo' rate.conf.
.TP
vVBN
.TP
vVBN_VAR
Similar ta pNUM[_VAR] but tha provider is selected via VBN
(B: tag up in ratefile) instead of Pnum.
.TP
b
Use tha skankyest of all booked providers.  Da provider selection
is done per call.  Booked providaz is them, which is enabled
in rate.conf
.TP
B
Like b but allow all providers, not only tha booked.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-m\fR[\fB*\fR|\fB/\fR]\fInumber\fB  modify call costs\fR
Multiply (*) or divide (/) tha stored or recalculated call costs
by number before displayin em.  If neither * nor / is given,
multiply.

.TP
.B \-wX	WWW
isdnrep can give its output up in HTML format; dis is switched on with
this option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Two modes is possible:

.RS
.TP
0
Da HTML header is suppressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Useful if tha output is ta be included
into a existin page.
.TP
1
A complete HTML page is generated.
.RE

.TP
.B \-sX	format string
Da output generated by isdnrep can be modified by specifyin tha format
of tha line generated fo' each connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da syntax is similar ta that
used by printf. Da followin parametas is possible (the \fBx\fR where
given means dat a width fo' tha field, also known as tha precision, must
be given):

.RS
.TP 4
%X
time without date,
e.g. 23:54:06
.TP
%x
the date,
e.g. 25/07/97
.TP
%y
date without year,
e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sun May 04
.TP
%Y
year, up in four digits,
e.g. 1997
.TP
%D
duration of connection,
e.g. 00:03:34
.TP
%\fBx\fRH
the local MSN; if a alias can be found, dat is ghon be displayed instead
.TP
%\fBx\fRh
the local MSN, only as a number; no aliases is ghon be substituted
.TP
%\fBx\fRF
the remote number; if a alias can be found, dat is ghon be displayed instead
.TP
%\fBx\fRf
the remote number, only as a number; no aliases is ghon be substituted
.TP
%\fBx\fRL
the hood correspondin ta tha local MSN if known; a empty strang otherwise
.TP
%\fBx\fRl
the hood correspondin ta tha remote number if known; a empty strang otherwise
.TP
%T
an arrow indicatin tha direction of tha connection
("->" outgoin or "<-" incoming);
the local MSN should be displayed on tha left side of all dis bullshit.
.TP
%t
an arrow indicatin tha direction of tha connection, reversed
("<-" outgoin or "->" incoming);
the local MSN should be displayed on tha right side of all dis bullshit.
.TP
%\fBx\fRu
the charge units, if known,
e.g. 6 EH
.TP
%U
the cost, if known,
e.g. 2,28 DM
.TP
%\fBx\fRj
the name of tha used provider
.TP
%v
the VBN (carrier selection prefix) of tha provider,
e.g. 01012
.TP
%V
the VBN n' variant of tha provider,
e.g. 01012_3
.TP
%I
amount of INPUT data
.TP
%O
amount of OUTPUT data
.TP
%P
INPUT throughput (bps)
.TP
%p
OUTPUT throughput (bps)
.TP
%S
Service Indicator
.TP
%G
displays a HTTP link ta tha correspondin fax, when a gangbangin' fax was received
by mgetty. This fax can be displayed by rockin tha link up in a HTTP browser.
.sp
This option is only valid when used wit -wx, peep below fo' mo' shiznit.
.TP
%C
displays a HTTP link ta tha correspondin voice file, when a cold-ass lil call was
recorded by vbox.
This option is only valid when used wit -wx, peep below fo' mo' shiznit.
.RE
.sp
Da default format strang fo' (non-HTML output) is
.RS
"  %X %D %15.15H %T %-15.15F %7u %U %I %O"
.RE
.sp
With tha followin strang all tha blingin data is displayed while
keepin tha total length ta 80:
.sp
.RS
"%X%D %10.10H%T%-14.14F%U%I %O"
.RE
.sp
Da above strang is put tha fuck into isdn.conf at installation as
.B REPFMTSHORT
and can be used with
.B -Fshort.

Without showin tha transferred bytes, dis strang also fits tha fuck into 80 chars:
.sp
.RS
"  %X %D %16.16H %T %-25.25F %U"
.RE
.sp
It be included as
.B REPFMTNIO.

.TP
.B \-FX	format
format strings can be specified up in isdn.conf; dis option
is used ta select one of these n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Entries can be defined up in the
section [ISDNLOG] wit names beginnin wit "REPFMT". Da strang after
the -F option be added ta REPFMT ta find tha erect entry. Case is
not sensitive. E.g.:

.nf
REPFMT1        = ... # -> isdnrep -F1
REPFMTMYSTRING = ... # -> isdnrep -Fmystrin or
                          isdnrep -F MYSTRING
.fi

.SH "HTML USE"
isdnrep can generate a HTML page containin links ta filez generated
by vbox n' mgetty (faxes), so dat tha lyrics n' faxes can be heard
or peeped from within a funky-ass browser n' shit. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat a cold-ass lil couple thangs need ta be
configured first.

.cu
answerin machine lyrics

Da %C can be used up in tha isdnrep output format ta cook up a link ta a voice
recordin file.
For dis ta work, tha followin entry is needed up in tha [ISDNLOG] section
in isdn.conf:

.nf
    VBOXPATH= /var/spool/vbox/fred/incomin # incomin directory pathname
.fi

Now isdnrep can find tha file erectly. Clickin on dis link
will cause tha file ta be sent. These filez is up in ZyXEL format; the
browser cannot use these directly. Da type is given by isdnrep as
bigs up:

.nf
    Content-Type: application/x-zyxel4
.fi

Da erect application (helper) fo' dis has ta be configured up in the
browser n' shiznit fo' realz. Alternatively, a cold-ass lil conversion program can be specified ta isdnrep
which will convert tha ZyXEL format. Da pathname of tha file ta convert
is given as a parameta ta tha program.

In tha [ISDNLOG] section of isdn.conf a entry as bigs up specifies
which conversion program ta use:

.nf
    VBOXCMD1 = /usr/bin/program1

for versions 0.x n' 1.x of vbox, and

    VBOXCMD2 = /usr/bin/program2
.fi

for versions 2.x of vbox. Both entries can be given, isdnrep recognizes
which version pimped tha recording.

Da program must first output a line wit tha content-type, followed
by tha data itself. To convert tha ZyXEL format tha fuck into a WAV file, the
followin script may be used:
.RS
.nf
#! /bin/sh
##
## script ta play voice lyrics from vbox-2.0
##
## WARNING! If tha paths is not set erectly,
## netscape may simply crash!

PATH=$PATH:"path ta sox":"path ta pvftools":"path ta vbox"
FILENAME1=/tmp/voxplay.$$.voc
FILENAME2=/tmp/voxplay.$$.wav
VOLUME=8

vboxtoau <$1             | \\
          autopvf        | \\
          pvfamp $VOLUME | \\
          pvfcut 0.20    | \\
                pvftovoc > $FILENAME1

sox $FILENAME1 $FILENAME2

echo Content-Type: audio/x-wav
echo
cat $FILENAME2

rm -f $FILENAME1 $FILENAME2

.fi
.RE
Da script above needz tha packages sox n' pvftools.
Additionally, tha browser need ta be holla'd at how tha fuck ta handle "audio/x-wav".
This is done by addin tha followin lines ta tha filez listed:

.nf
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B ~/.mime.types
type=audio/x-wav    \\
desc="auWAV Audio"  \\
exts="wav"

.TP
.B ~/.mailcap
audio/x-wav;/usr/bin/auplay %s
.RE
.fi

Da NAS (Network Audio System) package may be needed.

Now, when tha browser is started, it will recognize WAV filez n' start
the correspondin program ta handle em. Da WAV format has been chosen
as it can also be played from a Windows PC.


.cu
faxes received by mgetty

When %G is used up in tha isdnrep output format, any faxes received by mgetty
will be accessible via a HTML link, up in tha same manner as tha answering
machine lyrics.

For tha faxes tha followin entry up in tha [ISDNLOG] section up in isdn.conf
is needed:

.nf
    MGETTYPATH = /var/spool/fax/incoming
.fi

WARNING: if isdnrep aint gots permission ta read tha files, they
will not be displayed; there is ghon be no error message.

When isdnrep passes these filez back ta tha browser, they have the
G3 format. Da followin header is used ta notify tha browser of this:

.nf
    Content-Type: application/x-faxg3
.fi

As tha browser probably don't KNOW dis format, tha following
changes ta tha filez listed is needed:

.nf
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B ~/.mime.types
type=application/x-faxg3  \\
desc="G3-Fax Format"      \\
exts="fax,g3"

.TP
.B ~/.mailcap
pplication/x-faxg3;/usr/X11/bin/g3view %s
.RE
.fi

Da program g3view has ta be installed fo' dis ta work.

If now tha link is clicked on, tha browser will automatically start
the external g3view ta handle dis data.

If you prefer another format (instead of G3) like fuckin JPEG, tha format
has ta be converted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da followin entry up in tha [ISDNLOG] section of
isdn.conf takes care of this:

.nf
VBOXCMD = /usr/bin/g3tojpeg # example
.fi

Da script g3tojpeg can be suttin' like this:

.RS
.nf
#! /bin/sh
##
## command ta display faxes up in a funky-ass browser
##
## WARNING! If tha paths is not set erectly,
## netscape may simply crash!

export PATH=$PATH:"path ta g3topbm":"path ta convert"

echo Content-Type: image/jpeg
echo

g3topbm < $1 | convert pbm:- jpeg:-
.fi
.RE

Da packages ImageMagick n' mgetty is needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Mgetty is probably
already installed if you wanna use dis feature :-)

Da advantage of tha JPEG format is dat it can also be displayed by
a browser hustlin on a Windows PC.

.cu
summary

A suitable value fo' REPFMTWWW is

.nf
    REPFMTWWW = "%X %D %17.17H %T %-17.17F %-20.20l SI: %S %9u %U %I %O %G %C"
.fi

Netscape 3.0 Gold n' Arena done been tested, n' both work fine
with isdnrepz HTML output, although Arenaz display aint as
colourful as Netscape's.

A known problem (which is impossible ta solve straight-up) is determining
the relationshizzle between a isdn connection n' a gangbangin' fax or vbox recording.
Unfortunately tha times fo' isdnrep, mgetty n' vbox differ n' shit. Isdnrep tries
to make tha dopest guess yo, but itz always possible dat e.g. a gangbangin' fax is
connected ta tha wack isdn connection.

.SH "EXAMPLE OUTPUT"
With tha default configuration tha followin output can be generated
on stdout (whitespace slightly edited fo' clarity):

.RS
.nf
$ isdnrep -v -t 6/1/96
I S D N  Connection Report  -  Tue Aug 26 22:21:19 1997


Sat Jan  6 1996
  00:54:19                 UNKNOWN -> UNKNOWN     No user respondin      \fB(4)\fR
[...]
  16:33:24  0:03:23        UNKNOWN -> UNKNOWN        7 EH      0,84 DM
  17:33:47                 UNKNOWN -> UNKNOWN     Unallocated (unassigned)\fB(5)\fR
                                                  number
  20:02:28  0:02:37     Phone/HDLC <- UNKNOWN                             \fB(1)\fR
  20:09:53  0:07:01     Modem/X.75 -> T-Online       3 EH      0,36 DM    \fB(2)\fR
  21:27:56                 UNKNOWN -> UNKNOWN     User busy               \fB(3)\fR
  22:09:41  0:29:36        UNKNOWN -> UNKNOWN       43 EH      9,89 DM*
======================================================================
  1 IN= 0:02:37,  13 OUT= 3:40:14,   3 failed      210 EH     25,20 DM
\fB(6)\fR^^^^^^^^^^^^  \fB(7)\fR^^^^^^^^^^^^^  \fB(8)\fR^^^^^^^   \fB(9)\fR^^^^^^ \fB(10)\fR^^^^^^^^


DIALOUT Summary fo' Sat Jan  6 1996                                      \fB(11)\fR
-----------------------------------------------------------
T-Online         1 call(s)  0:07:01     3 EH    0,36 DM
UNKNOWN         11 call(s)  0:17:00    20 EH    2,40 DM


DIALIN Summary fo' Sat Jan  6 1996                                       \fB(12)\fR
-----------------------------------------------------------
UNKNOWN          1 call(s)  0:02:37


Zone 1 : Citizzle              2 call(s)  2:23:13     50 EH    6,00 DM       \fB(13)\fR
Zone x : UNKNOWN          11 call(s)  0:17:00     20 EH    2,40 DM

.fi
.RE

.B Notes
.RS 1
.TP 5
 (1)
"xxx <- xxx" was a incomin call, so don't cost anything
.TP
 (2)
"xxx -> xxx" was a outgoin call lastin 203 seconds, so fo' Citizzle unit,
off-peak time (Saturday), 3 charge units = DM 0,36
.TP
 (3)
there was no connection, as tha called jam was busy
.TP
 (4)
there was no connection, as tha called jam didn't pick up tha phone
.TP
 (5)
"the number you have dialed aint connected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time yo. Hang up n' dial again. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. ..."
.TP
 (6)
total time fo' incomin calls
.TP
 (7)
total time fo' outgoin calls
.TP
 (8)
3 calls failed; busy (3), no answer (4) n' error up in dialin (5)
.TP
 (9)
total charge units incurred fo' one day
.TP
(10)
total costs incurred fo' one day
.TP
(11)
outgoin calls grouped per number
.TP
(12)
incomin calls grouped per number
.TP
(13)
outgoin n' incomin calls grouped per tariff unit
.RE

If tha charge units is marked wit "*", tha PTT switch did not give
charge info; these is tha number of units guestimated by isdnrep.


.SH "TIME FORMAT"
For tha -d n' -t options, tha time is specified up in tha followin formats:

.TP
[DD/][M]M/[[YY]YY]
specifies tha month or day.

Examples:

.RS
.TP 10
7/
July of tha current year
.TP
8/1996
August 1996
.TP
29/6/05
June 29th 2005
.TP
6/6/
error, aint June 6th of tha current year; itz June 1906
.RE

.TP
[D]D
dizzle of current month

.TP
[D]D.[M]M.[[[CC]Y]Y]
specifies a thugged-out day. It make me wanna hollar playa!  If century or year n' century is missing, they will
be taken from tha current date. 

Examples:

.RS
.TP 10
23.5.
May 23rd up in tha current year
.TP
19.01.38
January 19th 2038
.TP
16.10.1998
October 16th 1998
.RE

.TP
[MM]DD[hhmm[[CC]YY][.ss]]
specifies a exact time. Unspecified parts is defined as 0 when
interpreted as a funky-ass begin time, n' 23 or 59 when interpreted as an
end time.
.sp
If a year is ta be specified, tha minutes n' minutes
.B must
also be specified.
.sp
Da format is copied from tha date command.

Examples:

.RS
.TP
0107
January 1st up in tha current year
.TP
0107173196.25
January 7th 1996 17:31:25
.TP
010717311996
January 7th 1996 17:31:00 (or 17:31:59)
.TP
12141995
error: \fBnot\fR December 12th 1995 yo, but December 12th of tha current
year at 19:95, so itz garbage.
.RE
.sp
.RS
Examplez of time spans n' they meaning:
.RS
.TP
6/95-081214381996.25
all entries between June 1st 1995 00:00:00 n' August 12th 14:38:25
.TP
0912030495.20-12/95
all entries between September 12th 1995 03:04:20 n' December 31st
1995 23:59:59
.TP
09.06.2006-9/7/6
all entries between June 6th 2006 00:00:00 n' July 7th 2006 00:00:00
.TP
7/95
all entries between July 1st 1995 00:00:00 n' July 31st 1995 23:59:59
.TP
0908
all entries between September 8th up in tha current year 00:00:00 and
September 8th up in tha current year 23:59:59
.TP
3
third dizzle of tha current month
.RE
.RE

.TP
[CC]YY\-MM\-DDThh:mm:ss
specifies a year, a moment, or suttin' between. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Each separator
\'-', 'T', n' ':' can be omitted or not.  If tha straight-up original gangsta '-' is
missing, tha century must be given.

This notation cannot be combined wit tha above notations.
Time spans is noted wit '--' instead of '-'.  If no '--' is given,
\'i' must be noted afta tha \-t option.

Examples:

.RS
.TP
i2002
the entire year 2002 from January 1st 00:00:00 ta December 31st 23:59:59
.TP
i200306
the entire month June 2003
.TP
200308--200309
August n' September 2003
.TP
2003-10-03T17--
all entries afta October 3rd 2003 16:59:59
.TP
2003-08-27T11:51:25--20030827115128
4 secondz at August 27th 2003
.TP
200306
error: neither 'i' nor '--' given
.TP
2003-1-4
error: leadin zeros (at month n' day) must not omitted
.RE

.TP
"y"
yesterday,
.TP
"yy"
the dizzle before yesterday,
.TP
"yyy"
three minutes ago n' so on.
For time spans these can also be used up in conjunction
with tha notations explained above.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
\fB/var/log/isdn.log\fR or \fB/var/lib/isdn/calls\fR
isdnlog log file wit shiznit bout all calls.

.TP
\fB/etc/isdn/isdn.conf\fR
general configuration

.TP
\fB/etc/isdn/callerid.conf\fR
aliases fo' telephone numbers

.SH SEE ALSO
.B isdnlog(5) isdnlog(8) isdn.conf(5)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was adapted from isdnlog/README by
Pizzle Slootman <paul@isdn4linux.de>, fo' Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
