.\" @(#)isodebug.8	1.1 06/02/08 Copyr 2006 J. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schilling
.\" Manual page fo' isodebug
.\" Modified fo' cdrkit distribution by E.Bloch
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH ISODEBUG 1 "06/02/08" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\z USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
isodebug \- print genisoimage debug info from ISO-9660 image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
isodebug
[
.I options
]
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Isodebug
readz tha debug info freestyled by 
.BR genisoimage (8)
from within a ISO-9660 file system image n' prints em.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-help
Prints a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short summary of tha 
.B isodebug
options n' exists.
.TP
.B \-version
Prints tha 
.B isodebug
version number strang n' exists.
.TP
.BI \-i " filename
Filename ta read ISO-9660 image from.
.TP
.BI dev= target
SCSI target ta use as CD/DVD-Recorder.
See
.BR wodim (1)
for mo' shiznit on now ta use dis option.
.SH FILES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR wodim (1),
.BR genisoimage (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
J\*org Schilling
Seestr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 110
D-13353 Berlin
Germany
.fi
.PP


.SH AUTHOR
.nf
J\*org Schilling
Seestr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 110
D-13353 Berlin
Germany
.fi

.PP
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
isodebug
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program distributed up in the
cdrtools package [1]. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools pimpers is not
involved up in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore shall not be made
responsible fo' any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support fo' this
program by contactin tha original gangsta author(s).
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.PP
.br
[1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de


