.\"
.\" @(#)isoinfo.8	1.7 04/06/01 joerg
.\" 
.\" Modified fo' cdrkit up in 12/2006
.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH ISOINFO 1 "04/06/01" "Version 2.0"
.SH NAME
devdump, isoinfo, isovfy, isodump \- Utilitizzle programs fo' dumpin n' verifyin iso9660
images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B devdump 
.I isoimage
.PP
.B isodump 
.I isoimage
.PP
.B isoinfo
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-R
]
[
.B \-J
]
[
.B \-j
.I charset
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-T
.I sector
]
[
.B \-N
.I sector
]
[
.B \-i
.I isoimage
]
[
.B \-x
.I path
]
.PP
.B isovfy 
.I isoimage
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B devdump
is a cold-ass lil crude utilitizzle ta interactively display tha contentz of thang or
filesystem images.
Da initial screen be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display of tha straight-up original gangsta 256 bytez of tha straight-up original gangsta 2048 byte
sector.
Da commandz is tha same as wit 
.BR isodump .
.PP
.B isodump
is a cold-ass lil crude utilitizzle ta interactively display tha contentz of iso9660 images
in order ta verify directory integrity.
Da initial screen be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display of tha straight-up original gangsta part of tha root directory,
and tha prompt shows you tha extent number n' offset up in tha extent.
.RS
.PP
Yo ass can use tha 'a' n' 'b'
commandz ta move backwardz n' forwardz within tha image. Da 'g' command
allows you ta goto a arbitrary extent, n' tha 'f' command specifies
a search strang ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da '+' command searches forward fo' tha next
instizzle of tha search string, n' tha 'q' command exits
.B devdump
or
.BR isodump .
.RE
.PP
.B isoinfo
is a utilitizzle ta big-ass up directory like listingz of iso9660 images.
.PP
.B isovfy
is a utilitizzle ta verify tha integritizzle of a iso9660 image. Most of tha tests
in
.B isovfy
were added afta bugs was discovered up in early versions of
.B genisoimage.
It aint all dat clear how tha fuck useful dis is no mo' yo, but it don't hurt to
have dis around.

.SH OPTIONS
Da options common ta all programs are
.BR \-help , \-h , \-version ,
.BI i =name, dev =name.
The
.B isoinfo
program has additionizzle command line options. Da options are:
.TP
.B \-help
.TP
.B \-h
print a summary of all options.
.TP
.B \-d
Print shiznit from tha primary volume descriptor (PVD) of tha iso9660
image. This includes shiznit bout Rock Ridge, Joliet extensions
and Eltorito boot shiznit
if present.
.TP
.B \-f
generate output as if a 'find . -print' command had been run on tha iso9660
image. Yo ass should not use the
.B -l
image wit the
.B -f
option.
.TP
.B \-i iso_image
Specifies tha path of tha iso9660 image dat we wish ta examine.
Da options
.B \-i
and 
.BI dev= target
are mutual exclusive.
.TP
.BI dev= target
Sets tha SCSI target fo' tha drive, peep notes above.
A typical thang justification is
.BI dev= 6,0
\&.
If a gangbangin' filename must be provided together wit tha numerical target 
specification, tha filename is implementation specific.
Da erect filename up in dis case can be found up in tha system specific
manualz of tha target operatin system.
On a 
.I FreeBSD
system without 
.I CAM
support, you need ta use tha control thang (e.g.
.IR /dev/rcd0.ctl ).
A erect thang justification up in dis case may be
.BI dev= /dev/rcd0.ctl:@
\&.
.sp
On Linux, drives connected ta a parallel port adapta is mapped
to a virtual SCSI bus. Different adaptas is mapped ta different
targets on dis virtual SCSI bus.
.sp
If no 
.I dev
option is present, tha program
will try ta git tha thang from tha 
.B CDR_DEVICE
environment.
.sp
If tha argument ta the
.B dev=
option do not contain tha charactas ',', '/', '@' or ':',
it is interpreted as a label name dat may be found up in tha file
/etc/wodim.conf (see FILES section).
.sp
Da options
.B \-i
and 
.BI dev= target
are mutual exclusive.
.TP
.B \-l
generate output as if a 'ls -lR' command had been run on tha iso9660 image.
Yo ass should not use the
.B -f
image wit the
.B -l
option.
.TP
.B \-N sector
Quick hack ta help examine single session disc filez dat is ta be freestyled to
a multi-session disc. Da sector number specified is tha sector number at
which tha iso9660 image should be freestyled when bust ta tha cd-writer n' shit. Not
used fo' tha straight-up original gangsta session on tha disc.
.TP
.B \-p
Print path table shiznit.
.TP
.B \-R
Extract shiznit from Rock Ridge extensions (if present) fo' permissions,
file names n' ballerships.
.TP
.B \-J
Extract shiznit from Joliet extensions (if present) fo' file names.
.TP
.B \-j charset
Convert Joliet file names (if present) ta tha supplied charset. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR genisoimage (8)
for details.
.TP
.B \-T sector
Quick hack ta help examine multi-session images dat have already been burned
to a multi-session disc. Da sector number specified is tha sector number for
the start of tha session we wish ta display.
.TP
.B \-x pathname
Extract specified file ta stdout.
.SH AUTHOR
Da lyricist of tha original gangsta sources (1993 .\|.\|. 1998) is
Eric Youngdale <ericy@gnu.ai.mit.edu> or <eric@andante.jic.com> is ta blame
for these shoddy hacks.
J\*org Schillin freestyled tha SCSI transhiznit library n' its adaptation layer to
the programs n' newer parts (startin from 1999) of tha utilities, dis makes
them
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 J\*org Schilling.
Patches ta improve general usabilitizzle would be gladly accepted.
.PP
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
isoinfo
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program distributed up in the
cdrtools package [1]. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools
developers is not involved up in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore
shall not be made responsible fo' any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta get
support fo' dis program by contactin tha original gangsta author(s).
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.SH BUGS
Da user intercourse straight-up sucks.
.SH FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
These utilitizzles is straight-up quick hacks, which is straight-up useful fo' debugging
problems up in genisoimage or up in a iso9660 filesystem. In tha long run, it would
be sick ta git a thugged-out daemon dat would NFS export a iso9660 image.
.PP
Da isoinfo program is probably tha program dat iz of da most thugged-out use to
the general user.
.SH AVAILABILITY
These utilitizzles come wit tha 
.B cdrkit
package, n' tha primary downlizzle crib
is http://debburn.alioth.debian.org/ n' FTP mirrorz of distributions.
Despite tha name, tha software aint beta.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CDR_DEVICE
This may either hold a thang identifier dat is suitable ta tha open
call of tha SCSI transhiznit library or a label up in tha file /etc/wodim.conf.
.TP
.B RSH
If tha 
.B RSH
environment is present, tha remote connection aint gonna be pimped via
.BR rcmd (3)
but by callin tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSH .
Use e.g. 
.BR RSH= /usr/bin/ssh
to create a secure shell connection.
.sp
Note dat dis forces tha program
to create a pipe ta tha 
.B rsh(1)
program n' disallows tha program
to directly access tha network socket ta tha remote server.
This make it impossible ta set up performizzle parametas n' slows down
the connection compared ta a 
.B root
initiated
.B rcmd(3)
connection.
.TP
.B RSCSI
If tha 
.B RSCSI
environment is present, tha remote SCSI server aint gonna be tha program
.B /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi
but tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSCSI .
Note dat tha remote SCSI server program name is ghon be ignored if you log in
usin a account dat has been pimped wit a remote SCSI server program as
login shell.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/wodim.conf
Default joints can be set fo' tha followin options up in /etc/wodim.conf.
.RS
.TP
CDR_DEVICE
This may either hold a thang identifier dat is suitable ta tha open
call of tha SCSI transhiznit library or a label up in tha file /etc/wodim.conf
that allows ta identify a specific drive on tha system.
.TP
Any other label
is a identifier fo' a specific drive on tha system.
Such a identifier may not contain tha charactas ',', '/', '@' or ':'.
.sp
Each line dat bigs up a label gotz nuff a TAB separated list of items.
Currently, four shit is recognized: tha SCSI ID of tha drive, the
default speed dat should be used fo' dis drive, tha default FIFO size
that should be used fo' dis drive n' drive specific options. Da joints fo' 
.I speed
and
.I fifosize
may be set ta -1 ta tell tha program ta use tha global defaults.
Da value fo' driveropts may be set ta "" if no driveropts is used.
A typical line may look dis way:
.sp
teac1= 0,5,0	4	8m	""
.sp
yamaha= 1,6,0	-1	-1	burnfree
.sp
This  drops some lyrics ta tha program
that a thugged-out drive named
.I teac1
is at scsibus 0, target 5, lun 0 n' should be used wit speed 4 and
a FIFO size of 8 MB.
A second drive may be found at scsibus 1, target 6, lun 0 n' uses the
default speed n' tha default FIFO size.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR genisoimage (1),
.BR wodim (1),
.BR readcd (1),
.BR ssh (1).
.RE
.SH SOURCES
.PP
.br
[1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de

