.TH itweb-settings 1 "07 Mar 2014"

.SH NAME

itweb-settings - view n' modify settings for
.B
javaws
and tha browser plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B itweb-settings
.br
.B itweb-settings
command arguments
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B itweb-settings
is a cold-ass lil command line n' a GUI program ta modify n' edit settings used by the
icedtea-web implementation of
.B javaws
and tha browser plugin.

If executed without any arguments, it starts up a GUI. Otherwise, it tries to
do what tha fuck is specified up in tha argument.

Da command-line allows quickly searching, bustin a cold-ass lil copy of n' modifying
specific settings without havin ta hunt all up in a UI.


.SH COMMANDS

.TP
help
Prints up shiznit bout supported command, descriptions n' basic usage.
.TP 12
list
Shows a list of all settings.
.TP
get <name>
Shows tha value of tha named setting.
.TP
info <name>
Shows additionizzle shiznit bout tha named setting. Includes a thugged-out description,
the current value, tha possible joints, n' tha source of tha setting.
.TP
set <name> <value>
Sets tha settin ta tha freshly smoked up value, afta checkin dat it be a appropriate
value.
.TP
reset all
Resets all settings ta they original gangsta joints.
.TP
reset <name>
Resets tha named settin ta its original gangsta value.
.TP
check <name>
Checks dat tha current value of tha settin be a valid value.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
itweb-settings

Show tha GUI editor

.TP
itweb-settings reset deployment.proxy.type

Resets tha value of 'deployment.proxy.type' setting.


.SH FILES

$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icedtea-web/deployment.propertizzles specifies tha settings used

.SH BUGS

There arent any known bugs. If you come across one, please file it at
    http://icedtea.classpath.org/bugzilla/

.SH AUTHOR

Written n' maintained by tha IcedTea contributors.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR javaws (1),
.BR java (1)
.br
http://icedtea.classpath.org/wiki/IcedTea-Web
