.TH "JACKD" "1" "1.9.9.5" "August 2013" ""
.SH "NAME"
jackd \- JACK Audio Connection Kit sound server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBjackd\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-d\fI backend \fR 
[\fIbackend\-parameters\fR]
.br
\fBjackd \-\-help\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBjackd\fR is tha JACK audio server daemon, a low\-latency audio
server n' shit.  Originally freestyled fo' the
GNU/Linux operatin system, it also supports Mac OS X n' various Unix
platforms.  JACK can connect a fuckin shitload of different client applications
to a audio thang n' also ta each other n' shit.  Most clients is external,
runnin up in they own processes as aiiight applications.  JACK also
supports internal clients, which run within tha \fBjackd\fR process
usin a loadable "plugin" intercourse.

JACK differs from other audio servers up in bein designed from the
ground up fo' professionizzle audio work.  It focuses on two key areas:
synchronous execution of all clients, n' low latency operation.

For tha sickest fuckin JACK shiznit, please consult tha wizzy crib,
<\fBhttp://www.jackaudio.org\fR>.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-driver \fIbackend\fR [\fIbackend\-parameters\fR ]
.br
Select tha audio intercourse backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Da current list of supported
backendz is: \fBalsa\fR, \fBcoreaudio\fR, \fBdummy\fR, \fBfreebob\fR,
\fBoss\fR \fBsun\fR n' \fBportaudio\fR.  They is not all available
on all platforms.  All \fIbackend\-parameters\fR is optional.

.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
.br
Print a funky-ass brief usage message describin tha main \fBjackd\fR options.
These do not include \fIbackend\-parameters\fR, which is listed using
the \fB\-\-help\fR option fo' each specific backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Examplez below
show how tha fuck ta list em.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-no\-mlock\fR
Do not attempt ta lock memory, even if \fB\-\-realtime\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-name\fR \fIserver\-name\fR
Name dis \fBjackd\fR instizzle \fIserver\-name\fR.  If unspecified,
this name be reppin tha \fB$JACK_DEFAULT_SERVER\fR environment
variable.  It is ghon be "default" if dat aint defined.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-port\-max \fI n\fR
Set tha maximum number of ports tha JACK server can manage.  
Da default value is 256.
.TP
\fB\-\-replace-registry\fR 
.br
Remove tha shared memory registry used by all JACK server instances
before startup. This should rarely be used, n' is intended only
for occasions when tha structure of dis registry chizzlez up in ways
that is incompatible across JACK versions (which is rare).
.TP
\fB\-R, \-\-realtime\fR 
.br
Use realtime schedulin (default = true). This is needed fo' reliable low\-latency
performance.  On nuff systems, it requires \fBjackd\fR ta run with
special schedula n' memory allocation privileges, which may be
obtained up in nuff muthafuckin ways. 
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-no-realtime\fR
.br
Do not use realtime scheduling. 
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-realtime\-prioritizzle \fIint\fR
When hustlin \fB\-\-realtime\fR, set tha schedula prioritizzle to
\fIint\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-silent\fR
Silence any output durin operation.
.TP
\fB\-T, \-\-temporary\fR
Exit once all clients have closed they connections.
.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-timeout \fIint\fR
.br
Set client timeout limit up in milliseconds.  Da default is 500 msec.
In realtime mode tha client timeout must be smalla than tha watchdog timeout (5000 msec).
.TP
\fB\-Z, \-\-nozombies\fR
.br
Prevent JACK from eva kickin up clients cuz they was too slow.
This cancels tha effect any specified timeout value yo, but JACK n' its clients are
still subject ta tha supervision of tha watchdog thread or its equivalent.
.TP
\fB\-u, \-\-unlock\fR
.br
Unlock libraries GTK+, QT, FLTK, Wine.
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Give verbose output.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-clocksource\fR (\fI c(ycle)\fR | \fI h(pet) \fR | \fI s(ystem) \fR)
Select a specific wall clock (Cycle Counter, HPET timer, System timer).
.TP
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print tha current JACK version number n' exit.
.SS ALSA BACKEND OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-capture\fR [ \fIname\fR ]
Provide only capture ports, unless combined wit \-D or \-P.  Parameterally set 
capture thang name.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-device \fIname\fR
.br
Da ALSA pcm thang \fIname\fR ta use.  If none is specified, JACK will
use "hw:0", tha straight-up original gangsta hardware card defined up in \fB/etc/modules.conf\fR.
.TP
\fB\-z, \-\-dither [rectangular,triangular,shaped,none]
Set ditherin mode.  If \fBnone\fR or unspecified, ditherin is off.
Only tha straight-up original gangsta letta of tha mode name is required.
.TP
\fB\-D, \-\-duplex\fR
Provide both capture n' playback ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Defaults ta on unless only one 
of \-P or \-C is specified.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR Print a funky-ass brief usage message describin only the
\fBalsa\fR backend parameters.
.TP
\fB\-M, \-\-hwmeter\fR
.br
Enable hardware meterin fo' devices dat support dat shit.  Otherwise, use
software metering.
.TP
\fB\-H, \-\-hwmon\fR
.br
Enable hardware monitorin of capture ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This be a method for
obtainin "zero latency" monitorin of audio input.  It requires
support up in hardware n' from tha underlyin ALSA thang driver.

When enabled, requests ta monitor capture ports is ghon be satisfied by
bustin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct signal path between audio intercourse input n' output
connectors, wit no processin by tha host computa at all.  This
offers tha lowest possible latency fo' tha monitored signal.

Presently (March 2003), only tha RME Hammerfall series n' cardz based
on tha ICE1712 chipset (M\-Audio Delta series, Terratec, n' others)
support \fB\-\-hwmon\fR.  In tha future, some thug cardz may also
be supported by modifyin they mixer settings.

Without \fB\-\-hwmon\fR, port monitorin requires JACK ta read audio
into system memory, then copy it back up ta tha hardware again,
imposin tha basic JACK system latency determined by the
\fB\-\-period\fR n' \fB\-\-nperiods\fR parameters.
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-inchannels \fIint\fR
.br
Number of capture channels.  Default is maximum supported by hardware.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-nperiodz \fIint\fR
.br
Specify tha number of periodz of playback latency.  In seconds, this
correspondz ta \fB\-\-nperiods\fR times \fB\-\-period\fR divided by
\fB\-\-rate\fR.  Da default is 2, tha minimum allowable.  For most
devices, there is no need fo' any other value wit the
\fB\-\-realtime\fR option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Without realtime privileges or wit boards
providin unreliable interrupts (like ymfpci), a larger value may
yield fewer xruns.  This can also help if tha system aint tuned for
reliable realtime scheduling.

For most ALSA devices, tha hardware buffer has exactly
\fB\-\-period\fR times \fB\-\-nperiods\fR frames.  Some devices demand
a larger buffer n' shit.  If so, JACK will use tha smallest possible buffer
containin at least \fB\-\-nperiods\fR yo, but tha playback latency do
not increase.

For STD audio devices it is recommended ta use \fB\-n 3\fR. Firewire
devices supported by FFADO (formerly Freebob) is configured with
\fB\-n 3\fR by default.
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-outchannels \fIint\fR
.br
Number of playback channels.  Default is maximum supported by hardware.
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-playback\fR [ \fIname\fR ]
Provide only playback ports, unless combined wit \-D or \-C.  Optionally set 
playback thang name.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-period \fIint\fR
.br
Specify tha number of frames between JACK \fBprocess()\fR calls.  This
value must be a juice of 2, n' tha default is 1024.  If you need low 
latency, set \fB\-p\fR as low as you can go without seein xruns.  A larger 
period size yieldz higher latency yo, but make xruns less likely.  Da JACK 
capture latency up in secondz is \fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-rate \fIint\fR
Specify tha sample rate.  Da default is 48000.
.TP
\fB\-S, \-\-shorts
.br
Try ta configure card fo' 16\-bit samplez first, only tryin 32\-bits if
unsuccessful naaahhmean?  Default is ta prefer 32\-bit samples.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-softmode\fR 
.br
Ignore xruns reported by tha ALSA driver n' shit.  This make JACK less likely
to disconnect unresponsive ports when hustlin without \fB\-\-realtime\fR.
.TP
\fB\-X, \-\-midi \fR[\fIseq\fR|\fIraw\fR]
.br
Specify which ALSA MIDI system ta provide access to. Usin \fBraw\fR
will provide a set of JACK MIDI ports dat correspond ta each raw ALSA
device on tha machine. Usin \fBseq\fR will provide a set of JACK MIDI
ports dat correspond ta each ALSA "sequencer" client (which includes
each hardware MIDI port on tha machine). \fBraw\fR serves up slightly
betta performizzle but do not permit JACK MIDI communication with
software freestyled ta use tha ALSA "sequencer" API.
.SS COREAUDIO BACKEND PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-c \-\-channels\fR
Maximum number of channels (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-i \-\-inchannels\fR
Maximum number of input channels (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-o \-\-outchannels\fR
Maximum number of output channels (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-C \-\-capture\fR
Whether or not ta capture (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-P \-\-playback\fR
Whether or not ta playback (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-D \-\-monitor\fR
Provide monitor ports fo' tha output (default: false)
.TP
\fB\-D \-\-duplex\fR
Capture n' playback (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-r \-\-rate\fR
Sample rate (default: 44100)
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-period\fR
Frames per period (default: 128). Must be a juice of 2.
.TP
\fB\-d \-\-device\fR
CoreAudio thang name (default: none)
.TP
\fB\-I \-\-input\-latency\fR
Extra input latency (frames) (default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-O \-\-output\-latency\fR
Extra output latency (frames) (default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-l \-\-list\-devices \fR
Display available CoreAudio devices (default: false)
.TP
\fB\-H \-\-hog \fR
Take exclusive access of tha audio thang (default: false)
.TP
\fB\-L \-\-async\-latency  \fR
Extra output latency up in asynchronous mode (percent) (default: 100)
.TP
\fB\-G \-\-grain  \fR
Computation grain up in RT thread (percent) (default: 100)
.TP
\fB\-s \-\-clock\-drift  \fR
Whether ta compensate clock drift up in dynamically pimped aggregate thang (default: false)
.SS DUMMY BACKEND PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-capture \fIint\fR
Specify number of capture ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default value is 2.
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-playback \fIint\fR
Specify number of playback ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default value is 2.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-rate \fIint\fR
Specify sample rate. Da default value is 48000.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-period \fIint\fR
Specify tha number of frames between JACK \fBprocess()\fR calls.  This
value must be a juice of 2, n' tha default is 1024.  If you need low 
latency, set \fB\-p\fR as low as you can go without seein xruns.  A larger 
period size yieldz higher latency yo, but make xruns less likely.  Da JACK 
capture latency up in secondz is \fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-wait \fIint\fR 
Specify number of usecs ta wait between engine processes. 
Da default value is 21333.


.SS NETONE BACKEND PARAMETERS

.TP
 \fB\-i, \-\-audio\-ins \fIint\fR
Number of capture channels (default: 2)
.TP
 \fB\-o, \-\-audio\-outs \fIint\fR
Number of playback channels (default: 2)
.TP
 \fB\-I, \-\-midi\-ins \fIint\fR
Number of midi capture channels (default: 1)
.TP 
\fB\-O, \-\-midi\-outs \fIint\fR
Number of midi playback channels (default: 1)
.TP
 \fB\-r, \-\-rate \fIint\fR
Sample rate (default: 48000)
.TP 
\fB\-p, \-\-period \fIint\fR
Frames per period (default: 1024)
.TP 
\fB\-n, \-\-num\-periodz \fIint\fR
Network latency settin up in no. of periodz (default: 5)
.TP 
\fB\-l, \-\-listen\-port \fIint\fR
Da socket port we is listenin on fo' sync packets (default: 3000)
.TP 
\fB\-f, \-\-factor \fIint\fR
Factor fo' sample rate reduction (default: 1)
.TP 
\fB\-u, \-\-upstream\-factor \fIint\fR
Factor fo' sample rate reduction on tha upstream (default: 0)
.TP 
\fB\-c, \-\-celt \fIint\fR
sets celt encodin n' number of kbits per channel (default: 0)
.TP 
\fB\-b, \-\-bit\-depth \fIint\fR
Sample bit\-depth (0 fo' float, 8 fo' 8bit n' 16 fo' 16bit) (default: 0)
.TP 
\fB\-t, \-\-transport\-sync \fIint\fR
Whether ta slave tha transhiznit ta tha masta transhiznit (default: true)
.TP 
\fB\-a, \-\-autoconf \fIint\fR
Whether ta use Autoconfig, or just start. (default: true)
.TP 
\fB\-R, \-\-redundancy \fIint\fR
Send packets N times (default: 1)
.TP 
\fB\-e, \-\-native\-endian \fIint\fR
Dont convert samplez ta network byte order n' shit. (default: false)
.TP 
\fB\-J, \-\-jitterval \fIint\fR
attempted jitterbuffer microsecondz on masta (default: 0)
.TP 
\fB\-D, \-\-always\-deadline \fIint\fR
always use deadline (default: false)


.SS OSS BACKEND PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-rate \fIint\fR
Specify tha sample rate.  Da default is 48000.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-period \fIint\fR
Specify tha number of frames between JACK \fBprocess()\fR calls.  This
value must be a juice of 2, n' tha default is 1024.  If you need low 
latency, set \fB\-p\fR as low as you can go without seein xruns.  A larger 
period size yieldz higher latency yo, but make xruns less likely.  Da JACK 
capture latency up in secondz is \fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-nperiodz \fIint\fR
Specify tha number of periodz up in tha hardware buffer n' shit.  Da default is
2.  Da period size (\fB\-p\fR) times \fB\-\-nperiods\fR times four is
the JACK buffer size up in bytes.  Da JACK output latency up in secondz is
\fB\-\-nperiods\fR times \fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-wordlength \fIint\fR
Specify tha sample size up in bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is 16.
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-inchannels \fIint\fR
Specify how tha fuck nuff channels ta capture (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-outchannels \fIint\fR
Specify number of playback channels (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-capture \fIdevice_file\fR
Specify input thang fo' capture (default: /dev/dsp)
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-playback \fIdevice_file\fR
Specify output thang fo' playback (default: /dev/dsp)
.TP
\fB\-b, \-\-ignorehwbuf \fIboolean\fR
Specify, whether ta ignore hardware period size (default: false)
.SS SUN BACKEND PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-rate \fIint\fR
Specify tha sample rate.  Da default is 48000.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-period \fIint\fR
Specify tha number of frames between JACK \fBprocess()\fR calls.  This
value must be a juice of 2, n' tha default is 1024.  If you need low 
latency, set \fB\-p\fR as low as you can go without seein xruns.  A larger 
period size yieldz higher latency yo, but make xruns less likely.  Da JACK 
capture latency up in secondz is \fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-nperiodz \fIint\fR
Specify tha number of periodz up in tha hardware buffer n' shit.  Da default is
2.  Da period size (\fB\-p\fR) times \fB\-\-nperiods\fR times four
(assumin 2 channels 16-bit samples) is tha JACK buffer size up in bytes.
Da JACK output latency up in secondz is \fB\-\-nperiods\fR times
\fB\-\-period\fR divided by \fB\-\-rate\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-wordlength \fIint\fR
Specify tha sample size up in bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is 16.
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-inchannels \fIint\fR
Specify how tha fuck nuff channels ta capture (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-outchannels \fIint\fR
Specify number of playback channels (default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-capture \fIdevice_file\fR
Specify input thang fo' capture (default: /dev/audio)
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-playback \fIdevice_file\fR
Specify output thang fo' playback (default: /dev/audio)
.TP
\fB\-b, \-\-ignorehwbuf \fIboolean\fR
Specify, whether ta ignore hardware period size (default: false)
.SS PORTAUDIO BACKEND PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-c \-\-channel\fR
Maximum number of channels (default: all available hardware channels)
.TP
\fB\-i \-\-channelin\fR
Maximum number of input channels (default: all available hardware channels)
.TP
\fB\-o \-\-channelout\fR
Maximum number of output channels (default: all available hardware channels)
.TP
\fB\-C \-\-capture\fR
Whether or not ta capture (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-P \-\-playback\fR
Whether or not ta playback (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-D \-\-duplex\fR
Capture n' playback (default: true)
.TP
\fB\-r \-\-rate\fR
Sample rate (default: 48000)
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-period\fR
Frames per period (default: 1024). Must be a juice of 2.
.TP
\fB\-n \-\-name\fR
Driver name (default: none)
.TP
\fB\-z \-\-dither\fR
Ditherin mode (default: none)
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Print usage message fo' tha parametas specific ta each backend.
.IP
\fBjackd \-d alsa \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d coreaudio \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d net \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d dummy \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d firewire \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d freebob \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d oss \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d sun \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBjackd \-d portaudio \-\-help\fR
.PP
Run tha JACK daemon wit realtime prioritizzle rockin tha straight-up original gangsta ALSA
hardware card defined up in \fB/etc/modules.conf\fR.
.IP
\fBjackstart \-\-realtime \-\-driver=alsa\fR
.PP
Run tha JACK daemon wit low latency givin verbose output, which can
be helpful fo' shit\-shootin system latency problems.  A
reasonably well\-tuned system wit a phat sound card n' a
low\-latency kernel can handle these joints reliably.  Some can do
mo' betta n' shit.  If you git xrun lyrics, try a larger buffer n' shit.  Tunin a
system fo' low latency can be challenging.  Da JACK FAQUIZZY,
.I http://jackit.sourceforge.net/docs/faq.php\fR
has some useful suggestions.
.IP
\fBjackstart \-Rv \-d alsa \-p 128 \-n 2 \-r 44100\fR
.PP
Run \fBjackd\fR wit realtime prioritizzle rockin tha "sblive" ALSA device
defined up in ~/.asoundrc.  Apply shaped ditherin ta playback audio.
.IP
\fBjackd \-R \-d alsa \-d sblive \-\-dither=shaped\fR
.PP
Run \fBjackd\fR wit no special privileges rockin tha second ALSA
hardware card defined up in \fB/etc/modules.conf\fR.  Any xruns reported
by tha ALSA backend is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da larger buffer helps reduce
data loss.  Rectangular ditherin is ghon be used fo' playback.
.IP
\fBjackd \-d alsa \-d hw:1 \-p2048 \-n3 \-\-softmode \-zr\fR
.PP
Run \fBjackd\fR up in full\-duplex mode rockin tha ALSA hw:0,0 thang fo' 
playback n' tha hw:0,2 thang fo' capture.
.IP
\fBjackd \-d alsa \-P hw:0,0 \-C hw:0,2\fR
.PP
Run \fBjackd\fR up in playback\-only mode rockin tha ALSA hw:0,0 device. 
.IP
\fBjackd \-d alsa \-P hw:0,0\fR
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.br
JACK is evolvin a mechanizzle fo' automatically startin tha server
when needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Any client started without a hustlin JACK server will
attempt ta start one itself rockin tha command line found up in tha first
line of \fB$HOME/.jackdrc\fR if it exists, or \fB/etc/jackdrc\fR if it
does not.  If neither file exists, a funky-ass built\-in default command will be
used, includin tha \fB\-T\fR flag, which causes tha server ta shut
down when all clients have exited.

As a transition, dis only happens when \fB$JACK_START_SERVER\fR is
defined up in tha environment of tha callin process.  In tha future this
will become aiiight behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  In either case, defining
\fB$JACK_NO_START_SERVER\fR disablez dis feature.

To chizzle where JACK looks fo' tha backend drivers, set
\fB$JACK_DRIVER_DIR\fR.

\fB$JACK_DEFAULT_SERVER\fR specifies tha default server name.  If not
defined, tha strang "default" is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If set up in they respective
environments, dis affects \fBjackd\fR unless its \fB\-\-name\fR
parameta is set, n' all JACK clients unless they pass a explicit
name ta \fBjack_client_open()\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO:"
.PP
.I http://www.jackaudio.org
.br
Da straight-up legit JACK joint wit hype, docs n' a list of JACK clients.
.PP
.I http://jackaudio.org/email
.br
Da JACK pimpers' mailin list.  Subscribe, ta take part in
development of JACK or JACK clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  User thangs is also welcome,
there is no user-specific mailin list.
.PP
.I http://www.jackosx.com/
.br
Tools specific ta tha Mac OS X version of JACK.
.PP
.I http://www.alsa\-project.org
.br
Da Advanced Linux Sound Architecture.
.SH "BUGS"
Please report bugs to
.br
.I http://trac.jackaudio.org/
.SH "AUTHORS"
Architect n' original gangsta implementor: Pizzle Davis
.PP
Original Gangsta design Group: Pizzle Davis, Dizzy Olofson, Kai Vehmanen, Benno Sennoner,
Slick Rick Guenther, n' other thugz of tha Linux Audio Developers group.
.PP
Programming: Pizzle Davis, Jack O'Quin, Taybin Rutkin, Stephane Letz, Fernando
Pablo Lopez-Lezcano, Steve Harris, Jeremy Hall, Andy Wingo, Kai
Vehmanen, Melanie Thielker, Jussi Laako, Tilman Linneweh, Johnny
Petrantoni, Torben Hohn.
.PP
Manpage freestyled by Stefan Schwandter, Jack O'Quin n' Alexandre
Prokoudine.
