.TH javaws 1 "23 Aug 2014"
.SH NAME
javaws - a Java Web Start client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B javaws
[-run-options] jnlp-file
.br
.B javaws
[-control-option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B javaws
is a implementation of a JNLP  client. Well shiiiit, it uses a JNLP (Java Network
Launch Protocol) file ta securely run a remote Java application or
a Java applet.  This implementation of
.B javaws
is from tha IcedTea project n' is based on tha NetX project.
.PP
A JNLP file be a XML file dat raps bout how tha fuck ta securely run a
remote Java application or a Java applet.

.SH OPTIONS
When specifyin options, tha name of tha JNLP file must be tha last
argument to
.B javaws
- all tha options must precede dat shit.
.PP
Da JNLP-file can either be a URL or a local path.
.PP
.B Control Options
.PP
By default
.B javaws
will launch tha JNLP file specified on tha command line. Da control
options can be used ta chizzle dis behaviour.
.TP 12
\-about
Shows bout dialog.
.TP
\-viewer
Shows tha trusted certificate viewer n' shit. This allows a user ta list, examine, remove
or export trusted certificates. Note dat dis only reflects tha certificates
trusted by
.B javaws
and not any other certificates or programs.

.PP
.B Run Options
.PP
In tha default mode, tha followin run-options can be used:
.TP 12
\-version
Prints up version n' exit
.TP
\-arg arg
Addz a application argument before launching.
.TP
\-param name=value
Addz a applet parameta before launching.
.TP
\-property name=value
Sets a system property before launching.
.TP
\-update seconds
Peep fo' applet/application thugged-out shiznit if "seconds" secondz have elapsed since tha last check.
.TP
\-license
Display tha GPL license n' exit.
.TP
\-verbose
Enable verbose output. Straight-up useful up in debugging.
.TP
\-nosecurity
Disablez tha secure runtime environment.
.TP
\-noupdate
Disablez checkin fo' thugged-out shit.
.TP
\-headless
Disablez tha downlizzle window n' other extra UI elements.
.TP
\-strict
Enablez strict checkin of JNLP file format fo' realz. Any deviations from
the JNLP DTD will cause
.B javaws
to abort.
.TP
\-xml
Enablez stricta XML validitizzle checkin fo' JNLP files.
.TP
\-allowredirect
Enablez followin 301, 302, 303, 307 n' 308 HTTP redirects for
.B javaws
applications.
.TP
\-Xoffline
IcedTea-Web aint gonna attempt ta connect ta tha network ta check fo' or download
newer versionz of tha axed applet or application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Locally cached application
filez is ghon be used instead, if available. Da application itself may still
establish its own network connections.
.TP
\-Xnofork
Do not create another JVM, even if tha JNLP file asks fo' hustlin in
a separate JVM. This is useful fo' debugging.
.TP
\-Xclearcache
Clean tha JNLP application cache.
.TP
\-Xignoreheaders
Skip jar header verification.
.TP
\-Jjava-option
This passes along java-option ta tha Java binary (JVM) which
.B javaws
will be executed within. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, ta make
.B javaws
run wit a max heap size
of 80m, use -J-Xmx80m.
.TP
\-help
Print the
.B javaws
help message n' exit.

.SH FILES
$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/icedtea-web/deployment.propertizzles specifies tha settings used by
.B javaws

$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/icedtea-web/log (may be set ta different location by you) gotz nuff file log filez (if enabled).
itw-cplugin-date_time.log fo' natizzle part of plugin, itw-javantx-date_time.log fo' every last muthafuckin thang else.

$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/icedtea-web/security/java.policy gotz nuff tha userz securitizzle policy, which may grant extra permissions ta applets.

$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/icedtea-web/security/trusted.*certs gotz nuff various stored certificates.

$XDG_CACHE_DIR/icedtea-web/cache gotz nuff cached runtime entries (may be modified by tha user).

$XDG_CACHE_DIR/icedtea-web/pcache gotz nuff saved application data.

$XDG_CACHE_DIR/icedtea-web/tmp gotz nuff temporary runtime files.

$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/icedteaplugin-user-*/ gotz nuff up in n' up pipe fo' native<->java communication and
(if enabled) debuggin pipe

Where $XDG_CONFIG_DIR, $XDG_CACHE_DIR n' $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR is defined as $HOME/.config, $HOME/.cache n' either /tmp or /var/tmp by default.
This is up in accordizzle wit tha FreeDesktop Base Directory Justification:
    http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html

.SH BUGS
There aint no damn known bugs. If you come across one, please file it at
    http://icedtea.classpath.org/bugzilla/
.br
Please run
.B javaws
in debug (via -verbose switch, 
.B itweb-settings
configuration, or ICEDTEAPLUGIN_DEBUG environment variable set ta true)
mode n' include dat output (best is from java console) wit URL ta JNLP or HTML file
(not tha JNLP/HTML file or application itself) when filin up tha bug report.

.SH AUTHOR
Originally freestyled by Jon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A. Maxwell.
.br
Currently maintained by tha IcedTea contributors. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See javaws -about fo' mo' info

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR java (1), 
.BR itweb-settings (1)
.br
http://icedtea.classpath.org/wiki/IcedTea-Web
