." Copyright (c) 2012, 2013, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jcmd 1 "18 Jul 2013"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jcmd \- Sendz diagnostic command requests ta a hustlin Java Virtual Machine
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2options\fP ]
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f3PerfCounter.print\fP
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f2command [arguments]\fP
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f3\-f\fP \f2file\fP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
Da command\-line options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See Options. 
.TP 3
pid 
Identifies tha process dat receives tha diagnostic command requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da process must be a Java process. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
main\-class 
Da main class of tha process dat receives tha diagnostic command requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When matchin processes, any process whose main class name gotz nuff tha specified strang as a substrin is matched. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If nuff muthafuckin hustlin Java processes share tha same main class, then tha diagnostic command request is busted ta all these processes. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
command [arguments] 
Da main class of tha process dat receives tha diagnostic command requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When matchin processes, any process whose main class name gotz nuff tha specified strang as a substrin is matched. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If nuff muthafuckin hustlin Java processes share tha same main class, then tha diagnostic command request is busted ta all these processes. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
Perfcounter.print 
Print tha performizzle countas available on tha targeted Java processes. Da list of performizzle countas might vary wit tha Java process. 
.TP 3
\-f file 
Read commandz from \f2file\fP n' call dem on tha targeted Java processes. In \f2file\fP, each command must be freestyled on a single line. Lines startin wit # is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Processin of \f2file\fP endz when all lines done been called or when a line containin tha \f3stop\fP keyword is read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jcmd\fP be a utilitizzle ta bust diagnostic command requests ta a Java Virtual Machine supportin dis feature.
.LP
.LP
Used without arguments or wit tha \f3\-l\fP option, \f3jcmd\fP prints tha list of hustlin Java processes wit they process ID, they main class n' they command\-line arguments.
.LP
.LP
When a process ID is specified on tha command line, \f3jcmd\fP sendz tha diagnostic command request ta tha process wit dis ID.
.LP
.LP
When a main class is specified on tha command line, \f3jcmd\fP sendz tha diagnostic command request ta all Java processes fo' which tha command\-line argument be a substrin of tha Java process' main class.
.LP
.LP
With tha \f3PerfCounter.print\fP argument, \f3jcmd\fP prints tha performizzle countas available on tha targeted Java processes.
.LP
.LP
With tha \f3\-f\fP option, \f3jcmd\fP sendz ta tha targeted Java processes tha diagnostic commandz stored up in tha specified \f3file\fP.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.LP
Options is mutually exclusive. Options, when used, must immediately follow tha command name.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-l 
Prints tha list of hustlin Java processes wit they process IDs, they main classes, n' they command\-line arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.TP 3
\-h 
Prints a help message. 
.TP 3
\-help 
Prints a help message. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
jps 
.RE

.LP
 
