." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jconsole 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jconsole \- Java Monitorin n' Management Console
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jconsole\fP [ \f2options\fP ] [ connection ... ]
.fl

.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
Options, if used, should follow immediately afta tha command name. 
.TP 3
connection = pid | host:port | jmxUrl 
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
\f2pid\fP Process ID of a local Java VM. Da Java VM must be hustlin wit tha same user ID as tha user ID hustlin jconsole. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.na
\f2JMX Monitorin n' Management\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/management/agent.html fo' details. 
.TP 2
o
\f2host\fP:\f2port\fP Name of tha host system on which tha Java VM is hustlin n' tha port number specified by tha system property \f2com.sun.management.jmxremote.port\fP when tha Java VM was started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.na
\f2JMX Monitorin n' Management\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/management/agent.html fo' details. 
.TP 2
o
\f2jmxUrl\fP Address of tha JMX agent ta be connected ta as busted lyrics bout up in 
.na
\f2JMXServiceURL\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/javax/management/remote/JMXServiceURL.html. 
.RE
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3jconsole\fP command launches a graphical console tool dat enablez you ta monitor n' manage Java applications n' virtual machines on a local or remote machine.
.LP
.LP
On Windows, \f3jconsole\fP do not associate wit a cold-ass lil console window. Well shiiiit, it will, however, display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog box wit error shiznit if tha \f3jconsole\fP command fails fo' some reason.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-interval=n 
Set tha update interval ta \f2n\fP secondz (default is 4 seconds). 
.TP 3
\-notile 
Do not tile windows initially (for two or mo' connections). 
.TP 3
\-pluginpath plugins 
Specify a list of directories or JAR filez which is searched fo' JConsole plugins. Da \f2plugins\fP path should contain a provider\-configuration file named:
.br
.nf
\f3
.fl
   META\-INF/skillz/com.sun.tools.jconsole.JConsolePlugin
.fl
\fP
.fi
containin one line fo' each plugin specifyin tha straight-up qualified class name of tha class implementin tha 
.na
\f2com.sun.tools.jconsole.JConsolePlugin\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/jdk/api/jconsole/spec/com/sun/tools/jconsole/JConsolePlugin.html class. 
.TP 3
\-version 
Output version shiznit n' exit. 
.TP 3
\-help 
Output help message n' exit. 
.TP 3
\-J<flag> 
Pass <flag> ta tha Java virtual machine on which jconsole is run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Usin JConsole\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/management/jconsole.html 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Monitorin n' Management fo' Java Platform\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/management/index.html 
.RE

.LP
 
