." Copyright (c) 2006, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jhat 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jhat \- Java Heap Analysis Tool
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jhat\fP [ \f2options\fP ] <heap\-dump\-file>
.fl

.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
Options, if used, should follow immediately afta tha command name. 
.TP 3
heap\-dump\-file 
Java binary heap dump file ta be browsed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For a thugged-out dump file dat gotz nuff multiple heap dumps, you may specify which dump up in tha file by appendin "#<number> ta tha file name, i.e. "foo.hprof#3". 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3jhat\fP command parses a java heap dump file n' launches a webserver n' shit. jhat enablez you ta browse heap dumps rockin yo' straight-up webbrowser n' shit. jhat supports pre\-designed queries (like fuckin 'show all instancez of a known class "Foo"') as well as \f3OQL\fP (\f3O\fPbject \f3Q\fPuery \f3L\fPanguage) \- a SQL\-like query language ta query heap dumps yo. Help on OQL be available from tha OQL help page shown by jhat. With tha default port, OQL help be available at http://localhost:7000/oqlhelp/
.LP
.LP
There is nuff muthafuckin ways ta generate a java heap dump:
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
Use jmap(1) \-dump option ta obtain a heap dump at runtime; 
.TP 2
o
Use jconsole(1) option ta obtain a heap dump via 
.na
\f2HotSpotDiagnosticMXBean\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/jre/api/management/extension/com/sun/management/HotSpotDiagnosticMXBean.html at runtime; 
.TP 2
o
Heap dump is ghon be generated when OutOfMemoryError is thrown by specifyin \-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError VM option; 
.TP 2
o
Use 
.na
\f2hprof\fP @
.fi
http://java.sun.com/developer/technicalArticles/Programming/HPROF.html. 
.RE

.LP
.LP
\f3NOTE:\fP This tool is \f3experimental\fP n' may \f3not\fP be available up in future versionz of tha JDK.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-stack false/true 
Turn off trackin object allocation call stack. Note dat if allocation joint shiznit aint available up in tha heap dump, you gotta set dis flag ta false. Default is true. 
.TP 3
\-refs false/true 
Turn off trackin of references ta objects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Default is true. By default, back pointas (objects pointin ta a given object a.k.a referrers or in\-comin references) is calculated fo' all objects up in tha heap. 
.TP 3
\-port port\-number 
Set tha port fo' tha jhatz HTTP server n' shit. Default is 7000. 
.TP 3
\-exclude exclude\-file 
Specify a gangbangin' file dat lists data thugz dat should be excluded from tha "reachable objects" query. For example, if tha file lists \f2java.lang.String.value\fP, then, whenever list of objects reachable from a specific object "o" is calculated, reference paths involvin \f2java.lang.String.value\fP field aint gonna considered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
\-baseline baseline\-dump\-file 
Specify a funky-ass baseline heap dump. Objects up in both heap dumps wit tha same object ID is ghon be marked as not bein "new". Other objects is ghon be marked as "new". This is useful while comparin two different heap dumps. 
.TP 3
\-debug int 
Set debug level fo' dis tool. 0 means no debug output. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set higher joints fo' mo' verbose modes. 
.TP 3
\-version 
Report version number n' exit. 
.TP 3
\-h 
Output help message n' exit. 
.TP 3
\-help 
Output help message n' exit. 
.TP 3
\-J<flag> 
Pass <flag> ta tha Java virtual machine on which jhat is run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, \-J\-Xmx512m ta bust a maximum heap size of 512MB. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
jmap(1) 
.TP 2
o
jconsole(1) 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2hprof \- Heap n' CPU profilin tool\fP @
.fi
http://java.sun.com/developer/technicalArticles/Programming/HPROF.html 
.RE

.LP
 
