." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jinfo 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jinfo \- Configuration Info
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jinfo\fP [ option ] pid
.fl
\f3jinfo\fP [ option ] executable core
.fl
\f3jinfo\fP [ option ] [server\-id@]remote\-hostname\-or\-IP 
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
option 
Options is mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should follow immediately afta tha command name. 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
pid 
process id fo' which tha configuration info is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da process must be a Java process. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, jps(1) may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
executable 
Java executable from which tha core dump was produced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
core 
core file fo' which tha configuration info is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
remote\-hostname\-or\-IP 
remote debug serverz (see jsadebugd(1)) hostname or IP address. 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
server\-id 
optionizzle unique id, if multiple debug servers is hustlin on tha same remote host. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jinfo\fP prints Java configuration shiznit fo' a given Java process or core file or a remote debug server n' shit. Configuration shiznit includes Java System propertizzles n' Java virtual machine command line flags. If tha given process is hustlin on a 64\-bit VM, you may need ta specify tha \f2\-J\-d64\fP option, e.g.:
.br
jinfo \-J\-d64 \-sysprops pid
.LP
.LP
\f3NOTE \- This utilitizzle is unsupported n' may or may not be available up in future versionz of tha JDK. In Windows Systems where dbgeng.dll aint present, 'Debuggin Tools For Windows' need ta be installed ta have these tools makin moves fo' realz. Also, \fP\f4PATH\fP\f3 environment variable should contain tha location of \fP\f4jvm.dll\fP\f3 used by tha target process or tha location from which tha Crash Dump file was produced.\fP
.LP
.LP
\f3For example, \fP\f4set PATH=<jdk>\\jre\\bin\\client;%PATH%\fP
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
<no option> 
prints both command line flags as well as System propertizzles name, value pairs.
.br
.TP 3
\-flag name 
prints tha name n' value of tha given command line flag.
.br
.TP 3
\-flag [+|\-]name 
enablez or disablez tha given boolean command line flag.
.br
.TP 3
\-flag name=value 
sets tha given command line flag ta tha specified value.
.br
.TP 3
\-flags 
prints command line flags passed ta tha JVM. pairs.
.br
.TP 3
\-sysprops 
prints Java System propertizzles as name, value pairs.
.br
.TP 3
\-h 
prints a help message 
.TP 3
\-help 
prints a help message 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
jps(1) 
.TP 2
o
jsadebugd(1) 
.RE

.LP
 
