." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jmap 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jmap \- Memory Map
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jmap\fP [ option ] pid
.fl
\f3jmap\fP [ option ] executable core
.fl
\f3jmap\fP [ option ] [server\-id@]remote\-hostname\-or\-IP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
option 
Options is mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should follow immediately afta tha command name. 
.TP 3
pid 
process id fo' which tha memory map is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da process must be a Java process. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, jps(1) may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.br
.TP 3
executable 
Java executable from which tha core dump was produced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.br
.TP 3
core 
core file fo' which tha memory map is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.br
.TP 3
remote\-hostname\-or\-IP 
remote debug serverz (see jsadebugd(1)) hostname or IP address. 
.br
.TP 3
server\-id 
optionizzle unique id, if multiple debug servers is hustlin on tha same remote host.
.br
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jmap\fP prints shared object memory maps or heap memory detailz of a given process or core file or a remote debug server n' shit. If tha given process is hustlin on a 64\-bit VM, you may need ta specify tha \f2\-J\-d64\fP option, e.g.:
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
jmap \-J\-d64 \-heap pid
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
\f3NOTE: This utilitizzle is unsupported n' may or may not be available up in future versionz of tha JDK. In Windows Systems where dbgeng.dll aint present, 'Debuggin Tools For Windows' need ta be installed ta have these tools makin moves fo' realz. Also, \fP\f4PATH\fP\f3 environment variable should contain tha location of \fP\f4jvm.dll\fP\f3 used by tha target process or tha location from which tha Crash Dump file was produced.\fP
.LP
.LP
\f3For example, \fP\f4set PATH=<jdk>\\jre\\bin\\client;%PATH%\fP
.LP
.br

.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
<no option> 
When no option is used jmap prints shared object mappings. For each shared object loaded up in tha target VM, start address, tha size of tha mapping, n' tha full path of tha shared object file is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This is similar ta tha Solaris \f3pmap\fP utility. 
.br
.TP 3
\-dump:[live,]format=b,file=<filename> 
Dumps tha Java heap up in hprof binary format ta filename. Da \f2live\fP suboption is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If specified, only tha live objects up in tha heap is dumped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To browse tha heap dump, you can use jhat(1) (Java Heap Analysis Tool) ta read tha generated file. 
.br
.TP 3
\-finalizerinfo 
Prints shiznit on objects awaitin finalization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.br
.TP 3
\-heap 
Prints a heap summary. GC algorithm used, heap configuration n' generation wise heap usage is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.br
.TP 3
\-histo[:live] 
Prints a histogram of tha heap. For each Java class, number of objects, memory size up in bytes, n' straight-up qualified class names is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. VM internal class names is printed wit '*' prefix. If tha \f2live\fP suboption is specified, only live objects is counted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.br
.TP 3
\-permstat 
Prints class loader wise statistics of permanent generation of Java heap. For each class loader, its name, liveness, address, parent class loader, n' tha number n' size of classes it has loaded is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In addition, tha number n' size of interned Strings is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.br
.TP 3
\-F 
Force. Use wit jmap \-dump or jmap \-histo option if tha pid do not respond. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \f2live\fP suboption aint supported up in dis mode. 
.br
.TP 3
\-h 
Prints a help message.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-help 
Prints a help message.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-J<flag> 
Passes <flag> ta tha Java virtual machine on which jmap is run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.br
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
pmap(1) 
.TP 2
o
jhat(1) 
.TP 2
o
jps(1) 
.TP 2
o
jsadebugd(1) 
.RE

.LP
 
