." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jsadebugd 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jsadebugd \- Serviceabilitizzle Agent Debug Daemon
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jsadebugd\fP pid [ server\-id ]
.fl
\f3jsadebugd\fP executable core [ server\-id ]
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
pid 
process id of tha process ta which tha debug server should attach. Da process must be a Java process. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, jps(1) may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! At most one instizzle of tha debug server may be attached ta a single process. 
.TP 3
executable 
Java executable from which tha core dump was produced 
.TP 3
core 
Core file ta which tha debug server should attach. 
.TP 3
server\-id 
Optionizzle unique id, needed if multiple debug servers is started on tha same machine. This ID must be used by remote clients ta identify tha particular debug server ta attach. Within a single machine, dis ID must be unique. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jsadebugd\fP attaches ta a Java process or core file n' acts as a thugged-out debug server n' shit. Remote clients like fuckin jstack(1), jmap(1), n' jinfo(1) can attach ta tha server rockin Java Remote Method Invocation (RMI). Before startin \f2jsadebugd\fP, 
.na
\f2rmiregistry\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/index.html#rmi must be started with:
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f4rmiregistry \-J\-Xbootclasspath/p:$JAVA_HOME/lib/sajdi.jar\fP\f3
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
where \f2$JAVA_HOME\fP is tha JDK installation directory. If rmiregistry was not started, jsadebugd will start a rmiregistry up in a standard (1099) port internally. Debug server may be stopped by bustin  SIGINT (pressin Ctrl\-C) ta dat shit.
.LP
.LP
\f3NOTE\fP \- This utilitizzle is unsupported n' may or may not be available up in future versionz of tha JDK. In Windows Systems where dbgeng.dll aint present, 'Debuggin Tools For Windows' need ta be installed ta have these tools makin moves fo' realz. Also, \f2PATH\fP environment variable should contain tha location of \f2jvm.dll\fP used by tha target process or tha location from which tha Crash Dump file was produced.
.LP
.LP
For example, \f2set PATH=<jdk>\\jre\\bin\\client;%PATH%\fP
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
jinfo(1) 
.TP 2
o
jmap(1) 
.TP 2
o
jps(1) 
.TP 2
o
jstack(1) 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2rmiregistry\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/index.html#rmi 
.RE

.LP
 
