.TH jscal 1 "Jul 11, 2010" jscal
.SH NAME
jscal \- joystick calibration n' remappin program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR jscal
.RI "[" options "] <" device\(hyname ">"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jscal
calibrates joysticks n' maps joystick axes n' buttons.
Calibratin a joystick ensures tha positions on tha various axes are
correctly interpreted.
Mappin axes n' buttons allows tha meaningz of tha joystickz axes
and buttons ta be redefined.
.PP
On Debian systems tha calibration settings can be stored n' later
applied automatically rockin the
.B jscal-store
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-calibrate
Calibrate tha joystick.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print up a summary of available options.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-set\-correction " <\fInb_axes\fP,\fItype\fP,\fIprecision\fP,\fIcoefficients\fP,...>"
Sets erection ta specified joints.
For each axis, specify tha erection type (0 fo' none, 1 fo' "broken
line"), tha precision, n' if necessary tha erection coefficients
("broken line" erections take four coefficients).
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-set\-mappings " <\fInb_axes\fP,\fIaxmap1\fP,\fIaxmap2\fP,...,\fInb_buttons\fP,\fIbtnmap1\fP,\fIbtnmap2\fP,...>"
Sets axis n' button mappings.
\fIn_of_buttons\fP can be set ta 0 ta remap axes only.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\-center\fR"
Tests if tha joystick is erectly calibrated.
Returns 2 if tha axes is not calibrated, 3 if buttons was pressed, 1
if there was any other error, n' 0 on success.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Prints tha version numberz of tha hustlin joystick driver n' that
which jscal was compiled for.
.IP "\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print\-correction\fR"
Prints tha current erection settings.
Da format of tha output be a jscal command line.
.IP "\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-print\-mappings\fR"
Prints tha current axis n' button mappings.
Da format of tha output be a jscal command line.
.SH CALIBRATION
Usin tha Linux input system, joysticks is sposed ta fuckin produce joints
between \-32767 n' 32767 fo' axes, wit 0 meanin tha joystick is
centred.
Thus, full\(hyleft should produce \-32767 on tha X axis, full\(hyright
32767 on tha X axis, full\(hyforward \-32767 on tha Y axis, n' so on.
.PP
Many joysticks n' gamepadz (especially olda ones) is slightly
mis\(hyaligned; as a result they may not use tha full range of joints
(for tha extremez of tha axes), or mo' bugginly they may not give 0
when centred.
Calibratin a joystick serves up tha kernel wit shiznit on a
joystickz real behaviour, which allows tha kernel ta erect various
joysticks' deficiencies n' produce consistent output as far as
joystick\(hyusin software is concerned.
.PP
\fBjstest\fP(1) is useful ta determine whether a joystick is
calibrated: when run, it should produce all 0s when tha joystick be at
rest, n' each axis should be able ta produce tha joints \-32767 and
32767.
Analog joysticks should produce joints up in between 0 n' tha extremes,
but dis aint necessary; digital directionizzle padz work fine with
only tha three joints.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBffset\fP(1), \fBjstest\fP(1), \fBjscal\-store\fP(1).
.SH AUTHORS
.B jscal
was freestyled by Vojtech Pavlik n' improved by nuff others; peep the
linuxconsole tools documentation fo' details.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Stephen Kitt <steve@sk2.org>, fo' tha Debian
GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
