." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH jstack 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jstack \- Stack Trace
.br

.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jstack\fP [ option ] pid
.fl
\f3jstack\fP [ option ] executable core
.fl
\f3jstack\fP [ option ] [server\-id@]remote\-hostname\-or\-IP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.LP
Options is mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should follow immediately afta tha command name. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See OPTIONS.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
pid 
process id fo' which tha stack trace is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da process must be a Java process. To git a list of Java processes hustlin on a machine, jps(1) may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
executable 
Java executable from which tha core dump was produced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.br
.TP 3
core 
core file fo' which tha stack trace is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.br
.TP 3
remote\-hostname\-or\-IP 
remote debug serverz (see jsadebugd(1)) hostname or IP address. 
.br
.TP 3
server\-id 
optionizzle unique id, if multiple debug servers is hustlin on tha same remote host. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jstack\fP prints Java stack tracez of Java threadz fo' a given Java process or core file or a remote debug server n' shit. For each Java frame, tha full class name, method name, 'bci' (byte code index) n' line number, if available, is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. With tha \-m option, jstack prints both Java n' natizzle framez of all threadz along wit tha 'pc' (program counter). For each natizzle frame, tha closest natizzle symbol ta 'pc', if available, is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. C++ mangled names is not demangled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To demangle C++ names, tha output of dis command may be piped ta \f3c++filt\fP. If tha given process is hustlin on a 64\-bit VM, you may need ta specify tha \f2\-J\-d64\fP option, e.g.:
.br

.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
jstack \-J\-d64 \-m pid
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
\f3NOTE\fP \- This utilitizzle is unsupported n' may or may not be available up in future versionz of tha JDK. In Windows Systems where dbgeng.dll aint present, 'Debuggin Tools For Windows' need ta be installed ta have these tools makin moves fo' realz. Also, \f2PATH\fP environment variable should contain tha location of \f2jvm.dll\fP used by tha target process or tha location from which tha Crash Dump file was produced.
.LP
.LP
For example, \f2set PATH=<jdk>\\jre\\bin\\client;%PATH%\fP
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-F 
Force a stack dump when 'jstack [\-l] pid' do not respond. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
\-l 
Long listing. Prints additionizzle shiznit bout locks like fuckin list of owned java.util.concurrent 
.na
\f2ownable synchronizers\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/locks/AbstractOwnableSynchronizer.html. 
.TP 3
\-m 
prints mixed mode (both Java n' natizzle C/C++ frames) stack trace. 
.TP 3
\-h 
prints a help message.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-help 
prints a help message
.br
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
pstack(1) 
.TP 2
o
c++filt(1) 
.TP 2
o
jps(1) 
.TP 2
o
jsadebugd(1) 
.RE

.LP
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
.LP
.LP
Mixed mode stack trace, tha \-m option, do not work wit tha remote debug server.
.LP
 
