.PU
.TH jwhois 1 "November 2001" GNU
.SH NAME
jwhois \- client fo' tha whois service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +8
.B jwhois
.RB
[
.I "OPTIONS"
]...
[
.I "QUERY"
]
.ll -8
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I jwhois
searches Whois servers fo' tha object on tha command line.

Da host ta query is taken from a global configuration file,
a configuration file specified on tha command line, or selected
directly on tha command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
display version, authors n' licensin shiznit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text.
.TP
.B \-c FILE \-\-config=FILE
uses FILE as a cold-ass lil configuration file instead of tha default.
.TP
.B \-h HOST \-\-host=HOST
overrides any hosts up in tha configuration file n' queries HOST directly.
.TP
.B \-p PORT \-\-port=PORT
specifies a port number ta use when queryin a HOST.
.TP
.B \-f \-\-force-lookup
forces a query ta be made ta a host even if a cold-ass lil current object
is available from tha cache.
.TP
.B \-v \-\-verbose
outputs verbose debuggin shiznit while hustlin (use dis before
sendin a funky-ass bugreport ta ensure dat itz indeed a funky-ass bug n' not a 
misconfiguration). Yo ass can increase tha verbositizzle by givin several
verbose commandz ta jwhois, like fuckin \-vv.
.TP
.B \-n \-\-no-redirect
disable features dat redirect queries from one server ta another.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-no-whoisservers
disable tha built-in support fo' whois-servers.net.
.TP
.B \-a \-\-raw
send query verbatim ta receivin hosts instead of rewritin dem according
to tha configuration.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-display\-redirections
display every last muthafuckin step up in a redirection (default is ta display only the
last answer).
.TP
.B \-d \-\-disable\-cache
completely disable both readin n' freestylin ta cache.
.TP
.B \-r \-\-rwhois
force tha query ta use tha rwhois protocoll instead of HTTP or whois.
.TP
.B \-\-rwhois\-display=DISPLAY
asks receivin rwhois servers ta display tha thangs up in dis biatch up in tha DISPLAY display
instead of tha default dump display.
.TP
.B \-\-rwhois\-limit=LIMIT
asks receivin rwhois servers ta limit they responses ta LIMIT matches.

.SS "RIPE EXTENSIONS"
To use tha options specified in
.IR "RIPE Document 157" ,
you need ta chizzle tha format of tha query slightly.
If you was ta search fo' all entries in
the RIPE database which lists the
.IR admin-c ", " tech-c " or " unit-c " as " CO19-RIPE ,
you could use tha followin command syntax:

.B jwhois -h whois.ripe.net \-\- \-i admin-c,tech-c,zone-c CO19-RIPE

.B \-\-
is used ta separate tha RIPE options from tha jwhois options.

.ll -8
.SH "SEE ALSO"
whois(1)
