.\" Copyright 1994 Salvatore Valente (svalente@mit.edu)
.\" Copyright 1992 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH KILL 1 "March 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kill \- terminizzle a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kill
.RB [ \-s
.IR signal  | \fB\-p\fP ]
.RB [ \-q
.IR sigval ]
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.IR pid ...
.br
.B bust a cap up in -l
.RI [ signal ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da command
.B kill
sendz tha specified signal ta tha specified process or process group.  If no
signal is specified, tha TERM signal is sent.  Da TERM signal will kill
processes which do not catch dis signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  For other processes, it may be
necessary ta use tha KILL (9) signal, since dis signal cannot be caught.
.PP
Most modern shells gotz a funky-ass builtin bust a cap up in function, wit a usage rather similar to
that of tha command busted lyrics bout here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho.  Da '-a' n' '-p' options, n' the
possibilitizzle ta specify processes by command name is a local extension.
.PP
If sig is 0, then no signal is sent yo, but error checkin is still performed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR pid ...
Specify tha list of processes that
.B kill
should signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Each
.I pid
can be one of five thangs:
.RS
.TP
.I n
where
.I n
is larger than 0.  Da process wit pid
.I n
will be signaled.
.TP
.B 0
All processes up in tha current process crew is signaled.
.TP
.B -1
All processes wit pid larger than 1 is ghon be signaled.
.TP
.BI - n
where
.I n
is larger than 1.  All processes up in process group
.I n
are signaled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When a argument of tha form '-n' is given, n' it is meant to
denote a process group, either tha signal must be specified first, or the
argument must be preceded by a '--' option, otherwise it is ghon be taken as the
signal ta send.
.TP
.I commandname
All processes invoked rockin dat name is ghon be signaled.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-signal\fR \fIsignal\fR
Specify tha signal ta send yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Da signal may be given as a signal name or
number.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR [\fIsignal\fR]
Print a list of signal names, or convert signal given as argument ta a name.
Da signals is found in
.I /usr/\:include/\:linux/\:signal.h
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-table\fR
Similar ta \-l yo, but will print signal names n' they corresponding
numbers.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Do not restrict tha commandname-to-pid conversion ta processes wit tha same
uid as tha present process.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR
Specify that
.B kill
should only print tha process id (pid) of tha named processes, n' not bust any
signals.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queue\fR \fIsigval\fR
Use
.BR sigqueue (2)
rather than
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
and the
.I sigval
argument is used ta specify a integer ta be busted wit tha signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If the
receivin process has installed a handlez fo' dis signal rockin tha SA_SIGINFO
flag to
.BR sigaction (2),
then it can obtain dis data via tha si_value field of tha siginfo_t structure.
.SH NOTES
It aint possible ta bust a signal ta explicitly selected thread up in a
multithreaded process by
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
syscall.  If
.BR kill(2)
is used ta bust a signal ta a thread group, then kernel selects arbitrary
gangmember of tha thread crew dat has not blocked tha signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  For mo' details
see
.BR clone (2)
CLONE_THREAD description.
.PP
Da command
.BR bust a cap up in (1)
as well as syscall
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
accepts TID (thread ID, see
.BR gettid (2))
as argument.  In dis case tha bust a cap up in behavior aint chizzled n' tha signal is
also served up ta tha thread crew rather than ta tha specified thread.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bash (1),
.BR tcsh (1),
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Taken from BSD 4.4.  Da mobilitizzle ta translate process names ta process idz was
added by
.MT svalente@mit.edu
Salvatore Valente
.ME .
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da bust a cap up in command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
