.\"
.\" Copyright 1993-2002 Werner Almesberger
.\"           2002-2012 Craig Small
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KILLALL 1 "2012-7-28" "psmisc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
killall \- bust a cap up in processes by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B killall
.RB [ \-Z , \ \-\-context
.IR pattern ]
.RB [ \-e , \ \-\-exact ]
.RB [ \-g , \ \-\-process\-group ]
.RB [ \-i , \ \-\-interactizzle ]
.RB [ \-o , \ \-\-older\-than
.IR TIME ]
.RB [ \-q , \ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-r , \ \-\-regexp ]
.RB [ \-s , \ \-\-signal
.IR signal ]
.RB [ \-u , \ \-\-user
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-v , \ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-w , \ \-\-wait ]
.RB [ \-y , \ \-\-younger\-than
.IR TIME ]
.RB [ \-I , \ \-\-ignore-case ]
.RB [ \-V, \ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.I name ...
.br
.B killall
.RB \-l
.br
.B killall
.RB \-V, \ \-\-version
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B killall
sendz a signal ta all processes hustlin any of tha specified commands.
If no signal name is specified, SIGTERM is sent.
.PP
Signals can be specified either by name (e.g.
.B \-HUP
or
.BR -SIGHUP )
or by number (e.g.
.BR \-1 )
or by option
.BR -s .
.PP
If tha command name aint regular expression (option
.BR -r )
and gotz nuff a slash
.RB ( / ),
processes executin dat particular file is ghon be selected fo' cappin',
independent of they name.
.PP
.B killall
returns a zero return code if at least one process has been capped for
each listed command, or no commandz was listed n' at least one
process matched tha -u n' -Z search criteria.
.B killall
returns non-zero otherwise.
.PP
A
.B killall
process never kills itself (but may bust a cap up in other
.B killall
processes).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-exact\fP"
Require a exact match fo' straight-up long names.  If a cold-ass lil command name is
longer than 15 characters, tha full name may be unavailable (i.e.  it
is swapped out).  In dis case,
.B killall
will bust a cap up in every last muthafuckin thang dat matches within tha straight-up original gangsta 15 characters.  With
.BR \-e ,
such entries is skipped.
.B killall
prints a message fo' each skipped entry
if
.B \-v
is specified up in addizzle to
.BR \-e ,
.IP "\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fP"
Do case insensitizzle process name match.
.IP "\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-process\-group\fP"
Bust a cap up in tha process crew ta which tha process belongs.  Da bust a cap up in signal
is only busted once per group, even if multiple processes belongin to
the same process crew was found.
.IP "\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-interactive\fP"
Interactively ask fo' confirmation before cappin'.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP"
List all known signal names.
.IP "\fB\-o\fP, \fB\-\-older\-than\fP"
Match only processes dat is olda (started before) tha time
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da time is specified as a gangbangin' float then a unit.  Da units
are s,m,h,d,w,M,y fo' seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, Months and
years respectively.
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Do not diss if no processes was capped.
.IP "\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-regexp\fP"
Interpret process name pattern as a extended regular expression.
.IP "\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-signal\fP"
Send dis signal instead of SIGTERM.
.IP "\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-user\fP"
Bust a cap up in only processes tha specified user owns.  Command names are
optional.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Report if tha signal was successfully sent.
.IP "\fB\-V\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit.
.IP "\fB\-w\fP, \fB\-\-wait\fP"
Wait fo' all capped processes ta take a thugged-out dirt nap.
.B killall
checks once per second if any of tha capped processes still exist and
only returns if none is left.  Note that
.B killall
may wait forever if tha signal was ignored, had no effect, or if the
process stays up in zombie state.
.IP "\fB\-y\fP, \fB\-\-younger\-than\fP"
Match only processes dat is younger (started after) tha time
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da time is specified as a gangbangin' float then a unit.  Da units
are s,m,h,d,w,M,y fo' seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, Months and
years respectively.
.IP "\fB\-Z\fP, \fB\-\-context\fP"
(SELinux Only) Specify securitizzle context: bust a cap up in only processes having
securitizzle context dat match wit given expended regular expression
pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Must precede other arguments on tha command line.  Command
names is optional.
.SH FILES
.TP
/proc
location of tha proc file system
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
Bustin' by file only works fo' executablez dat is kept open during
execution, i.e. impure executablez can't be capped dis way.
.PP
Be warned dat typing
.B killall
.I name
may not have tha desired effect on non-Linux systems, especially when
done by a privileged user.
.PP
.B killall \-w
doesn't detect if a process disappears n' is replaced by a freshly smoked up process
with tha same PID between scans.
.PP
If processes chizzle they name,
.B killall
may not be able ta match dem erectly.
.PP
.B killall
has a limit of names dat can be specified on tha command line.  This
figure is tha size of a unsigned long multiplied by 8.  For most 32
bit systems tha limit is 32 n' similarly fo' a 64 bit system tha limit
is probably 64.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bust a cap up in (1),
.BR fuser (1),
.BR pgrep (1),
.BR pidof (1),
.BR pkill (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR bust a cap up in (2).
.\{{{}}}
