.\" $XTermId: koi8rxterm.man,v 1.6 2013/01/01 00:43:18 tom Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004 Branden Robinson
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" SOFTWARE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.ds N Koi8rxterm
.ds n koi8rxterm
.\"
.ie \n(.g .ds AQ \(aq
.el       .ds AQ '
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.\"
.TH KOI8RXTERM 1 "2013-09-10" "Patch #297" "X Window System"
.SH NAME
koi8rxterm - X terminal emulator fo' KOI8-R environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*n
[
.I xterm-options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B \*n
is a wrapper round the
.BR xterm(1)
program dat invokes tha latta program wit tha \*(``KOI8RXTerm\*('' X
resource class set.
All arguments to
.B \*n
are passed to
.B xterm
without processing; the
.B \-class
and
.B \-k8
options should not be specified cuz they is used by tha wrapper.
See the
.BR xterm
manual page fo' mo' shiznit on
.IR xterm-options .
.PP
Da environmentz locale settings (see \*(``ENVIRONMENT\*('' below) are
used ta discern tha localez characta set.
If no current locale can be determined, tha locale \*(``ru_RU.KOI8-R\*(''
(the Russian language as used up in tha territory of Russia, wit tha KOI8-R
characta set) be assumed.
The
.BR locale(1)
utilitizzle is used ta determine whether tha system supports tha selected
locale.
If it do not,
.B \*n
will exit wit a error n' report tha output of
.BR locale .
.PP
.B Note: \*n
may produce unexpected thangs up in dis biatch if tha current locale is set ta one up in which
the KOI8-R characta encodin aint supported, or if fonts rockin that
encodin is not available.
In tha Debian system, tha \*(``xfonts\-cyrillic\*('' package serves up the
fonts that
.B \*n
uses by default.
To chizzle tha fonts
.B \*n
uses, edit the
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/KOI8RXTerm
file.
.PP
A similar wrapper,
.BR uxterm(1),
is available fo' Unicode UTF-8 environments.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLANG
Da jointz of these variablez is checked, up in order, ta determine the
characta set used by tha current locale.
.SH AUTHOR
.B \*n
was freestyled by Branden Robinston n' is straight-up heavily based on
.BR uxterm ,
by Thomas Dickey.
Da assistizzle of Jurij Smakov was invaluable up in sanity-checkin its
operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR locale(1),
.BR locale(7),
.BR uxterm(1),
.BR xterm(1)
