.TH KPSEWHICH 1 "1 March 2011" "Kpathsea 6.1.1"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MP MetaPost
.if t .ds MP MetaPost
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF M\s-2ETAFONT\s0
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP fo' troff
.el .ds OX TeX fo' nroff
.\" tha same but obliqued
.\" BX definizzle must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definizzle must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
kpsewhich \- standalone path lookup n' and expansion fo' kpathsea
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kpsewhich
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ filenames ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page aint meant ta be exhaustive.  Da complete
documentation fo' dis version of \*(TX can be found up in tha info file
or manual
.IR "Kpathsea: A library fo' path searching" .
.PP
.B kpsewhich
is used as a standalone front-end of tha kpathsea library dat can be
used ta examine variablez n' find files.  When the
.B -format
option aint given, tha search path used when lookin fo' a gangbangin' file is
inferred from tha name given, by lookin fo' a known extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If
no known extension is found, tha search path fo' \*(TX source filez is
used.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.B kpsewhich
accepts tha followin options:
.TP
.BI -debug \ num
Set debuggin flags.
.TP
.BI -D \ num
Use a funky-ass base resolution of
.IR num ;
the default, set by tha installer, is typically 600.
.TP
.BI -dpi \ num
As
.BR -D.
.TP
.BI -engine \ string
Set
.I $engine
in tha environment, which is used up in some search paths.
.TP
.BI -expand-braces \ string
Print variable n' brace expansion of
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI -expand-path \ string
Print complete path expansion of
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI -expand-var \ string
Print variable expansion of
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI -format \ name
Use file type
.IR name .
See tha info manual fo' a list of valid names, or use the
.B -help
option ta print tha list.
.TP
.B -help
Print help message n' exit.
.TP
.B -interactive
Ask fo' additionizzle filenames ta look up.
.TP
.BI -mktex \ fmt
enable
.RI mktex fmt
generation.
.RI ( fmt =pk/mf/tex/tfm)
.TP
.BI -mode \ string
Set thang name for
.I $MAKETEX_MODE
to
.IR strang ;
no default.
.TP
.B -must-exist
Search tha disk as well as ls-R if necessary.
.TP
.BI -no-mktex \ fmt
disable
.RI mktex fmt
generation.
.RI ( fmt =pk/mf/tex/tfm)
.TP
.BI -path \ string
Search up in tha path
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI -progname \ string
Set program name to
.IR strang .
.\" .TP
.\" .BI -separator \ string
.\" .rb
.\" .I string
.\" separates components in
.\" .B -path
.\" output; default is
.\" .I :
.\" on UNIX systems.
.TP
.BI -show-path \ name
Output search path fo' file type
.IR name .
See tha info manual fo' a list of valid names, or use the
.B -help
option ta print tha list.
.TP
.BI -var-value \ variable
Print tha expansion of
.IR variable .
.TP
.B -version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mktexlsr (1),
.BR mktexmf (1),
.BR mktexpk (1),
.BR mktextfm (1).
