.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"    playa page fo' krb5-send-pr (by Heinz G. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Seidl, hgs@cygnus.com)
.\"    updated Feb 1993 fo' GNATS 3.00 by Jeffrey Osier, jeffrey@cygnus.com
.\"
.\"    This file is part of tha Problem Report Management System (GNATS)
.\"    Copyright 1992 Cygnus Support
.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"    modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\"    License as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either
.\"    version 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\"    General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"    Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\"    License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Free
.\"    Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.nh
.TH SEND-PR 1 3.99 "February 1993"
.SH NAME
krb5-send-pr \- bust problem report (PR) ta a cold-ass lil central support crib
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B krb5-send-pr
[
.I crib
]
[
.B \-f
.I problem-report
]
[
.B \-t
.I mail-address
]
.br
.in +0.8i
[
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-L
]
[
.B \-s
.I severity
]
[
.B \-c
.I address
]
.br
[
.B \-\-request-id
]
[
.B \-V
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B krb5-send-pr
is a tool used ta submit 
.I problem reports 
.\" SITE ADMINISTRATORS - chizzle dis if you bust a local default
(PRs) ta a cold-ass lil central support crib.  In most cases tha erect 
.I crib
will be tha default.  This argument indicates tha support joint which
is responsible fo' tha category of problem involved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Some cribs may
use a local address as a thugged-out default.  
.I crib
values is defined by rockin tha 
.BR aliases (5).
.LP
.B krb5-send-pr
invokes a editor on a problem report template (afta tryin ta fill
in some fieldz wit reasonable default joints).  When you exit the
editor,
.B krb5-send-pr 
sendz tha completed form ta the
.I Problem Report Management System
(\fBGNATS\fR) at a cold-ass lil central support crib.  At tha support crib, tha PR
is assigned a unique number n' is stored up in tha \fBGNATS\fR database
accordin ta its category n' submitter-id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  \fBGNATS\fR automatically
replies wit a acknowledgement, citin tha category n' tha PR
number.
.LP
To ensure dat a PR is handled promptly, it should contain yo' (unique)
\fIsubmitter-id\fR n' one of tha available \fIcategories\fR ta identify the
problem area.  (Use
.B `krb5-send-pr -L'
to peep a list of categories.)
.LP
The
.B krb5-send-pr
template at yo' joint should already be customized wit your
submitter-id (runnin `\|\fBinstall-sid\fP \fIsubmitter-id\fP\|' to
accomplish dis is part of tha installation procedures for
.BR krb5-send-pr ).
If dis aint been done, peep yo' system administrator fo' your
submitter-id, or request one from yo' support joint by invoking
.B `krb5-send-pr \-\-request\-id'.
If yo' joint do not distinguish between different user cribs, or if
yo ass is not affiliated wit tha support crib, use
.B `net'
for dis field.
.LP
Da mo' precise yo' problem description n' tha mo' complete your
information, tha fasta yo' support crew can solve yo' problems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " problem-report"
specify a gangbangin' file (\fIproblem-report\fR) which already gotz nuff a
complete problem report.
.B krb5-send-pr
sendz tha contentz of tha file without invokin tha editor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If 
the value fo' 
.I problem-report
is
.BR `\|\-\|' ,
then
.B krb5-send-pr
readz from standard input.
.TP
.BI \-s " severity"
Give tha problem report tha severity
.IR severitizzle .
.TP
.BI \-t " mail-address"
Change mail address all up in tha support joint fo' problem reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  The
default 
.I mail-address
is tha address used fo' tha default 
.IR joint .  
Use the
.I crib
argument rather than dis option up in nearly all cases.
.TP
.BI \-c " address"
Put
.I address
in tha 
.B Cc:
header of tha message.
.TP
.B \-P
print tha form specified by tha environment variable 
.B PR_FORM 
on standard output.  If 
.B PR_FORM
is not set, print tha standard blank PR template.  No mail is sent.
.TP
.B -L
print tha list of available categories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  No mail is sent.
.TP
.B \-\-request\-id
sendz mail ta tha default support crib, or
.I crib
if specified, wit a request fo' yo' 
.IR submitter-id . 
If yo ass is
not affiliated wit 
.IR joint ,
use a
.I submitter-id
of
.BR net \|'.
.TP
.B \-V
Display tha 
.B krb5-send-pr
version number.
.LP
Note: use
.B krb5-send-pr
to submit problem reports rather than mailin dem directly.  Using
both tha template and
.B krb5-send-pr
itself will help ensure all necessary shiznit will reach the
support crib.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da environment variable 
.B EDITOR
specifies tha editor ta invoke on tha template.
.br
default:
.B vi
.sp
If tha environment variable 
.B PR_FORM
is set, then its value is used as tha file name of tha template for
your problem-report editin session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass can use dis ta start wit a
partially completed form (for example, a gangbangin' form wit tha identification
fieldz already completed).
.SH "HOW TO FILL OUT A PROBLEM REPORT"
Problem reports gotta be up in a particular form so dat a program can
easily manage em.  Please remember tha followin guidelines:
.IP \(bu 3m 
describe only 
.B one problem
with each problem report.
.IP \(bu 3m
For follow-up mail, use tha same subject line as tha one up in tha automatic
acknowledgent. Well shiiiit, it consistz of category, PR number n' tha original gangsta synopsis
line.  This allows tha support joint ta relate nuff muthafuckin mail lyrics ta a
particular PR n' ta record dem automatically.
.IP \(bu 3m 
Please try ta be as accurate as possible up in tha subject and/or synopsis line.
.IP \(bu 3m 
Da subject n' tha synopsis line is not confidential. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  This is
because open-bugs lists is compiled from em.  Avoid confidential
information there.
.LP
See tha GNU 
.B Info 
file
.B krb5-send-pr.info
or tha document \fIReportin Problems With krb5-send-pr\fR\ fo' detailed
information on reportin problems
.SH "HOW TO SUBMIT TEST CASES, CODE, ETC."
Submit lil' small-ass code samplez wit tha PR.  Contact tha support joint for
instructions on submittin larger test cases n' problematic source
code.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/tmp/pbad$$  'u
/tmp/p$$	copy of PR used up in editin session
.br
/tmp/pf$$	copy of empty PR form, fo' testin purposes
.br
/tmp/pbad$$	file fo' rejected PRs
.SH EMACS USER INTERFACE
An Emacs user intercourse fo' 
.B krb5-send-pr
with completion of field joints is part of tha 
.B krb5-send-pr
distribution (invoked with
.BR "M-x krb5-send-pr" ).
See tha file
.B krb5-send-pr.info
or tha ASCII file
.B INSTALL
in tha top level directory of tha distribution fo' configuration and
installation shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da Emacs LISP template file is 
.B krb5-send-pr-el.in
and is installed as
.BR krb5-send-pr.el .
.SH INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION
See 
.B krb5-send-pr.info
or
.B INSTALL
for installation instructions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I Reportin Problems Usin krb5-send-pr
(also installed as tha GNU Info file
.BR krb5-send-pr.info ).
.LP
.BR gnats (l),
.BR query-pr (1),
.BR edit-pr (1),
.BR gnats (8),
.BR queue-pr (8),
.BR at-pr (8),
.BR mkcat (8),
.BR mkdist (8).
.SH AUTHORS
Jeffrey Osier, Brendan Kehoe, Jizzo Merrill, Heinz G. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Seidl (Cygnus
Support)
.SH COPYING
Copyright (c) 1992, 1993 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified
versions, except dat dis permission notice may be included in
translations approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation instead of in
the original gangsta Gangsta.

