.TH L2PING 1 "Jan 22 2002" BlueZ "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
l2pin \- Send L2CAP echo request n' receive answer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B l2ping
.RB [\| \-i
.IR <hciX> \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR size \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR count \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR timeout \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR delay \|]
.RB [\| \-f \|]
.RB [\| \-r \|]
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.I bd_addr

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
L2pin sendz a L2CAP echo request ta tha Bluetooth MAC address
.I bd_addr
given up in dotted hex notation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " <hciX>"
Da command be applied ta device
.BI
hciX
, which must be tha name of a installed Bluetooth thang (X = 0, 1, 2, ...)
If not specified, tha command is ghon be busted ta tha straight-up original gangsta available Bluetooth
device.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
The
.I size
of tha data packets ta be sent.
.TP
.BI \-c " count"
Send
.I count
number of packets then exit.
.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
Wait
.I timeout
secondz fo' tha response.
.TP
.BI \-d " delay"
Wait
.I delay
secondz between pings.
.TP
.B \-f
Kind of flood ping. Use wit care biaaatch! It reduces tha delay time between packets
to 0.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse pin (gnip?). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Send echo response instead of echo request.
.TP
.B \-v
Verify response payload is identical ta request payload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it aint required for
remote stacks ta return tha request payload yo, but most stacks do (including
Bluez).
.TP
.I bd_addr
Da Bluetooth MAC address ta be pinged up in dotted hex notation like
.B 01:02:03:ab:cd:ef
or
.B 01:EF:cd:aB:02:03
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com> n' Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
.PP
man page by Nils Faerber <nils@kernelconcepts.de>, Adam Laurie <adam@algroup.co.uk>.
