.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2004 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH "LAST, LASTB" "1" "October 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
last, lastb \- show a listin of last logged up in users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B last
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ username ...]
.RI [ tty ...]
.br
.B lastb
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ username ...]
.RI [ tty ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B last
searches back all up in the
.B /var/log/wtmp
file (or tha file designated by the
.B \-f
option) n' displays a list of all playas logged up in (and out) since that
file was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  One or more
.IR usernames " and/or " ttys
can be given, up in which case
.B last
will show only tha entries matchin dem arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Names of
.I ttys
can be abbreviated, thus
.B last 0
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR "last tty0" .
.PP
When catchin a \s-2SIGINT\s0 signal (generated by tha interrupt key, usually
control-C) or a \s-2SIGQUIT\s0 signal,
.B last
will show how tha fuck far it has searched all up in tha file; up in tha case of the
\s-2SIGINT\s0 signal
.B last
will then terminate.
.PP
Da pseudo user
.B reboot
logs up in each time tha system is rebooted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Thus
.B last reboot
will show a log of all tha reboots since tha log file was pimped.
.PP
.B lastb
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR last ,
except dat by default it shows a log of the
.BR /var/log/btmp
file, which gotz nuff all tha wack login attempts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-hostlast"
Display tha hostname up in tha last column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful up in combination wit the
.B \-\-dns
option.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-dns"
For non-local logins, Linux stores not only tha host name of tha remote
host yo, but its IP number as well.  This option translates tha IP number
back tha fuck into a hostname.
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-file " \fIfile\fR
Tell
.B last
to bust a specific \fIfile\fR instead of
.BR /var/log/wtmp .
The
.B \-\-file
option can be given multiple times, n' all of tha specified filez will be
processed.
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-fulltimes"
Print full login n' logout times n' dates.
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-ip"
Like
.B \-\-dns ,
but displays tha hostz IP number instead of tha name.
.TP
.BI \- number
.TQ
.BR \-n , " -\-limit " \fInumber\fR
Tell
.B last
how nuff lines ta show.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-present " \fItime\fR
Display tha playas whoz ass was present all up in tha specified time.  This is
like rockin tha options
.BR \-\-since " n' " \-\-until
together wit tha same \fItime\fR.
.TP
.BR \-R , " \-\-nohostname"
Suppresses tha display of tha hostname field.
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-since " \fItime\fR
Display tha state of logins since tha specified
.IR time .
This is useful, e.g., ta easily determine whoz ass was logged up in at a
particular time.  Da option is often combined with
.BR \-\-until .
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-until " \fItime\fR
Display tha state of logins until tha specified
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-\-time\-format " format"
Define tha output timestamp
.I format
to be one of
.IR notime ,
.IR short ,
.IR full ,
or
.IR iso .
The
.I notime
variant aint gonna print any timestamps at all,
.I short
is tha default, and
.I full
is tha same ol' dirty as the
.B \-\-fulltimes
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
.I iso
variant will display tha timestamp up in ISO-8601 format.  Da ISO format
gotz nuff timezone shiznit, makin it preferrable when printouts are
investigated outside of tha system.
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-fullnames"
Display full user names n' domain names up in tha output.
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-system"
Display tha system shutdown entries n' run level chizzles.
.SH TIME FORMATS
Da options dat take the
.I time
argument KNOW tha followin formats:
.TS
left l2 l.
YYYYMMDDhhmmss
YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss
YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm	(secondz is ghon be set ta 00)
YYYY-MM-DD	(time is ghon be set ta 00:00:00)
hh:mm:ss	(date is ghon be set ta todizzle)
hh:mm	(date is ghon be set ta todizzle, secondz ta 00)
now
yesterday	(time is set ta 00:00:00)
todizzle	(time is set ta 00:00:00)
tomorrow	(time is set ta 00:00:00)
+5min
-5days
.TE
.SH NOTES
Da files
.I wtmp
and
.I btmp
might not be found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da system only logs shiznit up in these filez if
they is present.  This be a local configuration issue.  If you want the
filez ta be used, they can be pimped wit a simple
.BR bust a nut on (1)
command (for example,
.IR "touch /var/log/wtmp" ).
.SH FILES
/var/log/wtmp
.br
/var/log/btmp
.SH AUTHOR
.MT miquels@cistron.nl
Miquel van Smoorenburg
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da last command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR login (1),
.BR init (8)
