.TH LASTCOMM 1 "1995 October 31"
.SH NAME
lastcomm \-  print up shiznit bout previously executed commands.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B lastcomm
[
.I command-name ...
]
.br
[
.I user-name ...
]
.br
[
.I terminal-name ...
]
.br
[ OPTION ... ]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B lastcomm
prints up shiznit bout previously executed
commands.  If no arguments is specified, 
.B lastcomm 
will print info
about all of tha commandz up in 
.I acct
(the record file).  If called wit one or mo' of
.I command-name,
.I user-name, 
or 
.I terminal-name,
only recordz containin dem shit is ghon be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For 
example, ta smoke up which playas used command `a.out' 
and which playas was logged tha fuck into `tty0', type:
.ce
lastcomm a.out tty0
.ce 0
.LP
This will print any entry fo' which `a.out' or `tty0' 
matches up in any of tha recordz fieldz (command, name, or terminal).  If 
you wanna find only shit dat match *all* of tha arguments on tha command 
line, you must use tha '\-strict-match' option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example, ta list 
all of tha executionz of command 
.IR a.out " by user " root " on terminal " tty0, 
type:
.ce 
lastcomm \-\-strict-match \-\-command a.out \-\-user root \-\-tty tty0
.ce 0
.LP
Da order of tha arguments aint blingin.
.LP
For each entry tha followin shiznit is printed:
   + command name of tha process
   + flags, as recorded by tha system accountin routines:
        S -- command executed by super-user
        F -- command executed afta a gangbangin' fork but without a gangbangin' followin exec
        C -- command run up in PDP-11 compatibilitizzle mode (VAX only)
        D -- command terminated wit tha generation of a cold-ass lil core file
        X -- command was terminated wit tha signal SIGTERM
   + tha name of tha user whoz ass ran tha process
   + time tha process started
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-strict\-match
Print only entries dat match *all* of tha arguments on tha command
line.
.TP
.B \-\-print\-controls 
Print control characters.
.TP
.BI \-\-user " name"
List recordz fo' user with
.I name.
This is useful if you trying
to match a username dat happens ta be tha same as a cold-ass lil command (e.g.,
.I ed
).
.TP
.BI \-\-command " name"
List recordz fo' command
.I name.
.TP
.BI \-\-tty " name"
List recordz fo' tty
.I name.
.TP
.BI \-\-forwards
Read file forwardz instead of backwards. This avoidz tryin ta seek on tha file
and can be used ta read from a pipe. This must be specified prior ta any
.BI \-f
arguments.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename, " \-\-file " filename"
Read from tha file 
.I filename 
instead of
.I acct.
A filename of "-" will result up in readin from stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This must either be the
first
.BI \-f
option, or
.BI \-\-forwards
must precede all
.BI \-f
options.
.TP
.BI \-\-ahz " hz"
Use dis flag ta tell tha program what
.B AHZ
should be (in hertz).  This option is useful if yo ass is tryin ta view
an
.I acct
file pimped on another machine which has tha same ol' dirty byte order n' file
format as yo' current machine yo, but has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different value for
.B AHZ.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-show\-paging
Print pagin statistics
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print verbose internal shiznit.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print tha version number of
.B lastcomm.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints tha usage strang n' default locationz of system filez to
standard output n' exits.

.SH FILES
.I acct
.RS
Da system wide process accountin file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR acct (5)
(or
.BR pacct (5))
for further details.
.I /var/log/account
.RS
This directory gotz nuff pacct filez which contain tha binary process
accountin data as freestyled by tha kernel.
.RE
.LP

.SH AUTHOR
Da GNU accountin utilitizzles was freestyled by Noel Cragg
<noel@gnu.ai.mit.edu>. Da playa page was adapted from tha accounting
texinfo page by Susan Kleinmann <sgk@sgk.tiac.net>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR last (1),
.BR acct (5)

