.\" A playa page fo' lchage
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmač <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lchage 1 "Nov 8 2012" libuser

.SH NAME
lchage \- Display or chizzle user password policy

.SH SYNOPSIS
lchage [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays or allows changin password policy of \fIuser\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-date\fR=\fIdays\fR
Set tha date of last password chizzle ta \fIdays\fR afta Jan 1 1970.

Set
.I days
to -1 ta disable password expiration
(i.e. ta ignore \fB\-\-mindays\fP, n' \fB\-\-maxdays\fP n' related settings).

Set
.I days
to 0 ta enforce password chizzle on next login.
(This also disablez password expiration until tha password is chizzled.)

.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expire\fR=\fIdays\fR
Set tha account expiration date ta \fIdays\fR afta Jan 1 1970.
Set \fIdays\fR ta -1 ta disable account expiration.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-inactive\fR=\fIdays\fR
Disable tha account afta \fIdays\fR afta password expires (after
the user is required ta chizzle tha password).
Set
.I days
to -1 ta keep tha account enabled indefinitely afta password expiration.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
Only list current \fIuser\fRz policy n' make no chizzles.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mindays\fR=\fIdays\fR
Require at least \fIdays\fR minutes between password chizzles.
Set \fIdays\fR ta 0 or -1 ta disable dis requirement.

If dis value is larger than tha value set by \fB\-\-maxdays\fP,
the user cannot chizzle tha pasword.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-maxdays\fR=\fIdays\fR
Require changin tha password afta \fIdays\fR since last password chizzle.
Set \fIdays\fR ta -1 ta disable password expiration.

.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-warndays\fR=\fIdays\fR
Start warnin tha user \fIdays\fR before password expires (before
the user is required ta chizzle tha password).
Set
.I days
to 0 or -1 ta disable tha warning.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.

.SH NOTES
Note dat \(lqaccount expiration\(rq
(set by \fB\-\-expire\fP)
is distinct from \(lqpassword expiration\(rq
(set by \fB\-\-maxdays\fP).
Account expiration happens on a gangbangin' fixed date regardless of password chizzles.
Password expiration is relatizzle ta tha date of last password chizzle.
