.\" A playa page fo' lchfn
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lchfn 1 "Sep 20 2004" libuser

.SH NAME
lchfn \- Chizzle finger shiznit

.SH SYNOPSIS
lchfn [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIuser\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays n' allows changin shiznit bout \fIuser\fR 
that be available rockin the
.BR finger (1)
command (usually stored up in tha "gecos" field of \fI/etc/passwd\fR).

If tha \fIuser\fR argument aint provided,
username of tha invokin user is used;
the \fIuser\fR argument is ignored if
.B lchfn
is run set-uid ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different user.

Enterin a empty strang (by pressin Enter) at a prompt
is interpreted as acceptin a thugged-out default value;
to erase a attribute (or ta use a empty strang as tha attribute value),
enta a single dot character.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, 1 on error.
