.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPWHOAMI 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapwhoami \- LDAP whoz ass be i, biatch? tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapwhoami
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapwhoami
implements tha LDAP "Dum diddy-dum, here I come biaaatch! Who tha fuck Am I?" extended operation.
.LP
.B ldapwhoami
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' performs a whoami
operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapwhoami
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up big-ass up tha whoami operation.
Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run up in verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' whoami extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

WhoAmI extensions:
.nf
  (none)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    ldapwhoami \-x \-D "cn=Manager,dc=example,dc=com" \-W
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_extended_operation (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 202 stdin
