.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPCOMPARE 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapcompare \- LDAP compare tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapcompare
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-z ]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.IR DN
{\c
.BI attr: value
|
.BI attr:: b64value\fR}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapcompare
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell-accessible intercourse ta the
.BR ldap_compare_ext (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapcompare
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' performs a cold-ass lil compare
usin specified parameters.   Da \fIDN\fP should be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distinguished
name up in tha directory.  \fIAttr\fP should be a known attribute.  If
followed by one colon, tha assertion \fIvalue\fP should be provided
as a string.  If followed by two colons, tha base64 encodin of the
value is provided. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da result code of tha compare is provided as
the exit code and, unless ran wit \fB\-z\fP, tha program prints
TRUE, FALSE, or UNDEFINED on standard output.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapcompare
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up big-ass up tha compare.  Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run up in verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-z
Run up in on tha down-low mode, no output is written. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass must check tha return
status.  Useful up in shell scripts.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
Note dat \fIcomplete\fP means dat any leadin or trailin whitespaces,
includin newlines, is ghon be considered part of tha password and,
unlike other software, they aint gonna be stripped.
As a cold-ass lil consequence, passwordz stored up in filez by commandz like
.BR echo (1)
will not behave as expected, since
.BR echo (1)
by default appendz a trailin newline ta tha echoed string.
Da recommended portable way ta store a cold-ass lil cleartext password up in a gangbangin' file
for use wit dis option is ta use
.BR slappasswd (8)
with \fI{CLEARTEXT}\fP as hash n' tha option \fB\-n\fP.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify tha LDAP protocol version ta use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' compare extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

Compare extensions:
.nf
  !dontUseCopy
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
    ldapcompare "uid=babs,dc=example,dc=com"  sn:Jensen
    ldapcompare "uid=babs,dc=example,dc=com"  sn::SmVuc2Vu
.fi
are all equivalent.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Requirin tha value be passed on tha command line is limiting
and introduces some securitizzle concerns.  Da command should support
a mechanizzle ta specify tha location (file name or URL) ta read
the value from.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_compare_ext (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 253 stdin
