.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPDELETE 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapdelete \- LDAP delete entry tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapdelete
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-r ]
[\c
.BI \-z \ sizelimit\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
[\c
.IR DN \ [ ... ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapdelete
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell-accessible intercourse ta the
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapdelete
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' deletes one or more
entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  If one or mo' \fIDN\fP arguments is provided, entries with
those Distinguished Names is deleted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Each \fIDN\fP should be provided
usin tha LDAPv3 strang representation as defined up in RFC 4514.
If no \fIDN\fP arguments
are provided, a list of DNs is read from standard input (or from
\fIfile\fP if tha \fB\-f\fP flag is used).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapdelete
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up delete entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors  is  reported,  but
.B ldapdelete
will  continue  wit  deletions.   Da default is ta exit after
reportin a error.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read a seriez of DNs from \fIfile\fP, one per line, struttin an
LDAP delete fo' each.
.TP
.B \-r
Do a recursive delete.  If tha DN specified aint a leaf, its
children, n' all they lil pimps is deleted down tha tree.  No
verification is done, so if you add dis switch, ldapdelete will
happily delete big-ass portionz of yo' tree.  Use wit care.
.TP
.BI \-z \ sizelimit
Use \fIsizelimit\fP when searchin fo' lil pimps DN ta delete,
to circumvent any server-side size limit.  Only useful up in conjunction
with \fB\-r\fP.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify tha LDAP protocol version ta use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' delete extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

Delete extensions:
.nf
  (none)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha identitizzle dependz on the
actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapdelete "cn=Delete Me,dc=example,dc=com"
.fi
.LP
will attempt ta delete tha entry named "cn=Delete Me,dc=example,dc=com".
Of course it would probably be necessary ta supply authentication
credentials.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if no errors occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Errors result up in a non-zero exit
status n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 264 stdin
