.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPMODIFY 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapmodify, ldapadd \- LDAP modify entry n' LDAP add entry tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodify
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-a ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.LP
.B ldapadd
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldapmodify
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell-accessible intercourse ta the
.BR ldap_add_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3)
and
.BR ldap_rename (3).
library calls.
.B ldapadd
is implemented as a hard link ta tha ldapmodify tool.  When invoked as
.B ldapadd
the \fB\-a\fP (add freshly smoked up entry) flag is turned on automatically.
.LP
.B ldapmodify
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' modifies or addz entries.
Da entry shiznit is read from standard input or from \fIfile\fP through
the use of tha \fB\-f\fP option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapmodify
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up modify entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-a
Add freshly smoked up entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da default for
.B ldapmodify
is ta modify existin entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  If invoked as
.BR ldapadd ,
this flag be always set.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors is reported yo, but
.B ldapmodify
will continue wit modifications.  Da default is ta exit after
reportin a error.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read tha entry modification shiznit from \fIfile\fP instead of from
standard input.
.TP
.BI \-S \ file
Add or chizzle recordz which was skipped cuz of a error is freestyled ta \fIfile\fP 
and tha error message returned by tha server be added as a cold-ass lil comment. Most useful up in 
conjunction wit \fB\-c\fP.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify tha LDAP protocol version ta use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' modify extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

Modify extensions:
.nf
  [!]txn[=abort|commit]
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
.B \-ZZ\c
, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
Da contentz of \fIfile\fP (or standard input if no \fB\-f\fP flag is given on
the command line) must conform ta tha format defined in
.BR ldif (5)
(LDIF as defined up in RFC 2849).
.SH EXAMPLES
Assumin dat tha file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists n' has tha contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Modify Me,dc=example,dc=com
    chizzletype: modify
    replace: mail
    mail: modme@example.com
    \-
    add: title
    title: Grand Poobah
    \-
    add: jpegPhoto
    jpegPhoto:< file:///tmp/modme.jpeg
    \-
    delete: description
    \-
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify \-f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will replace tha contentz of tha "Modify Me" entry's
.I mail
attribute wit tha value "modme@example.com", add a
.I title
of "Grand Poobah", n' tha contentz of tha file "/tmp/modme.jpeg"
as a
.IR jpegPhoto ,
and straight-up remove the
.I description
attribute.
.LP
Assumin dat tha file
.B /tmp/newentry
exists n' has tha contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    objectClass: person
    cn: Barbara Jensen
    cn: Babs Jensen
    sn: Jensen
    title: tha ghettoz most hyped mythical manager
    mail: bjensen@example.com
    uid: bjensen
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapadd \-f /tmp/newentry
.fi
.LP
will add a freshly smoked up entry fo' Babs Jensen, rockin tha joints from the
file
.B /tmp/newentry.
.LP
Assumin dat tha file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists n' has tha contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    chizzletype: delete
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify \-f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will remove Babs Jensenz entry.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Errors result up in a non-zero
exit status n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_add_ext (3),
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
.BR ldif (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 405 stdin
