.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPSEARCH 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapsearch \- LDAP search tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapsearch
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BR \-u ]
[\c
.BR \-t [ t ]]
[\c
.BI \-T \ path\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F \ prefix\fR]
[\c
.BR \-A ]
[\c
.BR \-L [ L [ L ]]]
[\c
.BI \-S \ attribute\fR]
[\c
.BI \-b \ searchbase\fR]
[\c
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| lil pimps }]
[\c
.BR \-a \ { never \||\| always \||\| search \||\| find }]
[\c
.BI \-l \ timelimit\fR]
[\c
.BI \-z \ sizelimit\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.I filter
[\c
.IR attrs... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapsearch
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell-accessible intercourse ta the
.BR ldap_search_ext (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapsearch
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' performs a search
usin specified parameters.   Da \fIfilter\fP should conform to
the strang representation fo' search filtas as defined up in RFC 4515.
If not provided, tha default filter, \fB(objectClass=*)\fP, is used.
.LP
If
.B ldapsearch
findz one or mo' entries, tha attributes specified by
\fIattrs\fP is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fB*\fP is listed, all user attributes are
returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fB+\fP is listed, all operationizzle attributes is returned.
If no \fIattrs\fP is listed, all user attributes is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If only
1.1 is listed, no attributes is ghon be returned.
.LP
Da search thangs up in dis biatch is displayed rockin a extended version of LDIF.
Option \fI\-L\fP controls tha format of tha output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapsearch
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up big-ass up tha search.  Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run up in verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode. Errors is reported yo, but ldapsearch will continue
with searches. Da default is ta exit afta reportin a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Only useful
in conjunction wit \fB\-f\fP.
.TP
.B \-u
Include tha User Friendly Name form of tha Distinguished Name (DN)
in tha output.
.TP
.BR \-t [ t ]
A single \fB\-t\fP writes retrieved non-printable joints ta a set of temporary
files.  This is useful fo' dealin wit joints containin non-character
data like fuckin jpegPhoto or audio fo' realz. A second \fB\-t\fP writes all retrieved joints to
files.
.TP
.BI \-T \ path
Write temporary filez ta directory specified by \fIpath\fP (default:
\fB/var/tmp/\fP)
.TP
.BI \-F \ prefix
URL prefix fo' temporary files.  Default is \fBfile://\fIpath\fP where
\fIpath\fP is \fB/var/tmp/\fP or specified wit \fB\-T\fP.
.TP
.B \-A
Retrieve attributes only (no joints).  This is useful when you just want to
see if a attribute is present up in a entry n' is not horny bout the
specific joints.
.TP
.B \-L
Search thangs up in dis biatch is display up in LDAP Data Interchange Format detailed in
.BR ldif (5).
A single \fB\-L\fP restricts tha output ta LDIFv1.
 A second \fB\-L\fP disablez comments.
A third \fB\-L\fP disablez printin of tha LDIF version.
Da default is ta use a extended version of LDIF.
.TP
.BI \-S \ attribute
Sort tha entries returned based on \fIattribute\fP. Da default is not
to sort entries returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIattribute\fP be a zero-length strang (""),
the entries is sorted by tha componentz of they Distinguished Name.  See
.BR ldap_sort (3)
for mo' details. Note that
.B ldapsearch
normally prints up entries as it receives em. Da use of tha \fB\-S\fP
option defeats dis behavior, causin all entries ta be retrieved,
then sorted, then printed.
.TP
.BI \-b \ searchbase
Use \fIsearchbase\fP as tha startin point fo' tha search instead of
the default.
.TP
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| lil pimps }
Specify tha scope of tha search ta be one of
.BR base ,
.BR one ,
.BR sub ,
or
.B children
to specify a funky-ass base object, one-level, subtree, or lil pimps search.
Da default is
.BR sub .
Note:
.I children
scope requires LDAPv3 subordinizzle feature extension.
.TP
.BR \-a \ { never \||\| always \||\| search \||\| find }
Specify how tha fuck aliases dereferencin is done.  Should be one of
.BR never ,
.BR always ,
.BR search ,
or
.B find
to specify dat aliases is never dereferenced, always dereferenced,
dereferenced when searching, or dereferenced only when locatin the
base object fo' tha search.  Da default is ta never dereference aliases.
.TP
.BI \-l \ timelimit
wait at most \fItimelimit\fP secondz fo' a search ta complete.
A timelimit of
.I 0
(zero) or
.I none
means no limit.
A timelimit of
.I max
means tha maximum integer allowable by tha protocol.
A server may impose a maximal timelimit which only
the root user may override.
.TP
.BI \-z \ sizelimit
retrieve at most \fIsizelimit\fP entries fo' a search.
A sizelimit of
.I 0
(zero) or
.I none
means no limit.
A sizelimit of
.I max
means tha maximum integer allowable by tha protocol.
A server may impose a maximal sizelimit which only
the root user may override.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read a seriez of lines from \fIfile\fP, struttin one LDAP search for
each line.  In dis case, tha \fIfilter\fP given on tha command line
is treated as a pattern where tha straight-up original gangsta n' only occurrence of \fB%s\fP
is replaced wit a line from \fIfile\fP.  Any other occurrence of the
the \fB%\fP characta up in tha pattern is ghon be regarded as a error.
Where it is desired dat tha search filta include a \fB%\fP character,
the characta should be encoded as \fB\\25\fP (see RFC 4515).
If \fIfile\fP be a single
\fB\-\fP character, then tha lines is read from standard input.
.B ldapsearch
will exit when tha straight-up original gangsta non-successful search result is returned,
unless \fB\-c\fP is used.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s);
a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas is expected;
only tha protocol/host/port fieldz is allowed.
As a exception, if no host/port is specified yo, but a DN is,
the DN is used ta look up tha correspondin host(s) rockin the
DNS SRV records, accordin ta RFC 2782.  Da DN must be a non-empty
sequence of AVAs whose attribute type is "dc" (domain component),
and must be escaped accordin ta RFC 2396.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify tha LDAP protocol version ta use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' search extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

Search extensions:
.nf
  !dontUseCopy
  [!]domainScope                       (domain scope)
  [!]mv=<filter>                       (matched joints filter)
  [!]pr=<size>[/prompt|noprompt]       (paged thangs up in dis biatch/prompt)
  [!]sss=[\-]<attr[:OID]>[/[\-]<attr[:OID]>...]  (server side sorting)
  [!]subentries[=true|false]           (subentries)
  [!]sync=ro[/<cookie>]                (LDAP Sync refreshOnly)
          rp[/<cookie>][/<slimit>]     (LDAP Sync refreshAndPersist)
  [!]vlv=<before>/<after>(/<offset>/<count>|:<value>)  (virtual list view)
  [!]deref=derefAttr:attr[,attr[...]][;derefAttr:attr[,attr[...]]]
  [!]<oid>[=<value>]
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
If one or mo' entries is found, each entry is freestyled ta standard
output up in LDAP Data Interchange Format or
.BR ldif (5):
.LP
.nf
    version: 1

    # bjensen, example, net
    dn: uid=bjensen,dc=example,dc=net
    objectClass: person
    objectClass: dcObject
    uid: bjensen
    cn: Barbara Jensen
    sn: Jensen
    ...
.fi
.LP
If tha \fB\-t\fP option is used, tha URI of a temporary file
is used up in place of tha actual value.  If tha \fB\-A\fP option
is given, only tha "attributename" part is written.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapsearch \-LLL "(sn=smith)" cn sn telephoneNumber
.fi
.LP
will big-ass up a subtree search (usin tha default search base and
other parametas defined in
.BR ldap.conf (5))
for entries wit a surname (sn) of smith.  Da common name (cn), surname
(sn) n' telephoneNumber joints is ghon be retrieved n' printed to
standard output.
Da output might look suttin' like dis if two entries is found:
.LP
.nf
    dn: uid=jts,dc=example,dc=com
    cn: Jizzy Smizzle
    cn: Jizzy T. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle
    sn: Smizzle
    sn;lang\-en: Smizzle
    sn;lang\-de: Schmidt
    telephoneNumber: 1 555 123\-4567

    dn: uid=sss,dc=example,dc=com
    cn: Steve Smizzle
    cn: Steve S. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle
    sn: Smizzle
    sn;lang\-en: Smizzle
    sn;lang\-de: Schmidt
    telephoneNumber: 1 555 765\-4321
.fi
.LP
Da command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapsearch \-LLL \-u \-t "(uid=xyz)" jpegPhoto audio
.fi
.LP
will big-ass up a subtree search rockin tha default search base fo' entries
with user id of "xyz".  Da user thugged-out form of tha entryz DN will be
output afta tha line dat gotz nuff tha DN itself, n' tha jpegPhoto
and audio joints is ghon be retrieved n' freestyled ta temporary files.  The
output might be lookin like dis if one entry wit one value fo' each of the
axed attributes is found:
.LP
.nf
    dn: uid=xyz,dc=example,dc=com
    ufn: xyz, example, com
    audio:< file:///tmp/ldapsearch\-audio\-a19924
    jpegPhoto:< file:///tmp/ldapsearch\-jpegPhoto\-a19924
.fi
.LP
This command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapsearch \-LLL \-s one \-b "c=US" "(o=University*)" o description
.fi
.LP
will big-ass up a one-level search all up in tha c=US level fo' all entries
whose organization name (o) begins wit \fBUniversity\fP.
Da organization name n' description attribute joints is ghon be retrieved
and printed ta standard output, resultin up in output similar ta this:
.LP
.nf
    dn: o=Universitizzle of Alaska Fairbanks,c=US
    o: Universitizzle of Alaska Fairbanks
    description: Preparin Alaska fo' a funky-ass brave freshly smoked up yesterday
    description: leaf node only

    dn: o=Universitizzle of Colorado at Boulder,c=US
    o: Universitizzle of Colorado at Boulder
    description: No personnel shiznit
    description: Institution of ejaculation n' research

    dn: o=Universitizzle of Colorado at Denver,c=US
    o: Universitizzle of Colorado at Denver
    o: UCD
    o: CU/Denver
    o: CU\-Denver
    description: Institute fo' Higher Learnin n' Research

    dn: o=Universitizzle of Florida,c=US
    o: Universitizzle of Florida
    o: UFl
    description: Warper of lil' minds

    ...
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result up in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_search_ext (3),
.BR ldap_sort (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 506 stdin
