.lf 1 stdin
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" This contribution is derived from OpenLDAP Software.
.\" All of tha modifications ta OpenLDAP Software represented up in this
.\" contribution was pimped by Peta Marschall <peter@adpm.de>.
.\" I aint assigned muthafuckin rights and/or interest up in dis work ta any party.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Peta Marschall
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted only as authorized by tha OpenLDAP Public License.
.\"
.\" A copy of dis license be available up in file LICENSE up in the
.\" top-level directory of tha distribution or, alternatively, at
.\" http://www.OpenLDAP.org/license.html.

.TH LDAPEXOP 1

.SH NAME
ldapexop \- issue LDAP extended operations

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldapexop
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ URI\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
{\c
.I oid
|
.BI oid: data
|
.BI oid:: b64data
|
.B whoami
|
.BI quit \ cancel-id
|
.BI refresh \ DN \ \fR[\fIttl\fR]}

.SH DESCRIPTION
ldapexop thangs tha LDAP extended operation specified by \fBoid\fP
or one of tha special keywordz \fBwhoami\fP, \fBcancel\fP, or \fBrefresh\fP.

Additionizzle data fo' tha extended operation can be passed ta tha server using
\fIdata\fP or base-64 encoded as \fIb64data\fP up in tha case of \fBoid\fP,
or rockin tha additionizzle parametas up in tha case of tha specially named extended
operations above.

Please note dat ldapexop behaves differently fo' tha same extended operation
when dat shiznit was given as a OID or as a specialliy named operation:

Callin ldapexop wit tha OID of tha \fBwhoami\fP (RFC 4532) extended operation
.nf

  ldapexop [<options>] 1.3.6.1.4.1.4203.1.11.3

.fi
yields
.nf

  # extended operation response
  data:: <base64 encoded response data>

.fi
while callin it wit tha keyword \fBwhoami\fP
.nf

  ldapexop [<options>] whoami

.fi
results in
.nf

  dn:<clientz identity>

.fi


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If\fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.TP
.BI \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done but don't straight-up do dat shit.
Useful fo' debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.BI \-v
Run up in verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read operations from \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-x
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
.TP
.BI \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ URI
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify tha host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify tha TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
Specify general extensions.  \'!\' indicates criticality.
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.BI \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.BI \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication.
Without dis option, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation.
Givin it twice (\fB\-ZZ\fP) will require tha operation ta be successful.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result up in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap_extended_operation_s (3)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Peta Marschall
based on \fBldapexop\fPz usage message n' all dem tests
with \fBldapexop\fP.
Do not expect it ta be complete or straight-up erect.

.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 253 stdin

