.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPMODRDN 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapmodrdn \- LDAP rename entry tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodrdn
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-r ]
[\c
.BI \-s \ newsup\fR]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
[\c
.I dn  rdn\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldapmodrdn
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell-accessible intercourse ta the
.BR ldap_rename (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapmodrdn
opens a cold-ass lil connection ta a LDAP server, binds, n' modifies tha RDN of entries.
Da entry shiznit is read from standard input, from \fIfile\fP through
the use of the
.RI \- f
option, or from tha command-line pair \fIdn\fP and
\fIrdn\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only tha version shiznit is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set tha LDAP debuggin level ta \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapmodrdn
must be compiled wit LDAP_DEBUG defined fo' dis option ta have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what tha fuck would be done yo, but don't straight-up chizzle entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Useful for
debuggin up in conjunction wit \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, wit nuff diagnostics freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-r
Remove oldschool RDN joints from tha entry.  Default is ta keep oldschool joints.
.TP
.BI \-s \ newsup
Specify a freshly smoked up superior entry. (I.e., move tha target entry n' make it a
child of tha freshly smoked up superior.)  This option aint supported up in LDAPv2.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors  is  reported,  but ldapmodrdn
will  continue  wit  modifications.   Da default is ta exit after
reportin a error.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read tha entry modification shiznit from \fIfile\fP instead of from
standard input or tha command-line.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use tha Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP ta bind ta tha LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, tha server is sposed ta fuckin ignore dis value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt fo' simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifyin tha password on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as tha password fo' simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contentz of \fIpasswdfile\fP as tha password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referrin ta tha ldap server(s); only tha protocol/host/port
fieldz is allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify a alternate host on which tha ldap server is hustlin.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify a alternate TCP port where tha ldap server is listening.
Deprecated up in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify tha LDAP protocol version ta use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP n' modrdn extensions wit \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

Modrdn extensions:
.nf
  (none)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" fo' no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL securitizzle properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactizzle mode.  Always prompt.  Default is ta prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS ta canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify tha authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha ID
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify tha realm of authentication ID fo' SASL bind. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da form of tha realm
dependz on tha actual SASL mechanizzle used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify tha axed authorization ID fo' SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of tha followin formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify tha SASL mechanizzle ta be used fo' authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If itz not
specified, tha program will chizzle tha dopest mechanizzle tha server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transhiznit Layer Security) extended operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, tha command will require tha operation ta be successful.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
If tha command-line arguments \fIdn\fP n' \fIrdn\fP is given, \fIrdn\fP
will replace tha RDN of tha entry specified by tha DN, \fIdn\fP.
.LP
Otherwise, tha contentz of \fIfile\fP (or standard input if
no \fB\-f\fP flag is given) should consist of one or mo' entries.
.LP
.nf
    Distinguished Name (DN)
    Relatizzle Distinguished Name (RDN)
.fi
.LP
One or mo' blank lines may be used ta separate each DN/RDN pair.
.SH EXAMPLE
Assumin dat tha file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists n' has tha contents:
.LP
.nf
    cn=Modify Me,dc=example,dc=com
    cn=Da New Me
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodrdn \-r \-f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will chizzle tha RDN of tha "Modify Me" entry from "Modify Me" to
"Da New Me" n' tha oldschool cn, "Modify Me" is ghon be removed.
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if no errors occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Errors result up in a non-zero exit
status n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_rename (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 280 stdin
