.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPURL 1 "2014/01/26" "OpenLDAP 2.4.39"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 2008-2014 Da OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyin restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapurl \- LDAP URL formattin tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapurl
[\c
.BR \-a \ attrs\fR]
[\c
.BI \-b \ searchbase\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-f \ filter\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| lil pimps }]
[\c
.BI \-S \ scheme\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapurl
is a cold-ass lil command dat allows ta either compose or decompose LDAP URIs.
.LP
When invoked wit tha \fB\-H\fP option,
.B ldapurl
extracts tha componentz of tha \fIldapuri\fP option argument,
unescapin hex-escaped chars as required.
It basically acts as a gangbangin' frontend ta the
.BR ldap_url_parse (3)
call.
Otherwise, it buildz a LDAP URI based on tha components
passed wit tha appropriate options, struttin tha inverse operation.
Option \fB\-H\fP is incompatible wit options
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-E ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
and
.BR \-s .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.BI \-a \ attrs
Set a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of attribute selectors.
.TP
.BI \-b \ searchbase
Set tha \fIsearchbase\fP.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions wit \fB\-e\fP
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sendz abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, don't wait fo' SIGINT.
  not straight-up controls)
.fi

.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
Set URL extensions; incompatible with
.BR \-H .
.TP
.BI \-f \ filter
Set tha URL filter n' shit.  No particular check on conformitizzle wit RFC 4515
LDAP filtas is performed yo, but tha value is hex-escaped as required.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI ta be blew up like a muthafucka.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Set tha host.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Set tha TCP port.
.TP
.BI \-S \ scheme
Set tha URL scheme.  Defaults fo' other fields, like \fIldapport\fP,
may depend on tha value of \fIscheme\fP.
.TP
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| lil pimps }
Specify tha scope of tha search ta be one of
.BR base ,
.BR one ,
.BR sub ,
or
.B children
to specify a funky-ass base object, one-level, subtree, or lil pimps search.
Da default is
.BR sub .
Note:
.B children
scope requires LDAPv3 subordinizzle feature extension.

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
If tha \fB\-H\fP option is used, tha \fIldapuri\fP supplied
is blew up like a muthafucka up in its components, which is printed ta standard output
in a LDIF-like form.
.LP
Otherwise, tha URI built rockin tha joints passed wit tha other options
is printed ta standard output.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapurl \-h ldap.example.com \-b dc=example,dc=com \-s sub \-f "(cn=Some One)"
.fi
.LP
returns
.LP
.nf
    ldap://ldap.example.com:389/dc=example,dc=com??sub?(cn=Some%20One)
.fi
.LP
Da command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapurl \-H ldap://ldap.example.com:389/dc=example,dc=com??sub?(cn=Some%20One)
.fi
.LP
returns
.LP
.nf
    scheme: ldap
    host: ldap.example.com
    port: 389
    dn: dc=example,dc=com
    scope: sub
    filter: (cn=Some One)
.fi
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result up in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message bein freestyled ta standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_url_parse (3),
.SH AUTHOR
Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is pimped n' maintained by Da OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from Universitizzle of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 169 stdin
