.\" Copyright 1995-2000 Dizzy Engel (david@ods.com)
.\" Copyright 1995 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 2000 Lil' Bow Wow Collins (bcollins@debian.org)
.\"    Redone fo' GLibc 2.2
.\" Copyright 2000 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
.\"    Corrected.
.\" Most of dis was copied from tha README file.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Do not restrict distribution.
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH LDD 1 2012-07-16 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ldd \- print shared library dependencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR ldd " [OPTION]... FILE..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldd
prints tha shared libraries required by each program or shared library
specified on tha command line.
.SS Security
In tha usual case,
.B ldd
invokes tha standard dynamic linker (see
.BR ld.so (8))
with the
.B LD_TRACE_LOADED_OBJECTS
environment variable set ta 1,
which causes tha linker ta display tha library dependencies.
Be aware,
however,
that up in some circumstances, some versions of
.BR ldd
may attempt ta obtain tha dependency shiznit
by directly executin tha program.
.\" Mainline glibcs ldd allows dis possibilitizzle (the line
.\"      try_trace "$file"
.\" up in glibc 2.15, fo' example) yo, but nuff distro versions of
.\" ldd seem ta remove dat code path from tha script.
Thus, you should
.I never
employ
.B ldd
on a untrusted executable,
since dis may result up in tha execution of arbitrary code.
A less thuggy alternatizzle when dealin wit untrusted executablez is:

    $ objdump \-p /path/to/program | grep NEEDED
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print tha version number of
.BR ldd .
.TP
.B \-v\ \-\-verbose
Print all shiznit, including, fo' example,
symbol versionin shiznit.
.TP
.B \-u\ \-\-unused
Print unused direct dependencies.
(Since glibc 2.3.4.)
.TP
.B \-d\ \-\-data\-relocs
Perform relocations n' report any missin objects (ELF only).
.TP
.B \-r\ \-\-function\-relocs
Perform relocations fo' both data objects n' functions, and
report any missin objects or functions (ELF only).
.TP
.B \-\-help
Usage shiznit.
.SH NOTES
Da standard version of
.B ldd
comes wit glibc2.
Libc5 came wit a olda version, still present
on some systems.
Da long options is not supported by tha libc5 version.
On tha other hand, tha glibc2 version do not support
.B \-V
and only has tha equivalent
.BR \-\-version .
.LP
Da libc5 version of dis program will use tha name of a library given
on tha command line as-is when it gotz nuff a \(aq/\(aq; otherwise it
searches fo' tha library up in tha standard locations.
To run it
on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared library up in tha current directory, prefix tha name wit "./".
.SH BUGS
.B ldd
does not work on a.out shared libraries.
.PP
.B ldd
does not work wit some mad oldschool a.out programs which were
built before
.B ldd
support was added ta tha compila releases.
If you use
.B ldd
on one of these programs, tha program will attempt ta run with
.I argc
= 0 n' tha thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be unpredictable.
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Dizzy Engel.
.\" Roland McGrath n' Ulrich Drepper.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ld.so (8),
.BR ldconfig (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
