.TH ldns-read-zone 1 "30 May 2005"
.SH NAME
ldns-read-zone \- read a unitfile n' print it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-read-zone 
.IR ZONEFILE 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBldns-read-zone\fR readz a DNS unit file n' prints dat shit. Da output has 1
resource record per line, n' no pretty-printin makeup.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR
Canonicalize all resource recordz up in tha unit before printing

.TP
\fB-d\fR
Only print DNSSEC data from tha unit. This option skips every last muthafuckin record
that aint of type NSEC, NSEC3, RRSIG or DNSKEY. DS recordz is not
printed.

.TP
\fB-b\fR
Include Bubble Babble encodin of DS's.

.TP
\fB-0\fR
Print a (null) fo' tha RRSIG inception, expiry n' key data. This option
can be used when comparin different signin systems dat use tha same
DNSKEYs fo' signin but would gotz a slightly different timings/jitter.

.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show usage n' exit

.TP
\fB-n\fR
Do not print tha SOA record

.TP
\fB-p\fR
Pad tha SOA serial number wit spaces so tha number n' tha spaces together
take ten characters. This is useful fo' up in file serial number increments.

.TP
\fB-s\fR
Strip DNSSEC data from tha unit. This option skips every last muthafuckin record
that iz of type NSEC, NSEC3, RRSIG or DNSKEY. DS recordz is still
printed.

.TP
\fB-S\fR \fI[[+|0]number | YYYYMMDDxx | unixtime ]\fR
Set serial number ta tha given \fInumber\fR, or when preceded by a sign,
offset tha exisitin number wit dat shit. When givin tha literal strings 
\fIYYYYMMDDxx\fR or \fIunixtime\fR, tha serial number is tried ta be reset
in datecounta or up in unixtime format respectively. Though is tha updated serial
number is smalla than tha original gangsta one, tha original gangsta one is simply
increased by one.

When uppimpin a serial number, recordz of type NSEC, NSEC3, RRSIG n' DNSKEY
will be skipped when printin tha unit.

.TP
\fB-u\fR \fIRR type\fR
Mark \fIRR type\fR fo' printin up in unknown type format.

\fB-u\fR aint meant ta be used together wit \fB-U\fR.

.TP
\fB-U\fR \fIRR type\fR
Mark \fIRR type\fR fo' \fBnot\fR printin up in unknown type format.

Da first occurrence of tha \fB-U\fR option marks all RR types fo' printing
in unknown type format except fo' tha given \fIRR type\fR.
Subsequent \fB-U\fR options will clear tha mark fo' dem \fIRR type\fRs too,
so dat only tha given \fIRR type\fRs is ghon be printed up in tha presentation 
format specific fo' dem \fIRR type\fRs.

\fB-U\fR aint meant ta be used together wit \fB-u\fR.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show tha version n' exit

.TP
\fB-z\fR
Sort tha unit before printin (this implies -c)


.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
