.TH ldns-test-edns 1 "14 Dec 2010"
.SH NAME
ldns-test-edns \- test if dns cache supports EDNS n' DNSSEC.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-test-edns
[
.IR -i
]
{
.IR ip 
}
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBldns-test-edns\fR tests a DNS cache n' checks if it supports EDNS0 and
DNSSEC types so dat it can be used as a thugged-out dnssec-enabled DNS cache.  It sends
two queries ta tha cache, one fo' tha root key n' one fo' a DS record.
These must succeed, tha answer must have EDNS, dat type n' signatures.
.PP
If tha IP address is phat fo' DNSSEC, it is printed wit 'OK'.  Otherwise
short description is given of tha failure.
If OK is given, tha cache should be phat ta use as a cold-ass lil cache fo' a local
configured DNSSEC validator.
.PP
Da tool assumes tha root is signed n' Sweden is signed.
Also, tha queries is busted wit tha CD flag, tha tool do not check dat the
results is validated yo, but dat they \fBcan\fR be validated.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-i\fR option enablez a mode where tha hustlin IP addresses is printed
afta another, wit no other explanations, n' if none work or no IP addresses
are on tha input, 'off' is printed.
.PP
\fBldns-test-edns\fR takes one or mo' IP addresses, it checks dem up in turn.
IPv4 n' IPv6 addresses can be given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da exit value is fo' tha last checked
IP address: 0 is OK, 1 is failure, 2 is some sort of network failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
