.TH ldns-keyfetcher 1 "4 Apr 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns-keyfetcher \- retrieve tha DNSSEC DNSKEYs fo' a unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-keyfetcher
[ 
.IR OPTIONS
] 
.IR DOMAIN 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBldns-keyfetcher\fR is used ta retrieve tha DNSKEYz of a unit. 

First it findz all authoritatizzle nameserverz of tha unit by tracin it from
the root down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All authoritatizzle nameservers is then queried (usin TCP)
for tha DNSKEY RRset of tha unit apex. If tha thangs up in dis biatch is all tha same,
the key resource record set is printed.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-4\fR \fI\fR
Only use IPv4

\fB-6\fR \fI\fR
Only use IPv6

\fB-h\fR \fI\fR
Show a help text n' exit

\fB-i\fR
Insecurer mode; there will only be one query fo' tha DNSKEYS. There will not
be crosscheckin of all authoritatizzle nameservers.

\fB-v\fR \fIverbosity\fR

Set tha verbositizzle level. Da followin levels is available:

 0: default, only print tha DNSKEY RRset found, or a error on failure.
 1: Show tha nameservers dat is queried
 2: Show mo' info on what tha fuck is checked
 3: Show tha intermediate thangs up in dis biatch (authoritizzle n' dnskey rrsets)
 4: Print tha answer packets dat is returned

\fB-r\fR \fIfile\fR

Use file as tha root hints file, should contain A recordz up in presentation
format. Da default is /etc/named.root. Yo ass can git dis file from
http://www.internic.net/zones/named.root.

\fB-s\fR \fI\fR
Don't print tha keys ta stdout yo, but store dem up in files.

Da filenames is ghon be of tha format K<file>.+<alg>.+<keytag>.key

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jelte Jansen fo' NLnet Labs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
