.TH dpa 1 "1 Nov 2005"
.SH NAME
dpa \- DNS Packet Analyzer n' shiznit fo' realz. Analyze DNS packets up in ip trace files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpa
[
.IR OPTION
]
.IR TRACEFILE 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdpa\fR is used ta analyze dns packets up in trace files. Well shiiiit, it has 3 main options: count, filter, n' count uniques (i.e. count all different occurences).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIexpressionlist\fR
Count occurrencez of matchin expressions

.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIexpression\fR
Filter: only process packets dat match tha expression

.TP
\fB-h\fR 
Show usage

.TP
\fB-p\fR
Show tha total number of erect DNS packets, n' cementage of -u and
-c joints  (of tha total of matchin on tha -f filter n' shit. if no filta is
given, cementages is on all erect dns packets)

.TP
\fB-of\fR \fIfile\fR
Write all packets dat match tha -f flag ta file, as pcap data.

.TP
\fB-ofh\fR \fIfile\fR
Write all packets dat match tha -f flag ta file, up in hexadecimal format,
readable by drill.

.TP
\fB-s\fR
Show possible match names

.TP
\fB-s\fR \fImatchname\fR
show possible match operators n' joints fo' name

.TP
\fB-sf\fR
Only evaluate packets (in representation format) dat match tha -f filter.
If no -f was given, evaluate all erect dns packets.

.TP
\fB-u\fR \fImatchnamelist\fR
Count every last muthafuckin occurence of every last muthafuckin value of tha matchname (for instance, count all packetsizes, peep EXAMPLES up in ldns-dpa(1) ).

.TP
\fB-ua\fR
For every last muthafuckin matchname up in -u, show tha average value of all matches. Behaviour fo' match types dat aint gots a integer value is undefined.

.TP
\fB-uac\fR
For every last muthafuckin matchname up in -u, show tha average number of times dis value was encountered.

.TP
\fB-um\fR \fInumber\fR
Only show tha thangs up in dis biatch from -u fo' joints dat occurred mo' than <number> times.

.TP
\fB-v\fR \fIlevel\fR
Set verbositizzle ta level (1-5, 5 bein tha highest). Mostly used fo' debugging.

.TP
\fB-notip\fR \fIfile\fR
Write packets dat was not recognized as IP packets ta file (as pcap data).

.TP
\fB-baddns\fR \fIfile\fR
Write dns packets dat was too mangled ta parse ta file (as pcap data).

.TP
\fB-version\fR
Show version n' exit

.SH LIST AND MATCHES

A <matchnamelist> be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of match names (use -s ta peep possible match names).
A <expressionlist> be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of expressions.

An expression has tha followin form:
<expr>: (<expr>)
        <expr> | <expr>
        <expr> & <expr>
        <match>

<match>:        <matchname> <operator> <value>

<operator>:
	=	equal ta <value>
	!=	not equal ta <value>
	>	greata than <value>
	<	lesser than <value>
	>=	greata than or equal ta <value>
	<=	lesser than or equal ta <value>
	~=	gotz nuff <value>

See tha -s option fo' possible matchnames, operators n' joints.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
ldns-dpa -u packetsize -p test.tr
Count all different packetsizes up in test.tr n' show tha precentages.

.TP
ldns-dpa -f "edns=1&qr=0" -of edns.tr test.tr
Filta up all edns enable queries up in test.tr n' put dem up in edns.tr

.TP
ldns-dpa -f edns=1 -c tc=1 -u rcode test.tr
For all edns packets, count tha number of truncated packets n' all they rcodes up in test.tr.

.TP
ldns-dpa -c tc=1,qr=0,qr=1,opcode=QUERY test.tr
For all packets, count tha number of truncated packets, tha number of packets wit qr=0, tha number of packets wit qr=1 n' tha number of queries up in test.tr.

.TP
ldns-dpa -u packetsize -ua test.tr
Show all packet sizes n' tha average packet size per packet.

.TP
ldns-dpa -u srcaddress -uac test.tr
Show all packet source addresses n' tha average number of packets busted from dis address.

.TP
sudo tcpdump -i eth0 -s 0 -U -w - port 53 | ldns-dpa -f qr=0 -sf 
Print all query packets peeped on tha specified intercourse.


.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jelte Jansen fo' NLnetLabs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <jelte@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
