.TH ldns-compare-zones 1 "17 Oct 2007"
.SH NAME
ldns-compare-zones \- read n' compare two unitfilez n' print differences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-compare-zones
.IR [-c]
.IR [-i]
.IR [-d]
.IR [-z]
.IR [-s]
.IR ZONEFILE1
.IR ZONEFILE2 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBldns-compare-zones\fR readz two DNS unit filez n' prints number of differences.
.nf
Output is formated to:
        +NUM_INS        -NUM_DEL        ~NUM_CHG

.fi
Da major comparison is based on tha balla name. If a balla name is present up in unitfile 1 yo, but not up in unitfile 2, tha resource recordz wit dis balla name is considered deleted, n' counted as NUM_DEL. If a balla name is present up in unitfile 2 yo, but not up in unitfile 1, tha resource recordz wit dis balla name is considered inserted, n' counted as NUM_INS. If a balla name is present up in both yo, but there be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' difference up in tha amount or content of tha records, these is considered chizzled, n' counted as NUM_CHG.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR
Print resource recordz whose balla names is up in both unit filez yo, but wit different resource records. (a.k.a. chizzled)
.TP
\fB-i\fR
Print resource recordz whose balla names is present only up in ZONEFILE2 (a.k.a. inserted)
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Print resource recordz whose balla names is present only up in ZONEFILE1 (a.k.a. deleted)
.TP
\fB-a\fR
Print all chizzles. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifyin dis option is tha same ol' dirty as specifyin -c -i
amd -d.
.TP
\fB-z\fR
Suppress unit sorting; dis option aint recommended; it can cause records
to be incorrectly marked as chizzled, dependin of tha nature of tha chizzles.
.TP
\fB-s\fR
Do not exclude tha SOA record from tha comparison. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da SOA record may
then show up as chizzled cuz of a freshly smoked up serial number n' shit.  Off by default since
you may be interested ta know if (other unit apex elements) have chizzled.
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show usage n' exit
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show tha version n' exit
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ondřej Surý <ondrej@sury.org> fo' CZ.NIC, z.s.p.o. (czech domain registry)
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ondrej@sury.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 CZ.NIC, z.s.p.o.. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
