.TH ldns-walk 1 "21 Nov 2005"
.SH NAME
ldns-walk \- Retrieve tha contentz of a DNSSEC signed unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-walk
[
.IR OPTION
]
.IR ZONE 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBldns-walk\fR is used ta retrieve tha contentz of a DNSSEC signed unit.
It do dis all up in NSEC-walkin (followin tha chain of NSEC records)
and 'guessing' tha next non-existent balla name fo' each NSEC.

Note dat it might git stuck on some wildcard recordz when used all up in a
cachin forwarder n' shit. This problem can be circumvented by queryin the
authoritatizzle nameserver directly (with tha @ argument).

Of course tha nameserver dat is used must be DNSSEC-aware.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-4\fR
Use only IPv4.

.TP
\fB-6\fR
Use only IPv6.

.TP
\fB-f\fR
Do a 'full' unit strutt; by default, ldns-walk will only show tha names, n' types present at dem names. If dis option is given, all resource recordz is ghon be printed.

.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIname\fR
Start tha strutt wit dis balla name. Useful when continuin tha strutt fo' a
pimpin' unit.

.TP
\fB-v\fR \fIverbosity\fR
Verbositizzle level [1-5].

.TP
\fB@\fR \fInameserver\fR
Send tha queries ta dis nameserver.

.SH BUGS
Da full unit strutt function aint complete yet, it do not erectly print delegation records

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jelte Jansen as a example fo' ldns usage.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
