.TH ldns-dane 1 "17 September 2012"
.SH NAME
ldns-dane \- verify or create TLS authentication wit DANE (RFC6698)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B ldns-dane
.IR [OPTIONS]
.IR verify
.IR name
.IR port
.PP
.B ldns-dane
.IR [OPTIONS]
.IR -t
.IR tlsafile
.IR verify

.B ldns-dane
.IR [OPTIONS]
.IR name
.IR port
.IR create
.PP
          [
.IR Certificate-usage
[
.IR Selector
[
.IR Matching-type
] ] ]

.B ldns-dane
.IR -h
.PP
.B ldns-dane
.IR -v
.PD 1

.SH DESCRIPTION

In tha straight-up original gangsta form: 
A TLS connection ta \fIname\fR:\fIport\fR is established.
Da TLSA resource record(s) fo' \fIname\fR is used ta authenticate
the connection.

In tha second form:
Da TLSA record(s) is read from \fItlsafile\fR n' used ta authenticate
the TLS steez they reference.

In tha third form:
A TLS connection ta \fIname\fR:\fIport\fR is established n' used to
create tha TLSA resource record(s) dat would authenticate tha connection.
Da parametas fo' TLSA rr creation are:

.PD 0
.I Certificate-usage\fR:
.RS
.IP 0
CA constraint
.IP 1
Service certificate constraint
.IP 2
Trust anchor assertion
.IP 3
Domain-issued certificate (default)
.RE

.I Selector\fR:
.RS
.IP 0
Full certificate (default)
.IP 1
SubjectPublicKeyInfo
.RE

.I Matching-type\fR:
.RS
.IP 0
No hash used
.IP 1
SHA-256 (default)
.IP 2
SHA-512
.RE
.PD 1

In stead of numbers tha straight-up original gangsta few lettaz of tha value may be used.
Except fo' tha hash algorithm name, where tha full name must be specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -4
TLS connect IPv4 only
.IP -6
TLS connect IPv6 only
.IP "-a \fIaddress\fR"
Don't try ta resolve \fIname\fR yo, but connect ta \fIaddress\fR instead.

This option may be given mo' than once.
.IP -b
print "\fIname\fR\. TYPE52 \\# \fIsize\fR \fIhexdata\fR" form instead
of TLSA presentation format.
.IP "-c \fIcertfile\fR"
Do not TLS connect ta \fIname\fR:\fIport\fR yo, but authenticate (or make
TLSA records) fo' tha certificate (chain) up in \fIcertfile\fR instead.
.IP -d
Assume DNSSEC validitizzle even when tha TLSA recordz was acquired insecure
or was bogus.
.IP "-f \fICAfile\fR"
Use CAfile ta validate. Default is /etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.trust.crt
.IP -h
Print short usage help
.IP -i
Interact afta connecting.
.IP "-k \fIkeyfile\fR"
Specify a gangbangin' file dat gotz nuff a trusted DNSKEY or DS rr.
Key(s) is used when chasin signatures (i.e. \fI-S\fR is given).

This option may be given mo' than once.

Alternatively, if \fB-k\fR aint specified, n' a thugged-out default trust anchor
(/var/lib/unbound/root.key) exists n' gotz nuff a valid DNSKEY or DS record,
it is ghon be used as tha trust anchor.
.IP -n
Do \fBnot\fR verify server name up in certificate.
.IP "-o \fIoffset\fR"
When bustin a "Trust anchor assertion" TLSA resource record,
select tha \fIoffset\fRth certificate offset from tha end
of tha validation chain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 0 means tha last certificate, 1 tha one but last,
2 tha second but last, etc.

When \fIoffset\fR is -1 (the default), tha last certificate
is used (like wit 0) dat MUST be self-signed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can help ta make
sure dat tha intended (self signed) trust anchor is straight-up present
in tha server certificate chain (which be a DANE requirement).
.IP "-p \fICApath\fR"
Use certificates up in tha \fICApath\fR directory ta validate. Default is /etc/pki/tls/certs/
.IP -s
When bustin TLSA resource recordz wit tha "CA Constraint" n' the
"Service Certificate Constraint" certificate usage, do not validate and
assume PKIX is valid.

For "CA Constraint" dis means dat verification should end wit a
self-signed certificate.
.IP -S
Chase signature(s) ta a known key.

Without dis option, tha local network is trusted ta provide
a DNSSEC resolver (i.e fo' realz. AD bit is checked).
.IP "-t \fItlsafile\fR"
Read TLSA record(s) from \fItlsafile\fR. When \fIname\fR n' \fIport\fR
are also given, only TLSA recordz dat match tha \fIname\fR, \fIport\fR and
\fItransport\fR is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Otherwise tha balla name of tha TLSA record(s)
will be used ta determine \fIname\fR, \fIport\fR n' \fItransport\fR.
.IP -T
Return exit status 2 fo' PKIX validated connections without (secure)
TLSA records(s)
.IP -u
Use UDP transhiznit instead of TCP.
.IP -v
Show version n' exit.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/var/lib/unbound/root.key
Da file from which trusted keys is loaded fo' signature chasing,
when no \fB-k\fR option is given.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
unbound-anchor(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta \fIldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl\fR. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.

