.TH ldns-notify 1 "9 Jan 2007"
.SH NAME
ldns-notify \- notify DNS servers dat thugged-out shiznit is available
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-notify
[options]
-z unit
.IR servers 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBldns-notify\fR sendz a NOTIFY message ta DNS servers. This  drops some lyrics ta them
that a updated unit be available all up in tha masta servers. Well shiiiit, it can perform
TSIG signatures n' it can add a SOA serial number of tha updated unit.
If a server already has dat serial number it will disregard tha message.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z unit\fR
Da unit dat is updated.

.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show usage n' exit

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show tha version n' exit

.TP
\fB-s serial\fR
Append a SOA record indicatin tha serial number of tha updated unit.

.TP
\fB-p port\fR
Use port as destination port (default tha DNS port 53) fo' tha UDP packets.

.TP
\fB-y key:data\fR
Use tha given TSIG key n' base64-data ta sign tha NOTIFY. Uses the
hmac-md5 algorithm.

.TP
\fB-d\fR
Print verbose debug shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da query dat is busted n' tha query
that is received.

.TP
\fB-r num\fR
Specify tha maximum number of retries before notify gives up tryin to
send tha UDP packet.

.SH EXIT CODE
Da program exits wit a 0 exit code if all servers replied a 
acknowledgement ta tha notify message, n' a gangbangin' failure exit code otherwise. 

.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
