.TH ldns-gen-zone 1 "10 June 2010"
.SH NAME
ldns-gen-zone \- read a unitfile n' print it while addin DS recordz n' extra RR's
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-gen-zone 
.IR ZONEFILE 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBldns-gen-zone\fR readz a DNS unit file n' prints dat shit. 

It be build fo' speed, not fo' a sick formatting. Da output
has one resource record per line n' no pretty-printin makeup.

DNSSEC data (NSEC, NSEC3, RRSIG or DNSKEY) aint stripped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass may want to
use \fBldns-read-zone\fR fo' dis shit. Existin DS recordz is also not stripped.

Da scam is ta use dis tool fo' quickly generatin a representative
artificial unitfile from a real unitfile, ta use it fo' testin purposes.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a NUM\fR
Addz NUM extra artificial NS RRSets ta tha output. 
Da RRSets balla names start
with 'xn--' up in a attempt ta ensure uniquenizz (nl.-zone do not support
IDNz - n' dis tool was freestyled wit dat knowledge up in mind).

An artificial NS RRSet has two NS records; ns1.example.com and
ns2.example.com.

.TP
\fB-p NUM\fR
Add NUM% of DS RRSets ta tha NS RRSets (anywhere between
1-4 DS recordz per RRSet).

.TP
\fB-o ORIGIN\fR
Sets a $ORIGIN, which can be handy if tha one up in tha unitfile
is set ta '@' fo' example. If there be a $ORIGIN up in tha unitfile,
this option will silently be ignored.

.TP
\fB-s\fR
This is tha recommended way of processin big-ass units that
are already sorted n' canonicalized (ie lowercase). Well shiiiit, it skips the
sortin n' canonicalization step dat is required fo' properly
groupin RRSets together (before addin any DS recordz ta em. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skipping
this step will speed thangs up.

It aint recommended ta use dis option if you wanna add DS records
to unsorted, non-canonicalized units.

.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show usage n' exit.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show version n' exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\fBldns-gen-zone -a 100000 -p 10 -s ./zonefile.txt\fR
Read a unitfile, add 100.000 artificial NS RRSets n' 10% of DS records,
print it ta standard output. Don't sort (will only work well if tha input
zonefile be already sorted n' canonicalized).

.TP
\fBldns-gen-zone -p 10 -s -o nl unitfile.txt | named-compilezone -s relatizzle -i none -o unitfile_10.txt nl /dev/stdin\fR
This creates a sickly formatted unit file wit tha help of \fBnamed-compilezone\fR.
It addz 10% DS recordz ta tha .nl unit, reformats it n' saves it as \fBzonefile_10.txt\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
Initially freestyled by Marco Davids, nuff muthafuckin modifications added by Miek
Gieben, both from SIDN.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>.

.SH BUGS
Only undiscovered ones.

.SH CAVEATS
May require a machine wit a cold-ass lil considerable amount of memory fo' big-ass unit files.

Fake DS recordz hashes is generated as digest type SHA-256 (RFC4509). Be aware not ta chizzle
the DIGESTTYPE #define up in tha source code up in anythang else but 2 if you want
to keep thangs realistic.

Despite a fuckin shitload of efforts, dis program is still not tha fastest up in the
world.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010 SIDN. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
