.TH ldns-verifyzone 1 "27 May 2008"
.SH NAME
ldns-verify-zone \- read a DNSSEC signed unit n' verify dat shit.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldns-verify-zone 
.IR ZONEFILE 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBldns-verify-zone\fR readz a DNS unit file n' verifies dat shit. 

RRSIG resource recordz is checked against tha DNSKEY set all up in tha unit apex.

Each name is checked fo' a NSEC(3), if appropriate.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show usage n' exit

.TP
\fB-a\fR
Apex only, check only tha unit apex

.TP
\fB-e\fR \fIperiod\fR
Signatures may not expire within dis period.
Default no period is used.

.TP
\fB-i\fR \fIperiod\fR
Signatures must done been valid at least dis long.
Default signatures should just be valid now, nahmeean?

.TP
\fB-k\fR \fIfile\fR
A file dat gotz nuff a trusted DNSKEY or DS rr.
This option may be given mo' than once.

Alternatively, if \fB-k\fR aint specified, n' a thugged-out default trust anchor
(/var/lib/unbound/root.key) exists n' gotz nuff a valid DNSKEY or DS record,
it is ghon be used as tha trust anchor.
.TP
\fB-p\fR \fI[0-100]\fR
Only check dis cementage of tha unit.
Which names ta check is determined randomly.
Defaults ta 100.

.TP
\fB-S\fR
Chase signature(s) ta a known key.
Da network may be accessed ta validate tha unitz DNSKEYs. (implies -k)

.TP
\fB-t\fR \fIYYYYMMDDhhmmss | [+|-]offset\fR
Set tha validation time either by a absolute time value or as a offset up in secondz from tha current time.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show tha version n' exit

.TP
\fB-V\fR \fInumber\fR
Set tha verbositizzle level (default 3):

 0: Be silent
 1: Print result, n' any errors
 2: Same as 1 fo' now
 3: Print result, any errors, n' tha names dat are
    bein checked
 4: Same as 3 fo' now
 5: Print tha unit afta it has been read, tha result, 
    any errors, n' tha names dat is bein checked

.LP
\fIperiod\fRs is given up in ISO 8601 duration format:
.RS
P[n]Y[n]M[n]DT[n]H[n]M[n]S
.RE
.LP
If no file is given standard input is read.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/var/lib/unbound/root.key
Da file from which trusted keys is loaded fo' signature chasing,
when no \fB-k\fR option is given.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
unbound-anchor(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2008 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
