.TH ldns-testns 1 "14 Dec 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns-testns \- simple fake nameserver tool
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B ldns-testns
[
.IR OPTION
]
.IR datafile

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBldns-testns\fR can be used ta provide lyrics ta DNS queries for
testing.  Da lyrics is premade, n' can be tailored ta testing
needs. Da lyrics can be wildly invalid or unparseable.

This program be a thugged-out debuggin aid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it aint efficient, especially
with a long-ass config file yo, but it can give any reply ta any query.
This can help tha pimper pre-script replies fo' queries.

It listens ta IP4 UDP n' TCP by default.
Yo ass can specify a packet RR by RR wit header flags ta return.

ldns-testns aint meant fo' thang use.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fR
Listens ta a random port. Da port number is printed ta stdout.

.TP
\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR
Listens ta tha specified port.

.TP
\fB-f\fR \fInum\fR
Forks dis number of additionizzle instances dat serve tha same ports and
same datafile. They do not exit; printed is 'forked pid: <num>' n' you
have ta bust a cap up in dem yo ass.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Outputs mo' debug shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is possible ta give dis option multiple 
times ta increase verbositizzle level.

.TP
\fB-6\fR
Bind ta IP6 address instead of IP4. Use together wit -p. 

.TP
\fBdatafile\fR
Da data file is read on start up. Well shiiiit, it gotz nuff queries n' tha packets 
that should be busted up in answer ta dem queries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da data file format is
explained below.

.SH DATA FILE FORMAT
Da data file format has ';' ta denote comment fo' realz. A number of entries
are processed first ta last. Da first matchin entry is used ta answer
the query with. This be a line based format. DNS resource records
are entered up in unit-file format.

Yo ass can use $ORIGIN n' $TTL directives. Zone file '(' n' ')' ta span
multiple lines is not allowed.

$ORIGIN origin
$TTL default_ttl

ENTRY_BEGIN

; first give MATCH lines, dat say what tha fuck queries is matched
; by dis entry.
; 'opcode' make tha query match tha opcode from tha reply
; if you leave it out, any opcode matches dis entry.
; 'qtype' make tha query match tha qtype from tha reply
; 'qname' make tha query match tha qname from tha reply
; 'serial=1023' make tha query match if ixfr serial is 1023.

MATCH [opcode] [qtype] [qname] [serial=<value>]
MATCH [UDP|TCP]
MATCH ...

; Then tha REPLY header is specified.

REPLY opcode, rcode or flags.
        (opcode)  QUERY IQUERY STATUS NOTIFY UPDATE
        (rcode)   NOERROR FORMERR SERVFAIL NXDOMAIN NOTIMPL YXDOMAIN
                        YXRRSET NXRRSET NOTAUTH NOTZONE
        (flags)   QR AA TC RD CD RA AD

REPLY ...

; any additionizzle actions ta do.         

ADJUST copy_id  ; 'copy_id' copies tha ID from tha query ta tha answer.

; 'sleep=10' chills fo' 10 secondz before givin tha answer (TCP is open)

ADJUST [sleep=<num>]    ; chill before givin any reply
ADJUST [packet_sleep=<num>]  ; chill before dis packet up in sequence

SECTION QUESTION
<RRs, one per line>    ; tha RRcount is determined automatically.

SECTION ANSWER
<RRs, one per line>

SECTION AUTHORITY
<RRs, one per line>

SECTION ADDITIONAL
<RRs, one per line>

EXTRA_PACKET            ; follow wit SECTION, REPLY fo' mo' packets.
HEX_ANSWER_BEGIN        ; follow wit hex data
                        ; dis replaces any answer packet constructed
                        ; wit tha SECTION keywordz (only SECTION QUERY
                        ; is used ta match queries). If tha data cannot
                        ; be parsed, ADJUST rulez fo' tha answer packet
                        ; is ignored

HEX_ANSWER_END

ENTRY_END

.SH AUTHOR
Written by tha ldns crew as a example fo' ldns usage, n' fo' testin purposes.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl>. 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 NLnet Labs. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
