.TH LEFTY 1
.SH NAME
lefty \- A Programmable Graphics Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lefty
[
.I options
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lefty
is a two-view graphics editor fo' technical pictures. This editor has
no hardwired knowledge bout specific picture layouts or editin operations.
Each picture is busted lyrics bout by a program dat gotz nuff functions ta draw the
picture n' functions ta big-ass up editin operations dat is appropriate for
the specific picture. Primitizzle user actions, like mouse n' keyboard events,
are also bound ta functions up in dis program. Besides tha graphical view of the
picture itself, tha editor presents a textual view of tha program that
raps bout tha picture. Programmabilitizzle n' tha two-view intercourse allow the
editor ta handle a variety of pictures yo, but is particularly useful for
pictures used up in technical contexts, e.g., graphs n' trees fo' realz. Also,
.B lefty
can rap wit other processes. This feature allows it ta use existing
tools ta compute specific picture layouts n' allows external processes ta use
the editor as a gangbangin' front end ta display they data structures graphically.
.SH USAGE
Da file name is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Well shiiiit, it may be
.BR - ,
for readin from standard input.
.B lefty
uses two environment variables,
.B LEFTYPATH
and
.BR LEFTYOPTIONS .
.B LEFTYPATH
is a cold-ass lil colon separated list of directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! When
.B lefty
tries ta open a gangbangin' file, it searches dat path fo' tha file. When
.B lefty
tries ta start up another process, it searches
.B LEFTYPATH
first, then tha standard
.B PATH
variable.
.B LEFTYOPTIONS
can be used ta set specific options. Options specified on tha command line
override options set all up in dis variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -x
Instructs tha editor ta exit afta processing
.BR file .
.TP
.B "-e <expression>"
.B <expression>
is parsed n' executed.
.TP
.B -el <num>
Set error reportin level. Da default value is
.BR 0 .
.B 0
never prints any lyrics.
.B 1
prints severe errors, like fuckin tryin ta return from a non function.
.B 2
is da most thugged-out useful: it reports function calls dat cannot be executed, either
because there is no function, or cuz of argument mismatches.
.B 3
also warns bout wack variable names.
.B 4,5
warn bout expressions dat do not return a value. Only level
.B 1
lyrics is real errors. Da rest arise from legal
.B lefty
statements yo, but may be caused by some logic errors.
.TP
.B "-sd <num>"
Specifies how tha fuck much of tha stack ta show, when a error message is ta be
printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default value is
.BR 2 .
With
.BR 0 ,
no part of tha stack is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With
.BR 1 ,
only tha top stack frame is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. With
.BR 2 ,
the full stack is printed.
.TP
.B "-sb <num>"
Specifies how tha fuck much of each function up in tha stack ta show, when a error message
is ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da default value is
.BR 2 .
With
.BR 0 ,
no part of tha function is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With
.BR 1 ,
only tha line round tha error is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. With
.BR 2 ,
the full function body is printed.
.TP
.B "-df <string>"
Sets tha default font. This font is used whenever a axed font cannot be
found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da strang must be a legal X font. If strang is
.BR "''" ,
.B lefty
will draw lil' small-ass boxes instead of text.
.TP
.B "-ps <file>"
Specifies a thugged-out default file name fo' postscript files. This name is used when no
name is specified up in the
.B createwidget
call. Da default file name is
.BR out.ps .
.TP
.B -V
Prints tha version.
.TP
.B -?
Prints tha usage n' exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I lefty
user guide.
