.TH LESSECHO 1 "Version 458: 04 Apr 2013"
.SH NAME
lessecho \- expand metacharacters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lessecho
.I "[-ox] [-cx] [-pn] [-dn] [-mx] [-nn] [-ex] [-a] file ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I lessecho
is a program dat simply echos its arguments on standard output.
But any metacharacta up in tha output is preceded by a "escape"
character, which by default be a funky-ass backslash.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-ex
Specifies "x", rather than backslash, ta be tha escape char fo' metachars.
If x is "-", no escape char is used n' arguments containin metachars
are surrounded by quotes instead.
.TP
.B \-ox
Specifies "x", rather than double-quote, ta be tha open quote character,
which is used if tha -e- option is specified.
.TP
.B \-cx
Specifies "x" ta be tha close quote character.
.TP
.B \-pn
Specifies "n" ta be tha open quote character, as a integer.
.TP
.B \-dn
Specifies "n" ta be tha close quote character, as a integer.
.TP
.B \-mx
Specifies "x" ta be a metachar.
By default, no charactas is considered metachars.
.TP
.B \-nn
Specifies "n" ta be a metachar, as a integer.
.TP
.B \-fn
Specifies "n" ta be tha escape char fo' metachars, as a integer.
.TP
.B \-a
Specifies dat all arguments is ta be quoted.
Da default is dat only arguments containin metacharactas is quoted
.SH "SEE ALSO"
less(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Thomas Schoepf <schoepf@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.PP
Send bug reports or comments ta bug-less@gnu.org.
