.\" A playa page fo' lgroupmod
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lgroupmod 1 "Jan 11 2005" libuser

.SH NAME
lgroupmod \- Modify a user group

.SH SYNOPSIS
lgroupmod [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIgroup\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Modifies tha user crew wit name \fIgroup\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-admin-add\fR=\fIlist\fR
Add playas up in comma-separated \fIlist\fR among \fIgroup\fRz administrators.

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-admin-remove\fR=\fIlist\fR
Remove playas up in comma-separated \fIlist\fR from \fIgroup\fRz administrators.
Removin playas dat is not currently among \fIgroup\fRz administrators
silently succeeds.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgid\fR
Change \fIgroup\fRz crew ID ta \fIgid\fR.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-lock\fR
Lock \fIgroup\fR.
This prevents playas from rockin tha crew password with
.BR newgrp (1)
to become a gangmember of \fIgroup\fR.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-member-add\fR=\fIlist\fR
Add playas up in comma-separated \fIlist\fR among \fIgroup\fRz members.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-member-remove\fR=\fIlist\fR
Remove playas up in comma-separated \fIlist\fR from \fIgroup\fRz members.
Removin playas dat is not currently among \fIgroup\fRz thugz silently
succeeds.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR=\fIname\fR
Rename \fIgroup\fR ta \fIname\fR.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-plainpassword\fR=\fIpassword\fR
Set \fIgroup\fRz password ta \fIpassword\fR.
Note dat tha password can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lgroupmod
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIencrypted\fR
Set \fIgroup\fRz password ta tha password represented by tha hash
\fIencrypted\fR.
Note dat tha hash can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lgroupmod
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unlock\fR
Unlock \fIgroup\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
