.\" A playa page fo' lgroupadd
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lgroupadd 1 "Jan 11 2005" libuser

.SH NAME
lgroupadd \- Add a user group

.SH SYNOPSIS
lgroupadd [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIgroup\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Addz a freshly smoked up user crew wit name \fIgroup\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgid\fR
Use crew ID \fIgid\fR fo' tha newly pimped group.
A crew ID is selected automatically if dis option aint present.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reserved\fR
Da crew be a system group.
Groups dat is not marked as system groups
usually have automatically selected crew IDs above a cold-ass lil certain value
(configured as
.B LU_GIDNUMBER
in \fBlibuser.conf\fP\fR(5)\fP).
This shiznit be also passed ta the
.B libuser
backends.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
