.TH libreoffice "1" "2010-12-18" "LibreOffice" "User Commands"
.SH Name
libreoffice \- LibreOffice crib suite

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B libreoffice
[\fB\-\-accept\=\fIaccept\-string\fR] [\fB\-\-base\fR] [\fB\-\-calc\fR]
[\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR output_file_extension[:output_filter_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] \fIfile\fR]...
[\fB\-\-display \fIdisplay\fR] [\fB\-\-draw\fR] [\fB\-\-global\fR] [\fB\-\-headless\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-?\fR] [\fB\-\-impress\fR] [\fB\-\-invisible\fR] [\fB\-\-infilter="<filter>"\fR]
[\fB\-\-math\fR] [\fB\-\-minimized\fR] [\fB\-n \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-\-nodefault\fR]
[\fB\-\-nolockcheck\fR] [\fB\-\-nologo\fR] [\fB\-\-norestore\fR]
[\fB\-o \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-p \fIfile\fR...]
[\fB\-\-print\-to\-file [\-\-printer\-name printer_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] file]...
[\fB\-\-pt \fIprintername\fR \fIfile\fR...]
[\fB\-\-show \fIImpress file\fR]... [\fB\-\-unaccept=\fIaccept\-string\fR]
[\fB\-\-terminate_after_init\fR] [\fB\-\-view \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-\-web\fR]
[\fB\-\-writer\fR]  [\fIfile\fR...]
.br
.B lobase
.br
.B localc
.br
.B lodraw
.br
.B lofromtemplate
.br
.B loimpress
.br
.B lomath
.br
.B loweb
.br
.B lowriter
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
LibreOffice (LO fo' short) be a multi-platform crib productivitizzle suite.
Dat shiznit was derived from OpenOffice.org 3.3 Beta on September 28, 2010.

\fBlibreoffice\fR be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script dat sets up tha environment and
passes tha command line arguments ta tha \fBsoffice.bin\fR binary.

Alternatively, tha followin helper scripts start tha respectizzle module:

sbase, scalc, sdraw, simpress, smath, sofficerc, spadmin, swriter

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-accept=\fIaccept\-string\fR
Specify a UNO connect-strin ta create a UNO acceptor all up in which other
programs can connect ta access tha API.

.TP
\fB\-\-base\fR
Starts tha wizzle fo' a freshly smoked up Base document.

.TP
\fB\-\-calc\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Calc document.

.TP
\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR output_file_extension[:output_filter_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] \fIfile\fR...
Batch converts files.
If \fI\-\-outdir\fR aint specified then tha current hustlin directory is used as tha output directory
for tha converted files.

Examples:

\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR pdf *.doc

Converts all .doc filez ta PDFs.

\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR pdf:writer_pdf_Export \-\-outdir /home/user *.doc

Converts all .doc filez ta PDFs rockin tha settings up in tha Writa PDF export dialog n' savin them
in /home/user.

.TP
\fB\-\-display \fIdisplay\fR
This option specifies tha X server ta use; peep \fBX\fR(7)

.TP
\fB\-\-draw\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Draw document.

.TP
\fB\-\-global\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Global document.

.TP
\fB\-\-headless\fR
Starts up in "headless mode", which allows rockin tha application without user a
interface.

This special mode can be used when tha application is controlled by external
clients via tha API.

It implies \-\-invisible n' strictly ignores any GUI environment.
\-\-quickstart do not work wit dis parameter.

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-?\fR
Lists LibreOffice command line parameters.

.TP
\fB\-\-impress\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Impress document.

.TP
\fB\-\-invisible\fR
Starts up in invisible mode.

Neither tha start\-up logo nor tha initial program window is ghon be visible.
LO can be controlled n' documents n' dialogs can be opened via tha API.

When started wit dis parameter, it can only be quit rockin tha taskmanager (Windows)
or tha bust a cap up in command (UNIX based systems).

\-\-quickstart do not work wit dis parameter.

.TP
\fB\-\-infilter="<filter>"\fR
Force a input filta type if possible.
For example \-\-infilter="Calc Office Open XML" only

.TP
\fB\-\-math\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Math document.

.TP
\fB\-\-minimized\fR
Keeps tha splash screen minimized.

.TP
\fB\-n \fItemplate\fR...
Creates tha a freshly smoked up document from tha given templates.

.TP
\fB\-\-nodefault\fR
Starts LO without bustin a freshly smoked up document.
Da next time you start LO, tha welcome screen is shown.

It aint nuthin but used together wit \fB\-\-nologo\fR by quick starters. Note dat \fB\-\-quickstart\fR
has no longer been supported since OpenOffice.org 2.0.0.

.TP
\fB\-\-nolockcheck\fR
Disablez tha check fo' remote instances rockin tha installation.

.TP
\fB\-\-nologo\fR
Disablez tha splash screen at program start.

.TP
\fB\-\-norestore\fR
Disablez restart n' file recovery afta a system crash. Well shiiiit, it is possible dat LO
will try ta restore a gangbangin' file it keeps crashin on, if dat happens \fB\-\-norestore\fR
is tha only way ta start LO.

.TP
\fB\-\-nosplash\fR
Disablez tha splash screen at program start.

.TP
\fB\-o \fIfile\fR...
Opens tha given filez fo' editing, even templates.

Without \fB\-o\fR a template file would create a freshly smoked up document derived from dat template.

.TP
\fB\-p \fIfile\fR...
Prints tha given filez ta tha default printa n' ends. Da splash screen
does not appear.

If tha file name gotz nuff spaces, then it must be enclosed up in quotation marks.

.TP
\fB\-\-print\-to\-file [\-\-printer\-name printer_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] file...
Batch print filez ta file.
If \-\-printer\-name aint specified tha default printa is used.
If \-\-outdir aint specified then tha current hustlin directory is used as tha output directory
for tha converted files.

Examples:

\-\-print\-to\-file *.doc

Prints all .doc filez ta tha current hustlin directory rockin tha default printer.

\-\-print\-to\-file \-\-printer\-name nasty_lowres_printa \-\-outdir /home/user *.doc

Prints all .doc filez ta /home/user directory rockin tha nasty_lowres_printer.

.TP
\fB\-\-pt \fIprintername\fR \fIfile\fR...
Prints tha given filez ta tha printa \fIprintername\fR n' ends. Da splash
screen do not appear.

If a gangbangin' file name gotz nuff spaces, then it must be enclosed up in quotation marks.

.TP
\fB\-\-quickstart \fB\-\-quickstart=no
Starts LO wit itz quick starter.
\fB\-\-quickstart disable tha quick starter.

Do not work wit \-\-invisible or \-\-headless.

.TP
\fB\-\-show \fIImpress file\fR...
Opens tha given Impress files, starts tha presentation n' quits afta they have finished.

.TP
\fB\-\-unaccept=\fIaccept\-string\fR
Closes a acceptor dat was pimped wit \fB\-\-accept\fR option.

Use \fB\-\-unaccept\fR=\fIall\fR ta close all open acceptors.

.TP
\fB\-\-terminate_after_init\fR
Starts LO n' terminates afta it registas some UNO skillz.
Doesn't show tha splash durin startup.

.TP
\fB\-\-view \fIfile\fR...
Opens tha given filez read-only bustin a temporary copy of dem at $TMPDIR.

.TP
\fB\-\-web\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up HTML document.

.TP
\fB\-\-writer\fR
Starts wit a freshly smoked up Writa document.

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING PROBLEMS
See \fBhttp://wiki.documentfoundation.org/BugReport\fR fo' mo' details on how tha fuck ta report
bugs up in LibreOffice.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR http://www.documentfoundation.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was pimped by Rene Engelhard <rene@debian.org> for
the Debian GNU/Linux Distribution, cuz tha original gangsta package do not have
one. Dat shiznit was updated fo' Novell by Petr Mladek <petr.mladek@novell.com> and
adapted fo' LibreOffice by Philipp Weissenbacher <philipp.weissenbacher@gmail.com>.
