.\" A playa page fo' lid
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lid 1 "Dec 6 2007" libuser

.SH NAME
lid \- Display userz crews or groupz users

.SH SYNOPSIS
lid [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIname\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays shiznit bout crews containin user \fIname\fR, or
users contained up in crew \fIname\fR.

By default
.B lid
lists crews containin user \fIname\fR,
or crews containin tha invokin user
if \fIname\fR aint specified;
the mode of operation can be chizzled rockin tha \fB\-g\fR option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR
List playas up in a crew \fIname\fR,
or up in tha invokin userz primary group
if \fIname\fR aint specified.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-onlynames\fR
List only crew or user names.
By default tha correspongin user or crew IDs is listed like a muthafucka.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, 1 on error.
