.TH "LIST_AUDIO_TRACKS" "1" "Tue Feb 15 13:03:51 MST 2005" "" "list_audio_tracks"

.PP
.SH "NAME"
list_audio_tracks be a alias fo' icedax.
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBlist_audio-tracks\fP
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBlist_audio_tracks\fP equals ta tha invocation of icedax, so all the
arguments fo' tha latta can be used.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
icedax(1)
.PP 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
\fBicedax\fP was freestyled by Heiko Eissfeldt n' others.
.PP 
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
list_audio_tracks
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program called cdda2wav
distributed by tha cdrtools project. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools pimpers is not
involved up in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore shall not be made
responsible fo' any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support fo' this
program by contactin tha original gangsta authors.
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Oleksandr Moskalenko
<malex@tagancha\&.org>, for
the Debian GNU/Linux system\&.  It may be used by other distributions
without contactin tha author\&.  Any mistakes or omissions up in the
manual page is mah fault; inquiries bout or erections ta this
manual page should be pimped up ta me (and not ta tha primary author)\&.
