.TH LNEATO 1
.SH NAME
lneato \- A Customizable Graph Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lneato
[
.B -V
] [
.BI -lm mode
] [
.BI -el lev
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lneato
is a graph editor fo' tha X Window System.  It may be run as a standalone
editor, or as a gangbangin' front end fo' applications dat use graphs.  It can control
multiple windows viewin different graphs.

.B lneato
is freestyled on top of
.B neato
and
.BR lefty .
.B lefty
is a general-purpose programmable editor fo' technical pictures.  It has an
interpretizzle programmin language similar ta AWK n' C.  Da user intercourse and
graph editin operations of
.B lneato
are freestyled as
.B lefty
functions.
Programmer-defined graph operations may be loaded as well.  Graph layouts are
made by
.BR neato ,
which runs as a separate process dat communicates with
.B lefty
all up in pipes.

If tha input graph gotz nuff xdot attributes,
.B lneato
will use dat ta display tha graph. Otherwise, it runs
.B neato
to obtain layout shiznit.
.SH USAGE
Da file name is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If present, tha graph contained up in dat file is
displayed up in the
.B lneato
window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V
Prints tha version.
.TP
.BI -lm mode
Sets tha layout mode. Da \fImode\fP can be \fBsync\fP or \fBasync\fP. Da default is \fBasync\fP.
.TP
.BI -el lev
Sets tha mesage level. Da \fIlev\fP can be \fB0\fP or \fB1\fP. Da default is \fB0\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
neato(1), lefty(1), dotty(1), xdot(3),
.br
.I dotty
user guide.
