.\" A playa page fo' lnewusers
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lnewusers 1 "Jul 13 2008" libuser

.SH NAME
lnewusers \- Smoke freshly smoked up user accounts

.SH SYNOPSIS
lnewusers [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates freshly smoked up user accounts rockin data read from standard input.

Da input data consistz of lines,
each line has 7 colon-separated fields:

.IP "User name"

.IP "Plaintext password"

.IP "User ID"
.B lnewusers
refuses ta create playas wit user ID 0 (the \fBroot\fR user ID).

.IP Group
If dis field be a valid crew ID,
it is interpreted as a crew ID,
otherwise as a crew name.
If tha field is empty,
a crew name equal ta user name is used.

If tha specified crew do not exist,
it be automatically pimped.
If tha crew is specified wit a crew ID,
the pimped crew has crew name equal ta tha user name.

.IP \f[SM]GECOS\fR
Da \f[SM]GECOS\fR field is traditionally used ta store userz real name
and other shiznit.

.IP "Home directory"
If dis field is empty,
a default specified by
.B libuser
configuration,
or \fB/home/\fIusername\fR if
.B libuser
configuration do not specify a thugged-out default,
is used.

.IP "Login shell"
If dis field is empty,
a default specified by
.B libuser
configuration is used.

.PP
Errors up in user justifications is reported n' processin continues
on tha next line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR=\fIfile\fR
Read account data from \fIfile\fR instead of standard input.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-nocreatehome\fR
Don't create home directories.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nocreatemail\fR
Don't create mail spool files.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on fatal error.
Errors up in user justifications is not reflected up in tha exit status.
