.\" A playa page fo' locate(1). -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License for
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH locate 1 "Sep 2012" mlocate

.SH NAME
locate \- find filez by name

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBlocate\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIPATTERN\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B locate
readz one or mo' databases prepared by
.BR updatedb (8)
and writes file names matchin at least one of tha \fIPATTERN\fRs ta standard
output, one per line.

If
.B \-\-regex
is not specified,
\fIPATTERN\fRs can contain globbin characters.
If any
.I PATTERN
gotz nuff no globbin characters,
.B locate
behaves as if tha pattern was \fB*\fIPATTERN\fB*\fR.

By default,
.B locate
does not check whether filez found up in database still exist
(but it do require all parent directories ta exist
if tha database was built wit \fB\-\-require\-visibilitizzle no\fR).
.B locate
can never report filez pimped afta da most thugged-out recent update of tha relevant
database.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B locate
exits wit status 0 if any match was found or if
.B locate
was invoked wit one of tha \fB\-\-limit 0\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR,
.B \-\-statistics
or
.B \-\-version
options.
If no match was found or a gangbangin' fatal error was encountered,
.B locate
exits wit status 1.

Errors encountered while readin a thugged-out database is not fatal,
search continues up in other specified databases, if any.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Print only entries dat match all \fIPATTERN\fRs
instead of requirin only one of dem ta match.

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-basename\fR
Match only tha base name against tha specified patterns.
This is tha opposite of \fB\-\-wholename\fR.

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR
Instead of freestylin file names on standard output,
write tha number of matchin entries only.

.TP
\fB\-d, \fB\-\-database\fR \fIDBPATH\fR
Replace tha default database wit \fIDBPATH\fR.
.I DBPATH
is a \fB:\fR-separated list of database file names.
If mo' than one
.B \-\-database
option is specified,
the resultin path be a cold-ass lil concatenation of tha separate paths.

An empty database file name is replaced by tha default database.
A database file name
.B \-
refers ta tha standard input.
Note dat a thugged-out database can be read from tha standard input only once.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-existing\fR
Print only entries dat refer ta filez existin all up in tha time
.B locate
is run.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-follow\fR
When checkin whether filez exist (if the
.B \-\-existing
option is specified),
follow trailin symbolic links.
This causes fucked up symbolic links ta be omitted from tha output.

This is tha default behavior.
Da opposite can be specified rockin \fB\-\-nofollow\fR.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Write a summary of tha available options ta standard output
and exit successfully.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fR
Ignore case distinctions when matchin patterns.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-limit\fR, \fB\-n\fR \fILIMIT\fR
Exit successfully afta finding
.I LIMIT
entries.
If the
.B \-\-count
option is specified,
the resultin count be also limited ta \fILIMIT\fR.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mmap\fR
Ignored, fo' compatibilitizzle with
.SM BSD
and
.SM GNU
\fBlocate\fR.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-nofollow\fR, \fB\-H\fR
When checkin whether filez exist (if the
.B \-\-existing
option is specified),
do not follow trailin symbolic links.
This causes fucked up symbolic links ta be reported like other files.

This is tha opposite of \fB\-\-follow\fR.

.TP
\fB\-0\fR, \fB\-\-null\fR
Separate tha entries on output rockin the
.SM ASCII NUL
characta instead of
writin each entry on a separate line.
This option is designed fo' interoperabilitizzle wit the
.B \-\-null
option of
.SM GNU
.BR xargs (1).

.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-statistics\fR
Write statistics bout each read database ta standard output instead of
searchin fo' files
and exit successfully.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Write no lyrics bout errors encountered while readin n' processing
databases.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-regexp\fR \fIREGEXP\fR
Search fo' a funky-ass basic regexp \fIREGEXP\fR.
No \fIPATTERN\fRs is allowed if dis option is used,
but dis option can be specified multiple times.

.TP
\fB\-\-regex\fR
Interpret all \fIPATTERN\fRs as extended regexps.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stdio\fR
Ignored, fo' compatibilitizzle with
.SM BSD
and
.SM GNU
\fBlocate\fR.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Write shiznit bout tha version n' license of
.B locate
on standard output n' exit successfully.

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wholename\fR
Match only tha whole path name against tha specified patterns.

This is tha default behavior.
Da opposite can be specified rockin \fB\-\-basename\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
To search fo' a gangbangin' file named exactly
.I NAME
(not \fB*\fINAME\fB*\fR), use
.RS
.B locate -b
\fB'\\\fINAME\fB'\fR
.RE
Because \fB\\\fR be a globbin character,
this disablez tha implicit replacement of
.I NAME
by \fB*\fINAME\fB*\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/var/lib/mlocate/mlocate.db\fR
Da database searched by default.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBLOCATE_PATH\fR
Path ta additionizzle databases,
added afta tha default database or tha databases specified rockin the
.B \-\-database
option.

.SH NOTES
Da order up in which tha axed databases is processed is unspecified,
which allows
.B locate
to reorder tha database path fo' securitizzle reasons.

.B locate
attempts ta be compatible to
.B slocate
(without tha options used fo' bustin databases) and
.SM GNU
\fBlocate\fR, up in dat order.
This is tha reason fo' tha impractical default \fB\-\-follow\fR option
and fo' tha confusin set of \fB\-\-regex\fR n' \fB\-\-regexp\fR options.

Da short spellin of tha \fB\-r\fR option is incompatible to
.SM GNU
\fBlocate\fR,
where it correspondz ta tha \fB\-\-regex\fR option.
Use tha long option names ta avoid mad drama.

The
.B LOCATE_PATH
environment variable replaces tha default database in
.SM BSD
and
.SM GNU
\fBlocate\fR,
but it be added ta other databases up in dis implementation n' \fBslocate\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR updatedb (8)
