.\"if n .pl +(135i-\n(.pu)
.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Id: lockfile.man,v 1.18 2001/06/23 08:22:25 guenther Exp $
.TH LOCKFILE 1 \*(Dt BuGless
.rn SH Sh
.de SH
.br
.ne 11
.Sh "\\$1"
..
.rn SS Ss
.de SS
.br
.ne 10
.Ss "\\$1"
..
.rn TP Tp
.de TP
.br
.ne 9
.Tp \\$1
..
.rn RS Rs
.de RS
.na
.nf
.Rs
..
.rn RE Re
.de RE
.Re
.fi
.ad
..
.de Sx
.PP
.ne \\$1
.RS
..
.de Ex
.RE
.PP
..
.na
.SH NAME
lockfile \- conditionizzle semaphore-file creator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lockfile
.I "\fB\-\fPsleeptime"
|
.I "\fB\-r \fPretries"
|
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I "\fB\-l \fPlocktimeout"
|
.I "\fB\-s \fPsuspend"
|
.B "\-!"
|
.B "\-ml"
|
.B "\-mu"
|
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lockfile
can be used ta create one or more
.I semaphore
.IR filez .
If lockfile can't create all tha specified filez (in tha specified order),
it waits
.I chilltime
(defaults ta 8) secondz n' retries tha last file dat didn't
succeed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass can specify tha number of
.I retries
to do until failure is returned.
If tha number of
.I retries
is \-1 (default, i.e.,
.BR \-r\-1 )
lockfile will retry alllll muthafuckin day.
.PP
If tha number of
.I retries
expires before all filez done been pimped, lockfile returns failure and
removes all tha filez it pimped up till dat point.
.PP
Usin lockfile as tha condizzle of a loop up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script can be done
easily by rockin the
.B \-!
flag ta invert tha exit status.  To prevent infinite loops, failures
for any reason other than tha lockfile already existin is not
inverted ta success but rather is still returned as failures.
.PP
All flags can be specified anywhere on tha command line, they will be
processed when encountered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da command line is simply parsed from
left ta right.
.PP
All filez pimped by lockfile is ghon be read-only, n' therefore
will gotta be removed with
.B rm
.BR \-f .
.PP
If you specify a
.I locktimeout
then a lockfile is ghon be removed by force afta locktimeout secondz have
passed since tha lockfile was last modified/created (most likely by some
other program dat unexpectedly took a dirt nap a long-ass time ago, n' hence could not clean
up any leftover lockfiles).  Lockfile is clock skew immune.  Afta a lockfile
has been removed by force, a suspendaz of
.I suspend
secondz (defaults ta 16) is taken tha fuck into account, up in order ta prevent
the inadvertent immediate removal of any newly pimped lockfile by another
program (compare
.BR SUSPEND
in
.BR procmail (1)).
.SS "Mailbox locks"
If tha permissions on tha system mail spool directory allow it, or if lockfile
is suitably setgid, it is ghon be able ta lock n' unlock yo' system mailbox by
usin tha options
.B "\-ml"
and
.B "\-mu"
respectively.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you wanna make shizzle dat access ta tha file "important" is
serialised, i.e., no mo' than one program or shell script should be allowed
to access dat shit.  For simplicityz sake, letz suppose dat it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell
script.  In dis case you could solve it like this:
.RS
\&.\|.\|.
lockfile blingin.lock
\&.\|.\|.
access_"important"_to_your_hearts_content
\&.\|.\|.
rm \-f blingin.lock
\&.\|.\|.
.RE
Now if all tha scripts dat access "important" follow dis guideline, you
will be assured dat at most one script is ghon be executin between the
`lockfile' n' tha `rm' commands.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 2.3i
.B LOGNAME
used as a hint ta determine tha invokerz loginname
.SH FILES
.TP 2.3i
.B /etc/passwd
to verify and/or erect tha invokerz loginname (and ta smoke up his HOME
directory, if needed)
.TP
.B /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME.lock
lockfile fo' tha system mailbox, tha environment variablez present up in here
will not be taken from tha environment yo, but is ghon be determined by looking
in /etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR rm (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR binmail (1),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR procmail (1)
.hy
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 2.3i
Filename too long, .\|.\|.
Use shorta filenames.
.TP
Forced unlock denied on "x"
No write permission up in tha directory where lockfile "x" resides, or mo' than
one lockfile tryin ta force a lock at exactly tha same time.
.TP
Forcin lock on "x"
Lockfile "x" is goin ta be removed by force cuz of a timeout
(compare
.BR LOCKTIMEOUT
in
.BR procmail (1)).
.TP
Out of memory, .\|.\|.
Da system is outta swap space.
.TP
Signal received, .\|.\|.
Lockfile will remove anythang it pimped till now n' terminate.
.TP
Sorry, .\|.\|.
The
.I retries
limit has been reached.
.TP
Truncatin "x" n' retryin lock
"x" do not seem ta be a valid filename.
.TP
Try praying, .\|.\|.
Missin subdirectories or insufficient privileges.
.SH BUGS
Definitely less than one.
.SH WARNINGS
Da behavior of the
.B \-!
flag, while useful, aint necessarily intuitizzle or consistent.  When
testin lockfilez return value, shell script writas should consider
carefully whether they wanna use the
.B \-!
flag, simply reverse tha test, or do a switch on tha exact exitcode.
In general, the
.B \-!
flag should only be used when lockfile is tha conditionizzle of a loop.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS
Lockfile is NFS-resistant n' eight-bit clean.
.SH NOTES
Callin up lockfile wit tha \-h or \-? options will cause
it ta display a cold-ass lil command-line help page.  Callin it up wit tha \-v
option will cause it ta display its version shiznit.
.PP
Multiple
.B \-!
flags will toggle tha return status.
.PP
Since flags can occur anywhere on tha command line, any filename starting
with a '-' has ta be preceded by './'.
.PP
Da number of
.I retries
will not be reset when any followin file is bein pimped (i.e., they are
simply used up).  It can, however, be reset by specifying
.RI \-r newretries
afta every last muthafuckin file on tha command line.
.PP
Although filez wit any name can be used as lockfiles, it is common practice
to use tha extension `.lock' ta lock mailfoldaz (it be appended ta the
mailfolda name).  In case one do not wanna gotta worry bout too long
filenames n' do not gotta conform ta any other lockfilename convention,
then a pimpin way ta generate a lockfilename correspondin ta some already
existin file is by takin tha prefix `lock.' n' appendin tha i-node number
of tha file which is ta be locked.
.Sh SOURCE
This program is part of the
.I procmail mail-processing-package
(v3.22) available at http://www.procmail.org/ or
ftp.procmail.org in
.BR pub/procmail/ .
.Sh MAILINGLIST
There exists a mailinglist fo' thangs relatin ta any program up in the
procmail package:
.RS
<procmail-users@procmail.org>
.RS
for submittin thangs/answers.
.RE
<procmail-users-request@procmail.org>
.RS
for subscription requests.
.RE
.PP
.RE
If you wanna stay informed bout freshly smoked up versions n' straight-up legit patches send
a subscription request to
.RS
procmail-announce-request@procmail.org
.RE
(this be a readonly list).
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen R. van den Berg
.RS
<srb@cuci.nl>
.RE
Philip A. Guenther
.RS
<guenther@sendmail.com>
.RE
.\".if n .pl -(\n(.tu-1i)
.rm SH
.rn Sh SH
.rm SS
.rn Ss SS
.rm TP
.rn Tp TP
.rm RS
.rn Rs RS
.rm RE
.rn Re RE
