.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)logger.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Section on valid facilitizzle n' level strings added by
.\" and1000@debian.org, 26 Oct 1997.
.TH LOGGER "1" "April 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
logger \- a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command intercourse ta tha syslog(3) system log module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logger
.RI [ options "] [" message ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B logger
makes entries up in tha system log.  It serves up a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command
interface ta the
.BR syslog (3)
system log module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-udp\fR
Use datagram (UDP) only.  By default tha connection is tried ta the
.I syslog
port defined up in /etc/skillz, which is often
.IR 514 .
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-id\fR
Log tha process ID of tha logger process wit each line.
.TP
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-server\fR \fIserver\fR
Write ta tha specified remote syslog
.I server
instead of ta tha builtin syslog routines.  Unless
.B \-\-udp
or
.B \-\-tcp
is specified, \fBlogger\fR will first try ta use UDP,
but if thist fails a TCP connection be attempted.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
Use tha specified
.IR port .
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR \fIfile\fR
Log tha contentz of tha specified
.IR file .
This option cannot be combined wit a cold-ass lil command-line message.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-priority\fR \fIpriority\fR
Enta tha message tha fuck into tha log wit tha specified
.IR prioritizzle  .
Da prioritizzle may be specified numerically or as a
.I facility.level
pair.
For example,
.B -p
.I local3.info
logs tha message as shiznital up in tha local3 facility.
Da default is
.IR user.notice .
.TP
\fB\-\-prio\-prefix\fR
Look fo' a syslog prefix on every last muthafuckin line read from standard input.
This prefix be a number within angle brackets dat gotz nuff both tha facility
and tha level.  This decimal prefix is constructed by multiplyin the
facilitizzle by 8 n' then addin tha level.  Thus, fo' example, \fIlocal0.info\fR,
facility=16 n' level=6, becomes \fI<134>\fR.

If tha prefix gotz nuff no facility, tha facilitizzle defaults ta what tha fuck is
specified by tha \fB\-p\fR option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Similarly, if no prefix is provided,
the line is logged rockin tha \fB\-p\fR \fIpriority\fR.

This option don't affect a cold-ass lil command-line message.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stderr\fR
Output tha message ta standard error as well as ta tha system log.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tcp\fR
Use stream (TCP) only.  By default tha connection is tried ta the
.I syslog-conn
port defined up in /etc/skillz, which is often
.IR 601 .
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tag\fR \fItag\fR
Mark every last muthafuckin line ta be logged wit tha specified
.IR tag .
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-socket\fR \fIsocket\fR
Write ta tha specified
.I socket
instead of ta tha builtin syslog routines.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End tha argument list.  This is ta allow the
.I message
to start wit a hyphen (\-).
.TP
.I message
Write dis \fImessage\fR ta tha log; if not specified, n' the
.B \-f
flag aint provided, standard input is logged.
.PP
The
.B logger
utilitizzle exits 0 on success, n' >0 if a error occurs.
.PP
Valid facilitizzle names are:
.IR auth , \ authpriv
(for securitizzle shiznit of a sensitizzle nature),
.IR cron , \ daemon , \ ftp , \ kern
(can't be generated from user process),
.IR lpr , \ mail , \ shizzle , \ security
(deprecated synonym for
.IR auth ), \ syslog , \ user , \ uucp ,
and
.IR local0 \ ta \ local7 ,
inclusive.
.PP
Valid level names are:
.IR alert , \ crit , \ debug , \ emerg , \ err , \ error
(deprecated synonym for
.IR err ), \ info , \ notice , \ panic
(deprecated synonym for
.IR  emerg ), \ warnin , \ warn
(deprecated synonym for
.IR warnin ).
For tha prioritizzle order n' intended purposez of these levels, see
.BR syslog (3).
.SH EXAMPLES
logger System rebooted
.br
logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.br
logger \-n loghost.example.com System rebooted
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syslog (3),
.BR syslogd (8)
.SH STANDARDS
The
.B logger
command is sposed ta fuckin be IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2") compatible.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da logger command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
