.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH LOGIN "1" "June 2012" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
login \- begin session on tha system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B login
[
.BR \-p
] [
.BR \-h
.IR host
] [
.BR \-H
] [
.BR \-f
.IR username
|
.IR username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B login
is used when signin onto a system.  If no argument is given,
.B login
prompts fo' tha username.
.PP
Da user is then prompted fo' a password, where approprate.  Echoing
is disabled ta prevent revealin tha password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Only a lil' small-ass number
of password failures is permitted before
.B login
exits n' tha communications link is severed.
.PP
If password agin has been enabled fo' tha account, tha user may be
prompted fo' a freshly smoked up password before proceeding.  Dude is ghon be forced to
provide his oldschool password n' tha freshly smoked up password before continuing.
Please refer to
.BR passwd (1)
for mo' shiznit.
.PP
Da user n' crew ID is ghon be set accordin ta they joints up in the
.I /etc/passwd
file.  There is one exception if tha user ID is zero: up in dis case,
only tha primary crew ID of tha account is set.  This should allow
the system administrator ta login even up in case of network problems.
Da value for
.BR $HOME ,
.BR $USER ,
.BR $SHELL ,
.BR $PATH ,
.BR $LOGNAME ,
and
.B $MAIL
are set accordin ta tha appropriate fieldz up in tha password entry.
.B $PATH
defaults to
.I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
for aiiight users, n' to
.I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
for root, if not otherwise configured.
.P
Da environment variable
.B $TERM
will be preserved, if it exists (other environment variablez are
preserved if the
.B \-p
option is given), else it is ghon be initialized ta tha terminal type on yo' tty.
.PP
Then tha userz shell is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If no shell is specified fo' the
user in
.BR /etc\:/passwd ,
then
.B /bin\:/sh
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If there is no directory specified in
.IR /etc\:/passwd ,
then
.I /
is used (the home directory is checked fo' the
.I .hushlogin
file busted lyrics bout below).
.PP
If tha file
.I .hushlogin
exists, then a "quiet" login is performed (this disablez tha checking
of mail n' tha printin of tha last login time n' message of the
day).  Otherwise, if
.I /var\:/log\:/lastlog
exists, tha last login time is printed (and tha current login is
recorded).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Used by
.BR getty (8)
to tell
.B login
not ta destroy tha environment.
.TP
.B \-f
Used ta skip a second login authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This specifically do
.B not
work fo' root, n' do not step tha fuck up ta work well under Linux.
.TP
.B \-h
Used by other servers (i.e.,
.BR telnetd (8))
to pass tha name of tha remote host to
.B login
so dat it may be placed up in utmp n' wtmp.  Only tha superuser may
use dis option.
.IP
Note dat the
.B \-h
option has impact on the
.B PAM service
.BR name .
Da standard steez name is
.IR login ,
with the
.B \-h
option tha name is
.IR remote .
It be necessary ta create proper PAM config filez (e.g.
.I /etc\:/pam.d\:/login
and
.IR /etc\:/pam.d\:/remote ).
.TP
.B \-H
Used by other servers (i.e.,
.BR telnetd (8))
to tell
.B login
that printin tha hostname should be suppressed up in tha login: prompt.
.TP
.B \-V
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH CONFIG FILE ITEMS
.B login
readz the
.IR /etc\:/login.defs (5)
configuration file.  Note dat tha configuration file could be
distributed wit another package (e.g. shadow-utils).  Da following
configuration shit is relevant for
.BR login (1):
.PP
.B MOTD_FILE
(string)
.RS 4
If defined, a ":" delimited list of "message of tha day" filez ta be
displayed upon login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default value is
.IR /etc\:/motd .
If the
.B MOTD_FILE
item is empty or a on tha down-low login is enabled, then tha message of tha day
is not displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat tha same functionalitizzle be also provided
by
.BR pam_motd (8)
PAM module.
.RE
.PP
.B LOGIN_TIMEOUT
(number)
.RS 4
Max time up in secondz fo' login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default value is
.IR 60 .
.RE
.PP
.B LOGIN_RETRIES
(number)
.RS 4
Maximum number of login retries up in case of a wack password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default
value is
.IR 3 .
.RE
.PP
.B FAIL_DELAY
(number)
.RS 4
Delay up in secondz before bein allowed another three tries afta a
login failure.  Da default value is
.IR 5 .
.RE
.PP
.B TTYPERM
(string)
.RS 4
Da terminal permissions.  Da default value is
.IR 0600
or
.IR 0620
if tty crew is used.
.RE
.PP
.B TTYGROUP
(string)
.RS 4
Da login tty is ghon be owned by the
.BR TTYGROUP .
Da default value is
.IR tty .
If the
.B TTYGROUP
does not exist, then tha ballershizzle of tha terminal is set ta the
user\z primary group.
.PP
The
.B TTYGROUP
can be either tha name of a crew or a numeric crew identifier.
.RE
.PP
.B HUSHLOGIN_FILE
(string)
.RS 4
If defined, dis file can inhibit all tha usual chatta durin the
login sequence.  If a gangbangin' full pathname (e.g.
.IR /etc\:/hushlogins )
is specified, then hushed mode is ghon be enabled if tha user\z name or
shell is found up in tha file.  If dis global hush login file is empty
then tha hushed mode is ghon be enabled fo' all users.
.PP
If a gangbangin' full pathname aint specified, then hushed mode is ghon be enabled
if tha file exists up in tha user\z home directory.
.PP
Da default is ta check
.I /etc\:/hushlogins
and if it do not exist then
.I ~/.hushlogin
.PP
If the
.B HUSHLOGIN_FILE
item is empty, then all tha checks is disabled.
.RE
.PP
.B DEFAULT_HOME
(boolean)
.RS 4
Indicate if login be allowed if we can not chizzle directory ta the
home directory.  If set to
.IR yeaaaa ,
the user will login up in tha root (/) directory if it aint possible
to chizzle directory ta her home.  Da default value is
.IR yeaaaa .
.RE
.PP
.B LOG_UNKFAIL_ENAB
(boolean)
.RS 4
Enable display of unknown usernames when login failures is recorded.
Da default value is
.IR no .
.PP
Note dat loggin unknown usernames may be a securitizzle issue if a
user entas her password instead of her login name.
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_PATH
(string)
.RS 4
If set, it is ghon be used ta define tha PATH environment variable when
a regular user logs in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default value is
.I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_ROOTPATH
(string)
.br
.B ENV_SUPATH
(string)
.RS 4
If set, it is ghon be used ta define tha PATH environment variable when
the superuser logs in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default value is
.I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
.RE
.SH FILES
.nf
.I /var/run/utmp
.I /var/log/wtmp
.I /var/log/lastlog
.I /var/spool/mail/*
.I /etc/motd
.I /etc/passwd
.I /etc/nologin
.I /etc/pam.d/login
.I /etc/pam.d/remote
.I /etc/hushlogins
.I .hushlogin
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR init (8),
.BR getty (8),
.BR mail (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR environ (7),
.BR shutdown (8)
.SH BUGS
Da undocumented BSD
.B \-r
option aint supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This may be required by some
.BR rlogind (8)
programs.
.PP
A recursive login, as used ta be possible up in tha phat oldschool days, no
longer works; fo' most purposes
.BR su (1)
is a satisfactory substitute.  Indeed, fo' securitizzle reasons, login
does a vhangup() system call ta remove any possible listening
processes on tha tty.  This is ta avoid password sniffing.  If one
uses tha command
.BR login ,
then tha surroundin shell gets capped by vhangup() cuz itz no
longer tha legit balla of tha tty.  This can be avoided by using
.B exec login
in a top-level shell or xterm.
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from BSD login 5.40 (5/9/89) by
.MT glad@\:daimi.\:dk
Mike Glad
.ME
for HP-UX
.br
Ported ta Linux 0.12:
.MT poe@\:daimi.\:aau.\:dk
Peta Orbaek
.ME
.br
Rewritten ta a PAM-only version by
.MT kzak@\:redhat.\:com
Karel Zak
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da login command is part of tha util-linux package n' is
available from
.UR ftp:\://ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
