.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)look.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/14/93
.\"
.TH LOOK 1 "June 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
look \- display lines beginnin wit a given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B look
.RI [ options ] " strang " [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B look
utilitizzle displays any lines in
.I file
which contain
.IR strang .
As
.B look
performs a funky-ass binary search, tha lines in
.I file
must be sorted (where sort(1) gots tha same options
.BR "\-d " and/or " \-f " that
.B look
is invoked with).
.PP
If
.I file
is not specified, tha file
.I /usr/share/dict/words
is used, only alphanumeric charactas is compared n' tha case of
alphabetic charactas is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-alternative"
Use tha alternatizzle doggtionary file.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-alphanum"
Use aiiight doggtionary characta set n' order, i.e. only alphanumeric characters
are compared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (This is on by default if no file is specified.)
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-ignore\-case"
Ignore tha case of alphabetic characters.  (This is on by default if no file is
specified.)
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-terminizzle " \fIcharacter\fR
Specify a strang termination character, i.e. only tha characters
in \fIstring\fR up ta n' includin tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence of \fIcharacter\fR
are compared.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.PP
The
.B look
utilitizzle exits 0 if one or mo' lines was found n' displayed, 1 if
no lines was found, n' >1 if a error occurred.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
sort -d /etc/passwd -o /tmp/look.dict
look -t: root:foobar /tmp/look.dict
.nf
.RE
.SH FILES
.IX Header "FILES"
.IP "\fB/usr/share/dict/words\fR" 4
the dictionary
.IP "\fB/usr/share/dict/web2\fR" 4
the alternatizzle dictionary
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grep (1),
.BR sort (1)
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da original gangsta manual page stated dat tabs n' blank charactas participated
in comparisons when tha alphanum option was specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This was incorrect,
and tha current playa page matches tha phat implementation.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B look
utilitizzle rocked up in Version 7 AT&T Unix.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da look command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
