.\"
.\" "$Id: lp.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lp playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lp 1 "CUPS" "16 July 2012" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lp - print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lp
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -c ] [ -d
.I destination[/instance]
] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] [ -m ] [ -n
.I num-copies
] [ -o
.I option[=value]
] [ -q
.I priority
] [ -s ] [ -t
.I title
] [ -H
.I handling
] [ -P
.I page-list
] [ -- ] [
.I file(s)
]
.br
.B lp
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -c ] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] [ -i
.I thang-id
] [ -n
.I num-copies
] [ -o
.I option[=value]
] [ -q
.I priority
] [ -t
.I title
] [ -H
.I handling
] [ -P
.I page-list
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlp\fR submits filez fo' printin or altas a pendin thang. Use
a filename of "-" ta force printin from tha standard input.
.SH THE DEFAULT DESTINATION
CUPS serves up nuff ways ta set tha default destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da "LPDEST" and
"PRINTER" environment variablez is consulted first. If neither is set,
the current default set rockin tha \fIlpoptions(1)\fR command is used,
followed by tha default set rockin tha \fIlpadmin(8)\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is recognized by \fIlp\fR:
.TP 5
--
.br
Marks tha end of options; use dis ta print a gangbangin' file whose name
begins wit a thugged-out dash (-).
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies tha username ta use when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-c
.br
This option is provided fo' backwards-compatibilitizzle only. On
systems dat support it, dis option forces tha print file ta be
copied ta tha spool directory before printing. In CUPS, print
filez is always busted ta tha schedula via IPP which has the
same effect.
.TP 5
-d destination
.br
Prints filez ta tha named printer.
.TP 5
-h hostname[:port]
.br
Chooses a alternate server.
.TP 5
-i thang-id
.br
Specifies a existin thang ta modify.
.TP 5
-m
.br
Sendz a email when tha thang is completed.
.TP 5
-n copies
.br
Sets tha number of copies ta print from 1 ta 100.
.TP 5
-o "name=value [name=value ...]"
.br
Sets one or mo' thang options.
.TP 5
-q priority
.br
Sets tha thang prioritizzle from 1 (lowest) ta 100 (highest). The
default prioritizzle is 50.
.TP 5
-s
.br
Do not report tha resultin thang IDs (silent mode.)
.TP 5
-t "name"
.br
Sets tha thang name.
.TP 5
-H hh:mm
.TP 5
-H hold
.TP 5
-H immediate
.TP 5
-H restart
.TP 5
-H resume
.br
Specifies when tha thang should be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time fo' realz. A value of \fIimmediate\fR will print
the file immediately, a value of \fIhold\fR will hold tha thang indefinitely, and
a UTC time value (HH:MM) will hold tha thang until tha specified UTC (not local)
time. Use a value of \fIresume\fR wit tha \fI-i\fR option ta resume a held thang.
Use a value of \fIrestart\fR wit tha \fI-i\fR option ta restart
a completed thang.
.TP 5
-P page-list
.br
Specifies which pages ta print up in tha document. Da list can
contain a list of numbers n' ranges (#-#) separated by commas
(e.g. 1,3-5,16). Da page numbers refer ta tha output pages and
not tha documentz original gangsta pages - options like "number-up" can
affect tha numberin of tha pages.
.SH COMMON JOB OPTIONS
Aside from tha printer-specific options reported by the
\fIlpoptions(1)\fR command, tha followin generic options are
available:
.TP 5
-o media=size
.br
Sets tha page size ta \fIsize\fR. Most printas support at least
the size names "a4", "letter", n' "legal".
.TP 5
-o landscape
.TP 5
-o orientation-requested=4
.br
Prints tha thang up in landscape (rotated 90 degrees).
.TP 5
-o sides=one-sided
.TP 5
-o sides=two-sided-long-edge
.TP 5
-o sides=two-sided-short-edge
.br
Prints on one or two sidez of tha paper n' shit. Da value
"two-sided-long-edge" is normally used when printin portrait
(unrotated) pages, while "two-sided-short-edge" is used for
landscape pages.
.TP 5
-o fit-to-page
.br
Scalez tha print file ta fit on tha page.
.TP 5
-o number-up=2
.TP 5
-o number-up=4
.TP 5
-o number-up=6
.TP 5
-o number-up=9
.TP 5
-o number-up=16
.br
Prints multiple document pages on each output page.
.TP 5
-o cpi=N
.br
Sets tha number of charactas per inch ta use when printin a
text file. Da default is 10.
.TP 5
-o lpi=N
.br
Sets tha number of lines per inch ta use when printin a text
file. Da default is 6.
.TP 5
-o page-bottom=N
.TP 5
-o page-left=N
.TP 5
-o page-right=N
.TP 5
-o page-top=N
.br
Sets tha page margins when printin text files. Da joints is in
points - there be 72 points ta tha inch.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print a thugged-out double-sided legal document ta a printa called "foo":
.nf
    lp -d foo -o media=legal -o sides=two-sided-long-edge filename
.fi
.LP
Print a image across 4 pages:
.nf
    lp -d bar -o scaling=200 filename
.fi
.LP
Print a text file wit 12 charactas per inch, 8 lines per inch, and
a 1 inch left margin:
.nf
    lp -d bar -o cpi=12 -o lpi=8 -o page-left=72 filename
.fi
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
Da "q" option accepts a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different range of joints than the
Solaris lp command, matchin tha IPP thang prioritizzle joints (1-100,
100 is highest priority) instead of tha Solaris joints (0-39, 0
is highest priority).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpmove(8)\fR, \fIlpoptions(1)\fR,
\fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lp.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
