.\" A playa page fo' lpasswd
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lpasswd 1 "Jan 12 2005" libuser

.SH NAME
lpasswd \- Chizzle crew or user password

.SH SYNOPSIS
lpasswd [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIname\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes password of user or crew \fIname\fR.

If tha \fIname\fR argument aint provided,
username of tha invokin user is used;
the \fIname\fR argument is ignored if
.B lpasswd
is run set-uid ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different user.

Enterin a empty password (by pressin Enter)
aborts tha password settin operation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-plainpassword-fd\fR=\fIfd\fR
Read password from file descriptor \fIfd\fR, terminated by end of file,
\fB'\\r'\fR or \fB'\\n'\fR.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-password-fd\fR=\fIfd\fR
Read password hash from file descriptor \fIfd\fR, terminated by end of file,
\fB'\\r'\fR or \fB'\\n'\fR.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR
Change password of crew \fIname\fR.
By default tha password of user \fIname\fR is chizzled.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-plainpassword\fR=\fIpassword\fR
Set tha password ta \fIpassword\fR.
Note dat tha password can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lpasswd
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIencrypted\fR
Set tha password ta tha password represented by tha hash \fIencrypted\fR.
Note dat tha hash can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lpasswd
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
