.\"
.\" "$Id: lpoptions.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpoptions playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpoptions 1 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpoptions \- display or set printa options n' defaults
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpoptions
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -d
.I destination[/instance]
[ -o
.I option[=value]
] ... [ -o
.I option[=value]
]
.br
.B lpoptions
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -p
.I destination[/instance]
] -l
.br
.B lpoptions
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -o
.I option[=value]
] ... [ -o
.I option[=value]
] [ -p
.I destination[/instance]
] -r
.I option
.br
.B lpoptions
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -x
.I destination[/instance]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpoptions\fR displays or sets printa options n' defaults.
\fIlpoptions\fR shows tha default printa options when run wit no
arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Other options include:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Enablez encryption when communicatin wit tha CUPS server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Uses a alternate username.
.TP 5
-d destination[/instance]
.br
Sets tha user default printa ta \fIdestination\fR. If \fIinstance\fR
is supplied then dat particular instizzle is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option
overrides tha system default printa fo' tha current user.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Uses a alternate server.
.TP 5
-l
.br
Lists tha printa specific options n' they current settings.
.TP 5
-o option[=value]
.br
Specifies a freshly smoked up option fo' tha named destination.
.TP 5
-p destination[/instance]
.br
Sets tha destination n' instance, if specified, fo' any options
that follow. If tha named instizzle do not exist then it is
created.
.TP 5
-r option
.br
Removes tha specified option fo' tha named destination.
.TP 5
-x destination[/instance]
.br
Removes tha options fo' tha named destination n' instance, if
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha named instizzle do not exist then dis do
nothing.
.LP
If no options is specified rockin tha \fI-o\fR option, then the
current options fo' tha named printa is reported on the
standard output.
.LP
Options set wit tha \fIlpoptions\fR command is used by the
\fIlp(1)\fR n' \fIlpr(1)\fR commandz when submittin thangs.
.SH ROOT ACCOUNT OPTIONS
When run by tha root user, \fIlpoptions\fR gets n' sets default
options n' instances fo' \fIall users\fR up in the
/etc/cups/lpoptions file.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da \fIlpoptions\fR command is unique ta CUPS.
.SH FILES
~/.cups/lpoptions - user defaults n' instances pimped by non-root
users.
.br
/etc/cups/lpoptions - system-wide defaults n' instances
created by tha root user.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpoptions.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
