.\"
.\" "$Id: lppasswd.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpadmin playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lppasswd 1 "CUPS" "22 February 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lppasswd \- add, chizzle, or delete digest passwords.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lppasswd
[
.I username
]
.br
.B lppasswd
-a [ -g
.I groupname
]
.I username
.br
.B lppasswd
-x
.I username
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlppasswd\fR adds, chizzles, or deletes passwordz up in tha CUPS
digest password file, \fIpasswd.md5\fR. When run by a normal
user, \fIlppasswd\fR will prompt fo' tha oldschool n' freshly smoked up passwords.
When run by tha super-user, \fIlppasswd\fR can add freshly smoked up accounts
(\fI-a username\fR), chizzle existin accounts (\fIusername\fR),
or delete accounts (\fI-x username\fR) up in tha digest password
file. Digest usernames do not gotta match local UNIX usernames.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIlppasswd\fR supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-g groupname
.br
Specifies a crew other than tha default system group.
.SH SECURITY ISSUES
By default, tha \fIlppasswd\fR program aint installed ta allow ordinary
users ta chizzle they passwords. To enable this, tha \fIlppasswd\fR command
must be made setuid ta root wit tha command:
.br
.nf
chmod u+s lppasswd
.fi
.PP
While every last muthafuckin attempt has been made ta make \fIlppasswd\fR secure against
exploits dat could grant super-user privileges ta unprivileged users,
paranoid system administrators may wish ta use Basic authentication with
accounts managed by PAM instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lppasswd.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
