.\"
.\" "$Id: lpq.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpq playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpq 1 "CUPS" "16 June 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpq \- show printa queue status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpq
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -P
.I destination[/instance]
] [ -a ] [ -l ] [
.I +interval
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpq\fR shows tha current print queue status on tha named
printer n' shit. Jobs queued on tha default destination is ghon be shown if
no printa or class is specified on tha command-line.
.LP
Da \fI+interval\fR option allows you ta continuously report the
jobs up in tha queue until tha queue is empty; tha list of thangs is
shown once every last muthafuckin \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIlpq\fR supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-P destination[/instance]
.br
Specifies a alternate printa or class name.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies a alternate username.
.TP 5
-a
.br
Reports thangs on all printers.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Specifies a alternate server.
.TP 5
-l
.br
Requests a mo' verbose (long) reportin format.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR, \fIlprm(1)\fR,
\fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpq.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
