.\"
.\" "$Id: lpr.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpr playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpr 1 "CUPS" "29 August 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpr \- print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[ -E ] [ -H
.I server[:port]
] [ -U
.I username
] [ -P
.I destination[/instance]
] [ -#
.I num-copies
[ -h ] [ -l ] [ -m ] [ -o
.I option[=value]
] [ -p] [ -q ] [ -r ] [ -C/J/T
.I title
] [
.I file(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpr\fR submits filez fo' printing. Filez named on tha command
line is busted ta tha named printa (or tha default destination if no
destination is specified). If no filez is listed on tha command-line,
\fIlpr\fR readz tha print file from tha standard input.
.SH THE DEFAULT DESTINATION
CUPS serves up nuff ways ta set tha default destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da "LPDEST" and
"PRINTER" environment variablez is consulted first. If neither is set,
the current default set rockin tha \fIlpoptions(1)\fR command is used,
followed by tha default set rockin tha \fIlpadmin(8)\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is recognized by \fIlpr\fR:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-H server[:port]
.br
Specifies a alternate server.
.TP 5
-C "name"
.TP 5
-J "name"
.TP 5
-T "name"
.br
Sets tha thang name.
.TP 5
-P destination[/instance]
.br
Prints filez ta tha named printer.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies a alternate username.
.TP 5
-# \fIcopies\fR
.br
Sets tha number of copies ta print from 1 ta 100.
.TP 5
-h
.br
Disablez banner printing. This option is equivalent ta "-o
job-sheets=none".
.TP 5
-l
.br
Specifies dat tha print file be already formatted fo' the
destination n' should be busted without filtering. This option is
equivalent ta "-o raw".
.TP 5
-m
.br
Send a email on thang completion.
.TP 5
-o option[=value]
.br
Sets a thang option.
.TP 5
-p
.br
Specifies dat tha print file should be formatted wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shaded
header wit tha date, time, thang name, n' page number n' shit. This
option is equivalent ta "-o prettyprint" n' is only useful when
printin text files.
.TP 5
-q
.br
Hold thang fo' printing.
.TP 5
-r
.br
Specifies dat tha named print filez should be deleted after
printin em.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da "c", "d", "f", "g", "i", "n", "t", "v", n' "w" options
are not supported by CUPS n' produce a warnin message if used.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpoptions(1)\fR,
\fIlpq(1)\fR, \fIlprm(1)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpr.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
