.\"
.\" "$Id: lprm.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lprm playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lprm 1 "CUPS" "28 August 2009" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lprm \- quit print thangs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprm
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -P
.I destination[/instance]
] [ - ] [
.I thang ID(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlprm\fR cancels print thangs dat done been queued fo' printing.
If no arguments is supplied, tha current thang on tha default
destination is shut down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can specify one or mo' thang ID
numbers ta quit dem thangs or use tha \fI-\fR option ta cancel
all thangs.
.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIlprm\fR command supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-P destination[/instance]
.br
Specifies tha destination printa or class.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies a alternate username.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Specifies a alternate server.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da CUPS version of \fIlprm\fR is compatible wit tha standard
Berkeley \fIlprm\fR command.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpq(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR,
\fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lprm.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
