.\"
.\" "$Id: lpstat.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpstat playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpstat 1 "CUPS" "10 September 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print cups status shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpstat
[ -E ] [ -H ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] [ -l ] [ -W
.I which-jobs
] [ -a [
.I destination(s)
] ] [ -c [
.I class(es)
] ] [ -d ] [ -o [
.I destination(s)
] ] [ -p [
.I printer(s)
] ] [ -r ] [ -R ] [ -s ] [ -t ] [ -u [
.I user(s)
] ] [ -v [
.I printer(s)
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpstat\fR displays status shiznit bout tha current
classes, thangs, n' printers. When run wit no arguments,
\fIlpstat\fR will list thangs queued by tha current user.
.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIlpstat\fR command supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-H
.br
Shows tha server hostname n' port.
.TP 5
-R
.br
Shows tha rankin of print thangs.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies a alternate username.
.TP 5
-W which-jobs
.br
Specifies which thangs ta show, \fIcompleted\fR or
\fInot-completed\fR (the default). This option \fImust\fR appear
before tha \fI-o\fR option and/or any printa names, otherwise
the default (not-completed) value is ghon be used up in tha request to
the scheduler.
.TP 5
-a [printer(s)]
.br
Shows tha acceptin state of printa queues. If no printas are
specified then all printas is listed.
.TP 5
-c [class(es)]
.br
Shows tha printa classes n' tha printas dat belong ta em.
If no classes is specified then all classes is listed.
.TP 5
-d
.br
Shows tha current default destination.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Specifies a alternate server.
.TP 5
-l
.br
Shows a long-ass listin of printers, classes, or thangs.
.TP 5
-o [destination(s)]
.br
Shows tha thangs queue on tha specified destinations. If no destinations are
specified all thangs is shown.
.TP 5
-p [printer(s)]
.br
Shows tha printas n' whether or not they is enabled fo' printing. If
no printas is specified then all printas is listed.
.TP 5
-r
.br
Shows whether tha CUPS server is hustlin.
.TP 5
-s
.br
Shows a status summary, includin tha default destination, a
list of classes n' they member printers, n' a list of printas and
their associated devices. This is equivalent ta rockin tha "-d", "-c",
and "-v" options.
.TP 5
-t
.br
Shows all status shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is equivalent ta rockin tha "-r",
"-d", "-c", "-v", "-a", "-p", n' "-o" options.
.TP 5
-u [user(s)]
.br
Shows a list of print thangs queued by tha specified users. If no users
are specified, lists tha thangs queued by tha current user.
.TP 5
-v [printer(s)]
.br
Shows tha printas n' what tha fuck thang they is attached to. If no printers
are specified then all printas is listed.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", n' "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
Da "-h", "-E", "-U", n' "-W" options is unique ta CUPS.
.LP
Da Solaris "-f", "-P", n' "-S" options is silently ignored.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpstat.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
