.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii lscpu.1
.\"
.TH LSCPU 1 "January 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lscpu \- display shiznit bout tha CPU architecture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lscpu
.RB [ \-a | \-b | \-c "] [" \-x "] [" \-s " \fIdirectory\fP] [" \-e [=\fIlist\fP]| \-p [=\fIlist\fP]]
.br
.B lscpu
.BR \-h | \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lscpu
gathers CPU architecture shiznit from sysfs n' /proc/cpuinfo.  The
command output can be optimized fo' parsin or fo' easy as fuck  readabilitizzle by humans.
Da shiznit includes, fo' example, tha number of CPUs, threads, cores,
sockets, n' Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) nodes.  There be also shiznit
about tha CPU caches n' cache sharing, crew, model, bogoMIPS, byte order,
and stepping.

Options dat result up in a output table gotz a \fIlist\fP argument.  Use this
argument ta customize tha command output.  Specify a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of
column labels ta limit tha output table ta only tha specified columns, arranged
in tha specified order n' shit.  See \fBCOLUMNS\fP fo' a list of valid column labels.  The
column labels is not case sensitive.

Not all columns is supported on all architectures.  If a unsupported column is
specified, \fBlscpu\fP prints tha column but do not provide any data fo' dat shit.

.SS COLUMNS
Note dat topologizzle elements (core, socket, etc.) use sequential unique ID
startin from zero yo, but CPU logical numbers follow kernel where is no guarantee
of tha sequential numbering.
.TP
.B CPU
Da logical CPU number of a CPU as used by tha Linux kernel.
.TP
.B CORE
Da logical core number n' shit.  A core can contain nuff muthafuckin CPUs.
.TP
.B SOCKET
Da logical socket number n' shit.  A socket can contain nuff muthafuckin cores.
.TP
.B BOOK
Da logical book number n' shit.  A book can contain nuff muthafuckin sockets.
.TP
.B NODE
Da logical NUMA node number n' shit.  A node may contain nuff muthafuckin books.
.TP
.B CACHE
Hype bout how tha fuck caches is shared between CPUs.
.TP
.B ADDRESS
Da physical address of a CPU.
.TP
.B ONLINE
Indicator dat shows whether tha Linux instizzle currently make use of tha CPU.
.TP
.B CONFIGURED
Indicator dat shows if tha hypervisor has allocated tha CPU ta tha virtual
hardware on which tha Linux instizzle runs.  CPUs dat is configured can be set
online by tha Linux instance.
This column gotz nuff data only if yo' hardware system n' hypervisor support
dynamic CPU resource allocation.
.TP
.B POLARIZATION
This column gotz nuff data fo' Linux instances dat run on virtual hardware with
a hypervisor dat can switch tha CPU dispatchin mode (polarization).  The
polarization can be:
.RS
.TP 12
.B horizontal\fP
Da workload is spread across all available CPUs.
.TP 12
.B vertical
Da workload is concentrated on few CPUs.
.P
For vertical polarization, tha column also shows tha degree of concentration,
high, medium, or low.  This column gotz nuff data only if yo' hardware system
and hypervisor support CPU polarization.
.TP
.B MMHZ
Maximum megaherz value fo' tha cpu fo'sho.  Useful when lscpu is used as hardware
inventory shiznit gatherin tool.  Notice dat tha megahertz value is
dynamic, n' driven by CPU governor dependin on current resource need.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
Include lines fo' online n' offline CPUs up in tha output (default fo' \fB-e\fR).
This option may only be specified together wit option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-online"
Limit tha output ta online CPUs (default fo' \fB-p\fR).
This option may only be specified together wit option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-offline"
Limit tha output ta offline CPUs.
This option may only be specified together wit option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-extended" [=\fIlist\fP]
Display tha CPU shiznit up in human readable format.

If tha \fIlist\fP argument is omitted, all columns fo' which data be available
are included up in tha command output.

When specifyin tha \fIlist\fP argument, tha strang of option, equal sign (=), and
\fIlist\fP must not contain any blanks or other whitespace.
Examples: '\fB-e=cpu,node\fP' or '\fB--extended=cpu,node\fP'.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-parse" [=\fIlist\fP]
Optimize tha command output fo' easy as fuck  parsing.

If tha \fIlist\fP argument is omitted, tha command output is compatible wit earlier
versionz of \fBlscpu\fP.  In dis compatible format, two commas is used ta separate
CPU cache columns.  If no CPU caches is identified tha cache column is omitted.
.br
If tha \fIlist\fP argument is used, cache columns is separated wit a cold-ass lil colon (:).

When specifyin tha \fIlist\fP argument, tha strang of option, equal sign (=), and
\fIlist\fP must not contain any blanks or other whitespace.
Examples: '\fB-p=cpu,node\fP' or '\fB--parse=cpu,node\fP'.
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-sysroot " \fIdirectory\fP
Gather CPU data fo' a Linux instizzle other than tha instizzle from which the
\fBlscpu\fP command is issued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da specified \fIdirectory\fP is tha system root
of tha Linux instizzle ta be inspected.
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-hex"
Use hexadecimal masks fo' CPU sets (for example 0x3).  Da default is ta print
the sets up in list format (for example 0,1).
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH BUGS
Da basic overview of CPU crew, model, etc. be always based on tha first
CPU only.

Sometimes up in Xen Dom0 tha kernel reports wack data.

On virtual hardware tha number of cores per socket, etc. can be wrong.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Cai Qian <qcai@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
Heiko Carstens <heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com>
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chcpu (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da lscpu command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
