.\" $Id: lua.man,v 1.13 2011/11/16 17:16:53 lhf Exp $
.TH LUA 1 "$Date: 2011/11/16 17:16:53 $"
.SH NAME
lua \- Lua interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lua
[
.I options
]
[
.I script
[
.I args
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lua
is tha standalone Lua interpreter.
It loadz n' executes Lua programs,
either up in textual source form or
in precompiled binary form.
(Precompiled binaries is output by
.BR luac ,
the Lua compiler.)
.B lua
can be used as a funky-ass batch interpreta n' also interactively.
.LP
Da given
.I options
are handled up in order n' then
the Lua program up in file
.I script
is loaded n' executed.
Da given
.I args
are available to
.I script
as strings up in a global table named
.BR arg .
If no options or arguments is given,
then
.B "\-v \-i"
is assumed when tha standard input be a terminal;
otherwise,
.B "\-"
is assumed.
.LP
In interactizzle mode,
.B lua
prompts tha user,
readz lines from tha standard input,
and executes dem as they is read.
If a line do not contain a cold-ass lil complete statement,
then a secondary prompt is displayed and
lines is read until a cold-ass lil complete statement is formed or
a syntax error is found.
If a line starts with
.BR '=' ,
then
.B lua
evaluates n' displays
the jointz of tha expressions up in tha remainder of tha line.
.LP
At tha straight-up start,
before even handlin tha command line,
.B lua
checks tha contentz of tha environment variables
.B LUA_INIT_5_2
or
.BR LUA_INIT ,
in dat order.
If tha contents iz of tha form
.RI '@ filename ',
then
.I filename
is executed.
Otherwise, tha strang be assumed ta be a Lua statement n' is executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " stat"
execute statement
.IR stat .
.TP
.B \-i
enta interactizzle mode afta executing
.IR script .
.TP
.BI \-l " name"
execute tha equivalent of
.IB name =require(' name ')
before executing
.IR script .
.TP
.B \-v
show version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-E
ignore environment variables.
.TP
.B \-\-
stop handlin options.
.TP
.B \-
stop handlin options n' execute tha standard input as a gangbangin' file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR luac (1)
.br
Da documentation at lua.org,
especially section 7 of tha reference manual.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error lyrics should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHORS
R. Ierusalimschy,
L yo. H. de Figueiredo,
W. Celes
.\" EOF
