.\" $Id: luac.man,v 1.29 2011/11/16 13:53:40 lhf Exp $
.TH LUAC 1 "$Date: 2011/11/16 13:53:40 $"
.SH NAME
luac \- Lua compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B luac
[
.I options
] [
.I filenames
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B luac
is tha Lua compiler.
It translates programs freestyled up in tha Lua programmin language
into binary filez containin precompiled chunks
that can be lata loaded n' executed.
.LP
Da main advantagez of precompilin chunks are:
fasta loading,
protectin source code from accidental user chizzles,
and
off-line syntax checking.
Precompilin do not imply fasta execution
because up in Lua chunks is always compiled tha fuck into bytecodes before bein executed.
.B luac
simply allows dem bytecodes ta be saved up in a gangbangin' file fo' lata execution.
Precompiled chunks is not necessarily smalla than tha correspondin source.
Da main goal up in precompilin is fasta loading.
.LP
In tha command line,
you can mix
text filez containin Lua source and
binary filez containin precompiled chunks.
.B luac
produces a single output file containin tha combined bytecodes
for all filez given.
Executin tha combined file is equivalent ta executin tha given files.
By default,
the output file is named
.BR luac.out ,
but you can chizzle dis wit the
.B \-o
option.
.LP
Precompiled chunks are
.I not
portable across different architectures.
Mo'over,
the internal format of precompiled chunks
is likely ta chizzle when a freshly smoked up version of Lua is busted out.
Make shizzle you save tha source filez of all Lua programs dat you precompile.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
produce a listin of tha compiled bytecode fo' Luaz virtual machine.
Listin bytecodes is useful ta learn bout Luaz virtual machine.
If no filez is given, then
.B luac
loads
.B luac.out
and lists its contents.
Use
.B \-l \-l
for a gangbangin' full listing.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
output to
.IR file ,
instead of tha default
.BR luac.out .
(Yo ass can use
.B "'\-'"
for standard output,
but not on platforms dat open standard output up in text mode.)
Da output file may be one of tha given filez cuz
all filez is loaded before tha output file is written.
Be careful not ta overwrite precious files.
.TP
.B \-p
load filez but do not generate any output file.
Used mainly fo' syntax checkin n' fo' testin precompiled chunks:
corrupted filez will probably generate errors when loaded.
If no filez is given, then
.B luac
loads
.B luac.out
and tests its contents.
No lyrics is displayed if tha file loadz without errors.
.TP
.B \-s
strip debug shiznit before freestylin tha output file.
This saves some space up in straight-up big-ass chunks,
but if errors occur when hustlin a stripped chunk,
then tha error lyrics may not contain tha full shiznit they probably do.
In particular,
line numbers n' namez of local variablez is lost.
.TP
.B \-v
show version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-\-
stop handlin options.
.TP
.B \-
stop handlin options n' process standard input.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lua (1)
.br
Da documentation at lua.org.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error lyrics should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHORS
R. Ierusalimschy,
L yo. H. de Figueiredo,
W. Celes
.\" EOF
