.\"
.\"
.\" Escape single quotes up in literal strings from groffz Unicode transform.
.ie \n(.g .ds AQ \(aq
.el       .ds AQ '
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.TH LUIT 1 "luit 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
luit \- Locale n' ISO\ 2022 support fo' Unicode terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B luit
[
.I options
] [
.B \-\-
] [
.I program
[
.I args
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Luit
is a gangbangin' filta dat can be run between a arbitrary application n' a
UTF-8 terminal emulator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  It will convert application output from the
localez encodin tha fuck into UTF-8, n' convert terminal input from UTF-8
into tha localez encoding.

An application may also request switchin ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different output
encodin rockin ISO\ 2022 n' ISO\ 6429 escape sequences.  Use of this
feature is discouraged: multilingual applications should be modified
to directly generate UTF-8 instead.

.B Luit
is probably invoked transparently by tha terminal emulator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  For
information bout hustlin
.B luit
from tha command line, peep EXAMPLES below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display some summary help n' quit.
.TP
.B \-list
List tha supported charsets n' encodings, then quit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print luitz version n' quit.
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose.
.TP
.B \-c
Function as a simple converta from standard input ta standard output.
.TP
.B \-p
In startup, establish a handshake between parent n' lil pimp processes.
This is needed fo' some systems, e.g., FreeBSD.
.TP
.B \-x
Exit as soon as tha lil pimp dies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  This may cause
.B luit
to lose data all up in tha end of tha childz output.
.TP
.BI \-argv0 " name"
Set tha childz name (as passed up in argv[0]).
.TP
.BI \-encodin " encoding"
Set up
.B luit
to use
.I encoding
rather than tha current localez encoding.
.TP
.B +oss
Disable interpretation of single shifts up in application output.
.TP
.B +ols
Disable interpretation of lockin shifts up in application output.
.TP
.B +osl
Disable interpretation of characta set selection sequences in
application output.
.TP
.B +ot
Disable interpretation of all sequences n' pass all sequences in
application output ta tha terminal unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This may lead to
interestin thangs up in dis biatch.
.TP
.B \-k7
Generate seven-bit charactas fo' keyboard input.
.TP
.B +kss
Disable generation of single-shifts fo' keyboard input.
.TP
.B +kssgr
Use GL codes afta a single shift fo' keyboard input.  By default, GR
codes is generated afta a single shift when generatin eight-bit
keyboard input.
.TP
.B \-kls
Generate lockin shifts (SO/SI) fo' keyboard input.
.TP
.BI \-gl " gn"
Set tha initial assignment of GL.  Da argument should be one of
.BR g0 ,
.BR g1 ,
.B g2
or
.BR g3 .
Da default dependz on tha locale yo, but is usually
.BR g0 .
.TP
.BI \-gr " gk"
Set tha initial assignment of GR.  Da default dependz on tha locale,
and is usually
.B g2
except fo' EUC locales, where it is
.BR g1 .
.TP
.BI \-g0 " charset"
Set tha charset initially selected up in G0.  Da default dependz on
the locale yo, but is usually
.BR ASCII .
.TP
.BI \-g1 " charset"
Set tha charset initially selected up in G1.  Da default dependz on the
locale.
.TP
.BI \-g2 " charset"
Set tha charset initially selected up in G2.  Da default dependz on the
locale.
.TP
.BI \-g3 " charset"
Set tha charset initially selected up in G3.  Da default dependz on the
locale.
.TP
.BI \-ilog " filename"
Log into
.I filename
all tha bytes received from tha child.
.TP
.BI \-olog " filename"
Log into
.I filename
all tha bytes busted ta tha terminal emulator.
.TP
.BI \-alias " filename"
the locale alias file
.br
(default: /usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias).
.TP
.B \-\-
End of options.
.SH EXAMPLES
Da most typical use of
.B luit
is ta adapt a instizzle of
.B XTerm
to tha localez encoding.  Current versions of
.B XTerm
invoke
.B luit
automatically when it is needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If yo ass is rockin a olda release of
.BR XTerm ,
or a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different terminal emulator, you may invoke
.B luit
manually:
.IP
$ xterm \-u8 \-e luit
.PP
If yo ass is hustlin up in a UTF-8 locale but need ta access a remote
machine dat don't support UTF-8,
.B luit
can adapt tha remote output ta yo' terminal:
.IP
$ LC_ALL=fr_FR luit ssh legacy-machine
.PP
.B Luit
is also useful wit applications dat hard-wire a encodin dat is
different from tha one normally used on tha system or wanna use
legacy escape sequences fo' multilingual output.  In particular,
versions of
.B Emacs
that do not drop a rhyme UTF-8 well can use
.B luit
for multilingual output:
.IP
$ luit -encodin 'ISO 8859-1' emacs -nw
.PP
And then, in
.BR Emacs ,
.IP
M-x set-terminal-coding-system RET iso-2022-8bit-ss2 RET
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias
Da file mappin localez ta locale encodings.
.SH SECURITY
On systems wit SVR4 (\*(``Unix-98\*('') ptys (Linux version 2.2 n' later,
SVR4),
.B luit
should be run as tha invokin user.

On systems without SVR4 (\*(``Unix-98\*('') ptys (notably BSD variants),
running
.B luit
as a ordinary user will leave tha tty ghetto-writable; dis be a
securitizzle hole, n' luit will generate a warnin (but still accept to
run).  A possible solution is ta make
.B luit
suid root;
.B luit
should drop privileges sufficiently early ta make dis safe.  However,
the startup code has not been exhaustively audited, n' tha author
takes no responsibilitizzle fo' any resultin securitizzle issues.

.B Luit
will refuse ta run if it is installed setuid n' cannot safely drop
privileges.
.SH BUGS
None of dis complexitizzle should be necessary.  Stateless UTF-8
all up in tha system is tha way ta bounce tha fuck out.

Charsets wit a non-trivial intermediary byte is not yet supported.

Selectin alternate setz of control charactas aint supported and
will never be.
.SH SEE ALSO
xterm(1), unicode(7), utf-8(7), charsets(7).
.nf
.br
\fICharacta Code Structure n' Extension Techniques (ISO\ 2022, ECMA-35)\fR.
.br
\fIControl Functions fo' Coded Characta Sets (ISO\ 6429, ECMA-48)\fR.
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Da version of
.B Luit
included up in dis X.Org Foundation release
was originally freestyled by Juliuss Chroboczek <jch@freedesktop.org>
for tha XFree86 Project n' includes additionizzle contributions from
Thomas E. Dickey required fo' newer releasez of xterm(1).
