.\" A playa page fo' luserdel
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH luserdel 1 "May 2009" libuser

.SH NAME
luserdel \- Delete a user

.SH SYNOPSIS
luserdel [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Deletes tha user wit name \fIuser\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-dontremovegroup\fR
By default tha userz primary crew is removed
if it has crew name \fIuser\fR (userz private group).
This option disablez dis behavior.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-removehome\fR
Remove userz home directory n' mail spool afta deletin tha user.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
