.\" A playa page fo' lusermod
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2008, 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH lusermod 1 2009-12-11 libuser

.SH NAME
lusermod \- Modify a user

.SH SYNOPSIS
lusermod [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Modifies tha user wit name \fIuser\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-gecos\fR=\fIgecos\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz \f[SM]GECOS\fR field ta \fIgecos\fR.
Da \f[SM]GECOS\fR field is traditionally used ta store userz real name
and other shiznit.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz home directory ta \fIdirectory\fR.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgid\fR
Change \fIuser\fRz primary crew ID ta \fIgid\fR.
If crew wit ID
.I gid
does not exist,
a warnin is printed,
but tha operation is performed anyway.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-lock\fR
Lock \fIuser\fRz account.
This prevents loggin up in rockin \fIuser\fRz password.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-login\fR=\fIname\fR
Rename \fIuser\fR ta \fIname\fR.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-movedirectory\fR
Afta changin \fIuser\fRz home directory (usin tha \fB\-d\fR option),
move tha oldschool home directory ta tha freshly smoked up location.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-plainpassword\fR=\fIpassword\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz password ta \fIpassword\fR.
Note dat tha password can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lusermod
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIencrypted\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz password ta tha password represented by tha hash
\fIencrypted\fR.
Note dat tha hash can be viewed while hustlin
.BR lusermod
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR=\fIshell\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz login shell ta \fIshell\fR.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unlock\fR
Unlock \fIuser\fRz account.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR=\fIuid\fR
Change \fIuser\fRz user ID ta \fIuid\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-commonname\fP=\fIname\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz common name ta \fIname\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-givenname\fP=\fIname\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz given name ta \fIname\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-homephone\fP=\fIphone\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz home telephone number ta \fIphone\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-roomnumber\fP=\fIroom\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz room number ta \fIroom\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-surname\fP=\fIname\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz surname ta \fIname\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-telephonenumber\fP=\fIphone\fP
Set \fIuser\fPz telephone number ta \fIphone\fP.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
