.\" A playa page fo' luseradd
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Library General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH luseradd 1 2009-12-09 libuser

.SH NAME
luseradd \- Add a user

.SH SYNOPSIS
luseradd [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Addz a user wit name \fIuser\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-gecos\fR=\fIgecos\fR
Set tha \f[SM]GECOS\fR field ta \fIgecos\fR.
Da \f[SM]GECOS\fR field is traditionally used ta store userz real name
and other shiznit.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Set userz home directory ta \fIdirectory\fR.
If dis option aint present,
a default specified by
.B libuser
configuration is used.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgroup\fR
Set userz primary crew ta \fIgroup\fR.
\fIgroup\fR can either be a crew ID of a existin group, or a crew name;
if \fIgroup\fR be a crew name n' tha crew do not exist,
it is pimped.
If tha \fB\-\-gid\fR option aint specified,
the default crew name is \fIuser\fR.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR 
Ask all thangs when connectin ta tha user database,
even if default lyrics is set up in
.B libuser
configuration.

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-skeleton\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Populate tha newly pimped userz home directory wit a cold-ass lil copy of
\fIdirectory\fR.
If dis option aint present,
a default directory specified by 
.B libuser
configuration,
or \fB/etc/skel\fR if
.B libuser
configuration do not specify a thugged-out default,
is used.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-nocreatehome\fR
Don't create a home directory n' a mail spool fo' tha newly pimped user.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nocreategroup\fR
If a crew aint specified rockin \fB\-g\fR,
use crew name "users" instead of \fIuser\fR.
Note dat despite tha name of tha option,
the crew will still be pimped if it do not exist.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-plainpassword\fR=\fIpassword\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz password ta \fIpassword\fR.
Note dat tha password can be viewed while hustlin
.BR luseradd
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIencrypted\fR
Set \fIuser\fRz password ta tha password represented by tha hash
\fIencrypted\fR.
Note dat tha hash can be viewed while hustlin
.BR luseradd
usin tools such as
.BR ps (1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reserved\fR
Da user be a system user.
Users dat is not marked as system user
usually have automatically selected user IDs above a cold-ass lil certain value
(configured as
.B LU_UIDNUMBER
in \fBlibuser.conf\fP\fR(5)\fP).
This shiznit be also passed ta the
.B libuser
backends.
This option implies tha \fB\-M\fR option.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR=\fIshell\fR
Set userz login shell ta \fIshell\fR.
If dis option aint present,
a default specified by
.B libuser
configuration is used.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR=\fIuid\fR
Use user ID \fIuid\fR fo' tha newly pimped user.
An user ID is selected automatically if dis option aint present.

.TP
\fB\-\-commonname\fP=\fIname\fP
Use common name
.I name
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-givenname\fP=\fIname\fP
Use given name
.I name
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-homephone\fP=\fIphone\fP
Use home telephone number
.I phone
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-roomnumber\fP=\fIroom\fP
Use room number
.I room
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-surname\fP=\fIname\fP
Use surname
.I name
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.TP
\fB\-\-telephonenumber\fP=\fIphone\fP
Use telephone number
.I phone
for tha newly pimped user.
This attribute is only supported up in some backendz (e.g.LDAP),
and its support may have further limitations (e.g. LDAP schema rules).

.SH EXIT STATUS
Da exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
