.\" $LynxId: lynx.man,v 1.97 2013/06/02 20:34:05 tom Exp $
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" Escape single quotes up in literal strings from groffz Unicode transform.
.ie \n(.g .ds AQ \(aq
.el       .ds AQ '
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH LYNX 1
.SH NAME
lynx \- a general purpose distributed shiznit browser fo' tha Ghetto Wide Web
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lynx \fP[options] [path or URL]
.sp
.B lynx \fI[options] [path or URL]\fP \fB\-get_data
.br
.I data
.br
.B \-\-
.sp
.B lynx \fI[options] [path or URL]\fP \fB\-post_data
.br
.I data
.br
.B \-\-
.PP
Use \*(``lynx \-help\*('' ta display a cold-ass lil complete list of current options.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.hy 0
.I
Lynx
is a gangbangin' fully-featured Ghetto Wide Web (WWW) client fo' users
runnin cursor-addressable, character-cell display devices (e.g.,
vt100 terminals, vt100 emulators hustlin on Windows 95/NT or Macintoshes, or any
other \*(``curses-oriented\*('' display).
It will display hypertext
markup language (HTML) documents containin links to
filez residin on tha local system, as well as filez residin on
remote systems hustlin Gopher, HTTP, FTP, WAIS, n' NNTP servers.
Current versions of
.I
Lynx
run on
Unix, VMS, Windows 95/NT, 386DOS n' OS/2 EMX.
.PP
.I
Lynx
can be used ta access shiznit on tha Ghetto Wide Web, or
to build shiznit systems intended primarily fo' local access.
For example,
.I
Lynx
has been used ta build nuff muthafuckin Campus Wide
Hype Systems (CWIS).
In addition,
.I
Lynx
can be used to
build systems isolated within a single LAN.
.SH OPTIONS
At start up, \fILynx\fR will load any local
file or remote URL specified all up in tha command line.
For help wit URLs, press \*(``\fB?\fR\*(''
or \*(``\fBH\fR\*('' while hustlin \fILynx\fR.
Then follow tha link titled, \*(``Help on URLs.\*(''
.PP
If mo' than one local file or remote URL is listed on tha command line,
\fILynx\fP will open only tha last interactively.
All of tha names (local filez n' remote URLs) is added ta tha G)oto history.
.PP
\fILynx\fR uses only long option names.
Option names can begin wit double dash as well,
underscores n' dashes can be intermixed in
option names (in tha reference below options
are wit one dash before dem n' wit underscores).
.PP
\fILynx\fR serves up nuff command-line options.
Some options require a value (string, number or keyword).
These is noted up in tha reference below.
Da other options set boolean joints up in tha program.
There is three typez of boolean options: set, unset n' toggle.
If no option value is given, these have tha obvious meaning:
set (to true), unset (to false), or toggle (between true/false).
For any of these, a explicit value can be given up in different
forms ta allow fo' operatin system constraints,
e.g.,
.RS
.nf
\fB\-center:off\fP
\fB\-center=off\fP
\fB\-center\-\fP
.fi
.RE
\fILynx\fR recognizes
\*(``1\*('', \*(``+\*('', \*(``on\*('' n' \*(``true\*('' fo' legit joints, and
\*(``0\*('', \*(``\-\*('', \*(``off\*('' n' \*(``false\*('' fo' false joints.
Other option-values is ignored.
.PP
Da default boolean, number n' strang option joints dat is compiled
into \fILynx\fP is displayed up in tha help-message provided by \fBlynx \-help\fP.
Some of dem may differ accordin ta how tha fuck \fILynx\fP was built;
see tha help message itself fo' these joints.
Da \fB\-help\fP option is processed up in tha third pass of options-processing,
so any option which sets a value,
as well as runtime configuration joints is reflected up in tha help-message.
.TP 7
.B \-
If tha argument is only '\-', then \fILynx\fP expects ta receive
the arguments from tha standard input.
This is ta allow fo' the
potentially straight-up long command line dat can be associated
with tha \fB\-get_data\fR or \fB\-post_data\fR arguments (see below).
It can also be used ta avoid havin sensitizzle shiznit
in tha invokin command line (which would be visible to
other processes on most systems), especially when
the \fB\-auth\fR or \fB\-pauth\fR options is used.
.TP
.B \-accept_all_cookies
accept all cookies.
.TP
.B \-anonymous
apply restrictions fo' anonymous account, peep also \fB\-restrictions\fR.
.TP
.B \-assume_charset\fR=\fIMIMEname
charset fo' documents dat don't specify dat shit.
.TP
.B \-assume_local_charset\fR=\fIMIMEname
charset assumed fo' local files,
i.e., filez which \fILynx\fP creates like fuckin internal pages fo' tha options menu.
.TP
.B \-assume_unrec_charset\fR=\fIMIMEname
use dis instead of unrecognized charsets.
.TP
.B \-auth\fR=\fIID\fR:\fIPASSWD
set authorization ID n' password fo' protected documents at startup.
Be shizzle ta protect any script filez which use
this switch.
.TP
.B \-base
prepend a request URL comment n' BASE tag ta text/html
outputs fo' \fB\-source\fR dumps.
.TP
.B \-bibhost\fR=\fIURL
specify a local bibp server (default http://bibhost/).
.TP
.B \-blink
forces high intensitizzle background flavas fo' color mode, if available
and supported by tha terminal.
This applies ta tha \fBslang\fR library (for all dem terminal emulators),
or ta OS/2 EMX wit \fBncurses\fR.
.TP
.B \-book
use tha bookmark page as tha startfile.
Da default or command
line startfile is still set fo' tha Main screen command, n' will
be used if tha bookmark page is unavailable or blank.
.TP
.B \-buried_news
togglez scannin of shizzle articlez fo' buried references, and
converts dem ta shizzle links.
Not recommended cuz email
addresses enclosed up in angle brackets is ghon be converted to
false shizzle links, n' uuencoded lyrics can be trashed.
.TP
.B \-cache\fR=\fINUMBER
set tha NUMBER of documents cached up in memory.
Da default is 10.
.TP
.B \-case
enable case-sensitizzle strang searching.
.TP
.B \-center
Toggle centa alignment up in HTML TABLE.
.TP
.B \-cfg\fR=\fIFILENAME
specifies a \fILynx\fP configuration file other than tha default
lynx.cfg.
.TP
.B \-child
exit on left-arrow up in startfile, n' disable save ta disk n' associated
print/mail options.
.TP
.B \-child_relaxed
exit on left-arrow up in startfile yo, but allow save ta disk n' associated
print/mail options.
.TP
.B \-cmd_log\fR=\fIFILENAME
write keystroke commandz n' related shiznit ta tha specified file.
.TP
.B \-cmd_script\fR=\fIFILENAME
read keystroke commandz from tha specified file.
Yo ass can use tha data freestyled rockin tha \fB\-cmd_log\fR option.
\fILynx\fP will ignore other shiznit which tha command-loggin may have
written ta tha logfile.
Each line of tha command script gotz nuff either a cold-ass lil comment beginnin wit \*(``#\*('',
or a keyword:
.RS
.TP 3
.B exit
causes tha script ta stop, n' forces \fILynx\fP ta exit immediately.
.TP
.B key
the characta value, up in printable form.
Cursor n' other special keys is given as names, e.g., \*(``Down Arrow\*(''.
Printable 7-bit ASCII codes is given as-is,
and hexadecimal joints represent other 8-bit codes.
.TP
.B set
followed by a \*(``name=value\*('' allows one ta override joints set up in the
lynx.cfg or .lynxrc files.
\fILynx\fP tries tha cfg-file settin first.
.RE
.TP
.B \-color
forces color mode on, if available.
Default color control sequences
which work fo' nuff terminal types is assumed if tha terminal
capabilitizzle description do not specify how tha fuck ta handle color.
\fILynx\fP need ta be compiled wit tha \fBslang\fR library fo' dis flag,
it is equivalent ta settin tha \fBCOLORTERM\fR environment variable.
(If color support is instead provided by a cold-ass lil color-capable curses
library like \fBncurses\fR, \fILynx\fP relies straight-up on tha terminal
description ta determine whether color mode is possible, and
this flag aint needed n' thus unavailable.)
A saved show_color=always settin found up in a .lynxrc file at
startup has tha same ol' dirty effect.
A saved show_color=never found
in .lynxrc on startup is overridden by dis flag.
.TP
.B \-connect_timeout\fR=\fIN
Sets tha connection timeout, where N is given up in seconds.
.TP
.B \-cookie_file\fR=\fIFILENAME
specifies a gangbangin' file ta use ta read cookies.
If none is specified, tha default value is ~/.lynx_cookies
for most systems yo, but ~/cookies fo' MS-DOS.
.TP
.B \-cookie_save_file\fR=\fIFILENAME
specifies a gangbangin' file ta use ta store cookies.
If none is specified, tha value given by
\fB-cookie_file\fR is used.
.TP
.B \-cookies
togglez handlin of Set-Cookie headers.
.TP
.B \-core
togglez forced core dumps on fatal errors.
Turn dis option off ta ask \fILynx\fP ta force a cold-ass lil core dump if a gangbangin' fatal error occurs.
.TP
.B \-crawl
with \fB\-traversal,\fR output each page ta a gangbangin' file.
with \fB\-dump\fR, format output as wit \fB\-traversal\fR,
but ta tha standard output.
.TP
.B \-curses_pads
togglez tha use of curses \*(``pad\*('' feature which supports
left/right scrollin of tha display.
Da feature is normally available fo' curses configurations,
but inactive.
To activate it, use tha \*(``|\*('' characta or tha LINEWRAP_TOGGLE command.
Togglin dis option make tha feature altogether unavailable.
.TP
.B \-debug_partial
separate incremenstrual display stages wit MessageSecs delay
.TP
.B \-default-colors
togglez tha default-colors feature which is normally set up in tha lynx.cfg file.
.TP
.B \-delay
add DebugSecs delay afta each progress-message
.TP
.B \-display\fR=\fIDISPLAY
set tha display variable fo' X rexec-ed programs.
.TP
.B \-display_charset\fR=\fIMIMEname
set tha charset fo' tha terminal output.
.TP
.B \-dont_wrap_pre
inhibit wrappin of text when \fB\-dump\fR'in n' \fB\-crawl\fR'ing,
mark wrapped linez of <pre> up in interactizzle session.
.TP
.B \-dump
dumps tha formatted output of tha default document or them
specified on tha command line ta standard output.
Unlike interactizzle mode, all documents is processed.
This can be used up in tha followin way:
.sp
lynx \fB\-dump\fR http://www.subir.com/lynx.html
.IP
Filez specified on tha command line is formatted as HTML if
their names end wit one of tha standard wizzy suffixes such
as \*(``.htm\*('' or \*(``.html\*(''.
Use tha \fB\-force_html\fP option ta format filez whose names do not follow
this convention.
.TP
.B \-editor\fR=\fIEDITOR
enable external editing, rockin tha specified
EDITOR.
(vi, ed, emacs, etc.)
.TP
.B \-emacskeys
enable emacs-like key movement.
.TP
.B \-enable_scrollback
togglez compatibilitizzle wit communication programs' scrollback keys
(may be incompatible wit some curses packages).
.TP
.B \-error_file\fR=\fIFILE
define a gangbangin' file where \fILynx\fP will report HTTP access codes.
.TP
.B \-exec
enable local program execution (normally not configured).
.TP
.B \-fileversions
include all versionz of filez up in local VMS directory listings.
.TP
.B \-find_leaks
toggle memory leak-checking.
Normally this
is not compiled-into yo' executable yo, but when it is,
it can be disabled fo' a session.
.TP
.B \-force_empty_hrefless_a
force HREF-less 'A' elements ta be empty (close dem as soon as they is seen).
.TP
.B \-force_html
forces tha straight-up original gangsta document ta be interpreted as HTML.
This is most useful when processin filez specified on tha command line
which have a unrecognized suffix (or tha suffix be associated wit a
non-HTML type, like fuckin \*(``.txt\*('' fo' plain text files).
\fILynx\fP recognizes these file suffixes as HTML:
.RS
\*(``.ht3\*('',
\*(``.htm\*('',
\*(``.html3\*('',
\*(``.html\*('',
\*(``.htmlx\*('',
\*(``.php3\*('',
\*(``.php\*('',
\*(``.phtml\*('',
\*(``.sht\*('', and
\*(``.shtml\*(''.
.RE
.TP
.B \-force_secure
togglez forcin of tha secure flag fo' SSL cookies.
.TP
.B \-forms_options
togglez whether tha Options Menu is key-based or form-based.
.TP
.B \-from
togglez transmissionz of From headers.
.TP
.B \-ftp
disable ftp access.
.TP
.B \-get_data
properly formatted data fo' a \fIget\fP form is read up in from
the standard input n' passed ta tha form.
Input is terminated by a line dat starts wit '\-\-\-'.
.TP
.B \-head
send a HEAD request fo' tha mime headers.
.TP
.B \-help
print tha \fILynx\fP command syntax usage message, n' exit.
.TP
.B \-hiddenlinks=[option]
control tha display of hidden links.
.RS
.TP 3
.B merge
hidden links show up as bracketed numbers
and is numbered together wit other links up in tha sequence of their
occurrence up in tha document.
.TP
.B listonly
hidden links is shown only on L)ist screens n' listings generated by
.B \-dump
or from tha P)rint menu yo, but step tha fuck up separately all up in tha end of dem lists.
This is tha default behavior.
.TP
.B ignore
hidden links do not step tha fuck up even up in listings.
.RE
.TP
.B \-historical
togglez use of '>' or '\-\->' as a terminator fo' comments.
.TP
.B \-homepage\fR=\fIURL
set homepizzy separate from start page.
.TP
.B \-image_links
togglez inclusion of links fo' all images.
.TP
.B \-index\fR=\fIURL
set tha default index file ta tha specified URL.
.TP
.B \-ismap
togglez inclusion of ISMAP links when client-side
MAPs is present.
.TP
.B \-justify
do justification of text.
.TP
.B \-link\fR=\fINUMBER
startin count fo' lnk#.dat filez produced by \fB\-crawl\fR.
.TP
.B \-listonly
for \fB\-dump\fR, show only tha list of links.
.TP
.B \-localhost
disable URLs dat point ta remote hosts.
.TP
.B \-locexec
enable local program execution from local filez only (if
\fILynx\fP was compiled wit local execution enabled).
.TP
.B \-lss\fR=\fIFILENAME
specify filename containin color-style shiznit.
Da default is lynx.lss.
If you give a empty filename, \fBlynx\fP uses a funky-ass built-in monochrome
scheme which imitates tha non-color-style configuration.
.TP
.B \-mime_header
prints tha MIME header of a gangbangin' fetched document along wit its
source.
.TP
.B \-minimal
togglez minimal versus valid comment parsing.
.TP
.B \-nested_tables
togglez nested-tablez logic (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-newschunksize\fR=\fINUMBER
number of articlez up in chunked shizzle listings.
.TP
.B \-newsmaxchunk\fR=\fINUMBER
maximum shizzle articlez up in listings before chunking.
.TP
.B \-nobold
disable bold vizzle-attribute.
.TP
.B \-nobrowse
disable directory browsing.
.TP
.B \-nocc
disable Cc: prompts fo' self copiez of mailings.
Note dat dis do not disable any CCs which is incorporated
within a mailto URL or form ACTION.
.TP
.B \-nocolor
force color mode off, overridin terminal capabilitizzles n' any
-color flags, COLORTERM variable, n' saved .lynxrc settings.
.TP
.B \-noexec
disable local program execution.
(DEFAULT)
.TP
.B \-nofilereferer
disable transmissionz of Referer headaz fo' file URLs.
.TP
.B \-nolist
disable tha link list feature up in dumps.
.TP
.B \-nolog
disable mailin of error lyrics ta document ballers.
.TP
.B \-nomargins
disable left/right margins up in tha default steez sheet.
.TP
.B \-nomore
disable \-more\- strang up in statusline lyrics.
.TP
.B \-nonrestarting_sigwinch
This flag aint available on all systems,
\fILynx\fP need ta be compiled wit HAVE_SIGACTION defined.
If available, dis flag \fImay\fR cause \fILynx\fP ta react
more immediately ta window chizzlez when run within
an \fBxterm\fR.
.TP
.B \-nonumbers
disable link- n' field-numbering.
This overrides \fB\-number_fields\fR n' \fB\-number_links\fR.
.TP
.B \-nopause
disable forced pauses fo' statusline lyrics.
.TP
.B \-noprint
disable most print functions.
.TP
.B \-noredir
prevents automatic redirection n' prints a message wit a
link ta tha freshly smoked up URL.
.TP
.B \-noreferer
disable transmissionz of Referer headers.
.TP
.B \-noreverse
disable reverse vizzle-attribute.
.TP
.B \-nosocks
disable SOCKS proxy usage by a SOCKSified \fILynx\fP.
.TP
.B \-nostatus
disable tha retrieval status lyrics.
.TP
.B \-notitle
disable title n' blank line from top of page.
.TP
.B \-nounderline
disable underline vizzle-attribute.
.TP
.B \-number_fields
force numberin of links as well as form input fields
.TP
.B \-number_links
force numberin of links.
.TP
.B \-partial
togglez display partial pages while loading.
.TP
.B \-partial_thres\fR=\fINUMBER
number of lines ta render before repaintin display
with partial-display logic
.TP
.B \-passive-ftp
togglez passive ftp connections.
.TP
.B \-pauth\fR=\fIID\fR:\fIPASSWD
set authorization ID n' password fo' a protected proxy server at startup.
Be shizzle ta protect any script filez which use dis switch.
.TP
.B \-popup
togglez handlin of single-choice SELECT options via
popup windows or as listz of radio buttons.
.TP
.B \-post_data
properly formatted data fo' a \fIpost\fP form is read up in from
the standard input n' passed ta tha form.
Input is terminated by a line dat starts wit '\-\-\-'.
.TP
.B \-preparsed
show HTML source preparsed n' reformatted when used wit \fB\-source\fR
or up in source view.
.TP
.B \-prettysrc
show HTML source view wit lexical elements n' tags up in color.
.TP
.B \-print
enable print functions.
(default)
.TP
.B \-pseudo_inlines
togglez pseudo-ALTs fo' inline images wit no ALT string.
.TP
.B \-raw
togglez default settin of 8-bit characta translations
or CJK mode fo' tha startup characta set.
.TP
.B \-realm
restricts access ta URLs up in tha startin realm.
.TP
.B \-read_timeout\fR=\fIN
Sets tha read-timeout, where N is given up in seconds.
.TP
.B \-reload
flushes tha cache on a proxy server
(only tha straight-up original gangsta document affected).
.TP
.B \-restrictions\fR=\fI[option][,option][,option]...
allows a list of skillz ta be disabled selectively.
Dashes n' underscores up in option names can be intermixed.
Da followin list is printed if no options is specified.
.RS
.TP 3
.B all
restricts all options listed below.
.TP
.B bookmark
disallow changin tha location of tha bookmark
file.
.TP
.B bookmark_exec
disallow execution links via tha bookmark file.
.TP
.B chizzle_exec_perms
disallow changin tha eXecute permission on files
(but still allow it fo' directories) when local file
management is enabled.
.TP
.B default
same as command line option \fB\-anonymous\fR.
Disablez default skillz fo' anonymous users.
Set ta all restricted, except for:
inside_telnet, outside_telnet,
inside_ftp, outside_ftp,
inside_rlogin, outside_rlogin,
inside_hype, outside_hype, telnet_port,
jump, mail, print, exec, n' goto.
Da settings fo' these,
as well as additionizzle goto restrictions for
specific URL schemes dat is also applied,
are derived from definitions within userdefs.h.
.TP
.B dired_support
disallow local file pimpment.
.TP
.B disk_save
disallow savin ta disk up in tha downlizzle and
print menus.
.TP
.B dotfiles
disallow access to, or creation of, hidden (dot) files.
.TP
.B download
disallow some downloadaz up in tha downlizzle menu (does not
imply disk_save restriction).
.TP
.B editor
disallow external editing.
.TP
.B exec
disable execution scripts.
.TP
.B exec_frozen
disallow tha user from changin tha local
execution option.
.TP
.B externals
disallow some \*(``EXTERNAL\*('' configuration lines
if support fo' passin URLs ta external
applications (with tha EXTERN command) is
compiled in.
.TP
.B file_url
disallow rockin G)oto, served links or bookmarks for
file: URLs.
.TP
.B goto
disable tha 'g' (goto) command.
.TP
.B inside_ftp
disallow ftps fo' playas comin from inside your
domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B inside_news
disallow USENET shizzle postin fo' playas coming
from inside yo' domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B inside_rlogin
disallow rlogins fo' playas comin from inside
your domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B inside_telnet
disallow telnets fo' playas comin from inside
your domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B jump
disable tha 'j' (jump) command.
.TP
.B multibook
disallow multiple bookmarks.
.TP
.B mail
disallow mail.
.TP
.B news_post
disallow USENET Shit posting.
.TP
.B options_save
disallow savin options up in .lynxrc.
.TP
.B outside_ftp
disallow ftps fo' playas comin from outside your
domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B outside_news
disallow USENET shizzle readin n' postin fo' playas coming
from outside yo' domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
This restriction applies ta \*(``news\*('', \*(``nntp\*('', \*(``newspost\*('', and
\*(``newsreply\*('' URLs yo, but not ta \*(``snews\*('', \*(``snewspost\*('',
or \*(``snewsreply\*('' up in case they is supported.
.TP
.B outside_rlogin
disallow rlogins fo' playas comin from outside
your domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B outside_telnet
disallow telnets fo' playas comin from
outside yo' domain (utmp required fo' selectivity).
.TP
.B print
disallow most print options.
.TP
.B shell
disallow shell escapes n' lynxexec or lynxprog G)oto's.
.TP
.B suspend
disallow Unix Control-Z suspendz wit escape ta shell.
.TP
.B telnet_port
disallow specifyin a port up in telnet G)oto's.
.TP
.B useragent
disallow modificationz of tha User-Agent header.
.RE
.TP
.B \-resubmit_posts
togglez forced resubmissions (no-cache) of forms with
method POST when tha documents they returned is sought
with tha PREV_DOC command or from tha History List.
.TP
.B \-rlogin
disable recognizzle of rlogin commands.
.TP
.B \-scrollbar
togglez showin scrollbar.
.TP
.B \-scrollbar_arrow
togglez showin arrows at endz of tha scrollbar.
.TP
.B \-selective
require .www_browsable filez ta browse directories.
.TP
.B \-session\fR=\fIFILENAME
resumes from specified file on startup n' saves session ta dat file on exit.
.TP
.B \-sessionin\fR=\fIFILENAME
resumes session from specified file.
.TP
.B \-sessionout\fR=\fIFILENAME
saves session ta specified file.
.TP
.B \-short_url
show straight-up long URLs up in tha status line wit \*(``...\*('' ta represent the
portion which cannot be displayed.
Da beginnin n' end of tha URL is displayed, rather than suppressin tha end.
.TP
.B \-show_cfg
Print tha configuration settings, e.g., as read from \*(``lynx.cfg\*('', n' exit.
.TP
.B \-show_cursor
If enabled tha cursor aint gonna be hidden up in tha right hand
corner but will instead be positioned all up in tha start of the
currently selected link.
Show cursor is tha default fo' systems without FANCY_CURSES capabilities.
Da default configuration can be chizzled up in userdefs.h or lynx.cfg.
Da command line switch togglez tha default.
.TP
.B \-show_rate
If enabled tha transfer rate is shown up in bytes/second.
If disabled, no transfer rate is shown.
Use lynx.cfg or tha options menu ta select KB/second and/or ETA.
.TP
.B \-soft_dquotes
togglez emulation of tha oldschool Netscape n' Mosaic bug which
treated '>' as a cold-ass lil co-terminator fo' double-quotes n' tags.
.TP
.B \-source
works tha same ol' dirty as dump but outputs HTML source instead of
formatted text.
For example
.sp
.RS
lynx \-source . >foo.html
.RE
.IP
generates HTML source listin tha filez up in tha current directory.
Each file is marked by a HREF relatizzle ta tha parent directory.
Add a trailin slash ta make tha HREFz relatizzle ta tha current directory:
.sp
.RS
lynx \-source ./ >foo.html
.RE
.TP
.B \-stack_dump
disable SIGINT cleanup handlez
.TP
.B \-startfile_ok
allow non-http startfile n' homepizzy wit \fB\-validate\fR.
.TP
.B \-stderr
When dumpin a thugged-out document rockin \fB\-dump\fR or \fB\-source\fR,
\fILynx\fP normally do not display alert (error)
lyrics dat you peep on tha screen up in tha status line.
Use tha \fB\-stderr\fR option ta tell \fILynx\fP ta write these lyrics
to tha standard error.
.TP
.B \-stdin
read tha startfile from standard input
(UNIX only).
.TP
.B \-syslog\fR=\fItext
information fo' syslog call.
.TP
.B \-syslog\-urls
log axed URLs wit syslog.
.TP
.B \-tagsoup
initialize parser, rockin Tag Soup DTD rather than SortaSGML.
.TP
.B \-telnet
disable recognizzle of telnet commands.
.TP
.B \-term\fR=\fITERM
tell \fILynx\fP what tha fuck terminal type ta assume it is rappin' to.
(This may be useful fo' remote execution, when, fo' example,
\fILynx\fP connects ta a remote TCP/IP port dat starts a script that,
in turn, starts another \fILynx\fP process.)
.TP
.B \-timeout\fR=\fIN
For win32, sets tha network read-timeout, where N is given up in seconds.
.TP
.B \-tlog
togglez between rockin a \fILynx\fP Trace Log n' stderr fo' trace output
from tha session.
.TP
.B \-tna
turns on \*(``Textfieldz Need Activation\*('' mode.
.TP
.B \-trace
turns on \fILynx\fP trace mode.
Destination of trace output depends
on \-tlog.
.TP
.B \-trace_mask\fR=\fIvalue
turn on optionizzle traces, which may result up in straight-up big-ass trace files.
Logically OR tha joints ta combine options:
.RS
.TP 3
.B 1
SGML characta parsin states
.TP
.B 2
color-style
.TP
.B 4
TRST (table layout)
.TP
.B 8
configuration (lynx.cfg, .lynxrc, .lynx-keymaps, mime.types n' mailcap contents)
.TP
.B 16
binary strang copy/append, used up in form data construction.
.TP
.B 32
cookies
.TP
.B 64
characta sets
.TP
.B 128
GridText parsing
.TP
.B 256
timing
.RE
.TP
.B \-traversal
traverse all http links derived from startfile.
When used with
\fB\-crawl\fR, each link dat begins wit tha same strang as startfile
is output ta a gangbangin' file, intended fo' indexing.
See CRAWL.announce fo' mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B \-trim_input_fields
trim input text/textarea fieldz up in forms.
.TP
.B \-underline_links
togglez use of underline/bold attribute fo' links.
.TP
.B \-underscore
togglez use of _underline_ format up in dumps.
.TP
.B \-unique_urls
check fo' duplicate link numbers in
each page n' correspondin lists,
and reuse tha original gangsta link number.
.TP
.B \-use_mouse
turn on mouse support, if available.
Clickin tha left mouse button on a link traverses dat shit.
Clickin tha right mouse button pops back.
Click on tha top line ta scroll up.
Click on tha bottom line ta scroll down.
Da first few positions up in tha top n' bottom line may invoke
additionizzle functions.
\fILynx\fP must be compiled wit \fBncurses\fR or \fBslang\fR ta support dis feature.
If \fBncurses\fR is used, clickin tha middle mouse button pops up
a simple menu.
Mouse clicks may only work reliably while \fILynx\fP is
idle waitin fo' input.
.TP
.B \-useragent=Name
set alternate \fILynx\fP User-Agent header.
.TP
.B \-validate
accept only http URLs (for validation).
Complete securitizzle restrictions also is implemented.
.TP
.B \-verbose
toggle [LINK], [IMAGE] n' [INLINE] comments wit filenamez of these images.
.TP
.B \-version
print version shiznit, n' exit.
.TP
.B \-vikeys
enable vi-like key movement.
.TP
.B \-wdebug
enable Waterloo tcp/ip packet debug (print ta watt debugfile).
This applies only ta DOS versions compiled wit WATTCP or WATT-32.
.TP
.B \-width\fR=\fINUMBER
number of columns fo' formattin of dumps, default is 80.
This is limited by tha number of columns dat \fILynx\fP could display,
typically 1024 (the \fIMAX_LINE\fP symbol).
.TP
.B \-with_backspaces
emit backspaces up in output if \fB\-dump\fR'in or \fB\-crawl\fR'in (like 'man' do)
.TP
.B \-xhtml_parsing
 drops some lyrics ta \fILynx\fP dat it can ignore certain tags which have no content
in a XHTML 1.0 document.
For example \*(``<p/>\*('' is ghon be discarded.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 3
.B o
Use \fBUp arrow\fR n' \fBDown arrow\fR ta scroll all up in hypertext links.
.TP
.B o
\fBRight arrow\fR or \fBReturn\fR will follow a highlighted hypertext link.
.TP
.B o
\fBLeft Arrow\fR will retreat from a link.
.TP
.B o
Type \*(``\fBH\fR\*('' or \*(``\fB?\fR\*('' fo' online help n' descriptions
of key-stroke commands.
.TP
.B o
Type \*(``\fBK\fR\*('' fo' a cold-ass lil complete list of tha current key-stroke
command mappings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
In addizzle ta various \*(``standard\*('' environment variablez such as
\fBHOME\fR, \fBPATH\fR, \fBUSER\fR, \fBDISPLAY\fR, \fBTMPDIR\fR, \fBetc\fR,
\fILynx\fR utilizes nuff muthafuckin \fILynx\fP-specific environment variables, if they
exist.
.PP
Others may be pimped or modified by \fILynx\fR ta pass data ta a external
program, or fo' other reasons.
These is listed separately below.
.PP
See also tha sections on \fBSIMULATED CGI SUPPORT\fR and
\fBNATIVE LANGUAGE SUPPORT\fR, below.
.PP
Note:  Not all environment variablez apply ta all typez of platforms
supported by \fILynx\fR, though most do.
Feedback on platform dependencies is solicited.
.PP
Environment Variablez Used By \fILynx\fR:
.TP 20
.B COLORTERM
If set, color capabilitizzle fo' tha terminal is forced on at startup time.
Da actual value assigned ta tha variable is ignored.
This variable is only meaningful if \fILynx\fR was built rockin tha \fBslang\fR
screen-handlin library.
.TP
.B LYNX_CFG
This variable, if set, will override tha default location n' name of
the global configuration file (normally, \fBlynx.cfg\fR) dat was defined
by tha LYNX_CFG_FILE constant up in tha userdefs.h file, durin installation.
See tha userdefs.h file fo' mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B LYNX_HELPFILE
If set, dis variable overrides tha compiled-in URL n' configuration
file URL fo' tha \fILynx\fP help file.
.TP
.B LYNX_LOCALEDIR
If set, dis variable overrides tha compiled-in location of the
locale directory which gotz nuff natizzle language (NLS) message text.
.TP
.B LYNX_LSS
This variable, if set, specifies tha location of tha default \fILynx\fR
characta steez shizzle file.
[Currently only meaningful if \fILynx\fR was
built rockin experimenstrual color steez support.]
.TP
.B LYNX_SAVE_SPACE
This variable, if set, will override tha default path prefix fo' files
saved ta disk dat is defined up in tha \fBlynx.cfg SAVE_SPACE:\fR statement.
See tha \fBlynx.cfg\fR file fo' mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B LYNX_TEMP_SPACE
This variable, if set, will override tha default path prefix fo' temporary
filez dat was defined durin installation, as well as any value dat may
be assigned ta tha \fBTMPDIR\fR variable.
.TP
.B MAIL
This variable specifies tha default inbox \fILynx\fR will check fo' new
mail, if such checkin is enabled up in tha \fBlynx.cfg\fR file.
.TP
.B NEWS_ORGANIZATION
This variable, if set, serves up tha strang used up in tha \fBOrganization:\fR
header of \fBUSENET\fR shizzle postings.
It will override tha settin of the
ORGANIZATION environment variable, if it be also set (and, on \fBUNIX\fR,
the contentz of a /etc/organization file, if present).
.TP
.B NNTPSERVER
If set, dis variable specifies tha default NNTP server dat is ghon be used
for \fBUSENET\fR shizzle readin n' postin wit \fILynx\fR, via news: URL's.
.TP
.B ORGANIZATION
This variable, if set, serves up tha strang used up in tha \fBOrganization:\fR
header of \fBUSENET\fR shizzle postings.
On \fBUNIX\fR, it will override the
contentz of a /etc/organization file, if present.
.TP
.B PROTOCOL_proxy
\fILynx\fR supports tha use of proxy servers dat can act as firewall
gateways n' cachin servers.
They is preferable ta tha olda gateway
servers (see WWW_access_GATEWAY, below).
Each protocol used by \fILynx\fR,
(http, ftp, gopher, etc), can be mapped separately by settin environment
variablez of tha form PROTOCOL_proxy (literally: http_proxy, ftp_proxy,
gopher_proxy, etc), ta \*(``http://some.server.dom:port/\*(''.
See \fBLynx Users Guide\fR fo' additionizzle details n' examples.
.TP
.B SSL_CERT_DIR
Set ta tha directory containin trusted certificates.
.TP
.B SSL_CERT_FILE
Set ta tha full path n' filename fo' yo' file of trusted certificates.
.TP
.B WWW_access_GATEWAY
\fILynx\fR still supports use of gateway servers, wit tha servers specified
via \*(``WWW_access_GATEWAY\*('' variablez (where \*(``access\*('' is lower case n' can be
\*(``http\*('', \*(``ftp\*('', \*(``gopher\*('' or \*(``wais\*(''), however most gateway servers have been
discontinued.
Note dat you do not include a terminal '/' fo' gateways yo, but
do fo' proxies specified by PROTOCOL_proxy environment variables.
See \fBLynx Users Guide\fR fo' details.
.TP
.B WWW_HOME
This variable, if set, will override tha default startup URL specified
in any of tha \fILynx\fR configuration files.
.PP
Environment Variablez \fBSet\fR or \fBModified\fR By \fILynx\fR:
.TP 20
.B LYNX_PRINT_DATE
This variable is set by tha \fILynx\fR p(rint) function, ta the
\fBDate:\fR
strin peeped up in tha documentz \*(``\fBHype about\fR\*('' page (= cmd),
if any.
It be pimped fo' use by a external program, as defined up in a
\fBlynx.cfg PRINTER:\fR definizzle statement.
If tha field do not exist fo' tha document, tha variable is set ta a
null strang under \fBUNIX\fR, or \*(``No Date\*('' under \fBVMS\fR.
.TP
.B LYNX_PRINT_LASTMOD
This variable is set by tha \fILynx\fR p(rint) function, ta the
\fBLast Mod:\fR
strin peeped up in tha documentz \*(``\fBHype about\fR\*('' page (= cmd),
if any.
It be pimped fo' use by a external program, as defined up in a
\fBlynx.cfg PRINTER:\fR definizzle statement.
If tha field do not exist fo' tha document, tha variable is set ta a
null strang under \fBUNIX\fR, or \*(``No LastMod\*('' under \fBVMS\fR.
.TP
.B LYNX_PRINT_TITLE
This variable is set by tha \fILynx\fR p(rint) function, ta the
\fBLinkname:\fR
strin peeped up in tha documentz \*(``\fBHype about\fR\*('' page (= cmd),
if any.
It be pimped fo' use by a external program, as defined up in a
\fBlynx.cfg PRINTER:\fR definizzle statement.
If tha field do not exist fo' tha document, tha variable is set ta a
null strang under \fBUNIX\fR, or \*(``No Title\*('' under \fBVMS\fR.
.TP
.B LYNX_PRINT_URL
This variable is set by tha \fILynx\fR p(rint) function, ta the
\fBURL:\fR
strin peeped up in tha documentz \*(``\fBHype about\fR\*('' page (= cmd),
if any.
It be pimped fo' use by a external program, as defined up in a
\fBlynx.cfg PRINTER:\fR definizzle statement.
If tha field do not exist fo' tha document, tha variable is set ta a
null strang under \fBUNIX\fR, or \*(``No URL\*('' under \fBVMS\fR.
.TP
.B LYNX_TRACE
If set, causes \fILynx\fR ta write a trace file as if tha \fB\-trace\fR
option was supplied.
.TP
.B LYNX_TRACE_FILE
If set, overrides tha compiled-in name of tha trace file,
which is either Lynx.trace or LY\-TRACE.LOG (the latta on tha DOS platform).
Da trace file is up in either case relatizzle ta tha home directory.
.TP
.B LYNX_VERSION
This variable be always set by \fILynx\fR, n' may be used by a external
program ta determine if dat shiznit was invoked by \fILynx\fR.
See also tha comments
in tha distributionz sample \fBmailcap\fR file, fo' notes on usage up in such
a file.
.TP
.B TERM
Normally, dis variable is used by \fILynx\fR ta determine tha terminal type
bein used ta invoke \fILynx\fR.
If, however, it is unset at startup time
(or has tha value \*(``unknown\*(''),
or if tha \fB\-term\fR command-line option is used (see \fBOPTIONS\fR section
above), \fILynx\fR will set or modify its value ta tha user specified
terminal type (for tha \fILynx\fR execution environment).
Note: If set/modified by \fILynx\fR, tha jointz of tha \fBLINES\fR and/or
\fBCOLUMNS\fR environment variablez may also be chizzled.
.SH SIMULATED CGI SUPPORT
If built wit tha \fBcgi-links\fR option enabled, \fILynx\fR allows access
to a cold-ass lil cgi script directly without tha need fo' a http daemon.
.PP
When executin such \*(``lynxcgi scripts\*('' (if enabled), tha followin variables
may be set fo' simulatin a CGI environment:
.PP
.B CONTENT_LENGTH
.PP
.B CONTENT_TYPE
.PP
.B DOCUMENT_ROOT
.PP
.B HTTP_ACCEPT_CHARSET
.PP
.B HTTP_ACCEPT_LANGUAGE
.PP
.B HTTP_USER_AGENT
.PP
.B PATH_INFO
.PP
.B PATH_TRANSLATED
.PP
.B QUERY_STRING
.PP
.B REMOTE_ADDR
.PP
.B REMOTE_HOST
.PP
.B REQUEST_METHOD
.PP
.B SERVER_SOFTWARE
.PP
Other environment variablez is not inherited by tha script, unless they
are provided via a LYNXCGI_ENVIRONMENT statement up in tha configuration file.
See tha \fBlynx.cfg\fR file, n' tha (draft) CGI 1.1 Justification
<http://Web.Golux.Com/coar/cgi/draft-coar-cgi-v11-00.txt> fo' the
definizzle n' usage of these variables.
.PP
Da CGI Justification, n' other associated documentation, should be consulted
for general shiznit on CGI script programming.
.SH NATIVE LANGUAGE SUPPORT
If configured n' installed wit \fBNatizzle Language Support\fR, \fILynx\fR
will display status n' other lyrics up in yo' local language.
See the
file \fBABOUT_NLS\fR up in tha source distribution, or at yo' local \fBGNU\fR
site, fo' mo' shiznit bout internationalization.
.PP
Da followin environment variablez may be used ta alta default settings:
.TP 20
.B LANG
This variable, if set, will override tha default message language.
It be a \fBISO 639\fR two-letta code identifyin tha language.
Language codes is \fBNOT\fR tha same
as tha ghetto codes given up in \fBISO 3166\fR.
.TP
.B LANGUAGE
This variable, if set, will override tha default message language.
This be a \fBGNU\fR extension dat has higher prioritizzle fo' setting
the message catalog than \fBLANG\fR or \fBLC_ALL\fR.
.TP
.B LC_ALL
and
.TP
.B LC_MESSAGES
These variables, if set, specify tha notion of natizzle language
formattin style.
They is \fBPOSIXly\fR erect.
.TP
.B LINGUAS
This variable, if set prior ta configuration, limits tha installed
languages ta specific joints.
It be a space-separated list of two-letta codes.
Currently, it is hard-coded ta a wish list.
.TP
.B NLSPATH
This variable, if set, is used as tha path prefix fo' message catalogs.
.SH NOTES
This is tha \fILynx\fP v2.8.7 Release; pimpment is up in progress fo' 2.8.8.
.PP
If you wish ta contribute ta tha further pimpment
of \fILynx\fR, subscribe ta our mailin list.
Send email to
<lynx-dev-request@nongnu.org> wit \*(``subscribe lynx-dev\*('' as tha only line
in tha body of yo' message.
.PP
Send bug reports, comments, suggestions ta <lynx-dev@nongnu.org>
afta subscribing.
.PP
Unsubscribe by bustin  email ta <lynx-dev-request@nongnu.org> with
\*(``unsubscribe lynx-dev\*('' as tha only line up in tha body of yo' message.
Do not bust tha unsubscribe message ta tha lynx-dev list, itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.hy 0
\fIcatgets\fR(3),
\fIcurses\fR(3),
\fIenviron\fR(7),
\fIexecve\fR(2),
\fIftp\fR(1),
\fIgettext\fR(GNU),
\fIlocaleconv\fR(3),
\fIncurses\fR(3),
\fIsetlocale\fR(3),
\fIslang\fR(?),
\fItermcap\fR(5),
\fIterminfo\fR(5),
\fIwget\fR(GNU)
.hy 1
.PP
Note dat playa page availabilitizzle n' section numberin is somewhat
platform dependent, n' may vary from tha above references.
.PP
A section shown as (GNU), is intended ta denote dat tha topic
may be available via a info page, instead of a playa page (i.e., try
\*(``info subject\*('', rather than \*(``man subject\*('').
.PP
A section shown as (?) denotes dat documentation on tha topic exists,
but aint part of a established documentation retrieval system (see
the distribution filez associated wit tha topic, or contact your
System Administrator fo' further shiznit).
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
\fILynx\fP has incorporated code from a variety of sources along tha way.
Da earliest versionz of \fILynx\fP included code from Earl Fogel of Computing
Skillz all up in tha Universitizzle of Saskatchewan, whoz ass implemented HYPERREZ
in tha Unix environment.
HYPERREZ was pimped by Niel Larson of
Think.com n' served as tha model fo' tha early versionz of \fILynx\fP.
Those versions also incorporated libraries from tha Unix Gopher clients
developed all up in tha Universitizzle of Minnesota, n' tha lata versions of
\fILynx\fP rely on tha WWW client library code pimped by Slim Tim Berners-Lee
and tha WWW hood.
Also a special props ta Foteos Macrides whoz ass ported
much of \fILynx\fP ta VMS n' did or organized most of its pimpment since the
departurez of Lou Montulli n' Garrett Blythe from tha Universitizzle of Kansas
in tha summer of 1994 all up in tha release of v2.7.2, n' ta everyone
on tha net whoz ass has contributed ta \fILynx\fPz pimpment either directly (through
patches, comments or bug reports) or indirectly (all up in inspiration and
development of other systems).
.SH AUTHORS
Lou Montulli, Garrett Blythe, Craig Lavender, Mike Grobe, Charlez Rezac
.br
Academic Computin Skillz
.br
Universitizzle of Kansas
.br
Lawrence, Kansas 66047
.PP
Foteos Macrides
.br
Worcesta Foundation fo' Biomedical Research
.br
Shrewsbury, Massachusetts 01545
.PP
Thomas E. Dickey
.br
<dickey@invisible-island.net>
