'\" t
.\" ** Da above line should force tbl ta be a preprocessor **
.\" Man page fo' man
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2008 Colin Watson.
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.pc
.TH MAN 1 "2013-06-27" "2.6.5" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
man \- a intercourse ta tha on-line reference manuals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" Da general command line
.B man
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-D \|]
.RB [\| \-\-warnings \|\c
.RI [\|= warnings \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-R
.IR encodin \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-S
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-e
.IR extension \|]
.RB [\| \-i \||\| \-I \|]
.RB [\| \-\-regex \||\| \-\-wildcard \|]
.RB [\| \-\-names\-only \|]
.RB [\| \-a \|]
.RB [\| \-u \|]
.RB [\| \-\-no\-subpages \|]
.RB [\| \-P
.IR pager \|]
.RB [\| \-r
.IR prompt \|]
.RB [\| \-7 \|]
.RB [\| \-E
.IR encodin \|]
.RB [\| \-\-no\-hyphenation \|]
.RB [\| \-\-no\-justification \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR strang \|]
.RB [\| \-t \|]
.RB [\| \-T \|\c
.RI [\| thang \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-H \|\c
.RI [\| browser \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-X \|\c
.RI [\| dpi \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-Z \|]
.RI [\|[\| section \|]
.IR page \ .\|.\|.\|]\ .\|.\|.
.\" Da apropos command line
.br
.B man
.B \-k
.RI [\| apropos
.IR options \|]
.I regexp
\&.\|.\|.
.\" Da --global-apropos command line
.br
.B man
.B \-K
.RB [\| \-w \||\| \-W \|]
.RB [\| \-S
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-i \||\| \-I \|]
.RI [\| \-\-regex \|]
.RI [\| section \|]
.IR term \ .\|.\|.
.\" Da whatis command line
.br
.B man
.B \-f
.RI [\| whatis
.IR options \|]
.I page
\&.\|.\|.
.\" Da --local command line
.br
.B man
.B \-l
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-D \|]
.RB [\| \-\-warnings \|\c
.RI [\|= warnings \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-R
.IR encodin \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-P
.IR pager \|]
.RB [\| \-r
.IR prompt \|]
.RB [\| \-7 \|]
.RB [\| \-E
.IR encodin \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR strang \|]
.RB [\| \-t \|]
.RB [\| \-T \|\c
.RI [\| thang \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-H \|\c
.RI [\| browser \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-X \|\c
.RI [\| dpi \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-Z \|]
.I file
\&.\|.\|.
.\" Da --where/--where-cat command line
.br
.B man
.BR \-w \||\| \-W
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-D \|]
.I page
\&.\|.\|.
.\" Da --catman command line
.br
.B man
.B \-c
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-D \|]
.I page
\&.\|.\|.
.\" --help n' --version
.br
.B man
.RB [\| \-?V \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B man
is tha systemz manual pager n' shit. Each
.I page
argument given to
.B man
is normally tha name of a program, utilitizzle or function.
The
.I manual page
associated wit each of these arguments is then found n' displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A
.IR section ,
if provided, will direct
.B man
to look only up in that
.I section
of tha manual.
Da default action is ta search up in all of tha available
.IR sections
followin a pre-defined order ("1 1p 8 2 3 3p 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x" by default, unless overridden by
the
.B SECTION
directizzle up in 
.IR /etc/man_db.conf ),
and ta show only tha first
.I page
found, even if
.I page
exists up in several
.IR sections .

Da table below shows the
.I section
numberz of tha manual followed by tha typez of pages they contain.

.TS
tab (@);
l lx.
1@T{
Executable programs or shell commands
T}
2@T{
System calls (functions provided by tha kernel)
T}
3@T{
Library calls (functions within program libraries)
T}
4@T{
Special filez (usually found up in \fI/dev\fR)
T}
5@T{
File formats n' conventions eg \fI/etc/passwd\fR
T}
6@T{
Games
T}
7@T{
Miscellaneous (includin macro packages n' conventions),
e.g. \fBman\fR(7), \fBgroff\fR(7)
T}
8@T{
System administration commandz (usually only fo' root)
T}
9@T{
Kernel routines [\|Non standard\|]
T}
.TE

A manual
.I page
consistz of nuff muthafuckin sections.

Conventionizzle section names include
.BR NAME ,
.BR SYNOPSIS ,
.BR CONFIGURATION ,
.BR DESCRIPTION ,
.BR OPTIONS ,
.BR EXIT\ STATUS ,
.BR RETURN\ VALUE ,
.BR ERRORS ,
.BR ENVIRONMENT ,
.BR FILES ,
.BR VERSIONS ,
.BR CONFORMING\ TO ,
.BR NOTES ,
.BR BUGS ,
.BR EXAMPLE ,
.BR AUTHORS ,
and
.BR SEE\ ALSO .

Da followin conventions apply ta the
.B SYNOPSIS
section n' can be used as a guide up in other sections.

.TS
tab (@);
l lx.
\fBbold text\fR@T{
type exactly as shown.
T}
\fIitalic text\fR@T{
replace wit appropriate argument.
T}
[\|\fB\-abc\fR\|]@T{
any or all arguments within [ ] is optional.
T}
\fB\-a\|\fR|\|\fB\-b\fR@T{
options delimited by | cannot be used together.
T}
\fIargument\fR .\|.\|.@T{
\fIargument\fR is repeatable.
T}
[\|\fIexpression\fR\|]\fR .\|.\|.@T{
\fRentire \fIexpression\fR\ within [ ] is repeatable.
T}
.TE

Exact renderin may vary dependin on tha output device.
For instance, playa will probably not be able ta render italics when hustlin in
a terminal, n' will typically use underlined or coloured text instead.

Da command or function illustration be a pattern dat should match all
possible invocations.
In some cases it be advisable ta illustrate nuff muthafuckin exclusive invocations
as is shown up in the
.B SYNOPSIS
section of dis manual page.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'man\ 'u
.BI playa \ ls
Display tha manual page fo' the
.I item
(program)
.IR ls .
.TP
.BI man\ \-a \ intro
Display, up in succession, all of tha available
.I intro
manual pages contained within tha manual.
It be possible ta quit between successive displays or skip any of em.
.TP
\fBman \-t \fIalias \fR|\fI lpr \-Pps
Format tha manual page referenced by
.RI ` alias ',
usually a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell manual page, tha fuck into tha default
.B troff
or
.B groff
format n' pipe it ta tha printa named
.IR ps .
Da default output for
.B groff
is probably PostScript.
.B playa \-\-help
should advise as ta which processor is bound ta the
.B \-t
option.
.TP
.BI man\ \-l\ \-T dvi\ ./foo.1x.gz \ >\  ./foo.1x.dvi
This command will decompress n' format tha nroff source manual page
.I ./foo.1x.gz
into a
.B thang independent (dvi)
file.
Da redirection is necessary as the
.B \-T
flag causes output ta be pimped up to
.B stdout
with no pager.
Da output could be viewed wit a program such as
.B xdvi
or further processed tha fuck into PostScript rockin a program such as
.BR dvips.
.TP
.BI man\ \-k \ printf
Search tha short descriptions n' manual page names fo' tha keyword
.I printf
as regular expression.
Print up any matches.
Equivalent to
.BI apropos\ \-r \ printf .
.TP
.BI man\ \-f \ smail
Lookup tha manual pages referenced by
.I smail
and print up tha short descriptionz of any found.
Equivalent to
.BI whatis\ \-r \ smail .
.SH OVERVIEW
Many options is available to
.B man
in order ta give as much flexibilitizzle as possible ta tha user.
Changes can be made ta tha search path, section order, output processor,
and other behaviours n' operations detailed below.

If set, various environment variablez is invigorated ta determine
the operation of
.BR playa .
It be possible ta set tha `catch all' variable
.RB $ MANOPT
to any strang up in command line format wit tha exception dat any spaces
used as part of a optionz argument must be escaped (preceded by a
backslash).
.B man
will parse
.RB $ MANOPT
prior ta parsin its own command line.
Those options requirin a argument is ghon be overridden by tha same options
found on tha command line.
To reset all of tha options set in
.RB $ MANOPT ,
.B \-D
can be specified as tha initial command line option.
This will allow playa ta `forget' bout tha options specified in
.RB $ MANOPT
although they must still done been valid.

Da manual pager utilitizzles packaged as
.B man-db
make extensive use of
.B index
database caches.
These caches contain shiznit like fuckin where each manual page can be
found on tha filesystem n' what tha fuck its
.I whatis
(short one line description of tha playa page) gotz nuff, n' allow
.B man
to run fasta than if it had ta search tha filesystem each time ta find the
appropriate manual page.
If axed rockin the
.B \-u
option,
.B man
will ensure dat tha caches remain consistent, which can obviate the
need ta manually run software ta update traditional
.I whatis
text databases.

If
.B man
cannot find a
.B mandb
initiated
.B index
database fo' a particular manual page hierarchy, it will still search for
the axed manual pages, although file globbin is ghon be necessary to
search within dat hierarchy.
If
.B whatis
or
.B apropos
fails ta find an
.B index
it will try ta extract shiznit from a traditional
.I whatis
database instead.
.\"`User' manual page hierarchies will have
.\".B index
.\"caches pimped `on tha fly'.

These utilitizzles support compressed source nroff filez having, by default, the
extensions of
.BR .Z ", " .z " n' " .gz .
It be possible ta deal wit any compression extension yo, but dis shiznit
must be known at compile time.
Also, by default, any pussaaaaay pages produced is compressed using
.BR gzip .
Each `global' manual page hierarchy such as
.I /usr/share/man
or
.I /usr/X11R6/man
may have any directory as its pussaaaaay page hierarchy.
Traditionally tha pussaaaaay pages is stored under tha same hierarchy as tha man
pages yo, but fo' reasons like fuckin dem specified up in the
.BR "File Hierarchy Standard (FHS)" ,
it may be betta ta store dem elsewhere.
For details on how tha fuck ta do this, please read
.BR manpath (5).
For details on why ta do this, read tha standard.

Internationistic support be available wit dis package.
Natizzle language manual pages is accessible (if available on yo' system)
via use of
.I locale
functions.
To activate such support, it is necessary ta set either
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES ,
.RB $ LANG
or another system dependent environment variable ta yo' language locale,
usually specified up in the
.B POSIX 1003.1
based format:

.\"
.\" Need a \c ta make shizzle our phat asses don't git a space where our phat asses don't want one
.\"
.RI < language >[\|\c
.B _\c
.RI < territory >\|[\|\c
.B .\c
.RI < character-set >\|[\|\c
.B ,\c
.RI < version >\|]\|]\|]

If tha desired page be available up in your
.IR locale ,
it is ghon be displayed up in lieu of tha standard
(usually Gangsta Gangsta) page.

Support fo' internationistic message catalogues be also featured up in this
package n' can be activated up in tha same way, again n' again n' again if available.
If you find dat tha manual pages n' message catalogues supplied wit this
package is not available up in yo' natizzle language n' you wanna
supply them, please contact tha maintainer whoz ass is ghon be coordinatin such
activity.

For shiznit regardin other features n' extensions available wit this
manual pager, please read tha documents supplied wit tha package.
.SH DEFAULTS
.B man
will search fo' tha desired manual pages within the
.I index
database caches. If the
.B \-u
option is given, a cold-ass lil cache consistency check is performed ta ensure the
databases accurately reflect tha filesystem.
If dis option be always given, it aint generally necessary ta run
.B mandb
afta tha caches is initially pimped, unless a cold-ass lil cache becomes corrupt.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cache consistency check can be slow on systems wit many
manual pages installed, so it aint performed by default, n' system
administrators may wish ta run
.B mandb
every week or so ta keep tha database caches fresh.
To forestall problems caused by outdated caches,
.B man
will fall back ta file globbin if a cold-ass lil cache lookup fails, just as it would
if no cache was present.

Once a manual page has been located, a cold-ass lil check is performed ta smoke up if a
relatizzle preformatted `cat' file already exists n' is newer than tha nroff
file.
If it do n' is, dis preformatted file is (usually) decompressed n' then
displayed, via use of a pager.
Da pager can be specified up in a fuckin shitload of ways, or else will fall back ta a
default is used (see option
.B \-P
for details).
If no pussaaaaay is found or is olda than tha nroff file, tha nroff is filtered
all up in various programs n' is shown immediately.

If a cold-ass lil pussaaaaay file can be produced (a relatizzle pussaaaaay directory exists n' has
appropriate permissions),
.B man
will compress n' store tha pussaaaaay file up in tha background.

Da filtas is deciphered by a fuckin shitload of means. Firstly, tha command
line option
.B \-p
or tha environment variable
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
is invigorated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If
.B \-p
was not used n' tha environment variable was not set, tha initial line of
the nroff file is parsed fo' a preprocessor string.
To contain a valid preprocessor string, tha straight-up original gangsta line must resemble

.B '\e"
.RB < strang >

where
.B string
can be any combination of lettas busted lyrics bout by option
.B \-p
below.

If none of tha above methodz provide any filta shiznit, a thugged-out default set
is used.

A formattin pipeline is formed from tha filtas n' tha primary
formatter
.RB ( nroff
or
.RB [ tg ] roff
with
.BR \-t )
and executed.
Alternatively, if a executable program
.I mandb_nfmt
(or
.I mandb_tfmt
with
.BR \-t )
exists up in tha playa tree root, it is executed instead.
It gets passed tha manual source file, tha preprocessor string, and
optionally tha thang specified with
.BR \-T " or " \-E
as arguments.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
Non argument options dat is duplicated either on tha command line, in
.RB $ MANOPT ,
or both, is not harmful.
For options dat require a argument, each duplication will override the
previous argument value.
.SS "General options"
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-default
This option is normally issued as tha straight-up first option n' resets
.B man's
behaviour ta its default.
Its use is ta reset dem options dat may done been set in
.RB $ MANOPT .
Any options dat follow
.B \-D
will have they usual effect.
.TP
\fB\-\-warnings\fP[=\fIwarnings\fP]
Enable warnings from
.IR groff .
This may be used ta big-ass up sanitizzle checks on tha source text of manual
pages.
.I warnings
is a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of warnin names; if it aint supplied, the
default is "mac".
See tha \(lqWarnings\(rq node in
.B info groff
for a list of available warnin names.
.SS "Main modez of operation"
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-whatis
Equivalent to
.BR whatis .
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description from tha manual page, if available. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR whatis (1)
for details.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-apropos
Equivalent to
.BR apropos .
Search tha short manual page descriptions fo' keywordz n' display any
matches.
See
.BR apropos (1)
for details.
.TP
.BR \-K ", " \-\-global\-apropos
Search fo' text up in all manual pages.
This be a funky-ass brute-force search, n' is likely ta take some time; if you can,
you should specify a section ta reduce tha number of pages dat need ta be
searched.
Search terms may be simple strings (the default), or regular expressions if
the
.B \-\-regex
option is used.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-local\-file
Activate `local' mode.
Format n' display local manual filez instead of searchin all up in the
systemz manual collection.
Each manual page argument is ghon be interpreted as a nroff source file up in the
correct format.
.\" Compressed nroff source filez wit a supported compression
.\" extension is ghon be decompressed by playa prior ta bein displayin via the
.\" usual filters.
No pussaaaaay file is produced.
If '\-' is listed as one of tha arguments, input is ghon be taken from stdin.
When dis option aint used, n' playa fails ta find tha page required,
before displayin tha error message, it attempts ta act as if this
option was supplied, rockin tha name as a gangbangin' filename n' lookin fo' an
exact match.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-where ", " \-\-path ", " \-\-location
Don't straight-up display tha manual pages yo, but do print tha location(s) of
the source nroff filez dat would be formatted.
.TP
.BR \-W ", " \-\-where\-cat ", " \-\-location\-cat
Don't straight-up display tha manual pages yo, but do print tha location(s) of
the pussaaaaay filez dat would be displayed.
If \-w n' \-W is both specified, print both separated by a space.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-catman
This option aint fo' general use n' should only be used by the
.B catman
program.
.TP
.BI \-R\  encoding\fR,\ \fI \-\-recode\fR=\fIencoding
Instead of formattin tha manual page up in tha usual way, output its source
converted ta tha specified
.IR encodin .
If you already know tha encodin of tha source file, you can also use
.BR manconv (1)
directly.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis option allows you ta convert nuff muthafuckin manual pages ta a single
encodin without havin ta explicitly state tha encodin of each, provided
that they was already installed up in a structure similar ta a manual page
hierarchy.
.SS "Findin manual pages"
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.B man
will normally determine yo' current locale by a cold-ass lil call ta tha C function
.BR setlocale (3)
which invigorates various environment variables, possibly including
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
and
.RB $ LANG .
To temporarily override tha determined value, use dis option ta supply a
.I locale
strin directly to
.BR playa .
Note dat it aint gonna take effect until tha search fo' pages actually
begins.
Output like fuckin tha help message will always be displayed up in tha initially
determined locale.
.\"
.\" Cuz of tha rather wack-ass limit of 6 args per request up in some `native'
.\" *roff compilers, our crazy asses have do tha followin ta git tha two-line
.\" hangin tag on one line. .PP ta begin a freshly smoked up paragraph, then the
.\" tag, then .RS (start relatizzle indent), tha text, finally .RE
.\" (end relatizzle indent).
.\"
.PP
.B \-m
.I system\c
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|,
.BI \-\-systems= system\c
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.RS
If dis system has access ta other operatin systemz manual pages, they can
be accessed rockin dis option.
To search fo' a manual page from NewOSz manual page collection,
use tha option
.B \-m
.BR NewOS .

The
.I system
specified can be a cold-ass lil combination of comma delimited operatin system names.
To include a search of tha natizzle operatin systemz manual pages,
include tha system name
.B man
in tha argument string.
This option will override the
.RB $ SYSTEM
environment variable.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
Specify a alternate manpath ta use.
By default,
.B man
uses
.B manpath
derived code ta determine tha path ta search.
This option overrides the
.RB $ MANPATH
environment variable n' causes option
.B \-m
to be ignored.

A path specified as a manpath must be tha root of a manual page hierarchy
structured tha fuck into sections as busted lyrics bout up in tha man-db manual (under "The
manual page system").
To view manual pages outside such hierarchies, peep the
.B \-l
option.
.TP
.BI \-S\  list \fR,\ \fB\-s\  list \fR,\ \fB\-\-sections= list
List be a cold-ass lil colon- or comma-separated list of `order specific' manual sections
to search.
This option overrides the
.RB $ MANSECT
environment variable.
(The
.B \-s
spellin is fo' compatibilitizzle wit System V.)
.TP
.BI \-e\  sub-extension \fR,\ \fB\-\-extension= sub-extension
Some systems incorporate big-ass packagez of manual pages, like fuckin dem that
accompany the
.B Tcl
package, tha fuck into tha main manual page hierarchy.
To git round tha problem of havin two manual pages wit tha same name
such as
.BR exit (3),
the
.B Tcl
pages was probably all assigned ta section
.BR l .
As dis is unfortunate, it is now possible ta put tha pages up in tha erect
section, n' ta assign a specific `extension' ta them, up in dis case,
.BR exit (3tcl).
Under aiiight operation,
.B man
will display
.BR exit (3)
in preference to
.BR exit (3tcl).
To negotiate dis thang n' ta avoid havin ta know which section the
page you require resides in, it is now possible ta give
.B man
a
.I sub-extension
strin indicatin which package tha page must belong to.
Usin tha above example, supplyin tha option
.B \-e\ tcl
to
.B man
will restrict tha search ta pages havin a extension of
.BR *tcl .
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-case
Ignore case when searchin fo' manual pages.
This is tha default.
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-match\-case
Search fo' manual pages case-sensitively.
.TP
.B \-\-regex
Show all pages wit any part of either they names or they descriptions
matchin each
.I page
argument as a regular expression, as with
.BR apropos (1).
Since there is probably no reasonable way ta pick a "best" page when
searchin fo' a regular expression, dis option implies
.BR \-a .
.TP
.B \-\-wildcard
Show all pages wit any part of either they names or they descriptions
matchin each
.I page
argument rockin shell-style wildcards, as with
.BR apropos (1)
.BR \-\-wildcard .
The
.I page
argument must match tha entire name or description, or match on word
boundaries up in tha description.
Since there is probably no reasonable way ta pick a "best" page when
searchin fo' a wildcard, dis option implies
.BR \-a .
.TP
.B \-\-names\-only
If the
.B \-\-regex
or
.B \-\-wildcard
option is used, match only page names, not page descriptions, as with
.BR whatis (1).
Otherwise, no effect.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
By default,
.B man
will exit afta displayin da most thugged-out suitable manual page it finds.
Usin dis option forces
.B man
to display all tha manual pages wit names dat match tha search criteria.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-update
This option causes
.B man
to big-ass up a `inode level' consistency check on its database caches to
ensure dat they is a accurate representation of tha filesystem.
It will only gotz a useful effect if
.B man
is installed wit tha setuid bit set.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-subpages
By default,
.B man
will try ta interpret pairz of manual page names given on tha command line
as equivalent ta a single manual page name containin a hyphen or an
underscore.
This supports tha common pattern of programs dat implement a number of
subcommands, allowin dem ta provide manual pages fo' each dat can be
accessed rockin similar syntax as would be used ta invoke tha subcommands
themselves.
For example:

.nf
\&  $ playa \-aw git diff
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/git\-diff.1.gz
.fi

To disable dis behaviour, use the
.B \-\-no\-subpages
option.

.nf
\&  $ playa \-aw \-\-no\-subpages git diff
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/git.1.gz
\&  /usr/share/man/man3/Git.3pm.gz
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/diff.1.gz
.fi
.SS "Controllin formatted output"
.TP
.BI \-P\  pager \fR,\ \fB\-\-pager= pager
Specify which output pager ta use.
By default,
.B man
uses
.BR "less -s" .
This option overrides the
.RB $ MANPAGER
environment variable, which up in turn overrides the
.RB $ PAGER
environment variable.
It aint used up in conjunction with
.B \-f
or
.BR \-k .

Da value may be a simple command name or a cold-ass lil command wit arguments, n' may
use shell quotin (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).
It may not use pipes ta connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a
wrapper script, which may take tha file ta display either as a argument or
on standard input.
.TP
.BI \-r\  prompt \fR,\ \fB\-\-prompt= prompt
If a recent version of
.B less
is used as tha pager,
.B man
will attempt ta set its prompt n' some sensible options.
Da default prompt looks like

.B \ Manual page\c
.IB \ name ( sec )\c
.BI \ line \ x

where
.I name
denotes tha manual page name,
.I sec
denotes tha section dat shiznit was found under and
.IR x
the current line number.
.\"Da default options are
.\".BR \-six8 .
This be  bigged up  by rockin the
.RB $ LESS
environment variable.
.\"Da actual default will depend on yo' chosen
.\".BR locale .

Supplying
.B \-r
with a strang will override dis default.
.\"Yo ass may need ta do dis if your
.\"version of
.\".B less
.\"rejects tha default options or if you prefer a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different prompt.
Da strang may contain tha text
.B $MAN_PN
which is ghon be expanded ta tha name of tha current manual page n' its
section name surrounded by `(' n' `)'.
Da strang used ta produce tha default could be expressed as

.B \e\ Manual\e\ page\e\ \e$MAN_PN\e\ ?ltline\e\ %lt?L/%L.:
.br
.B byte\e\ %bB?s/%s..?\e\ (END):?pB\e\ %pB\e\e%..
.br
.B (press h fo' help or q ta quit)

It be fucked up tha fuck into three lines here fo' tha sake of readabilitizzle only.
For its meanin peep the
.BR less (1)
manual page.
Da prompt strang is first evaluated by tha shell.
All double quotes, back-quotes n' backslashes up in tha prompt must be escaped
by a precedin backslash.
Da prompt strang may end up in a escaped $ which may be followed by further
options fo' less.
By default
.B man
sets the
.B \-ix8
options.

The
.RB $ MANLESS
environment variable busted lyrics bout below may be used ta set a thugged-out default prompt
strin if none is supplied on tha command line.
.TP
.BR \-7 ", " \-\-ascii
When viewin a pure
.IR ascii (7)
manual page on a 7 bit terminal or terminal emulator, some charactas may
not display erectly when rockin the
.IR latin1 (7)
device description with
.B GNU
.BR nroff .
This option allows pure
.I ascii
manual pages ta be displayed in
.I ascii
with the
.I latin1
device.
It aint gonna translate any
.I latin1
text.
Da followin table shows tha translations performed: some partz of it may
only be displayed properly when using
.B GNU
.BR nroff 's
.IR latin1 (7)
device.

.ie c \[shc] \
.  dz softhyphen \[shc]
.el \
.  dz softhyphen \(hy
.TS
tab (@);
l c c c.
Description@Octal@latin1@ascii
_
T{
continuation hyphen
T}@255@\*[softhyphen]@-
T{
cap (middle dot)
T}@267@\(bu@o
T{
acute accent
T}@264@\(aa@'
T{
multiplication sign
T}@327@\(mu@x
.TE

If the
.I latin1
column displays erectly, yo' terminal may be set up for
.I latin1
charactas n' dis option aint necessary.
If the
.I latin1
and
.I ascii
columns is identical, yo ass is readin dis page rockin dis option or
.B man
did not format dis page rockin the
.I latin1
device description.
If the
.I latin1
column is missin or corrupt, you may need ta view manual pages wit this
option.

This option is ignored when rockin options
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-T ,
or
.B \-Z
and may be useless for
.B nroff
other than
.BR GNUz .
.TP
.BI \-E\  encoding\fR,\ \fI \-\-encoding\fR=\fIencoding
Generate output fo' a cold-ass lil characta encodin other than tha default.
For backward compatibility,
.I encoding
may be an
.B nroff
device such as
.BR ascii ", " latin1 ", or " utf8
as well as a legit characta encodin such as
.BR UTF\-8 .
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-hyphenation ", " \-\-nh
Normally,
.B nroff
will automatically hyphenate text at line breaks even up in lyrics dat do not
contain hyphens, if it is necessary ta do so ta lay up lyrics on a line
without excessive spacing.
This option disablez automatic hyphenation, so lyrics will only be hyphenated
if they already contain hyphens.

If yo ass is freestylin a manual page n' simply wanna prevent
.B nroff
from hyphenatin a word at a inappropriate point, do not use dis option,
but consult the
.B nroff
documentation instead; fo' instance, you can put "\e%" inside a word to
indicate dat it may be hyphenated at dat point, or put "\e%" all up in tha start
of a word ta prevent it from bein hyphenated.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-justification ", " \-\-nj
Normally,
.B nroff
will automatically justify text ta both margins.
This option disablez full justification, leavin justified only ta tha left
margin, sometimes called "ragged-right" text.

If yo ass is freestylin a manual page n' simply wanna prevent
.B nroff
from justifyin certain paragraphs, do not use dis option yo, but consult the
.B nroff
documentation instead; fo' instance, you can use tha ".na", ".nf", ".fi",
and ".ad" requests ta temporarily disable adjustin n' filling.
.TP
.BI \-p\  strang \fR,\ \fB\-\-preprocessor= string
Specify tha sequence of preprocessors ta run before
.B nroff
or
.BR troff / groff .
Not all installations gonna git a gangbangin' full set of preprocessors.
Some of tha preprocessors n' tha lettas used ta designate dem are:
.BR eqn " (" e ),
.BR grap " (" g ),
.BR pic " (" p ),
.BR tbl " (" t ),
.BR vgrind " (" v ),
.BR refer " (" r ).
This option overrides the
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
environment variable.
.B zsoelim
is always run as tha straight-up first preprocessor.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-troff
Use
.I groff -mandoc
to format tha manual page ta stdout.
This option aint required up in conjunction with
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-T ,
or
.BR \-Z .
.TP
\fB\-T\fP[\fIdevice\fP], \fB\-\-troff\-device\fP[=\fIdevice\fP]
This option is used ta chizzle
.B groff
(or possibly
.BR troffz )
output ta be suitable fo' a thang other than tha default.
It implies
.BR \-t .
Examplez (provided wit Groff-1.17) include
.BR dvi ", " latin1 ", " ps ", " utf8 ,
.BR X75 " n' " X100 .
.TP
\fB\-H\fP[\fIbrowser\fP], \fB\-\-html\fP[=\fIbrowser\fP]
This option will cause
.B groff
to produce HTML output, n' will display dat output up in a wizzy browser.
Da chizzle of browser is determined by tha optional
.I browser
argument if one is provided, by the
.RB $ BROWSER
environment variable, or by a cold-ass lil compile-time default if dat is unset (usually
.BR lynx ).
This option implies
.BR \-t ,
and will only work with
.B GNU
.BR troff .
.TP
\fB\-X\fP[\fIdpi\fP], \fB\-\-gxditview\fP[=\fIdpi\fP]
This option displays tha output of
.B groff
in a graphical window rockin the
.B gxditview
program.
The
.I dpi
(dots per inch) may be 75, 75-12, 100, or 100-12, defaultin ta 75;
the -12 variants bust a 12-point base font.
This option implies
.B \-T
with tha X75, X75-12, X100, or X100-12 thang respectively.
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-ditroff
.B groff
will run
.B troff
and then use a appropriate post-processor ta produce output suitable for
the chosen device.
If
.I groff -mandoc
is
.BR groff ,
this option is passed to
.B groff
and will suppress tha use of a post-processor.
It implies
.BR \-t .
.SS "Gettin help"
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
.TP
.B 2
Operationizzle error.
.TP
.B 3
A lil pimp process returned a non-zero exit status.
.TP
.B 16
At least one of tha pages/files/keywordz didn't exist or wasn't matched.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".TP \w'MANROFFSEQ\ \ 'u
.TP
.B MANPATH
If
.RB $ MANPATH
is set, its value is used as tha path ta search fo' manual pages.
.TP
.B MANROFFOPT
Da contents of
.RB $ MANROFFOPT
are added ta tha command line every last muthafuckin time
.B man
invokes tha formatter
.RB ( nroff ,
.BR troff ,
or
.BR groff ).
.TP
.B MANROFFSEQ
If
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
is set, its value is used ta determine tha set of preprocessors ta pass
each manual page through.
Da default preprocessor list is system dependent.
.TP
.B MANSECT
If
.RB $ MANSECT
is set, its value be a cold-ass lil colon-delimited list of sections n' it is used to
determine which manual sections ta search n' up in what tha fuck order.
Da default is "1 1p 8 2 3 3p 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x", unless overridden by the
.B SECTION
directizzle in
.IR /etc/man_db.conf .
.TP
.BR MANPAGER , " PAGER"
If
.RB $ MANPAGER
or
.RB $ PAGER
is set
.RB ($ MANPAGER
is used up in preference), its value is used as tha name of tha program used to
display tha manual page.
By default,
.B less -s
is used.

Da value may be a simple command name or a cold-ass lil command wit arguments, n' may
use shell quotin (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).
It may not use pipes ta connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a
wrapper script, which may take tha file ta display either as a argument or
on standard input.
.TP
.B MANLESS
If
.RB $ MANLESS
is set, its value is ghon be used as tha default prompt strang fo' the
.B less
pager, as if it had been passed rockin the
.B \-r
option (so any occurrencez of tha text
.B $MAN_PN
will be expanded up in tha same way).
For example, if you wanna set tha prompt strang unconditionally to
\(lqmy prompt string\(rq, set
.RB $ MANLESS
to
.RB \(oq \-Psmy\ prompt\ strang \(cq.
Usin the
.B \-r
option overrides dis environment variable.
.TP
.B BROWSER
If
.RB $ BROWSER
is set, its value be a cold-ass lil colon-delimited list of commands, each of which in
turn is used ta try ta start a wizzy browser for
.B man
.BR \-\-html .
In each command,
.I %s
is replaced by a gangbangin' filename containin tha HTML output from
.BR groff ,
.I %%
is replaced by a single cement sign (%), and
.I %c
is replaced by a cold-ass lil colon (:).
.TP
.B SYSTEM
If
.RB $ SYSTEM
is set, it gonna git tha same effect as if it had been specified as the
argument ta the
.B \-m
option.
.TP
.B MANOPT
If
.RB $ MANOPT
is set, it is ghon be parsed prior to
.B man's
command line n' is sposed ta fuckin be up in a similar format.
As all of tha other
.B man
specific environment variablez can be expressed as command line options, and
are thus muthafuckas fo' bein included in
.RB $ MANOPT
it is expected dat they will become obsolete.
N.B fo' realz. All spaces dat should be interpreted as part of a optionz argument
must be escaped.
.TP
.B MANWIDTH
If
.RB $ MANWIDTH
is set, its value is used as tha line length fo' which manual pages should
be formatted.
If it aint set, manual pages is ghon be formatted wit a line length
appropriate ta tha current terminal (usin an
.BR ioctl (2)
if available, tha value of
.RB $ COLUMNS ,
or fallin back ta 80 charactas if neither be available).
Cat pages will only be saved when tha default formattin can be used, that
is when tha terminal line length is between 66 n' 80 characters.
.TP
.B MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
Normally, when output aint bein pimped up ta a terminal (like fuckin ta a gangbangin' file
or a pipe), formattin charactas is discarded ta make it easier ta read
the result without special tools.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if
.RB $ MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
is set ta any non-empty value, these formattin charactas is retained.
This may be useful fo' wrappers around
.B man
that can interpret formattin characters.
.TP
.B MAN_KEEP_STDERR
Normally, when output is bein pimped up ta a terminal (usually ta a pager),
any error output from tha command used ta produce formatted versions of
manual pages is discarded ta avoid interferin wit tha pagerz display.
Programs such as
.B groff
often produce relatively minor error lyrics bout typographical problems
like fuckin skanky alignment, which is unsightly n' generally confusin when
displayed along wit tha manual page.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat some playas wanna peep dem anyway, so, if
.RB $ MAN_KEEP_STDERR
is set ta any non-empty value, error output is ghon be displayed as usual.
.TP
.BR LANG , " LC_MESSAGES"
Dependin on system n' implementation, either or both of
.RB $ LANG
and
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
will be invigorated fo' tha current message locale.
.B man
will display its lyrics up in dat locale (if available).
See
.BR setlocale (3)
for precise details.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/man_db.conf
man-db configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man
A global manual page hierarchy.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
A traditionizzle global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An FHS
compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR apropos (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR less (1),
.BR manpath (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR zsoelim (1),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR manpath (5),
.BR ascii (7),
.BR latin1 (7),
.BR playa (7),
.BR catman (8),
.BR mandb (8),
the man-db package manual,
.BR FSSTND
.SH HISTORY
1990, 1991 \- Originally freestyled by Jizzy W. Eaton (jwe@che.utexas.edu).

Dec 23 1992: Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) applied bug fixes
supplied by Willem Kasdorp (wkasdo@nikhefk.nikef.nl).

30th April 1994 \- 23rd February 2000: Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
has been pimpin n' maintainin dis package
with tha help of all dem dedicated people.

30th October 1996 \- 30th March 2001: Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org>
maintained n' enhanced dis package fo' tha Debian project, wit the
help of all tha hood.

31st March 2001 \- present day: Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org> is now
developin n' maintainin man-db.
