.\" Man page fo' manconv
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.pc
.TH %thmanconv% 1 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%manconv% \- convert manual page from one encodin ta another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %manconv%
.B \-f
.IR from-code \|[: from-code \|.\|.\|.]
.B \-t
.I to-code
.RB [\| \-dqhV \|]
.RI [\| filename \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B %manconv%
converts a manual page from one encodin ta another, like
.BR iconv .
Unlike
.BR iconv ,
it can try multiple possible input encodings up in sequence.
This is useful fo' manual pages installed up in directories without a explicit
encodin declaration, since they may be up in UTF\-8 or up in a legacy character
set.
.PP
If a encodin declaration is found on tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha manual page,
that declaration overrides any input encodings specified on
.BR %manconv% 's
command line.
Encodin declarations have tha followin form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' \&\(aq\e" \-*\- coding: UTF\-8 \-*\-
.fi
.RE
.PP
or (if manual page preprocessors is also ta be declared):
.PP
.RS
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' \&\(aq\e" t \-*\- coding: ISO\-8859\-1 \-*\-
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIencodings\fP, \fB\-\-from\-code\fP \fIencodings\fP
Try each of
.I encodings
(a colon-separated list) up in sequence as tha input encoding.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fIencoding\fP, \fB\-\-to\-code\fP \fIencoding\fP
Convert tha manual page to
.IR encodin .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Do not issue error lyrics when tha page cannot be converted.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .IR iconv (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .IR playa (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
