.\" Man page fo' manpath
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha COPYING file dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.\"
.\" Sun Jan 22 22:15:17 GMT 1995 Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.pc
.TH %thmanpath% 1 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%manpath% \- determine search path fo' manual pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %manpath%  
.RB [\| \-qgdc?V \|] 
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If 
.RB $ MANPATH
is set, 
.B %manpath%
will simply display its contents n' issue a warning.
If not, 
.B %manpath% 
will determine a suitable manual page hierarchy search path n' display the
results.

Da colon-delimited path is determined rockin shiznit gained from the
man-db configuration file -
.RI ( "%manpath_config_file%" )
and tha userz environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Do not issue warnings.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-c ", " \-\-catpath
Produce a cold-ass lil catpath as opposed ta a manpath. 
Once tha manpath is determined,
each path element is converted ta its relatizzle catpath.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-g ", " \-\-global
Produce a manpath consistin of all paths named as `global' within the
man-db configuration file. 
.\"
.\" Cuz of tha rather wack-ass limit of 6 args per request up in some `native'
.\" *roff compilers, our crazy asses have do tha followin ta git tha two-line
.\" hangin tag on one line. .PP ta begin a freshly smoked up paragraph, then the
.\" tag, then .RS (start relatizzle indent), tha text, finally .RE
.\" (end relatizzle indent).
.\"
.PP
.B \-m 
.I system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|,
.BI \-\-systems= system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.RS
If dis system has access ta other operatin systemz manual hierarchies, 
this option can be used ta include dem up in tha output of
.BR %manpath% .
To include NewOSz manual page hierarchies use tha option
.B \-m
.BR NewOS .

The
.I system
specified can be a cold-ass lil combination of comma delimited operatin system names.
To include tha natizzle operatin systemz manual page hierarchies, 
the system name
.B man
must be included up in tha argument string.
This option will override the
.RB $ SYSTEM
environment variable.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-, biatch? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANPATH
If
.RB $ MANPATH
is set,
.B %manpath%
displays its value rather than determinin it on tha fly.
If 
.RB $ MANPATH
is prefixed by a cold-ass lil colon, then tha value of tha variable be appended
to tha list determined from tha content of tha configuration files.
If tha colon comes all up in tha end of tha value up in tha variable, then the
determined list be appended ta tha content of tha variable.
If tha value of tha variable gotz nuff a thugged-out double colon
.RB ( :: ),
then tha determined list is banged up in tha middle of tha value, between
the two colons.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B SYSTEM
If
.RB $ SYSTEM
is set, it gonna git tha same effect as if it had been specified as the
argument ta the
.B \-m
option.
.SH FILES
.TP \w'%manpath_config_file%'u+2n
.if !'po4a'hide' .I %manpath_config_file%
man-db configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %apropos% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %man% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %whatis% (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
