
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH MEMUSAGESTAT 1 2013-04-10 "GNU" "Linux programmerz manual"
.SH NAME
memusagestat \- generate graphic from memory profilin data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR memusagestat " [\fIoption\fR]... \fIdatafile\fR [\fIoutfile\fR]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memusagestat
creates a PNG file containin a graphical representation of the
memory profilin data up in tha file
.IR datafile ;
that file is generated via the
.I -d
(or
.IR --data )
option of
.BR memusage (1).

Da red line up in tha graph shows tha heap usage (allocated memory)
and tha chronic line shows tha stack usage.
Da x-scale is either tha number of memory-handlin function calls or
(if the
.I -t
option is specified)
time.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-output= file
Name of tha output file.
.TP
.BI \-s\  strang \fR,\ \fB\-\-string= string
Use
.I string
as tha title inside tha output graph.
.TP
.BI \-t\fR,\ \fB\-\-time
Use time (rather than number of function calls) as tha scale fo' tha X axis.
.TP
.BI \-T\fR,\ \fB\-\-total
Also draw a graph of total memory consumption.
.TP
.BI \-x\  size \fR,\ \fB\-\-x-size= size
Make tha output graph
.I size
pixels wide.
.TP
.BI \-y\  size \fR,\ \fB\-\-y\-size= size
Make tha output graph
.I size
pixels high.
.TP
.BI \-?\fR,\ \fB\-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.BI \-V\fR,\ \fB\-\-version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR memusage (1).
.SH BUGS
To report bugs, see
.UR http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/bugs.html
.UE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memusage (1),
.BR mtrace (1)
