.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mesg.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Fri Mar 10 20:31:02 1995, modified fo' standard playa macros,
.\" faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\"
.\" "
.TH MESG 1 "April 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mesg \- display (do not display) lyrics from other users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mesg
.RB [options]
.RB [ n | y ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mesg
utilitizzle is invoked by a playas ta control write access others gotta the
terminal thang associated wit tha standard error output.  If write access
is allowed, then programs such as
.BR rap (1)
and
.BR write (1)
may display lyrics on tha terminal.
.PP
Traditionally, write access be allowed by default.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat as users
become mo' consciouz of various securitizzle risks, there be a trend ta remove
write access by default, at least fo' tha primary login shell.  To make
sure yo' ttys is set tha way you want dem ta be set,
.B mesg
should be executed up in yo' login scripts.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B n
Disallows lyrics.
.TP
.B y
Permits lyrics ta be displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Explain what tha fuck is bein done.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-verbose
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help text n' exit.
.PP
If no arguments is given,
.B mesg
displays tha present message status ta tha standard error output.
.PP
The
.B mesg
utilitizzle exits wit one of tha followin joints:
.TP
.I "\ 0"
Lyrics is allowed.
.TP
.I "\ 1"
Lyrics is not allowed.
.TP
.I ">1"
An error has occurred.
.SH FILES
.I /dev/[pt]ty[pq]?
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rap (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR wall (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR xterm (1)
.SH HISTORY
A
.B mesg
command rocked up in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

.SH AVAILABILITY
Da mesg command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
