.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.\" -----
.\" This file was confirmed ta be licenced under tha GPL
.\" by its lyricist n' copyright holder, Akira TAGOH, on June 1st 2008:
.\"
.\" > I be laid back wit DFSG-free. dat soundz pimped out if you be thinkin it's
.\" > useful n' worth containin it up in upstream.
.\" ...
.\" > Right I know. any licenses dat is DFSG-free, I be aiiight wit whatever,
.\" > since I have contributed dat fo' Debian. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. so GPL is no problem fo' mah dirty ass.
.\" -----
.TH METACITY\-MESSAGE 1 "16 May 2013"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
METACITY\-MESSAGE \- a cold-ass lil command ta bust a message ta Metacity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B METACITY\-MESSAGE
[restart|reload\-theme|enable\-keybindings|disable\-keybindings|enable\-mouse\-button\-modifiers|disable\-mouse\-button\-modifiers|toggle\-verbose]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B metacity\-message\fP.
This manual page was freestyled fo' tha Debian distribution
because tha original gangsta program aint gots a manual page.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invode bold grill n' italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBmetacity\-message\fP bust a specified message ta \fBmetacity\fP(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B restart
Restart \fBmetacity\fP(1) which is hustlin.
.TP
.B reload-theme
Reload a theme which is specified on gsettings database.
.TP
.B enable-keybindings
Enable all of keybindings which is specified on gsettings database.
.TP
.B disable-keybindings
Disable all of keybindings which is specified on gsettings database.
.TP
.B enable-mouse-button-modifiers
Enable move/resize operations while pressin a modifier key
.TP
.B disable-mouse-button-modifiers
Disable move/resize operations while pressin a modifier key
.TP
.B toggle-verbose
Turn debug lyrics on or off
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR metacitizzle (1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Akira TAGOH <tagoh@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
