.\" This file Copyright 1992,93 Mike K. Johnston (johnsonm@stolaf.edu)
.\" Copyright 1995,1996 Miquel van Smoorenburg <miquels@cistron.nl>
.\" Copyright 1997-2002 Jukka Lahtinen <walker@netsonic.fi>
.\" It may be distributed under tha GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\" any higher version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See section COPYING of tha GNU Public license
.\" fo' conditions under which dis file may be redistributed.
.TH MINICOM 1 "July 2013" "Userz Manual" "Version 2.6.2"
.SH NAME
minicom \- thugged-out serial communication program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minicom
.RI "[options] [" configuration ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B minicom
is a cold-ass lil communication program which somewhat resemblez tha shareware
program TELIX but is free wit source code n' runs under most Unices.
Features include dialin directory wit auto-redial, support for
UUCP-style lock filez on serial devices, a separate script language
interpreter, capture ta file, multiple playas wit individual
configurations, n' more.
.SH COMMAND-LINE
.TP 0.5i
.B \-s, --setup
.BR S etup.
Root edits tha system-wide defaults up in /etc/minirc.dfl wit dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
When it is used, minicom do 
.I not 
initialize yo, but puts you directly tha fuck into the
configuration menu fo'sho. This is straight-up handy if minicom refuses ta start up
because yo' system has chizzled, or fo' tha last time you run
minicom. For most systems, reasonable defaults is already compiled in.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-o, --noinit
Do not initialize. Minicom will skip tha initialization code.  This
option is handy if you quit from minicom without resetting, and
then wanna restart a session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is potentially fucked up though: no
check fo' lock filez etc. is made, so a aiiight user could interfere
with thangs like UUCP... maybe dis is ghon be taken up later n' shit. For now
it be assumed, dat playas whoz ass is given access ta a modem are
responsible enough fo' they actions.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-m, --metakey
Override command-key wit tha Meta or ALT key. This is tha default up in 1.80
and it can also be configured up in one of minicomz menus yo, but if you use 
different terminals all tha time, of which some aint gots a Meta or ALT key,
itz handy ta set tha default command key ta Ctrl-A n' use dis option
when you gotz a keyboard supportin Meta or ALT keys. Minicom
assumes dat yo' Meta key sendz tha ESC prefix, not tha other variant
that sets tha highest bit of tha character.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-M, --metakey8
Same as \-m yo, but assumes dat yo' Meta key sets tha 8th bit of the
characta high (sendz 128 + characta code).
.TP 0.5i
.B \-z, --statline
Use terminal status line. This only works on terminals dat support it
and dat have tha relevant shiznit up in they \fItermcap\fP or
\fIterminfo\fP database entry.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-l, --ansi
.BR L iteral
translation of charactas wit tha high bit set. With dis flag on,
minicom will try ta translate tha IBM line charactas ta ASCII. Many PC-unix
clones will display characta erectly without translation (Linux up in a
special mode, Coherent n' SCO).
.TP 0.5i
.B \-L, --iso
Ditto but assume screen uses a ISO8859 characta set.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-w, --wrap
Turns line-wrap on at startup by default.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-H, --displayhex
Turn on output up in hex mode.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-a, --attrib=on/off
.BR A ttribute
usage. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some terminals, notably Televideo's, have rotten attribute
handlin (serial instead of parallel). By default, minicom uses '\-a
on' yo, but if yo ass is rockin such a terminal you can (must!)  supply the
option '\-a off'. Da trailin 'on' or 'off' is needed.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-t, --term=TERM
.BR T erminal
type. With dis flag, you can override tha environment TERM variable.
This is handy fo' use up in tha MINICOM environment variable; one can create
a special termcap entry fo' use wit minicom on tha console, that
initializes tha screen ta raw mode so dat up in conjunction wit tha \-l
flag, tha IBM line charactas is displayed untranslated.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-c, --color=on/off
.BR C olor
usage. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some terminals (like fuckin tha Linux console) support color with
the standard ANSI escape sequences. Because there be apparently no
termcap support fo' color, these escape sequences is hard-coded into
minicom. Therefore dis option is off by default.  Yo ass can turn it on
with '\-c on'. This, n' tha '\-m' option, is phat muthafuckas ta put
into tha MINICOM environment variable.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-S, --script=SCRIPT
.BR script .
Run tha named script at startup. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So far, passin username n' password
to a startup script aint supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If you also use tha \-d option to
start dialin at startup, tha \-S script is ghon be run BEFORE dialin the
entries specified wit \-d.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-d, --dial=ENTRY
.BR D ial
an entry from tha dialin directory on startup. Yo ass can specify an
index number yo, but also a substrin of tha name of tha entry. If you 
specify a name dat has multiple entries up in tha directory, they is all
tagged fo' dialing. Yo ass can also specify multiple names or index numbers
by separatin dem wit commas. Da dialin will start from tha straight-up original gangsta 
entry specified afta all other program initialization procedures is 
completed.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-p, --ptty=TTYP
.BR P seudo
terminal
to use. This overrides tha terminal port defined up in tha configuration
filez yo, but only if it aint nuthin but a pseudo TTY. Da filename supplied must be of
the form (/dev/)tty[p-z/][0-f], (/dev/)pts[p-z/][0-f] or 
(/dev/)pty[p-z/][0-f]. For example, /dev/ttyp1, pts/0 or /dev/ptyp2.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-C, --capturefile=FILE
.BR filename .
Open capture file at startup.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-T, --disabletime
Disable tha display of tha online time up in tha status bar.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-b, --baudrate
Specify tha baud rate, overridin tha value given up in tha configuration
file.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-D, --device
Specify tha device, overridin tha value given up in tha configuration file.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-R, --remotecharset
Specify tha characta set of tha remote system is rockin n' convert it to
the characta set of tha local side. Example might be 'latin1'.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-7, --7bit
7bit mode fo' terminals which aren't 8bit capable. 8bit is default if the
environment is configured fo' dis via LANG or LC_ALL, 7bit otherwise.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-8, --8bit
8bit charactas pass all up in without any modification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  'Continuous'
means no locate/attribute control sequences is banged without
real chizzle of locate/attribute. This mode is ta display 8bit
multi-byte charactas like fuckin Japanese n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Not needed up in every last muthafuckin language with
8bit characters. (For example displayin Finnish text don't need all dis bullshit.)
.TP 0.5i
.B \-h, --help
Display help n' exit.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-v, --version
Print tha minicom version.
.PP
.RS 0.5i
When
.B minicom
starts, it first searches tha MINICOM environment variable for
command-line arguments, which can be over-ridden on tha command line.
Thus, if you have done
.PP
.RS 0.5i
.PD 0
MINICOM=\[aq]\-m \-c on\[aq]
.PP
export MINICOM
.PP
.PD 1
.PP
.RE
or tha equivalent, n' start minicom, minicom will assume dat your
terminal
.I has 
a Meta or <ALT> key n' dat color is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If you then log in
from a terminal without color support, n' you have set MINICOM up in your
startup (.profile or equivalent) file, n' don't wanna re-set your
environment variable, you can type 'minicom \-c off' n' run without
color support fo' dat session.
.RE
.TP 0.5i
.B configuration
The
.I configuration
argument is mo' interesting. Normally, minicom gets its defaults from
a file called "minirc.dfl". If you however give a argument to
minicom, it will try ta git its defaults from a gangbangin' file called
"minirc.\fIconfiguration\fR\|".  So it is possible ta create multiple
configuration files, fo' different ports, different playas etc. Most
sensible is ta use thang names, like fuckin tty1, tty64, sio2 etc. If a
user creates his own configuration file, it will show up in his home
directory as ".minirc.dfl" or ".minirc.\fIconfiguration\fR\|".
.SH USE
Minicom is window based. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To pop-up a window wit tha function you
want, press Control-A (from now on, we will use C-A ta mean
Control-A), n' then tha function key (a-z or A-Z). By pressin C-A
first n' then 'z', a help screen comes up wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short summary of all
commands. This escape key can be altered when minicom is configured
(\-s option or C-A O) yo, but we'll stick ta Control-A fo' now, nahmeean?
.PP
.PD 0
For every last muthafuckin menu tha next keys can be used:
.TP 0.75i
.B UP
arrow-up or 'k'
.TP 0.75i
.B DOWN
arrow-down or 'j'
.TP 0.75i
.B LEFT
arrow-left or 'h'
.TP 0.75i
.B RIGHT
arrow-right or 'l'
.TP 0.75i
.B CHOOSE
Enter
.TP 0.75i
.B CANCEL
ESCape.
.PD 1
.PP
Da screen is divided tha fuck into two portions: tha upper 24 lines is the
terminal-emulator screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In dis window, ANSI or VT100 escape
sequences is interpreted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If there be a line left at the
bottom, a status line is placed there, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho.  If dis aint possible the
status line is ghon be flossed every last muthafuckin time you press C-A. On terminals
that gotz a special status line dat is ghon be used if tha termcap
information is complete \fIand\fP tha \fB\-k\fP flag has been given.
.PP
.PD 0
Possible commandz is listed next, up in alphabetical order.
.TP 0.5i
.B C-A
Pressin C-A a second time will just bust a C-A ta tha remote system.
If you have chizzled yo' "escape character" ta suttin' other than
C-A, dis works analogously fo' dat character.
.TP 0.5i
.B A
Toggle 'Add Linefeed' on/off. If it is on, a linefeed be added before
every carriage return displayed on tha screen.
.TP 0.5i
.B B
Gives you a scroll back buffer n' shit. Yo ass can scroll up wit \fBu\fP, down with
\fBd\fP, a page up wit \fBb\fP, a page down wit \fBf\fP, n' if you have them
the \fBarrow\fP n' \fBpage up/page down\fP keys can also be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass can 
search fo' text up in tha buffer wit \fBs\fP (case-sensitive) or \fBS\fP 
(case-insensitive). \fBN\fP will find tha next occurrence of tha string.
\fBc\fP will enta citation mode fo' realz. A text cursor appears n' you
specify tha start line by hittin Enta key. Then scroll back mode will
finish n' tha contents wit prefix '>' is ghon be sent.
.TP 0.5i
.B C
Clears tha screen.
.TP 0.5i
.B D
Dial a number, or git all up in tha dialin directory.
.TP 0.5i
.B E
Toggle local echo on n' off (if yo' version of minicom supports it).
.TP 0.5i
.B F
A break signal is busted ta tha modem.
.TP 0.5i
.B G
Run script (Go). Runs a login script.
.TP 0.5i
.B H
Hangup.
.TP 0.5i
.B I
Toggle tha type of escape sequence dat tha cursor keys bust between
normal n' applications mode. (See also tha comment bout tha status
line below).
.TP 0.5i
.B J
Jump ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell. On return, tha whole screen is ghon be redrawn.
.TP 0.5i
.B K
Clears tha screen, runs kermit n' redraws tha screen upon return.
.TP 0.5i
.B L
Turn Capture file on off. If turned on, all output busted ta tha screen
will be captured up in tha file like a muthafucka.
.TP 0.5i
.B M
Sendz tha modem initialization string. If yo ass is online n' tha DCD line
settin is on, yo ass be axed fo' confirmation before tha modem is 
initialized.
.TP 0.5i
.B N
Toggle between three states, whether each line is prefixed wit current date
and time, a timestamp be added every last muthafuckin second, or no timestamps.
.TP 0.5i
.B O
Configure minicom. Puts you up in tha configuration menu.
.TP 0.5i
.B P
Communication Parametas fo' realz. Allows you ta chizzle tha bps rate, paritizzle and
number of bits.
.TP 0.5i
.B Q
Exit minicom without resettin tha modem. If macros chizzled n' was not
saved, you gonna git a cold-ass lil chizzle ta do so.
.TP 0.5i
.B R
Receive files. Chizzle from various protocols (external). If you have the
filename selection window n' tha prompt fo' downlizzle directory enabled,
yo dirty ass is gonna git a selection window fo' choosin tha directory for
downloading. Otherwise tha downlizzle directory defined up in tha Filenames and
paths menu is ghon be used.
.TP 0.5i
.B S
Send files. Chizzle tha protocol like you do wit tha receive command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
you aint gots tha filename selection window enabled (in tha File transfer
protocols menu), you gonna just gotta write tha filename(s) up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog
window. If you have tha selection window enabled, a window will pop up
showin tha filenames up in yo' upload directory. Yo ass can tag n' untag
filenames by pressin spacebar, n' move tha cursor up n' down wit the
cursor keys or j/k. Da selected filenames is shown highlighted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Directory
names is shown [within brackets] n' you can move up or down up in the
directory tree by pressin tha spacebar twice. Finally, bust tha filez by
pressin ENTER or quit by pressin ESC.
.TP 0.5i
.B T
Choose Terminal emulation: Ansi(color) or vt100.
Yo ass can also chizzle tha backspace key here, turn tha status line on or off, 
and define delay (in milliseconds) afta each newline if you need dis shit.
.TP 0.5i
.B W
Toggle line-wrap on/off.
.TP 0.5i
.B X
Exit minicom, reset modem. If macros chizzled n' was not saved, yo big-ass booty is ghon 
have a cold-ass lil chizzle ta do so.
.TP 0.5i
.B Y
Paste a gangbangin' file. Readz a gangbangin' file n' sendz its contests just as if it would be
typed in.
.TP 0.5i
.B Z
Pop up tha help screen.
.PD 1
.SH "DIALING DIRECTORY"
By pressin C-A D tha program puts you up in tha dialin directory. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Select a
command by pressin tha capitalized letta or movin cursor right/left with
the arrow keys or tha h/l keys n' pressin Enter n' shit. Yo ass can add, delete or
edit entries n' move dem up n' down up in tha directory list. By choosing
"dial" tha beeper numberz of tha tagged entries, or if not a god damn thang is tagged,
the number of tha highlighted entry is ghon be dialed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! While tha modem is
dialing, you can press escape ta quit dialin fo' realz. Any other key will close
the dial window yo, but won't quit tha dialin itself. Yo crazy-ass dialing
directory is ghon be saved tha fuck into tha file ".dialdir" up in yo' home directory.
Yo ass can scroll up n' down wit tha arrow keys yo, but you can also scroll
complete pages by pressin tha PageUp or PageDown key.  If you don't have
those, use Control-B (Backward) n' Control-F (Forward). Yo ass can use the
space bar ta \fBtag\fP a fuckin shitload of entries n' minicom will rotate trough
this list if a cold-ass lil connection can't be made fo' realz. A '>' symbol is drawn up in the
directory before tha namez of tha tagged entries.
.PP
Da "edit" menu speaks fo' itself yo, but I'ma say shit bout it briefly here.
.PD 0
.TP 1.0i
.B A - Name
Da name fo' dis entry
.TP 1.0i
.B B - Number
and its telephone number.
.TP 1.0i
.B C - Dial strang #
Which specific dial strang you wanna use ta connect. There is three
different dial strings (prefixes n' suffixes) dat can be configured
in tha \fBModem n' dialing\fP menu.
.TP 1.0i
.B D - Local echo
can be on or off fo' dis system (if yo' version of minicom supports it).
.TP 1.0i
.B E - Script 
Da script dat must be executed afta a successful connection is made
(see tha manual fo' runscript)
.TP 1.0i
.B F - Username
Da username dat is passed ta tha runscript program.  It
is passed up in tha environment strang "$LOGIN".
.TP 1.0i
.B G - Password
Da password is passed as "$PASS".
.TP 1.0i
.B H - Terminal Emulation
Use ANSI or VT100 emulation.
.TP 1.0i
.B I - Backspace key sends
What code (Backspace or Delete) tha backspace key sends.
.TP 1.0i
.B J - Linewrap
Can be on or off.
.TP 1.0i
.B K - Line settings
Bps rate, bits, paritizzle n' number of stop bits ta use fo' dis connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Yo ass can chizzle \fBcurrent\fP fo' tha speed, so dat it will use whatever 
speed is bein used at dat moment (useful if you have multiple modems).
.TP 1.0i
.B L - Conversion table
Yo ass may specify a cold-ass lil characta conversion table ta be loaded whenever this
entry lyrics, before hustlin tha login script. If dis field is blank, 
the conversion table stays unchanged.
.PP 
.PD 1
Da edit menu also shows tha sickest fuckin date n' time when you called this
entry n' tha total number of calls there yo, but don't let you chizzle em.
They is updated automatically when you connect.
.PD 1
.PP
Da moVe command lets you move tha highlighted entry up or down up in the
dialin directory wit tha up/down arrow keys or tha k n' j keys. Press
Enta or ESC ta end movin tha entry. 
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
By pressin C-A O yo big-ass booty is ghon be thrown tha fuck into tha setup menu.
.PP
.PD 0
.B "Filenames n' paths"
.PP
.RS 0.25i
This menu defines yo' default directories.
.TP 0.5i
.B A - Downlizzle directory
where tha downloaded filez go to.
.TP 0.5i
.B B - Upload directory
where tha uploaded filez is read from.
.TP 0.5i
.B C - Script directory
Where you keep yo' login scripts.
.TP 0.5i
.B D - Script program
Which program ta use as tha script interpreter n' shit. Defaults ta the
program "runscript" yo, but if you wanna use suttin' else (eg,
/bin/sh or "expect") it is possible.  Stdin n' stdout is connected
to tha modem, stderr ta tha screen.
.RS 0.5i
If tha path is relatizzle (ie, do not start wit a slash) then it's
relatizzle ta yo' home directory, except fo' tha script interpreter.
.RE
.TP 0.5i
.B E - Kermit program
Where ta find tha executable fo' kermit, n' itz options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some simple
macroz can be used on tha command line: '%l' is expanded ta the
complete filename of tha dial out-device, '%f' is expanded ta tha serial
port file descriptor n' '%b' is expanded ta tha current serial port speed.
.TP 0.5i
.B F - Loggin options
Options ta configure tha logfile writing.
.RS 0.5i
.PD 1
.TP 0.5i
.B A - File name
Here you can enta tha name of tha logfile. Da file is ghon be freestyled in
your home directory, n' tha default value is "minicom.log". 
If you blank tha name, all loggin is turned off.
.TP 0.5i
.B B - Log connects n' hangups
This option defines whether or not tha logfile is freestyled when tha remote
end lyrics tha call or hangs up. Or when you give tha hangup command
yo ass or leave minicom without hangup while online. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feelin dis shiznit!
.TP 0.5i
.B C - Log file transfers
Do you want log entriez of receivin n' bustin  files.
.RE
Da 'log' command up in tha scripts aint affected by loggin options B n' C.
It be always executed, if you just have tha name of tha log file defined.
.RE
.PD 1
.PP
.B "File Transfer Protocols"
.PD 0
.PP
.RS 0.25i
Protocols defined here will show up when C-A s/r is pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  "Name" up in the
beginnin of tha line is tha name dat will show up in tha menu fo'sho. "Program"
is tha path ta tha protocol. "Name" afta dat defines if tha program needs
an argument, e.g. a gangbangin' file ta be transmitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. U/D defines if dis entry should
show up in tha upload or tha downlizzle menu fo'sho.  Fullscr defines if tha program
should run full screen, or dat minicom will only show itz stderr up in a
window. IO-Red defines if minicom should attach tha programz standard in
and output ta tha modem port or not. "Multi"  drops some lyrics ta tha filename selection
window whether or not tha protocol can bust multiple filez wit one
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it has no effect on downlizzle protocols, n' it be also ignored
with upload protocols if you don't use tha filename selection window. The
old ss n' rz is not full screen, n' have IO-Red set. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat there are
curses based versionz of at least rz dat do not want they stdin and
stdout redirected, n' run full screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  All file transfer protocols are
run wit tha UID of tha user, n' not wit UID=root. '%l', '%f' n' '%b' 
can be used on tha command line as wit kermit.  Within dis menu you can 
also define if you wanna use tha filename selection window when prompted 
for filez ta upload, n' if you like ta be prompted fo' tha downlizzle 
directory every last muthafuckin time tha automatic downlizzle is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If you leave tha 
downlizzle directory prompt disabled, tha downlizzle directory defined up in tha 
file n' directory menu is used.
.RE
.PD 1
.PP
.B "Serial port setup"
.RS 0.25i
.PD 0
.TP 0.5i
.B A - Serial device
/dev/tty1 or /dev/ttyS1 fo' most people.
/dev/cua<n> is still possible under GNU/Linux yo, but no longer recommended
as these devices is obsolete n' nuff systems 
with kernel 2.2.x or newer aint gots em. 
Use /dev/ttyS<n> instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Yo ass may also have /dev/modem as a symlink ta tha real device.
.br
If you have modems connected ta two or mo' serial ports, you may specify
all of dem here up in a list separated by space, comma or semicolon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When
Minicom starts, it checks tha list until it findz a available modem n' 
uses dat one. (But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat you can't specify different init strings ta 
them... at least not yet.)
.br
To bust a UNIX socket fo' communication tha thang name must be prefixed
with "unix#" followin by tha full path n' tha filename of tha socket.
Minicom will then try ta connect ta dis socket as a cold-ass lil client fo' realz. As long as it
cannot connect ta tha socket it stays 'offline' fo' realz. As soon as tha connection
establishes, minicom goes 'online'. If tha server closes tha socket, minicom
switches ta 'offline' again.
.TP 0.5i
.B B - Lock file location
On most systems This should be /usr/spool/uucp. GNU/Linux systems use
/var/lock. If dis directory do not exist,
minicom aint gonna attempt ta use lockfiles.
.TP 0.5i
.B C - Callin program
If you gotz a uugetty or suttin' on yo' serial port, it could be
that you want a program ta be run ta switch tha modem cq. port into
dialin/dialout mode. This is tha program ta git tha fuck into dialin mode.
.TP 0.5i
.B D - Callout program
And dis ta git tha fuck into dialout mode.
.TP 0.5i
.B E - Bps/Par/Bits
Default parametas at startup.
.PD 1
.PP  
If one of tha entries is left blank, it aint gonna be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! So if you
couldn't give a fuckin shiznit bout locking, n' aint gots a getty hustlin on your
modemline, entries B - D should be left blank.
.RE
.PP
.B "Modem n' Dialing"
.PD 0
.PP
.RS 0.25i
Here, tha parametas fo' yo' modem is defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! I'ma not explain
this further cuz tha defaults is fo' generic Hayes modems, and
should work always. This file aint a Hayes tutorial :-) Da only
things worth noticin is dat control charactas can be busted by
prefixin dem wit a '^', up in which '^^' means '^' itself, n' tha '\\'
characta must also be doubled as '\\\\', cuz backslash is used 
specially up in tha macro definitions.  Some options however, aint gots 
much ta do wit tha modem but mo' wit tha behaviour of minicom itself:
.PP
.TP 0.5i
.B M - Dial time
Da number of secondz before minicom times up if no connection is
established.
.TP 0.5i
.B N - Delay before redial
Minicom will redial if no connection was made yo, but it first waits some
time.
.TP 0.5i
.B O - Number of tries
Maximum number of times dat minicom attempts ta dial.
.TP 0.5i
.B P - Drop DTR time
If you set dis ta 0, minicom hangs up by bustin  a Hayes-type hangup
sequence. If you specify a non-zero value, tha hangup is ghon be done by 
droppin tha DTR line. Da value  drops some lyrics ta up in secondz how tha fuck long DTR will be
kept down.
.TP 0.5i
.B Q - Auto bps detect
If dis is on, minicom tries ta match tha dialed partyz speed.
With most modern modems dis is NOT desirable, since tha modem buffers
the data n' converts tha speed.
.TP 0.5i
.B R - Modem has DCD line
If yo' modem, n' yo' O/S both support tha DCD line (that goes 'high'
when a cold-ass lil connection is made) minicom will use dat shit. When you have dis option
on, minicom will also NOT start dialin while yo ass be already online. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feelin dis shiznit!
.TP 0.5i
.B S - Status line shows DTE speed / line speed
Yo ass can toggle tha status line ta show either tha DTE speed (the speed 
which minicom uses ta rap wit yo' modem) or tha line speed
(the speed dat yo' modem uses on tha line ta rap wit tha 
other modem). Notice dat tha line speed may chizzle durin tha connection,
but yo big-ass booty is ghon still only peep tha initial speed dat tha modems started
the connection with. This is cuz tha modem don't tell tha program
if tha speed is chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Also, ta peep tha line speed, you need ta have
the modem set ta show it up in tha connect string. 
Otherwise yo big-ass booty is ghon only peep 0 as tha line speed.
.TP 0.5i
.B T - Multi-line untag
Yo ass can toggle tha feature ta untag entries from tha dialin directory when
a connection is established ta a multi-line BBS fo' realz. All tha tagged entries that
have tha same name is untagged.
.PD 1
.PP
.RE
.RS 0.5i
.B Note dat a special exception is made fo' dis menu: every last muthafuckin user
.B can chizzle all parametas here yo, but a shitload of dem aint gonna be saved.
.RE
.PP
.B "Screen n' keyboard"
.RS 0.25i
.PD 0
.TP 0.5i
.B A - Command key is
the 'Hot Key' dat brangs you tha fuck into command mode. If dis is set
to 'ALT' or 'meta key', you can directly call commands
by alt-key instead of HotKey-key.
.TP 0.5i
.B B - Backspace key sends
There still is some systems dat want a VT100 ta bust DEL instead of
BS. With dis option you can enable dat stupidity.  (Eh, itz even on
by default...)
.TP 0.5i
.B C - Status line is
Enabled or disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Some slow terminals (for example, X-terminals)
cause tha status line ta jump "up n' down" when scrolling, so you can
turn it off if desired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it will still be shown up in command-mode.
.TP 0.5i
.B D - Alarm sound
If turned on, minicom will sound a alarm (on tha console only) after
a successful connection n' when up/downloadin is complete.
.TP 0.5i
.B E - Foreground Color (menu)
indicates 
the foreground color ta use fo' all tha configuration windows up in minicom.
.TP 0.5i
.B F - Background Color (menu)
indicates tha background color ta use fo' 
all tha configuration windows up in minicom. Note dat minicom aint gonna allow 
you ta set foreground n' background flavas ta tha same value.
.TP 0.5i
.B G - Foreground Color (term)
indicates tha foreground color ta use up in tha terminal window.
.TP 0.5i
.B H - Background Color (term)
indicates tha background color ta use up in 
the terminal window. Note dat minicom aint gonna allow you ta set foreground 
and background flavas ta tha same value.
.TP 0.5i
.B I - Foreground Color (stat)
indicates tha foreground color ta use up in fo' tha status bar.
.TP 0.5i
.B J - Background Color (stat)
indicates tha color ta use up in fo' the
status bar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Note dat minicom will allow you ta set tha status bar's
foreground n' background flavas ta tha same value. This will effectively
make tha status bar invisible but if these is yo' intentions, please
see tha option
.TP 0.5i
.B K - History buffer size
Da number of lines ta keep up in tha history buffer (for backscrolling).
.TP 0.5i
.B L - Macros file
is tha full path ta tha file dat holds
macros. Macros allow you ta define a strang ta be busted when you press
a certain key. In minicom, you may define F1 all up in F10 ta send
up ta 256 charactas [this is set at compile time]. Da filename you
specify is verified as soon as you hit ENTER. If you aint gots permissions
to create tha specified file, a error message will so indicate n' you
will be forced ta re-edit tha filename. If yo ass is permitted ta create
the file, minicom checks ta peep if it already exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If so, it assumes
itz a macro file n' readz it in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If it aint, well, itz yo' problem :-)
If tha file do not exist, tha filename be accepted.
.TP 0.5i
.B M - Edit Macros
opens up a freshly smoked up window 
which allows you ta edit tha F1 all up in F10 macros. 
.TP 0.5i
.B N - Macros enabled
- Yes yes y'all, or No. If macros is disabled, tha F1-F10
keys will just bust tha VT100/VT220 function key escape sequences.
.TP 0.5i
.B O - Characta conversion
Da actizzle conversion table filename is shown here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. If you can peep no
name, no conversion be active. Pressin O, yo big-ass booty is ghon peep tha conversion 
table edit menu.
.RS 0.5i
.PD 1
.TP 0.25i
.B "Edit Macros"
Here, tha macros fo' F1 all up in F10 is defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da bottom of the
window shows a legend of characta combinations dat have special meaning.
They allow you ta enta special control charactas wit plain text by
prefixin dem wit a '^', up in which '^^' means '^' itself. Yo ass can
send a 1 second delay wit tha '^~' code. This is useful when yo ass is
tryin ta login afta ftp'in or telnet'in somewhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. 
Yo ass can also include yo' current username n' password from tha beeper 
directory up in tha macros wit '\\u' n' '\\p', respectively. If you need
the backslash characta up in tha macro, write it doubled as '\\\\'.
To edit a macro, press tha number (or letta fo' F10) n' yo big-ass booty is ghon be 
moved ta tha end of tha macro. When editin tha line, you may use tha 
left & right arrows, Home & End keys, Delete & BackSpace, n' ESC n' 
RETURN.  ESC cancels any chizzlez made while ENTER accepts tha chizzles.
.PD 1
.TP 0.25i
.B "Characta conversion"
Here you can edit tha characta conversion table. If yo ass is not an
American, you know dat up in nuff languages there be charactas dat are
not included up in tha ASCII characta set, n' up in tha oldschool times they may
have replaced some less blingin charactas up in ASCII n' now they are
often represented wit characta codes above 127 fo' realz. AND there be various
different ways ta represent em. This is where you may edit conversion
tablez fo' systems dat bust a cold-ass lil characta set different from tha one on your
computer.
.TP 0.5i
.B A - Load table
Yo ass probably guessed dat shit. This command loadz a table from tha disk.
Yo ass be axed a gangbangin' file name fo' tha table.
Predefined tablez .mciso, .mcpc8 n' .mcsf7 should be included wit the
program. Table .mciso do no conversion, .mcpc8 is ta be used fo' 
connections wit systems dat use tha 8-bit pc characta set, n' .mcsf7
is fo' compatibilitizzle wit tha systems dat uses tha phat oldschool 7-bit coding
to replace tha charactas {|}[]\\ wit tha diacritical charactas used in
Finnish n' Swedish.
.TP 0.5i
.B B - Save table
This one saves tha actizzle table on tha filename you specify.
.TP 0.5i
.B C - edit char
This is where you can make yo' own modifications ta tha existin table.
First yo ass be axed tha characta value (in decimal) whose conversion you
wanna chizzle. Next you gonna say which characta you wanna peep on yo' 
screen when dat characta be reppin tha outside ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! And then you'll
be axed what tha fuck you wanna be busted up when you enta dat characta from
your keyboard.
.TP 0.5i
.B D - next screen
.TP 0.5i
.B E - prev screen
Yeah, you probably noticed dat dis screen shows you what tha fuck kind of
conversions is active. Da screen just is (usually) too lil' small-ass ta show
the whole table at once up in a easy as fuck -to-understand format. This is how tha fuck you can
scroll tha table left n' right.
.TP 0.5i
.B F - convert capture
Togglez whether or not tha characta conversion table is used when
writin tha capture file.
.RE
.RE
.PD 1
.TP 0.25i
.B "Save setup as dfl"
Save tha parametas as tha default fo' tha next time tha program is
started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Instead of dfl, any other parameta name may appear, depending
on which one was used when tha program was started.
.TP 0.25i
.B "Save setup as.."
Save tha parametas under a special name. Whenever Minicom is started
with dis name as a argument, it will use these parameters. This
option iz of course privileged ta root.
.TP 0.25i
.B "Exit"
Escape from dis menu without saving.  This can also be done wit ESC.
.TP 0.25i
.B "Exit from minicom"
Only root will peep dis menu entry, if he/she started minicom wit tha '\-s'
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This way, it is possible ta chizzle tha configuration without
actually hustlin minicom.
.PD 1
.SH "STATUS LINE"
Da status line has nuff muthafuckin indicators, dat drop a rhyme fo' theyselves.
Da mysterious APP or NOR indicator probably needz explanation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
VT100 cursor keys can be up in two modes: applications mode n' cursor
mode. This is controlled by a escape sequence. If you find that
the cursor keys do not work in, say, vi when you logged up in using
minicom then you can peep wit dis indicator whether tha cursor keys
are up in applications or cursor mode. Yo ass can toggle tha two wit the
C-A I key. If tha cursor keys then work, itz probably a error in
the remote systemz termcap initialization strings (is).
.PD 1
.SH "LOCALES"
Minicom has support fo' local languages. This means you can chizzle most
of tha Gangsta lyrics n' other strings ta another language by setting
the environment variable LANG.
.PD 1
.SH MISC
If minicom is hung, bust a cap up in it wit SIGTERM . (This means bust a cap up in \-15, or
since sigterm is default, just plain "kill <minicompid>". This will
cause a graceful exit of minicom, bustin resets n' every last muthafuckin thang.
Yo ass may bust a cap up in minicom from a script wit tha command "! killall \-9 minicom"
without hangin up tha line. Without tha \-9 parameter, minicom first 
hangs up before exiting.
.PP
Since a shitload of escape sequences begin wit ESC (Arrow up is ESC [ A),
Minicom do not know if tha escape characta it gets is you pressing
the escape key, or part of a sequence.
.PP
An oldschool version of Minicom, V1.2, solved dis up in a rather crude way:
to git tha escape key, you had ta press it 
.IR twice .
.PP
Az of release 1.3 dis has bettered a lil: now a 1-second timeout
is builtin, like up in vi. For systems dat have tha select() system call
the timeout is 0.5 secondz fo' realz. And... surprise: a special Linux-dependent
.BR hack " :-) was added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Now, minicom can separate tha escape key and"
escape-sequences. To peep how tha fuck dirty dis was done, look tha fuck into wkeys.c.
But it works like a cold-ass lil charm!
.SH FILES
Minicom keeps itz configuration filez up in one directory, usually
/var/lib/minicom, /usr/local/etc or /etc. To smoke up what tha fuck default
directory minicom has compiled in, issue tha command \fIminicom -h\fP.
You'll probably also find tha demo filez fo' \fBrunscript\fP(1),
and tha examplez of characta conversion tablez either there or 
in tha subdirectoriez of /usr/doc/minicom*. Da conversion tablez are
named suttin' like mc.* up in dat directory yo, but you probably want to
copy tha ones you need up in yo' home directory as suttin' beginning
with a thugged-out dot.
.sp 1
.nf
minirc.*
$HOME/.minirc.*
$HOME/.dialdir
$HOME/minicom.log
/usr/share/locale/*/LC_MESSAGES/minicom.mo
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR runscript (1)
.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to
.IR minicom-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org .
Nuff props, nahmean biiiatch?
.SH AUTHORS
Da original gangsta lyricist of minicom is Miquel van Smoorenburg (miquels@cistron.nl).
Dude freestyled versions up ta 1.75.
.br
Jukka Lahtinen (walker@netsonic.fi, jukkal@despammed.com) has been responsible
for freshly smoked up versions since 1.78, helped by some other people, including:
.br
filipg@paranoia.com freestyled tha History buffer searchin ta 1.79.
.br
Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo (acme@conectiva.com.br) did tha internationalization 
and tha Brazilian Portuguese translations.
.br
Jim Seymour (jseymour@jimsun.LinxNet.com) freestyled tha multiple modem support 
and tha filename selection window used since 1.80.
.br
Tomohiro Kubota (kubota@debian.or.jp) freestyled tha Japanese translations 
and tha citation facility, n' did some fixes.
.br
Gael Queri (gqueri@mail.dotcom.fr) freestyled tha French translations.
.br
Arkadiuss Miskiewics (misiek@pld.org.pl) freestyled tha Polish translations.
.br
Kim Solil' (nexti@chollian.net) freestyled tha Korean translations.
.br
Jork Loeser (jork.loeser@inf.tu-dresden.de) provided tha socket extension.
.PP
Most of dis playa page is copied, wit erections, from tha original gangsta minicom
README yo, but some pieces n' tha erections is by Mike K. Johnson.
.PP
Jukka Lahtinen (walker@netsonic.fi) has added some shiznit of tha chizzlez 
made afta version 1.75.
