.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH MKFONTDIR 1 "mkfontdir 1.0.7" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
mkfontdir \- create a index of X font filez up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "mkfontdir"
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR suffix ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR prefix ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR encoding-directory-name ]
\&\|.\|.\|.
.RB [ \-\- ]
.RI [ directory-name
\&\|.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.I mkfontdir
readz all of tha font filez up in the
directory searchin fo' propertizzles named "FONT", or (failin that) tha name
of tha file stripped of its suffix.  These is converted ta lower case and
used as font names, and,
along wit tha name of tha font file, are
written up ta tha file "fonts.dir" up in tha directory.
Da X server n' font server use "fonts.dir" ta find font files.
.PP
Da kindz of font filez read by
.I mkfontdir
depend on configuration
parametas yo, but typically include PCF (suffix ".pcf"), SNF (suffix ".snf")
and BDF (suffix ".bdf").  If a gangbangin' font exists up in multiple formats,
.I mkfontdir
will first chizzle PCF, then SNF n' finally BDF.
.PP
Da first line of fonts.dir gives tha number of fonts up in tha file.
Da remainin lines list tha fonts theyselves, one per line, up in two
fields.  First is tha name of tha font file, followed by a space and
the name of tha font.
.SH "SCALABLE FONTS"
Because scalable font filez do not probably include tha X font name, the
file "fonts.scale" can be used ta name tha scalable fonts up in the
directory.
Da fonts listed up in it is copied ta fonts.dir by
.IR mkfontdir .
"fonts.scale" has tha same ol' dirty format as tha "fonts.dir" file, n' can be
created wit the
.IR mkfontscale (1)
program.
.SH "FONT NAME ALIASES"
Da file "fonts.alias", which can be put up in any directory of tha font-path, is
used ta map freshly smoked up names ta existin fonts, n' should be edited by hand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
format is two white-space separated columns, the
first containin aliases n' tha second containin font-name patterns.
Lines beginnin wit "!" is comment lines n' is ignored.
.PP
If neither tha alias nor tha value specifies tha size fieldz of the
font name, dis be a scalable alias.  A font name of any size that
matches dis alias is ghon be mapped ta tha same size of tha font that
the alias resolves to.
.PP
When a gangbangin' font alias is used, tha name it references is searched fo' up in tha normal
manner, lookin all up in each font directory up in turn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This means dat the
aliases need not mention fonts up in tha same directory as tha alias file.
.PP
To embed white space up in either name, simply enclose it up in double-quote
marks; ta embed double-quote marks (or any other character), precede them
with back-slash:
.PP
.nf
"magic-alias wit spaces"	"\\"font name\\" wit quotes"
regular-alias			fixed
.fi
.PP
If tha strang "FILE_NAMES_ALIASES" standz ridin' solo on a line, each file-name
in tha directory (stripped of its suffix) is ghon be used as a alias for
that font.
.SH ENCODING FILES
Da option
.B -e
can be used ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory wit encodin files.  Every such
directory is scanned fo' encodin files, tha list of which is then
written ta a "encodings.dir" file up in every last muthafuckin font directory.  The
"encodings.dir" file is used by tha server ta find encoding
information.
.PP
Da "encodings.dir" file has tha same ol' dirty format as "fonts.dir".
It maps encodin names (stringz of tha form
.BI CHARSET_REGISTRY \- CHARSET_ENCODING
) ta encodin file names.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-e
Specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory containin encodin files.  The
.B \-e
option may be specified multiple times, n' all tha specified
directories is ghon be read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da order of tha entries is significant, as
encodings found up in earlier directories override dem up in lata ones;
encodin filez up in tha same directory is discriminated by preferring
compressed versions.
.TP
.B \-n
do not scan fo' fonts, do not write font directory files.  This option
is useful when generatin encodin directories only.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify a prefix dat is prepended ta tha encodin file path names
when they is freestyled ta tha "encodings.dir" file.  Da prefix is
prepended as-is.  If a `/' is required between tha prefix n' tha path
names, it must be supplied explicitly as part of tha prefix.
.TP
.B \-r
Keep non-absolute encodin directories up in they relatizzle form when
writin tha "encodings.dir" file.  Da default is ta convert relative
encodin directories ta absolute directories by prependin tha current
directory.  Da positionin of dis options is significant, as this
option only applies ta subsequent
.B \-e
options.
.TP
.BI "\-x " suffix
Ignore fonts filez of type
.IR suffix .
.TP
.B \-\-
End options.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
.B fonts.dir
List of fonts up in tha directory n' tha filez they is stored in.
Created by \fImkfontdir\fP.  Read by tha X server n' font server each
time tha font path is set (see xset(1)).
.TP 15
.B fonts.scale
List of scalable fonts up in tha directory.  Contents is copied to
fonts.dir by \fImkfontdir\fP.   Can be pimped with
.IR mkfontscale (1).
.TP 15
.B fonts.alias
List of font name aliases.
Read by tha X server n' font server each
time tha font path is set (see xset(1)).
.TP 15
.B encodings.dir
List of known encodings n' tha filez they is stored in.
Created by \fImkfontdir\fP.  Read by tha X server n' font server each
time a gangbangin' font wit a unknown charset is opened.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), Xserver(1), mkfontscale(1), xfs(1), xset(1)
