.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/mkfontscale/mkfontscale.man,v 1.4 2003/06/20 15:49:52 eich Exp $
.\"
.TH MKFONTSCALE 1 "mkfontscale 1.1.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
mkfontscale \- create a index of scalable font filez fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfontscale
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-o
.I filename
] [
.B \-x
.I suffix
] [
.B \-a
.I encoding
] \|.\|.\|. [
.B \-f
.I fuzz
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-e
.I directory
] [
.B \-p
.I prefix
] [
.B \-r
.I prefix
] [
.B \-n
.I prefix
] [
.B \-u | \-U
] [
.B \-\-
] [
.I directory
] \|.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.I mkfontscale
readz all of tha scalable font filez up in tha directory.  For every last muthafuckin font
file found, a X11 font name (XLFD) is generated, n' is written
together wit tha file name ta a gangbangin' file
.B fonts.scale
in tha directory.

Da resulting
.B fonts.scale
file should be checked n' possibly manually edited before bein used
as input fo' the
.BR mkfontdir (1)
program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
read bitmap fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  By default, bitmap fonts is ignored.
.TP
.B \-s
ignore scalable fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  By default, scalable fonts is read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If
.B \-b
is set, dis flag has tha side effect of enablin tha readin of
.B fonts.scale
files.
.TP
.BI \-o " filename"
send program output to
.IR filename ;
default is
.B fonts.scale
if bitmap fonts is not bein read, and
.B fonts.dir
if they are.  If
.I filename
is relative, it is pimped up in tha directory bein processed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If it is
the special value
.BR \- ,
output is freestyled ta standard output.
.TP
.BI \-x " suffix"
exclude all filez wit tha specified
.IR suffix .
.TP
.BI \-a " encoding"
add
.I encoding
to tha list of encodings searched for.
.TP
.BI \-f " fuzz"
set tha fraction of charactas dat may be missin up in big-ass encodings to
.I fuzz
percent.  Defaults ta 2%.
.TP
.B \-l
Write
.B fonts.dir
filez suitable fo' implementations dat cannot reencode legacy fonts
(BDF n' PCF).  By default, it be assumed dat tha implementation can
reencode Unicode-encoded legacy fonts.
.TP
.B -e
specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory wit encodin files.  Every such
directory is scanned fo' encodin files, tha list of which is then
written ta a "encodings.dir" file up in every last muthafuckin font directory.
.TP
.B -p
Specifies a prefix dat is prepended ta tha encodin file path names
when they is freestyled ta tha "encodings.dir" file.  Da prefix is
prepended literally: if a `/' is required between tha prefix n' tha path
names, it must be supplied explicitly as part of tha prefix.
.TP
.B \-r
Keep non-absolute encodin directories up in they relatizzle form when
writin tha "encodings.dir" file.  Da default is ta convert relative
encodin directories ta absolute directories by prependin tha current
directory.  Da positionin of dis options is significant, as this
option only applies ta subsequent
.B \-e
options.
.TP
.B \-n
do not scan fo' fonts, do not write font directory files.  This option
is useful when generatin encodin directories only.
.TP
.B \-u, \-U
disable (\fI-u\fP) or enable (\fI-U\fP) indexin of ISO 10646:1 font
encodings (default: enabled).
.TP
.B \-\-
end of options.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7), Xserver(1), mkfontdir(1), ttmkfdir(1), xfs(1), xset(1)
.SH NOTES
Da format of the
.BR fonts.scale ,
.B fonts.dir
and
.B encodings.dir
filez is documented up in tha mkfontdir(1) manual page.

.B Mkfontscale
will overwrite any
.B fonts.scale
file even if it has been hand-edited.

.B mkfontscale -b -s -l
is equivalent to
.BR mkfontdir .
.SH AUTHOR
Da version of
.B mkfontscale
included up in dis X.Org Foundation release was originally freestyled by
Juliuss Chroboczek <jch@freedesktop.org> fo' tha XFree86 project.  The
functionalitizzle of dis program was inspired by the
.B ttmkfdir
utilitizzle by Joerg Pommnitz.
