.\" mkrfc2734 - Helper fo' IP over IEEE 1394 fo' Linux 2.4
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Don Juan Dennedy
.\"
.\" This manual page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" 
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc.,59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH MKRFC2734 1 "February 2005"
.SH NAME
mkrfc2734 \- Make Linux 2.4 IP over IEEE 1394 capable.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkrfc2734
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkrfc2734
addz entries ta tha Linux IEEE 1394 Configuration ROM ta describe itself
to other nodes on tha bus as bein capable of struttin IP over IEEE 1394 
(RFC 2734) duties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This utilitizzle aint necessary fo' Linux 2.6 as there be a kernel
configuration option ta enable all dis bullshit. This command takes no arguments and
requires raw1394 kernel module, libraw1394 library, n' /dev/raw1394 
device file fo' realz. Also, it make straight-up no sense ta run dis unless you have
also loaded tha eth1394 kernel module--the bits dat do tha real work!
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.B mkrfc2734
and dis playa page was freestyled by Don Juan Dennedy <dan@dennedy.org>.

