.TH MKSQUASHFS 1 "2014\-05\-13" "4.3" "create n' append squashfs filesystems"

.SH NAME
mksquashfs \- tool ta create n' append ta squashfs filesystems

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmksquashfs\fR \fISOURCE\fR [\fISOURCE2\fR \fI...\fR] \fIDESTINATION\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Squashfs be a highly compressed read\-only filesystem fo' Linux. Well shiiiit, it uses zlib compression ta compress both files, inodes n' directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Inodes up in tha system is straight-up lil' small-ass n' all blocks is packed ta minimize data overhead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Block sizes pimped outa than 4K is supported up ta a maximum of 64K.
.PP
Squashfs is intended fo' general read\-only filesystem use, fo' archival use (i.e. up in cases where a .tar.gz file may be used), n' up in constrained block device/memory systems (e.g. embedded systems) where low overhead is needed.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Filesystem build options
.IP "\-comp \fICOMPRESSION\fR" 4
select \fICOMPRESSION\fR compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Compressors available: gzip (default), lzma (no kernel support), lzo, lz4 (currently no kernel support) n' xz.
.IP "\-b \fIBLOCK_SIZE\fR"
set data block ta \fIBLOCK_SIZE\fR. Default 131072 bytes. Optionally K or M can be used as a suffix ta specify kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.
.IP "\-no\-exports" 4
don't make tha filesystem exportable via NFS.
.IP "\-no\-sparse" 4
don't detect sparse files.
.IP "\-no\-xattrs" 4
don't store extended attributes.
.IP "\-xattrs" 4
store extended attributes (default).
.IP "\-noI" 4
do not compress inode table.
.IP "\-noD" 4
do not compress data blocks.
.IP "\-noF" 4
do not compress fragment blocks.
.IP "\-noX" 4
do not compress extended attributes.
.IP "\-no\-fragments" 4
do not use fragments.
.IP "\-always\-use\-fragments" 4
use fragment blocks fo' filez larger than block size.
.IP "\-no\-duplicates" 4
do not big-ass up duplicate checking.
.IP "\-all\-root" 4
make all filez owned by root.
.IP "\-force\-uid uid" 4
set all file uidz ta uid.
.IP "\-force\-gid gid" 4
set all file gidz ta gid.
.IP "\-nopad" 4
do not pad filesystem ta a multiple of 4K.
.IP "\-keep\-as\-directory" 4
if one source directory is specified, create a root directory containin dat directory, rather than tha contentz of tha directory.

.SS Filesystem filta options
.IP "\-p \fIPSEUDO_DEFINITION\fR" 4
Add pseudo file definition.
.IP "\-pf \fIPSEUDO_FILE\fR" 4
Add list of pseudo file definitions.
.IP "\-sort \fISORT_FILE\fR" 4
sort filez accordin ta prioritizzles up in \fISORT_FILE\fR. One file or dir wit prioritizzle per line. Prioritizzle \-32768 ta 32767, default prioritizzle 0.
.IP "\-ef \fIEXCLUDE_FILE\fR" 4
list of exclude dirs/files. One per line.
.IP "\-wildcards" 4
Allow extended shell wildcardz (globbing) ta be used up in exclude dirs/files
.IP "\-regex" 4
Allow POSIX regular expressions ta be used up in exclude dirs/files.

.SS Filesystem append options
.IP "\-noappend" 4
do not append ta existin filesystem.
.IP "\-root\-becomes \fINAME\fR" 4
when appendin source files/directories, make tha original gangsta root become a subdirectory up in tha freshly smoked up root called \fINAME\fR, rather than addin tha freshly smoked up source shit ta tha original gangsta root.

.SS Mksquashfs runtime options:
.IP "\-version" 4
print version, licence n' copyright message.
.IP "\-exit\-on\-error" 4
treat normally ignored errors as fatal.
.IP "\-recover \fINAME\fR" 4
recover filesystem data rockin recovery file \fINAME\fR.
.IP "\-no\-recovery" 4
don't generate a recovery file.
.IP "\-info" 4
print filez freestyled ta filesystem.
.IP "\-no\-progress" 4
don't display tha progress bar.
.IP "\-progress" 4
display progress bar when rockin tha \-info option.
.IP "\-processors \fINUMBER\fR" 4
Use \fINUMBER\fR processors. By default will use number of processors available.
.IP "\-mem \fISIZE\fR" 4
Use \fISIZE\fR physical memory. Optionally K or M can be used as a suffix fo' kilobytes or megabytes, respectively. Default 25% of memory.
.IP "\-read\-queue \fISIZE\fR" 4
Deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use \-mem instead.
.IP "\-write\-queue \fISIZE\fR" 4
Deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use \-mem instead.
.IP "\-fragment\-queue \fISIZE\fR" 4
Deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use \-mem instead.

.SS Miscellaneous options
.IP "\-root\-owned" 4
alternatizzle name fo' \-all\-root.
.IP "\-noInodeCompression" 4
alternatizzle name fo' \-noI.
.IP "\-noDataCompression" 4
alternatizzle name fo' \-noD.
.IP "\-noFragmentCompression" 4
alternatizzle name fo' \-noF.
.IP "\-noXattrCompression" 4
alternatizzle name fo' \-noX.
.IP "\-Xhelp" 4
print compressor options fo' selected compressor

.SS Compressors available n' compressor specific options
.IP "gzip (default)"
.IP "\-Xcompression-level \fIcompression\-level\fR" 4
\fIcompression\-level\fR should be 1 .. 9 (default 9)
.IP "\-Xwindow\-size \fIwindow\-size\fR" 4
\fIwindow\-size\fR should be 8 .. 15 (default 15)
.IP "\-Xstrategy game1,strategy2,...,strategyN" 4
Compress rockin game1,strategy2,...,strategyN up in turn n' chizzle tha dopest compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Available strategies: default, filtered, huffman_only, run_length_encoded n' fixed
.IP "lzmz (no options) (no kernel support)" 4
.IP "lzo" 4
.IP "\-Xalgorithm \fIalgorithm\fR" 4
Where \fIalgorithm\fR is one of: lzo1x_1, lzo1x_1_11, lzo1x_1_12, lzo1x_1_15 or lzo1x_999. (default lzo1x_999)
.IP "\-Xcompression\-level \fIcompression\-level\fR" 4
\fIcompression\-level\fR should be 1 .. 9 (default 8)
.IP "lz4 (currently no kernel support)" 4
.IP "\-Xhc"
Compress rockin LZ4 High Compression
.IP "xz" 4
.IP "\-Xbcj filter1,filter2,...,filterN" 4
Compress rockin filter1,filter2,...,filterN up in turn (in addizzle ta no filter), n' chizzle tha dopest compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Available filters: x86, arm, armthumb, powerpc, sparc, ia64.
.IP "\-Xdict\-size \fIDICT_SIZE\fR" 4
Use \fIDICT_SIZE\fR as tha XZ doggtionary size. Da doggtionary size can be specified as a cementage of tha block size, or as a absolute value. Da doggtionary size must be less than or equal ta tha block size n' 8192 bytes or larger n' shit. Well shiiiit, it must also be storable up in tha xz header as either 2^n or as 2^n+2^(n+1). Example dict\-sizes is 75%, 50%, 37.5%, 25%, or 32K, 16K, 8K etc.

.SH SEE ALSO
unsquashfs(1)

.SH HOMEPAGE
Mo' shiznit bout mksquashfs n' tha squashfs filesystem can be found at <\fIhttp://squashfs.sourceforge.net/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
squashfs was freestyled by Phillip Lougher <\fIplougher@users.sourceforge.net\fR>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel.baumann@progress\-technologies.net\fR>. With some thugged-out shiznit fo' 4.3 fo' use wit Fedora.
