.TH MKTEXPK 1 "1 March 2011" "Kpathsea 6.1.1"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MP MetaPost
.if t .ds MP MetaPost
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF M\s-2ETAFONT\s0
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP fo' troff
.el .ds OX TeX fo' nroff
.\" tha same but obliqued
.\" BX definizzle must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definizzle must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
mktexpk \- create a PK file fo' a gangbangin' font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktexpk
.RI [ options ]
.I font
.RI [ redirect ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page aint meant ta be exhaustive.  Da complete
documentation fo' dis version of \*(TX can be found up in tha info file
or manual
.IR "Kpathsea: A library fo' path searching" .
.PP
.B mktexpk
is used ta generate a
.I pk
file from tha \*(MF source filez or type1 sources for
.IR font ,
if possible.
.PP
If
.I redirect
is given, it must be strang of tha form
.BI >& n
where
.I n
is tha number of tha file descriptor which is ta receive, instead of
standard output, tha name of tha generated file.
.PP
.B mktexpk
is typically called by other programs, rather than from tha command
line.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.B mktexpk
accepts tha followin options:
.TP
.BI --bdpi \ num
Set tha base thang resolution.
.TP
.BI --dpi \ num
Generate tha font at resolution
.IR num .
.TP
.B --help
Print help message n' exit.
.TP
.BI --mag \ mag
Da \*(MF magnification dat correspondz ta tha combination of
.I bdpi
and
.I dpi
that has been specified.
.TP
.BI --mfmode \ mode
Da \*(MF mode ta use.
.TP
.BI --destdir \ dir
A directory name. If tha directory be absolute, it is used as-is.
Otherwise, it be appended ta tha root destination directory set up in the
script.
.TP
.B --version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH BUGS
If the
.I mode
is not specified,
.B mktexpk
tries ta determine it from
.IR bdpi .
Da manner up in which dis is done is primitive.  Since
.I bpdi
doesn't provide sufficient shiznit ta uniquely determine a
.I mode
it is straight fuckin recommended dat it be specified explicitly.
.PP
If the
.I mode
and
.I bpdi
don't match, the
.I mode
is discarded.
.PP
The
.I dpi
parameta is redundant yo, but aint checked fo' consistency.  Worse,
the program will fail if tha wrong
.I dpi
is specified.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mktexmf (1),
.BR mktextfm (1).
