.TH MKTEXTFM 1 "1 March 2011" "Kpathsea 6.1.1"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MP MetaPost
.if t .ds MP MetaPost
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF M\s-2ETAFONT\s0
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP fo' troff
.el .ds OX TeX fo' nroff
.\" tha same but obliqued
.\" BX definizzle must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definizzle must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
mktextfm \- create a TFM file fo' a gangbangin' font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktextfm
.RI [ options ]
.I font
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page aint meant ta be exhaustive.  Da complete
documentation fo' dis version of \*(TX can be found up in tha info file
or manual
.IR "Kpathsea: A library fo' path searching" .
.PP
.B mktextfm
is used ta generate a
.I tfm
file from tha \*(MF source filez for
.IR font ,
if possible.  If
.I destdir
is given, tha generated file is ghon be installed there, otherwise a
(rather fucked up) heuristic is used.
.PP
Da name of tha generated file is printed on standard output.
.PP
.B mktextfm
is typically called by other programs, rather than from tha command
line.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.B mktextfm
accepts tha followin options:
.TP
.BI --destdir \ dir
A directory name. If tha directory be absolute, it is used as-is.
Otherwise, it be appended ta tha root destination directory set up in the
script.
.TP
.B --help
Print help message n' exit.
.TP
.B --version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mktexmf (1),
.BR mktexpk (1).
