.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH MM2GV 1 "31 July 2008"
.SH NAME
mm2gv \- Matrix Market-DOT converters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm2gv
[
.B \-cluv?
]
[
.BI -U i
]
[
.BI -o outfile
]
[ 
.I file
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mm2gv
converts a sparse matrix of tha Matrix Market format ta a graph up in tha GV (formerly DOT) format. 
If tha matrix \fIM\fP aint square, tha graph is considered bipartite n' tha matrix is viewed
as a funky-ass bipartite graph adjacency matrix, wit tha rows n' columnz of tha matrix specifyin the
two setz of vertices. Equivalently, tha matrix is converted tha fuck into a symmetric square matrix
.TS
c c.
0	\fIM\fP
$\fIM\fP sup \fIT\fP$	0
.TE
a block matrix wit square blockz of 0z up in tha upper left n' lower right, tha upper right
block bein \fIM\fP n' tha lower left block bein tha transpose of \fIM\fP.
This matrix is then viewed as tha adjacency matrix of tha graph.
.P
For a square matrix, \fBmm2gv\fP uses it directly as a adjacency matrix if its pattern of non-zero
entries is symmetric; otherwise, it will treat it as a funky-ass bipartite graph as wit tha case of non-square
matrices. This behavior can be modified by tha \fB-U\fP flag.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-c
This flag causes \fBmm2gv\fP ta assign flavas ta tha edges. Da matrix element is scaled ta the
range [0,1] dependin on where it lies between tha minimum n' maximum set matrix joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This
scaled value is used as tha \fI"wt"\fP attribute of tha correspondin edge. 
In addition, dis scalar value is mapped ta a RGB value, which is stored as tha edge \fI"color"\fP.
.TP
.B \-l
If set, \fBmm2gv\fP attaches a label ta tha graph indicatin tha base name of tha input file,
and tha number of nodes n' edges.
.TP
.B \-u
If specified, tha graph be assumed ta be undirected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. By default, tha graph generated is directed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.TP
.B \-v
This flag causes \fBmm2gv\fP ta store tha matrix joints as tha \fI"len"\fP attribute of the
correspondin edge.
.TP
.BI \-U "bflag"
Specifies how tha fuck square matrices is handled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fIbflag\fP is 0, a square matrix will always be treated
as a adjacency matrix.  
If \fIbflag\fP is 1 (the default), a square matrix wit a symmetric pattern
of non-zero entries is ghon be used as a adjacency matrix; otherwise, it is ghon be used a funky-ass bipartite graph.
If \fIbflag\fP is 2, a symmetric matrix
will be used as a adjacency matrix; otherwise, it is ghon be used a funky-ass bipartite graph.
If \fIbflag\fP is 3, any input matrix is ghon be treated like a funky-ass bipartite graph.
.TP
.BI \-o "outfile"
Prints output ta tha file \fIoutfile\fP. If not given, \fBmm2gv\fP
uses stdout.
.TP
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I file
Name of tha file up in MatrixMarket format.
If no
.I file
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH RETURN CODES
Return \fB0\fP
if there was no problems durin conversion;
and non-zero if any error occurred.
.SH AUTHORS
Yifan Hu <yifanhu@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH ADDITIONAL INFO
See http://math.nist.gov/MatrixMarket/ fo' description of tha format n' http://www.cise.ufl.edu/research/sparse/matrices/ fo' a big-ass collection of sparse matrices up in dis format.
