.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Mark Nudleman
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)more.1	5.15 (Berkeley) 7/29/91
.\"
.\" Revised: Fri Dec 25 15:27:27 1992 by root
.\" 25Dec92: Extensive chizzlez made by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) to
.\" conform wit tha mo' 5.19 currently up in use by tha Linux hood.
.\"
.\" .Dd July 29, 1991 (Modified December 25, 1992)
.TH MORE "1" "February 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
more \- file perusal filta fo' crt viewing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B more
[options]
.IR file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B more
is a gangbangin' filta fo' pagin all up in text one screenful at a time.  This version is
especially primitive.  Users should realize that
.BR less (1)
provides
.BR mo' (1)
emulation plus extensive enhancements.
.SH OPTIONS
Command-line options is busted lyrics bout below.  Options is also taken from the
environment variable
.B MORE
(make shizzle ta precede dem wit a thugged-out dash (``-'')) but command line options will
override em.
.It Fl num
.TP
.B \-d
.B more
will prompt tha user wit tha message "[Press space ta continue, 'q' to
quit.]" n' will display "[Press 'h' fo' instructions.]" instead of ringing
the bell when a illegal key is pressed.
.TP
.B \-l
.B more
usually treats
.B \&^L
(form feed) as a special character, n' will pause afta any line that
gotz nuff a gangbangin' form feed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
.B \-l
option will prevent dis behavior.
.TP
.B -f
Causes
.B more
to count logical, rather than screen lines (i.e., long lines is not folded).
.TP
.B \-p
Do not scroll.  Instead, clear tha whole screen n' then display tha text.
Notice dat dis option is switched on automatically if tha executable is
named
.BR page .
.TP
.B \-c
Do not scroll.  Instead, paint each screen from tha top, clearin the
remainder of each line as it is displayed.
.TP
.B \-s
Squeeze multiple blank lines tha fuck into one.
.TP
.B \-u
Suppress underlining.
.TP
.BI \- number
Da screen size ta use, in
.I number
of lines.
.TP
.BI + number
Start displayin each file at line
.IR number .
.TP
.BI +/ string
The
.I string
to be searched up in each file before startin ta display dat shit.
.SH COMMANDS
Interactizzle commandz for
.B more
are based on
.BR vi (1).
Some commandz may be preceded by a thugged-out decimal number, called k up in the
descriptions below.  In tha followin descriptions,
.B ^X
means
.BR control-X .
.PP
.RS
.PD 1
.TP 10
.BR h \ or \ ?
Help: display a summary of these commands.  If you forget all tha other
commands, remember dis one.
.TP
.B SPACE
Display next k linez of text.  Defaults ta current screen size.
.TP
.B z
Display next k linez of text.  Defaults ta current screen size.  Argument
becomes freshly smoked up default.
.TP
.B RETURN
Display next k linez of text.  Defaults ta 1.  Argument becomes freshly smoked up default.
.TP
.BR d \ or \ \&^D
Scroll k lines.  Default is current scroll size, initially 11.  Argument
becomes freshly smoked up default.
.TP
.BR q \ or \ Q \ or \ INTERRUPT
Exit.
.TP
.B s
Skip forward k linez of text.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.B f
Skip forward k screenfulz of text.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.BR b \ or \ \&^B
Skip backwardz k screenfulz of text.  Defaults ta 1.  Only works wit files,
not pipes.
.TP
.B \'
Go ta place where previous search started.
.TP
.B =
Display current line number.
.TP
.B \&/pattern
Search fo' kth occurrence of regular expression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.B n
Search fo' kth occurrence of last regular expression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.BR !command \ or \ :!command
Execute
.I command
in a subshell.
.TP
.B v
Start up a editor at current line.  Da editor is taken from tha environment
variable
.B VISUAL
if defined, or
.B EDITOR
if
.B VISUAL
is not defined, or defaults
to
.B vi
if neither
.B VISUAL
nor
.B EDITOR
is defined.
.TP
.B \&^L
Redraw screen.
.TP
.B :n
Go ta kth next file.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.B :P
Go ta kth previous file.  Defaults ta 1.
.TP
.B :f
Display current file name n' line number.
.TP
.B \&.
Repeat previous command.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.B more
command respects tha followin environment variables, if they exist:
.TP
.B MORE
This variable may be set wit favored options to
.BR mo' .
.TP
.B SHELL
Current shell up in use (normally set by tha shell at login time).
.TP
.B TERM
Da terminal type used by \fBmore\fR ta git tha terminal
characteristics necessary ta manipulate tha screen.
.TP
.B VISUAL
Da editor tha user prefers.  Invoked when command key
.I v
is pressed.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Da editor of chizzle when
.B VISUAL
is not specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vi (1),
.BR less (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Eric Shienbrood, UC Berkeley
.br
Modified by Geoff Peck, UCB ta add underlining, single spacing
.br
Modified by Jizzy Foderaro, UCB ta add -c n' MORE environment variable
.SH HISTORY
The
.B more
command rocked up in 3.0BSD.  This playa page documents
.B more
version 5.19 (Berkeley 6/29/88), which is currently up in use up in tha Linux
community.  Documentation was produced rockin nuff muthafuckin other versionz of the
man page, n' extensive inspection of tha source code.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da mo' command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
