.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH MOSH 1 "October 2012"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
mosh-server \- server-side helper fo' mosh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mosh-server
new
[\-s]
[\-v]
[\-i \fIIP\fP]
[\-p \fIPORT\fP[:\fIPORT2\fP]]
[\-c \fICOLORS\fP]
[\-\- command...]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmosh-server\fP be a helper program fo' tha 
.BR mosh(1)
remote terminal application.

\fBmosh-server\fP bindz ta a high UDP port n' chizzlez a encryption
key ta protect tha session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it prints both on standard output,
detaches from tha terminal, n' waits fo' tha \fBmosh-client\fP to
establish a cold-ass lil connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it will exit if no client has contacted
it within 60 seconds.

By default, \fBmosh-server\fP bindz ta a port between 60000 and
61000 n' executes tha userz login shell.

On platforms wit \fButempter\fP, \fBmosh-server\fP maintains a entry
in the
.BR utmp(5)
file ta indicate its process ID, whether tha session is connected,
and tha clientz current IP address.

\fBmosh-server\fP exits when tha client terminates tha connection.

.SH OPTIONS

Da argument "new" must be first on tha command line ta use
command-line options.

.TP
.B \-s
bind ta tha local intercourse used fo' a incomin SSH connection, given
in tha \fBSSH_CONNECTION\fP environment variable (for multihomed
hosts)

.TP
.B \-v
Print some debuggin shiznit even afta detaching.

.TP
.B \-i \fIIP\fP
IP address of tha local intercourse ta bind (for multihomed hosts)

.TP
.B \-p \fIPORT\fP[:\fIPORT2\fP]
UDP port number or port-range ta bind

.TP
.B \-c \fICOLORS\fP
Number of flavas ta advertise ta applications all up in TERM (e.g. 8, 256)

.TP
.B \-l \fINAME=VALUE\fP
Locale-related environment variable ta try as part of a gangbangin' fallback
environment, if tha startup environment do not specify a cold-ass lil character
set of UTF-8.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
$ mosh-server

MOSH CONNECT 60001 UAkFedSsVJs2LfMeKyQB5g

mosh-server (mosh 1.1)
[...] (copyright notice omitted)

[mosh-server detached, pid = 20443]
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mosh (1),
.BR mosh-client (1).

Project home page:
.I http://mosh.mit.edu

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mosh was freestyled by Keith Winstein <mosh-devel@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs ta \fImosh-devel@mit.edu\fP. Users may also subscribe
to the
.nh
.I mosh-users@mit.edu
.hy
mailin list, at
.br
.nh
.I http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/mosh-users
.hy
.
