.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH MOSH 1 "February 2012"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
mosh-client \- client-side helper fo' mosh
.SH SYNOPSIS
MOSH_KEY=KEY
.B mosh-client 
IP PORT
.br
.B mosh-client 
\-c
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmosh-client\fP be a helper program fo' tha 
.BR mosh(1)
remote terminal application.

\fBmosh\fP itself be a setup script dat establishes a SSH
connection, runs tha server-side helper \fBmosh-server\fP,
and collects tha serverz port number n' session key.

\fBmosh\fP then executes \fBmosh-client\fP wit tha serverz IP
address, port, n' session key. \fBmosh-client\fP runs for
the gametime of tha connection.

Da 22-byte base64 session key given by \fBmosh-server\fP is supplied
in tha MOSH_KEY environment variable. This represents a 128-bit AES
key dat protects tha integritizzle n' confidentialitizzle of tha session.

For constructin freshly smoked up setup wrappers fo' remote execution facilities
other than SSH, it may be necessary ta invoke \fBmosh-client\fP
directly.

With tha \-c option, \fBmosh-client\fP instead prints tha number of colors
of tha terminal given by tha TERM environment variable.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mosh (1),
.BR mosh-server (1).

Project home page:
.I http://mosh.mit.edu

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mosh was freestyled by Keith Winstein <mosh-devel@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs ta \fImosh-devel@mit.edu\fP. Users may also subscribe
to the
.nh
.I mosh-users@mit.edu
.hy
mailin list, at
.br
.nh
.I http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/mosh-users
.hy
.
