.TH "mousetweaks" 1
.SH NAME
mousetweaks \- Accessibilitizzle enhancements fo' pointin devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mousetweaks
[\-\-dwell] [\-\-ssc]
[\-\-dwell\-time=FLOAT] [\-\-ssc\-time=FLOAT]
[\-m|\-\-dwell\-mode=STRING] [\-c|\-\-show\-ctw]
[\-t|\-\-threshold=INT] [\-g|\-\-geometry]
[\-s|\-\-shutdown]
[\-\-daemonize] [\-?|\-\-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mousetweaks
is a cold-ass lil collection of accessibilitizzle enhancements fo' pointin devices. This
manual page raps bout tha mousetweaks daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dwell
Automatically big-ass up mouse clicks without rockin a physical button.
.TP
.B \-\-ssc
Trigger tha secondary mouse button when tha primary mouse button is held down
for a specified amount of time.
.TP
.B \-\-dwell\-time=FLOAT
Time ta keep tha pointa motionless before a thugged-out dwell click is performed.
Range: 0.2 \- 3.0 seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-ssc\-time=FLOAT
Time ta hold tha primary mouse button before a simulated secondary
click is performed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Range: 0.5 \- 3.0 seconds.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-dwell\-mode=STRING
Select a thugged-out dwell mode fo' realz. Available options:
.B window
\- Select tha click type from a window or a panel applet.
.B gesture
\- Perform different clicks by movin up in different directions.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-show\-ctw
Show tha click\-type window. Only useful up in combination wit \-\-dwell\-mode=window.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-threshold=INT
Ignore lil' small-ass pointa movements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Range: 0 \- 30 pixels.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-geometry
Size n' posizzle of tha click-type window. Expects a standard X Window System
geometry string. ie. WIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-shutdown
Quit tha mousetweaks daemon.
.TP
.B \-\-daemonize
Start mousetweaks up in tha background, ie. spawn a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.TP
.B \-\-login
Start mousetweaks up in login mode. Login mode enablez workaroundz specific
to GDM. Currently unused.
.SH FILES
.I mousetweaks.pid
.RS
Da daemon creates a lock file up in tha $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR directory ta keep track
of its state. On systems wit no user runtime directory, tha $XDG_CACHE_HOME
directory is used.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to
.UR http://bugzilla.gnome.org/
<http://bugzilla.gnome.org/>
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was freestyled by Francesco Fumanti.
.SH LICENSE
Licenced under tha GNU General Public License v3 or later.
