.TH MPAGE Local 2008/01/14

.SH NAME
mpage \- print multiple pages per shizzle on PostScript printer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpage
.RB [ \-1248aAceEfHloOrRStTuUvVxX ]
.RB [ \-b\c
.IR "\ papersize" ]
.RB [ \-B\c
.RI [ "num" [\c
.BR lrtb ]]...]
.RB [ \-C
.RI [ "encoding" ]]
.RB [ \-da\c
.IB | p\c
]
.RB [ \-D\c
.IR "\ dateformat" ]
.RB [ \-F\c
.IR "\ fontname" ]
.RB [ \-h\c
.IR "\ header" ]
.RB [  \-j\c
.IR "\ first" [\-\c
.IR last ][%\c
.IR interval ]]
.RB [ \-J\c
.IR "\ startpageno" ]
.RB [ \-L\c
.IR "\ lines" ]
.RB [ \-m\c
.RI [ "num" [\c
.BR lrtb ]]...]
.RB [ \-M\c
.RI [ "num" [\c
.BR lrtb ]]...]
.RB [ \-p\c
.RI [ "prprog" ]]
.RB [ \-P\c
.RI [ "printer" ]]
.RB [ \-s\c
.IR "\ tabstop" ]
.RB [ \-W\c
.IR "\ width" ]
.RB [ \-z\c
.IR "\ printcmd" ]
.RB [ \-Z\c
.IR "\ printcmd_args" ]
.RI [ file \ ...]




.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mpage
readz plain text filez or PostScript documents n' prints dem on a
PostScript printa wit tha text reduced up in size so dat several
pages step tha fuck up on one shizzle of paper.
This is useful fo' viewin big-ass printouts on a lil' small-ass amount of paper.
It uses ISO 8859.1 ta print 8-bit characters.

.PP
Da followin options is recognized (note dat arguments ta options may be
separated from tha option by spaces, except fo' 
.BR -B ,
.BR -m ,
.BR -M ,
.B -p
and
.BR -P ):
Also when mpage encountas -- as option it will stop parsin arguments
and tha remainin arguments is interpreted as filenames.

.TP
.B -1
Print 1 aiiight page per shizzle (included fo' symmetry).

.TP
.B -2
Print 2 aiiight pages per sheet.

.TP
.B -4
Print 4 aiiight pages per sheet
.IR (default) .

.TP
.B -8
Print 8 aiiight pages per sheet.

.TP
.B -a
Toggle layout of tha pages on tha shizzle so dat successively numbered
pages run down tha sheet, as opposed ta left ta right.
.RI ( default
updown) .

.TP
.B -A
This option is deprecated, peep \fB-b\fP.
Prepare output fo' A4 sized paper.
For default peep 'mpage -x'.

.TP
.BI -b papertype
Prepare output fo' selected paper type.
.I Papersize
can be \fIA3\fP fo' European A3,
\fIA4\fP fo' European A4,
\fILetter\fP fo' US Letta or \fILegal\fP fo' Legal
sized paper.
For default peep 'mpage -x'.
To peep tha list of currently available types, just give tha 'mpage -bl'
or 'mpage -b?' command (Note: mpage exits afta findin such option use.)

.TP
.BR -B [\fI<num>\fR[\fBlrtb\fR]*]
Setup a funky-ass box round a particular part of yo' page.
Specify text box margins n' line thickness.
Da default is 0 columns (lines) fo' both left n' right (top n' bottom)
margins n' 0 line thickness.
Specifyin 
.B -B 
solely togglez printin of tha box. 
.IR l ,
.IR r ,
.I t
or
.I b
set tha left, right, top or bottom margin respectively ta 
.I <num>
columns (lines).
Not specifyin any of tha sides, will set tha line thicknizz when 
.I <num> 
is given.
For example
.BI -B 1
sets tha line thicknizz ta 1.
Sides wit wack margins aint gonna print.

.TP
.B -c
Toggle concatenation off pages from different filez on single sheets
.RI ( default
off).

.TP
.BR -C [\fIencodingfile\fR]
Specify tha characta encodin file.
Da file should be up in tha mpage library directory (\fI/usr/share/mpage\fR).
.I Mpage
has a internal default encodin based on Latin-1 or IBM codepage 850.
Dependin on compile time option dis encodin definizzle is on or not.
Not specifyin a encodingfile will toggle tha usage of tha internal encoding.

.TP
.BI -d a\fR|\fIp
Force input ta be taken as ascii (\fIa\fP) or postscript (\fIp\fP) text.
This way you can print yo' postscript code as text, or print postscript
code dat mpage do not recognise. When rockin \fB-d\fIp\fR,
make shizzle dat tha the postscript code gotz nuff
.I %Page
page separators or else thangs will probably look odd.

.TP
.BI -D dateformat
Set tha date format as up in 
.IR strftime (3)
to be used up in date/time representations (e.g. up in headers).
(Note: ta be useful you probably need tha \fB-H\fP option.)

.TP
.B -e
Print 2 aiiight pages per shizzle up in duplex mode. Every first 
and fourth page or on one side n' every last muthafuckin second n' third
on tha other side. This is mo' or less a cold-ass lil combination of
the \fR-O\fP n' \fR-E\fP option but then up in one pass.

.TP
.B -E
Print 2 aiiight pages per sheet. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis option will print
every second n' third page of every last muthafuckin set of four pages.
This option will ignore
.B -a
and
.BR -l .
See also tha \fR-O\fP option.
Usin these options double sided prints can be pimped without
a duplex printer.

.TP
.B -f
Togglez foldin lines longer than page width
.RI ( default
off) .

.TP
.BI -F fontname
Specify font. 
.RI ( default
Courier). Peep yo' printa fo' supported fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Note: dis has
almost not a god damn thang ta do wit tha fonts used fo' yo' X-windows/KDE/Gnome
environment.

.TP
.BI -h header
This is used only when tha 
.B -p
or
.B -H
switch is used n' is passed as tha "\fB-h\fI\ header\fR" option to
.BR pr ( 1 )
or as tha header fo' 
.BR -H .

.TP
.B -H
Smoke header line fo' each logical page separated from page text by a
horizontal line. Unless
.B -h
is given, tha header consist of last file modification time,
filename n' page number, all up in bold n' slightly larger font.
This option only applies ta non-postscript files.

.TP
.BI -I indent
Indent text by 
.I indent
characters.

.TP
.BI -j first\fR[\fI-last\fR][\fI%interval\fR]
Print just tha selected sheets, specified by a number, startin at 1.
Here 
.I last
defaults ta tha end of data, \fIinterval\fP ta 1.
Several \fB-j\fR options can be given (upto MAXJARGS, default 100)
to create a cold-ass lil complex selection of pages.
Thus \fB-j\fI1\-10\fR selects tha straight-up original gangsta 10 sheets, while
\fB-j\fI 1%2\fR prints just tha odd-numbered sheets n' \fB-j\fI 2%2\fR
prints just tha even ones.
.sp
Yo ass can do double-sided printing, up in two passes, as bigs up.
If you use 3-hole socked paper, put it up in tha printa such dat tha holes
will step tha fuck up all up in tha top of tha page -- on tha right as you pull up the
printa tray, up in our Laser writa Pt II NTX.
Print tha odd-numbered sheets with
.IP
.ti +5
mpage ... -j 1%2 ...
.IP
Note tha number of pages it reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  (Only half dis nuff will straight-up
be printed).  When printin finishes, if mpage reported an
\fIodd\fP number of pages, remove tha last one from tha stack, since there will
be no even-numbered shizzle ta match dat shit.  Then arrange tha stack of paper for
printin on tha other side.
(If itz socked, tha holez will now be on tha left.)
On our Pt II NTX, tha paper comes up blank-side up; replace it up in tha tray still
blank-side up but rotated 180 degrees.  For other printers, you figure it out.
Now print tha even-numbered sheets up in reverse order with
.IP
.ti +5
mpage ... -r -j 2%2 ...
.IP
hopin no one else reaches tha printa before you do.

.TP
.BI -J startpageno
Set tha start value of tha shizzle page count to
.I startpageno
instead of 1.

.TP
.B -k
When mpage findz a %%TRaila or %%PSTraila up in tha postscript input file
it normally assumes dis is tha end of tha postscript file n' stops reading
the input file. But when tha PS file includes EPS files, %%Trailaz might
be anywhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Usin dis option ignores tha %%TRaila n' %%PSTRaila lines.
.TP
.B -l
Toggle printin landscape or portrait mode.
Landscape pages is 55 lines long by 132 charactas wide by default. 
Portrait pages is 66 lines long by 80 charactas wide by default.
.RI ( default
portrait.) 

.TP
.BI -L lines
Adjust tha page reduction parametas so that
.I lines
lines will fit up in tha space of one page.
This overrides tha default joints normally supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (See 
.BR -l .)
If used up in conjunction wit 
.B -p
then dis value is passed ta the
.BR pr (1)
as well.
As a side effect dis chizzlez tha font size as well (as will tha \fB-W\fR
option.) So while there be a option ta chizzle font crew, there is no 
explicit option ta chizzle font size!

.TP
.BR -m [\fI<num>\fR[\fBlrtb\fR]*]
Specify shizzle margin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da default margin is 20 points.
Only specifyin 
.B -m 
sets left margin ta 40 points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.IR l ,
.IR r ,
.I t
or
.I b
set left, right, top or bottom margin respectively ta 
.I <num>
points.
Not specifyin any of tha sides will set all sides when 
.I <num> 
is given.
.I <num>
defaults ta 40 points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For example
.BI -m 10
sets all margins ta 10 points.
.BI -m l50tb
sets left margin ta default 40 n' top n' bottom margin ta 50 points.
.BI -m 50l25bt30r
set bottom n' top margin ta 25, left margin ta 50 and
right margin ta 30 points.
Margins can have wack numbers.

.TP
.BR -M [\fI<num>\fR[\fBlrtb\fR]*]
Specify logical page margins. For syntax, peep 
.B -m
option.
Defaults is 4 fo' 
.B -M 
solely, n' 8 fo' 
.IR <num> .
Margins can be negative.
This way big-ass white borders
in yo' (postscript) documents can be reduced.

.TP
.B -o
Toggle printin of outlines round each reduced page
.RI ( default
on).

.TP
.B -O
Print 2 aiiight pages per sheet.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis option will print every last muthafuckin first n' fourth page of every
set of four pages.
This option will ignore 
.B -a
and
.BR -l .
See also tha \fR-E\fP option.
Usin these options double sided prints can be pimped without
a duplex printer.

.TP
.BR -p [\fIprprog\fR]
Pipe input all up in 
.I prprog
command (includin specified options) before printing
(assumes tha input be a text file).
When no command is specified, it defaults to
.BR pr (1).

.TP
.BR -P [\fIprinter\fR]
Specify tha printa ta which tha PostScript output is ghon be sent
(e.g.lpr -P\fIprinter\fP). Using
.B -P
with no printa specified will bust tha PostScript ta tha default printer
queue (e.g. lpr). Usin -P- will return output ta stdout, useful in
combination wit MPAGE environment variable. Without
.B -P
output is ghon be bust ta standard output.

.TP
.B -r
Reverse printing.
Da last shizzle is printed first.
Da way of arrangin reduced pages on tha sheets don't chizzle.

.TP
.B -R
Switch ta left ta right mode, startin first page on left bottom corner.
This might be useful fo' landscape postscript files.
(Note: rockin 
.B -l
after
.B -R
undoes
.BR -R ,
and switches ta aiiight landscape mode.

.TP
.BI -s tabstop
Set tabstop width (\fIdefault\fP 8 characters).
Should by >= 2.

.TP
.B -S
Accept non-square page reduction.
By default, pages is shrunk equally up in X n' Y, even if dis wastes some
space on tha sheet.
With \fB\-S\fP, 
reduced pages is larger but slightly distorted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. (only used when printing
postscript files.)

.TP
.B -t
Toggle printin on both sidez of tha paper.
This will toggle duplex mode of tha printer.
Use dis option only if yo' printa is capable of printin up in duplex mode. 
.RI ( default
off).

.TP
.B -T
Toggle tumble of every last muthafuckin second pages when printin up in duplex mode.
Use dis option only if yo' printa is capable of printin up in duplex mode
and together with
.BR -t . 

.TP
.B -u
Toggle checkin fo' UTF-8 input (not relevant fo' postscript input).

.TP
.B -U
This option is deprecated, peep \fB-b\fP.
Prepare output fo' US Letta sized paper.
For default peep 'mpage -x'.

.TP
.B -v
Toggle printin a cold-ass lil count of tha number of sheets produced fo' printing
.RI ( default
off.)

.TP
.B -V
Print version shiznit n' exit.

.TP
.BI -W width
Adjust tha page reduction parametas so dat a line with
.I width
charactas long will fit up in tha space of one page.
This overrides tha default joints normally supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (See 
.BR -l .)
If used up in conjunction with
.B -p
then dis value is passed ta tha s
.BR pr (1)
program as well.
See also tha \fB-L\fP\ option on font sizes.

.TP
.B -x
Force usage display, which also shows current defaults.

.TP
.B -X [header]
Print header on tha left n' tha page number on tha right
of each physical page (sheet).
If no header is given, tha default is tha current filename (note 
influence of
.BR -c ),
the filename of tha straight-up original gangsta file on tha page is used.

.TP
.BI -z printcommand
Specify command ta use ta bust output to.
Default is 
.B lpr 
(1) fo' BSD steez spooler,
.B lp
(1) fo' SYSV steez spooler.
Yo ass can specify command line options yo, but note 
.BR -Z .
For example \fB-zlp\fR fo' system V Unix.

.TP
.BI -Z printprog_queuename_arg
Specify what tha fuck option ta use fo' tha "\fB-z\fI\ printcommand\fR" ta specify
a printqueue.
For example \fB-zlp -Z-d\fR fo' system V Unix.
Default is
.B -P
for BSD steez spooler,
.B -d
for SYSV steez spooler.

.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I mpage
examines the
.B PRINTER
(or 
.B LPDEST
for SYSV steez spooler)
environment variable ta override its default printer.

.PP
The
.B MPAGE_LIB
environment variable can be used ta control where tha characta 
encodin filez (\fB-C\fR) can be found.

.PP
.I mpage
also examines the
.B MPAGE
environment variable fo' default option settings.
Any option or combination of options can be specified up in the
.B MPAGE
environment variable.
For example, if MPAGE is set ta tha string:
.IP
.B -2oPqms -L60
.PP
it would (in tha absence of other command line arguments) print 2
pages per sheet, 60 lines per page, wit outlines, on tha printer
named
.B "qms"
(overridin the
.B PRINTER\fR/\fBLPDEST
environment variable, if it exists.)
In tha environment variable, white space is used as a option delimiter,
and no quotin is recognized.

.PP
Any command line options will override both the
.B PRINTER
and 
.B MPAGE
environment variables.

.SH FILES
/usr/tmp/mpageXXXXXX
.br
/usr/share/mpage

.SH BUGS
.PP
Suffers under tha burden of far too nuff switches.
(But
.B you
wanted tha chizzles!) 
.PP
NULL charactas up in a postscript input file will cause mpage ta crash!
.PP
Many others, we sure.

Mpage is year 2000 compliant, as long as tha underlyin operatin system is!!!

.SH VERSION
Version 2.5.6, Released Januari 2008.
.br
Location:
.IP
http://www.mesa.nl/pub/mpage
.br
ftp://ftp.mesa.nl/pub/mpage
.SH AUTHORS
Marcel Mol <marcel@mesa.nl> (current maintainer). 
.PP
Mark P yo. Hahn (Original Gangsta author) 
