.TH "Music Player Daemon" 1
.SH NAME
MPD \- A daemon fo' playin music
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpd
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ CONF_FILE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
MPD be a thugged-out daemon fo' playin beatz. Drop dis like itz hot!  Music is played all up in tha configured
audio output(s) (which is generally local yo, but can be remote).  Da daemon
stores info bout all available beatz, n' dis info can be easily searched and
retrieved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Player control, info retrieval, n' playlist pimpment can all be
managed remotely.

MPD searches fo' a cold-ass lil config file up in \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mpd/mpd.conf\fP then
\fB~/.mpdconf\fP then \fB/etc/mpd.conf\fP or uses CONF_FILE.

Read mo' bout MPD at <\fBhttp://www.musicpd.org/\fP>.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-help
Output a funky-ass brief help message.
.TP
.BI \-\-kill
Bust a cap up in tha currently hustlin mpd session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da pid_file parameta must be
specified up in tha config file fo' dis ta work.
.TP
.BI \-\-no\-daemon
Don't detach from console.
.TP
.BI \-\-stderr
Print lyrics stderr.
.TP
.BI \-\-verbose
Verbose logging.
.TP
.BI \-\-version
Print version shiznit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.BI ~/.mpdconf
User configuration file.
.TP
.BI /etc/mpd.conf
Global configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
mpd.conf(5), mpc(1)
.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at
.br
<\fBhttp://bugs.musicpd.org/bug_report_page.php\fP>.
.SH AUTHORS
Max Kellermann <max@duempel.org>

Special props ta all tha playas dat provided feedback n' patches.
