.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Peta Schiffer (pschiffe@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH MTRACE 1 2014-09-01 "GNU" "Linux user manual"
.SH NAME
mtrace \- interpret tha malloc trace log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR mtrace " [\fIoption\fR]... [\fIbinary\fR] \fImtracedata\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mtrace
is a Perl script used ta interpret n' provide human readable output
of tha trace log contained up in tha file
.IR mtracedata ,
whose contents was produced by
.BR mtrace (3).
If
.I binary
is provided, tha output of
.B mtrace
also gotz nuff tha source file name wit line number shiznit
for problem locations
(assumin that
.I binary
was compiled wit debuggin shiznit).

For mo' shiznit bout the
.BR mtrace (3)
function and
.B mtrace
script usage, see
.BR mtrace (3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-help
Print help n' exit.
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.SH BUGS
For bug reportin instructions, please see:
<http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/bugs.html>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memusage (1),
.BR mtrace (3)
