.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH MUTTER 1 "11 February 2006"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
MUTTER \- Clutta based compositin GTK2 Window Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mutter
[\-\-display=\fIDISPLAY\fP] [\-\-replace] [\-\-sm\-client\-id=\fIID\fP] [\-\-sm\-disable] [\-\-sm\-save\-file=\fIFILENAME\fP] [\-\-version] [\-\-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly
.B mutter\fP.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invode bold grill n' italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBmutter\fP be a minimal X window manager aimed at nontechnical playas n' is designed ta integrate well wit tha GNOME desktop.  \fBmutter\fP lacks some features dat may be expected by traditionizzle UNIX or other technical users; these playas may wanna rewind other available window managers fo' use wit GNOME or standalone.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
Connect ta X display \fIDISPLAY\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-replace
a window manager which is hustlin is replaced by \fBmutter\fP.  Users is encouraged ta chizzle tha GNOME window manager by hustlin tha freshly smoked up WM wit tha --replace or -replace option, n' subsequently savin tha session.
.TP
.B \-\-sm\-client\-id=ID
Specify a session pimpment \fIID\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-sm\-disable
Disable tha session pimpment.
.TP
.B \-\-sm\-save\-file=FILENAME
Load a session from \fIFILENAME\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print tha version number.
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.SH CONFIGURATION
\fBmutter\fP configuration can be found under \fIPreferences\fP->\fIWindows\fP n' \fIPreferences\fP->\fIKeyboard Shortcuts\fP on tha menu-panel fo' realz. Advanced configuration can be  bigged up  directly all up in gsettings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mutter-message (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Da original gangsta manual page was freestyled by Thom May <thom@debian.org>.  Dat shiznit was updated by Akira TAGOH <tagoh@debian.org>
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (with permission ta use by others), n' then updated by Luke Morton n' Philip O'Brien
for inclusion up in mutter.
