.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\"
.\"     Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Mike R. Elkins <me@cs.hmc.edu>
.\" 
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"     (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" 
.\"     This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" 
.\"     Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"     along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH mutt 1 "January 2009" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mutt \- Da Mutt Mail User Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B mutt
[\-nRyzZ]
[\-e \fIcmd\fP] [\-F \fIfile\fP] [\-m \fItype\fP] [\-f \fIfile\fP]
.PP
.B mutt 
[\-nx] 
[\-e \fIcmd\fP] 
[\-F \fIfile\fP]
[\-H \fIfile\fP]
[\-i \fIfile\fP]
[\-s \fIsubj\fP]
[\-b \fIaddr\fP]
[\-c \fIaddr\fP]
[\-a \fIfile\fP [...] \-\-]
\fIaddr|mailto_url\fP [...]
.PP
.B mutt 
[\-nx] 
[\-e \fIcmd\fP] 
[\-F \fIfile\fP]
[\-s \fIsubj\fP]
[\-b \fIaddr\fP]
[\-c \fIaddr\fP]
[\-a \fIfile\fP [...] \-\-]
\fIaddr|mailto_url\fP [...]
< message
.PP
.B mutt
[\-n] [\-e \fIcmd\fP] [\-F \fIfile\fP] \-p
.PP
.B mutt
[\-n] [\-e \fIcmd\fP] [\-F \fIfile\fP] \-A \fIalias\fP
.PP
.B mutt
[\-n] [\-e \fIcmd\fP] [\-F \fIfile\fP] \-Q \fIquery\fP
.PP
.B mutt 
\-v[v]
.PP
.B mutt 
\-D
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Mutt be a lil' small-ass but straight-up bangin text based program fo' readin n' bustin  electronic
mail under unix operatin systems, includin support fo' color terminals, MIME,
OpenPGP, n' a threaded sortin mode.
.PP
.I Note:
.IR
This manual page gives a funky-ass brief overview of muttz command line
options. Yo ass should find a cold-ass lil copy of tha full manual up in /usr/share/doc/mutt, in
text, HTML, and/or PDF format.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-A \fIalias\fP"
An expanded version of tha given alias is passed ta stdout.
.IP "-a \fIfile\fP [...]"
Attach a gangbangin' file ta yo' message rockin MIME.
When attachin single or multiple files, separatin filenames n' recipient addresses with
"\-\-" is mandatory, e.g. \fBmutt \-a image.jpg \-\- addr1\fP or
\fBmutt \-a img.jpg *.png \-\- addr1 addr2\fP.
Da \-a option must be placed all up in tha end of command line options.
.IP "-b \fIaddress\fP"
Specify a funky-ass blind-carbon-copy (BCC) recipient
.IP "-c \fIaddress\fP"
Specify a cold-ass lil carbon-copy (CC) recipient
.IP "-d \fIlevel\fP"
If mutt was complied wit +DEBUG log debuggin output ta ~/.muttdebug0.
\fILevel\fP can range from 1-5 n' effects verbositizzle fo' realz. A value of 2 is
recommended.
.IP "-D"
Print tha value of all configuration options ta stdout.
.IP "-e \fIcommand\fP"
Specify a cold-ass lil configuration command ta be run afta processin of initialization
files.
.IP "-f \fImailbox\fP"
Specify which mailbox ta load.
.IP "-F \fImuttrc\fP"
Specify a initialization file ta read instead of ~/.muttrc
.IP "-h"
Display help.
.IP "-H \fIdraft\fP"
Specify a thugged-out draft file which gotz nuff header n' body ta use ta bust a
message.
.IP "-i \fIinclude\fP"
Specify a gangbangin' file ta include tha fuck into tha body of a message.
.IP "-m \fItype\fP       "
specify a thugged-out default mailbox type fo' newly pimped folders.
.IP "-n"
Causes Mutt ta bypass tha system configuration file.
.IP "-p"
Resume a postponed message.
.IP "-Q \fIquery\fP"
Query a cold-ass lil configuration variablez value.  Da query is executed after
all configuration filez done been parsed, n' any commandz given on
the command line done been executed.
.IP "-R"
Open a mailbox up in \fIread-only\fP mode.
.IP "-s \fIsubject\fP"
Specify tha subject of tha message.
.IP "-v"
Display tha Mutt version number n' compile-time definitions.
.IP "-vv"
Display license n' copyright shiznit.
.IP "-x"
Emulate tha mailx compose mode.
.IP "-y"
Start Mutt wit a listin of all mailboxes specified by tha \fImailboxes\fP
command.
.IP "-z"
When used wit \-f, causes Mutt not ta start if there be no lyrics up in the
mailbox.
.IP "-Z"
Causes Mutt ta open tha straight-up original gangsta mailbox specified by tha \fImailboxes\fP
command which gotz nuff freshly smoked up mail.
.IP "--"
Treat remainin arguments as \fIaddr\fP even if they start wit a thugged-out dash.
See also "\-a" above.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.IP "EDITOR"
Specifies tha editor ta use if VISUAL is unset.
.IP "EMAIL"
Da userz e-mail address.
.IP "HOME"
Full path of tha userz home directory.
.IP "MAIL"
Full path of tha userz spool mailbox.
.IP "MAILDIR"
Full path of tha userz spool mailbox if MAIL is unset.  Commonly used when tha spool
mailbox be a
.B maildir (5)
folder.
.IP "MAILCAPS"
Path ta search fo' mailcap files.
.IP "MM_NOASK"
If dis variable is set, mailcap is always used without promptin first.
.IP "PGPPATH"
Directory up in which tha userz PGP hood keyrin can be found.
.IP "TMPDIR"
Directory up in which temporary filez is pimped.
.IP "REPLYTO"
Default Reply-To address.
.IP "VISUAL"
Specifies tha editor ta use when composin lyrics.
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP "~/.muttrc or ~/.mutt/muttrc"
User configuration file.
.IP "/etc/Muttrc"
System-wide configuration file.
.IP "/tmp/muttXXXXXX"
Temporary filez pimped by Mutt.
.IP "~/.mailcap"
User definizzle fo' handlin non-text MIME types.
.IP "/etc/mailcap"
System definizzle fo' handlin non-text MIME types.
.IP "~/.mime.types"
Userz underground mappin between MIME types n' file extensions.
.IP "/etc/mime.types"
System mappin between MIME types n' file extensions.
.IP "/usr/bin/mutt_dotlock"
Da privileged dotlockin program.
.IP "/usr/share/doc/mutt/manual.txt"
Da Mutt manual.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.  Mutts have fleas, not bugs.
.SH FLEAS
.PP
Suspend/resume while editin a gangbangin' file wit a external editor do not work
under SunOS 4.x if you use tha curses lib up in /usr/5lib.  It \fIdoes\fP work
with tha S-Lang library, however.
.PP
Resizin tha screen while rockin a external pager causes Mutt ta go haywire
on some systems.
.PP
Suspend/resume do not work under Ultrix.
.PP
Da help line fo' tha index menu aint updated if you chizzle tha bindings
for one of tha functions listed while Mutt is hustlin.
.PP
For a mo' up-to-date list of bugs, errm, fleas, please visit the
mutt projectz bug trackin system under http://bugs.mutt.org/.
.SH NO WARRANTIES
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR curses (3),
.BR mailcap (5),
.BR maildir (5),
.BR mbox (5),
.BR mutt_dotlock (1),
.BR muttrc (5),
.BR ncurses (3),
.BR sendmail (1),
.BR smail (1).
.PP
Mutt Home Page: http://www.mutt.org/
.PP
Da Mutt manual
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Mike Elkins, n' others.  Use <mutt-dev@mutt.org> ta contact
the pimpers.
