.\"
.\" Version 1.4 of namei
.\"
.TH NAMEI 1 "June 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
namei \- follow a pathname until a terminal point is found
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B namei
.RI [ options ]
.IR  pathname ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B namei
uses its arguments as pathnames ta any type
of Unix file (symlinks, files, directories, n' so forth).
.B namei
then bigs up each pathname until a endpoint
is found (a file, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, a thang node, etc).
If it findz a symbolic link, it shows tha link, n' starts
followin it, indentin tha output ta show tha context.
.PP
This program is useful fo' findin "too nuff levels of
symbolic links" problems.
.PP
For each line of output,
.B namei
uses tha followin charactas ta identify tha file type found:
.LP
.nf
   f: = tha pathname currently bein resolved
    d = directory
    l = symbolic link (both tha link n' its contents is output)
    s = socket
    b = block device
    c = characta device
    p = FIFO (named pipe)
    - = regular file
    , biatch? = a error of some kind
.fi
.PP
.B namei
prints a informatizzle message when
the maximum number of symbolic links dis system can have has been exceeded.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-long\fP"
Use tha long listin format (same as -m -o -v).
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-modes\fP"
Show tha mode bitz of each file type up in tha steez of ls(1),
for example 'rwxr-xr-x'.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-ballers\fP"
Show balla n' crew name of each file.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-nosymlinks\fP"
Don't follow symlinks.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-vertical\fP"
Vertically align tha modes n' ballers.
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-mountpoints\fP"
Show mountpoint directories wit a 'D' rather than a 'd'.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Da original
.B namei
program was freestyled by Roger Southwick <rogers@amadeus.wr.tek.com>.

Da program was re-written by Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>.
.SH BUGS
To be discovered.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ls (1),
.BR stat (1)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da namei command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
