.\" Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007,
.\" 2008, 2009 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass may distribute and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of either of tha followin licenses:
.\"
.\" * Da GNU General Public License, as published by tha Jacked Software
.\"   Foundation, version 3 or (at yo' option) any lata version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  You
.\"   should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"   along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * Da GNU Jacked Documentation License, as published by tha Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at yo' option) any later
.\"   version, wit no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, n' no
.\"   Back-Cover Texts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Free
.\"   Documentation License along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" $Id: nano.1 4549 2013-01-01 03:24:39Z astyanax $
.TH NANO 1 "version 2.2.0" "November 30, 2009"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME
nano \- Nanoz ANOther editor, a enhanced free Pico clone

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nano
.I [OPTIONS]\ [[\+LINE,COLUMN]\ FILE]...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents tha \fBnano\fP command.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invoke bold grill n' italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBnano\fP be a small, free n' thugged-out editor which aims ta replace
Pico, tha default editor included up in tha non-free Pine package.  Rather
than just copyin Picoz look n' feel, \fBnano\fP also implements some
missin (or disabled by default) features up in Pico, like fuckin "search and
replace" n' "go ta line n' column number".

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \+\fILINE\fP,\fICOLUMN\fP
Places cursor at line number \fILINE\fP n' column number \fICOLUMN\fP
(at least one of which must be specified) on startup, instead of the
default of line 1, column 1.
.TP
.B \-?
Same as \fB-h (\-\-help)\fP.
.TP
.B \-A (\-\-smarthome)
Make tha Home key smarter n' shit.  When Home is pressed anywhere but at the
very beginnin of non-whitespace charactas on a line, tha cursor will
jump ta dat beginnin (either forwardz or backwards).  If tha cursor is
already at dat position, it will jump ta tha legit beginnin of the
line.
.TP
.B \-B (\-\-backup)
When savin a gangbangin' file, back up tha previous version of it ta tha current
filename suffixed wit a ~.  
.TP
.B \-C \fIdir\fP (\-\-backupdir=\fIdir\fP)
Set tha directory where \fBnano\fP puts unique backup filez if file
backups is enabled.
.TP
.B \-D (\-\-boldtext)
Use bold text instead of reverse vizzle text.
.TP
.B \-E (\-\-tabstospaces)
Convert typed tabs ta spaces.
.TP
.B \-F (\-\-multibuffer)
Enable multiple file buffers, if available.
.TP
.B \-G (\-\-locking)
Enable vim-style file lockin when editin files.
.TP
.B \-H (\-\-historylog)
Log search n' replace strings ta \fI~/.nano_history\fP, so they can be
retrieved up in lata sessions, if \fInanorc\fP support be available.
.TP
.B \-I (\-\-ignorercfiles)
Don't peep \fISYSCONFDIR/nanorc\fP or \fI~/.nanorc\fP, if
\fInanorc\fP support be available.
.TP
.B \-K (\-\-rebindkeypad)
Interpret tha numeric keypad keys so dat they all work properly.  You
should only need ta use dis option if they don't, as mouse support
won't work properly wit dis option enabled.
.TP
.B \-L (\-\-nonewlines)
Don't add newlines ta tha endz of files.
.TP
.B \-N (\-\-noconvert)
Disable automatic conversion of filez from DOS/Mac format.
.TP
.B \-O (\-\-morespace)
Use tha blank line below tha titlebar as extra editin space.
.TP
.B \-P (\-\-poslog)
Log & read location of cursor position.
.TP
.B \-Q \fIstr\fP (\-\-quotestr=\fIstr\fP)
Set tha quotin strang fo' justifying.  Da default is
"\fI^([\ \\t]*[#:>\\|}])+\fP" if extended regular expression support is
available, or "\fI>\ \fP" otherwise.  Note dat \fI\\t\fP standz fo' a
Tab.
.TP
.B \-R (\-\-restricted)
Restricted mode: don't read or write ta any file not specified on the
command line; read any \fInanorc\fP files; allow suspending; allow a
file ta be appended to, prepended to, or saved under a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different name if
it already has one; or use backup filez or spell checking.  Also
accessible by invokin \fBnano\fP wit any name beginnin wit 'r' (e.g.
"rnano").
.TP
.B \-S (\-\-smooth)
Enable smooth scrolling.  Text will scroll line-by-line, instead of the
usual chunk-by-chunk behavior.
.TP
.B \-T \fIcols\fP (\-\-tabsize=\fIcols\fP)
Set tha size (width) of a tab ta \fIcols\fP columns.  Da value of
\fIcols\fP must be pimped outa than 0.  Da default value is 8.
.TP
.B \-U (\-\-quickblank)
Do quick statusbar blanking.  Statusbar lyrics will disappear afta 1
keystroke instead of 25.  Note dat \fB-c\fP overrides all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B \-V (\-\-version)
Show tha current version number n' exit.
.TP
.B \-W (\-\-wordbounds)
Detect word boundaries mo' accurately by treatin punctuation
charactas as part of a word.
.TP
.B \-Y \fIstr\fP (\-\-syntax=\fIstr\fP)
Specify a specific syntax highlightin from tha \fInanorc\fP ta use, if
available.
.TP
.B \-c (\-\-const)
Constantly show tha cursor position. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note dat dis overrides \fB-U\fP.
.TP
.B \-d (\-\-rebinddelete)
Interpret tha Delete key differently so dat both Backspace n' Delete
work properly.  Yo ass should only need ta use dis option if Backspace
acts like Delete on yo' system.
.TP
.B \-h (\-\-help)
Show a summary of command line options n' exit.
.TP
.B \-i (\-\-autoindent)
Indent freshly smoked up lines ta tha previous linez indentation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful when
editin source code.
.TP
.B \-k (\-\-cut)
Enable cut from cursor ta end of line.
.TP
.B \-l (\-\-nofollow)
If tha file bein edited be a symbolic link, replace tha link with
a freshly smoked up file instead of followin dat shit.  Dope fo' editin filez in
\fI/tmp\fP, like?
.TP
.B \-m (\-\-mouse)
Enable mouse support, if available fo' yo' system.  When enabled, mouse
clicks can be used ta place tha cursor, set tha mark (with a thugged-out double
click), n' execute shortcuts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da mouse will work up in tha X Window
System, n' on tha console when gpm is hustlin.
.TP
.B \-o \fIdir\fP (\-\-operatingdir=\fIdir\fP)
Set operatin directory.  Makes \fBnano\fP set up suttin' similar ta a
chroot.
.TP
.B \-p (\-\-preserve)
Preserve tha XON n' XOFF sequences (^Q n' ^S) so they is ghon be caught
by tha terminal.
.TP
.B \-q (\-\-quiet)
Do not report errors up in tha \fInanorc\fP file n' ask dem ta be
acknowledged by pressin Enta at startup.
.TP
.B \-r \fIcols\fP (\-\-fill=\fIcols\fP)
Wrap lines at column \fIcols\fP.  If dis value is 0 or less, wrapping
will occur all up in tha width of tha screen less \fIcols\fP columns, allowing
the wrap point ta vary along wit tha width of tha screen if tha screen
is resized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default value is \-8.
.TP
.B \-s \fIprog\fP (\-\-speller=\fIprog\fP)
Enable alternatizzle spell checker command.
.TP
.B \-t (\-\-tempfile)
Always save chizzled buffer without prompting.  Same as Picoz \fB-t\fP
option.
.TP
.B \-u (\-\-undo)
Enable experimenstrual generic-purpose undo code.  By default, tha undo n' redo
shortcuts is Meta-U n' Meta-E, respectively.
.TP
.B \-v (\-\-view)
View file (read only) mode.
.TP
.B \-w (\-\-nowrap)
Disable wrappin of long lines.
.TP
.B \-x (\-\-nohelp)
Disable help screen at bottom of editor.
.TP
.B \-z (\-\-suspend)
Enable suspend ability.
.TP
.B \-$ (\-\-softwrap)
Enable 'soft wrapping'.  \fBnano\fP will attempt ta display tha entire
contentz of a line, even if it is longer than tha screen width.  Since
\&'$' normally refers ta a variable up in tha Unix shell, you should specify
this option last when rockin other options (e.g. 'nano \-wS$') or pass it
separately (e.g. 'nano \-wS \-$').
.TP
.B \-a, \-b, \-e, \-f, \-g, \-j
Ignored, fo' compatibilitizzle wit Pico.

.SH INITIALIZATION FILE
\fBnano\fP will read initialization filez up in tha followin order:
\fISYSCONFDIR/nanorc\fP, then \fI~/.nanorc\fP.  Please see
\fBnanorc(5)\fP n' tha example file \fBnanorc.sample\fP, both of which
should be provided wit \fBnano\fP.

.SH NOTES
If no alternatizzle spell checker command is specified on tha command
line or up in one of tha \fInanorc\fP files, \fBnano\fP will check the
\fBSPELL\fP environment variable fo' one.

In some cases \fBnano\fP will try ta dump tha buffer tha fuck into a emergency
file.  This will happen mainly if \fBnano\fP receives a SIGHUP or
SIGTERM or runs outta memory.  It will write tha buffer tha fuck into a gangbangin' file
named \fInano.save\fP if tha buffer didn't gotz a name already, or will
add a ".save" suffix ta tha current filename.  If a emergency file with
that name already exists up in tha current directory, it will add ".save"
plus a number (e.g. ".save.1") ta tha current filename up in order ta make
it unique.  In multibuffer mode, \fBnano\fP will write all tha open
buffers ta they respectizzle emergency files.

.SH BUGS
Please bust any comments or bug reports ta \fBnano@nano-editor.org\fP.

Da \fBnano\fP mailin list be available from \fBnano-devel@gnu.org\fP.

To subscribe, email ta \fBnano-devel-request@gnu.org\fP wit a subject
of "subscribe".

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://www.nano-editor.org/

.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP
\fBnanorc\fP(5)
.PP
\fI/usr/share/doc/nano/\fP (or equivalent on yo' system)

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Allegretta <chrisa@asty.org>, et al (see \fIAUTHORS\fP and
\fITHANKS\fP fo' details).  This manual page was originally freestyled by
Jordi Mallach <jordi@gnu.org>, fo' tha Debian system (but may be used by
others).
