." Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH native2ascii 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
native2ascii \- Native\-to\-ASCII Converter
.LP
.LP
Converts a gangbangin' file wit charactas up in any supported characta encodin ta one wit ASCII and/or Unicode escapes, or visa versa.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f4native2ascii\fP\f2 [options] [inputfile [outputfile]]\fP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f2native2ascii\fP converts filez dat is encoded ta any characta encodin dat is supported by tha Java runtime environment ta filez encoded up in ASCII, rockin Unicode escapes ("\\uxxxx" notation) fo' all charactas dat is not part of tha ASCII characta set. This process is required fo' propertizzles filez containin charactas not up in ISO\-8859\-1 characta sets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da tool can also big-ass up tha reverse conversion.
.LP
.LP
If \f2outputfile\fP is omitted, standard output is used fo' output. If, up in addition, \f2inputfile\fP is omitted, standard input is used fo' input.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-reverse 
Perform tha reverse operation: Convert a gangbangin' file encoded up in ISO\-8859\-1 wit Unicode escapes ta a gangbangin' file up in any characta encodin supported by tha Java runtime environment.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-encodin encoding_name 
Specifies tha name of tha characta encodin ta be used by tha conversion procedure. If dis option aint present, tha default characta encodin (as determined by tha \f2java.nio.charset.Charset.defaultCharset\fP method) is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \f2encoding_name\fP strang must be tha name of a cold-ass lil characta encodin dat is supported by tha Java runtime environment \- peep tha 
.na
\f4Supported Encodings\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/intl/encoding.doc.html document.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP ta tha Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of tha options busted lyrics bout on tha reference page fo' tha java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets tha startup memory ta 48 megabytes. 
.RE

.LP
 
