.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH nautilus-connect-server 1 "05 Jan 2008"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
nautilus-connect-server \- To Access a remote server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nautilus-connect-server
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ URI ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B nautilus-connect-server
command.
.PP
Nautilus Connect Server is tha connection manager fo' tha GNOME desktop.
.PP
Yo ass can use tha file manager ta access a remote server, be it a FTP crib,
a Windows share, a WebDav server or a SSH server.
.SH OPTIONS
Nautilus bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long options starting
with two dashes (`-') fo' realz. A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show a summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version.
.TP
Other standard GNOME options not listed here is also supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
Nautilus Connect Server documentation can be found from tha "Help" menu, or by pressin the
F1 key. Nautilus also has a joint at http://www.gnome.org/projects/nautilus/
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Julian Andres Klode <jak@jak-linux.org> fo' the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others), based on a manpage by
Fernando Ribeiro <fernando@staff.nerdgroup.org>.
