.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH Nautilus 1 "24 May 2004"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
nautilus \- tha GNOME File Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nautilus
.RI [ options ] " URIs" ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B nautilus
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This manual page was freestyled fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because tha original gangsta program aint gots a manual page.
.PP
Nautilus is tha file manager fo' tha GNOME desktop.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
Nautilus bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long options starting
with two dashes (`-') fo' realz. A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-g
.TP
.B \-\-geometry=\fIGEOMETRY\fR
Smoke tha initial window wit tha given geometry.
.TP
.B \-n
.TP
.B \-\-no-default-window
Only create windows fo' explicitly specified URIs.
.TP
.B \-\-no-desktop
Do not manage tha desktop \(em ignore tha preference set up in tha preferences
dialog.
.TP
.B \-q
.TP
.B \-\-quit
Quit Nautilus.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show a summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show Nautilus' version.
.TP
Other standard GNOME options not listed here is also supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
Nautilus documentation can be found from tha "Help" menu, or by pressin the
F1 key. Nautilus also has a joint at
http://www.gnome.org/projects/nautilus/
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Takuo KITAME <kitame@debian.org> n' Dafydd
Harries <daf@muse.19inch.net> fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used
by others).
