.TH ncftpput 1 "NcFTP Software" ncftpput
.SH NAME
ncftpput - Internizzle file transfer program fo' scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpput
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-host" "remote-directory" "local-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpput
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "bookmark-name" "remote-directory" "local-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpput
-f
.I "login.cfg"
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-directory" "local-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpput
-c
.I "remote-host" "remote-path-name"
<
.I "stdin"
.PP
.B ncftpput
-C
.I "remote-host" "local-path-name" "remote-path-name"
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.BI "-u " "XX"
Use username
.I XX
instead of anonymous.
.TP 8
.BI "-p " "XX"
Use password
.I XX
with tha username.
.TP 8
.BI "-P " "XX"
Use port number
.I XX
instead of tha default FTP steez port (21).
.TP 8
.BI "-j " "XX"
Use account
.I XX
in supplement ta tha username n' password (deprecated).
.TP 8
.BI "-d " "XX"
Use tha file
.I XX
for debug logging.
.TP 8
.B -a
Use ASCII transfer type instead of binary.
.TP 8
.B -m
Attempt ta make tha remote destination directory
before copying.
.TP 8
.BI "-t " "XX"
Timeout after
.I XX
seconds.
.TP 8
.BI "-U " "XX"
Use value
.I XX
for tha umask.
.TP 8
.BR "-v" "/" "-V"
Do (do not) use progress meters.
Da default is ta use progress metas if tha output stream be a TTY.
.TP 8
.BI "-f " "XX"
Read tha file
.I XX
for host, user, n' password shiznit.
.TP 8
.B -c
Read locally from standard input n' write remotely ta specified pathname.
.TP 8
.B -C
Similar to
.BR "-c" ","
except a local pathname is specified.
.TP 8
.B -A
Append ta remote files, instead of overwritin em.
.TP 8
.BI "-T " "XX"
Upload tha fuck into temporary filez prefixed by
.IR "XX" "."
.TP 8
.BI "-S " "XX"
Upload tha fuck into temporary filez suffixed by
.IR "XX" "."
.TP 8
.B -R
Recursive mode; copy whole directory trees.
.TP 8
.BI "-r " "XX"
Redial a maximum of 
.I XX
times until connected ta tha remote FTP server.
.TP 8
.BR "-z" "/" "-Z"
Do (do not) try ta resume transfers.
Da default is to
.I not
try ta resume (\-Z).
.TP 8
.B -E
Use regular (PORT) data connections.
.TP 8
.B -F
Use passive (PASV) data connections.
Da default is ta use passive yo, but ta fallback to
regular if tha passive connection fails or times out.
.TP 8
.B -DD
Delete local file afta successfully uploadin dat shit.
.TP 8
.B -y
Try rockin "SITE UTIME" ta preserve timestamps on remote host.
Not nuff remote FTP servers support this, so it may not work.
.TP 8
.B -b
Run up in background (by submittin a funky-ass batch thang n' then spawning
.IR ncftpbatch ")."
.TP 8
.B -bb
Similar to
.B -b
option yo, but only submits tha batch thang.
Yo ass will need ta run
.I ncftpbatch
for tha batch thang ta be processed.
This is useful if you already have a
.I ncftpbatch
process hustlin, or wish ta have betta control of when batch
jobs is processed.
.IP
For example,
if you wanted ta do background processin of three
filez all on tha same remote server, it is mo' polite
to use just one
.I ncftpbatch
process ta process tha three thangs sequentially, rather than
havin three 
.I ncftpbatch
processes open three simultaneous FTP sessions ta tha same
server.
.TP 8
.BI "-B " "XX"
Try settin tha TCP/IP socket buffer size to
.I XX
bytes.
.TP 8
.BI "-W " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta loggin in.
.TP 8
.BI "-X " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta each file transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-Y " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
before loggin out.
.IP
The
.BR "-W" ", " "-X" ", n' " "-Y"
options is useful fo' advanced playas whoz ass need ta tweak
behavior on some servers.
For example, playas accessin mainframes might need ta send
some special SITE commandz ta set blocksize n' record format shiznit.
.IP
For these options, you can use dem multiple times each if you need
to bust multiple commands.
For the
.B "-X"
option, you can use tha cookie
.B %s
to expand tha fuck into tha name of tha file dat was transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-o " "XX"
Set advanced option
.IR "XX" "."
.IP
This option is used primarily fo' debugging.
It sets tha value of a internal variable ta a integer value.
An example usage would be:
.BI "-o " "useFEAT=0,useCLNT=1"
which up in dis case, disablez use of the
FEAT command n' enablez tha CLNT command.
Da available variablez include:
usePASV,
useSIZE,
useMDTM,
useREST,
useNLST_a,
useNLST_d,
useFEAT,
useMLSD,
useMLST,
useCLNT,
useHELP_SITE,
useSITE_UTIME,
STATfileParamWorks,
NLSTfileParamWorks,
require20,
allowProxyForPORT,
doNotGetStartCWD.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
The
purpose of
.I ncftpput
is ta do file transfers from tha command-line
without enterin a interactizzle shell.
This lets you write shell scripts or other unattended
processes dat can do FTP.
It be also useful fo' advanced playas who
wanna bust filez from tha shell command line without
enterin a interactizzle FTP program such as
.IR ncftp "."
.PP
By default tha program tries ta open tha remote host
and login anonymously yo, but you can specify a username
and password shiznit.
The
.B -u
option is used ta specify tha username ta login as,
and the
.B -p
option is used ta specify tha password.
If yo ass is hustlin tha program from tha shell, you may
omit the
.B -p
option n' tha program will prompt you fo' tha password.
.PP
Usin tha 
.B -u
and
.B -p
options is not recommended, cuz yo' account shiznit
is exposed ta mah playas whoz ass can peep yo' shell script or your
process shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example, one of mah thugs rockin the
.I ps
program could peep yo' password while tha program runs.
.PP
Yo ass may use the
.B -f
option instead ta specify a gangbangin' file wit tha account shiznit.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis is still not secure cuz mah playas who
has read access ta tha shiznit file can peep the
account shiznit.
Nevertheless, if you chizzle ta use the
.B -f
option tha file should look suttin' like this:
.RS
.sp
host sphygmomanometer.ncftp.com
.br
user gleason
.br
pass mypassword
.br
.sp
.RE
Don't forget ta chizzle tha permissions on dis file
so no one else can read em.
.PP
The
.B -d
option is straight-up useful when yo ass is tryin ta diagnose
why a gangbangin' file transfer is failing.
It prints up the
entire FTP conversation ta tha file you specify, so
you can git a scam of what tha fuck went wrong.  
If you specify tha special name
.I stdout
as tha name of tha debuggin output file, tha output
will instead print ta tha screen.
.PP
Usin ASCII mode is helpful when tha text format of yo' host
differs from dat of tha remote host.
For example, if yo ass is bustin  a text file from
a UNIX system ta a Windows-based host, you could use the
.B -a
flag which would use ASCII transfer mode so dat tha file
created on tha Windows machine would be up in its natizzle text
format instead of tha UNIX text format.
.PP
Yo ass can upload a entire directory tree of filez by
usin the
.B -R
flag.
Example:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpput -R pikachu.nintendo.co.jp /incomin /tmp/stuff
.br
.sp
.RE
This would create a /incoming/shiznit hierarchy on
the remote host.
.PP
The
.B -T
and
.B -S
options is useful when you wanna upload file
to tha remote host yo, but you don't wanna use
the destination pathname until tha file is
complete.
Usin these options, yo big-ass booty is ghon not destroy a
remote file by tha same name until yo' file
is finished.
These options is also useful when a remote
process on tha remote host polls a specific
filename, n' you don't want dat process to
see dat file until you know tha file is
finished sending.
Here be a example dat uploadz ta tha file
/pub/incoming/README, rockin tha filename
/pub/incoming/README.tmp as a temporary
filename:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpput -S \.tmp bowser\.nintendo\.co\.jp /pub/incomin /a/README
.RE
.PP
A neat way ta pipe tha output from any local command into
a remote file is ta use the
.B -c
option, which denotes dat you using
.I stdin
as input.
Da followin example shows how tha fuck ta cook up a funky-ass backup n' store
it on a remote machine:
.RS 4
.sp
$ tar cf - / | ncftpput -c sonic\.sega\.co\.jp /usr/local/backup.tar
.RE
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpput
returns tha followin exit joints:
.TP 8
0
Success.
.TP 8
1
Could not connect ta remote host.
.TP 8
2
Could not connect ta remote host - timed out.
.TP 8
3
Transfer failed.
.TP 8
4
Transfer failed - timed out.
.TP 8
5
Directory chizzle failed.
.TP 8
6
Directory chizzle failed - timed out.
.TP 8
7
Malformed URL.
.TP 8
8
Usage error.
.TP 8
9
Error up in login configuration file.
.TP 8
10
Library initialization failed.
.TP 8
11
Session initialization failed.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (http://www.ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftpget (1),
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ftp (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR tftp (1).
.PP
.IR "LibNcFTP" " (http://www.ncftp.com/libncftp/)."
