.TH ncftpls 1 "NcFTP Software" ncftpls
.SH NAME
ncftpls - Internizzle file transfer program fo' scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpls
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "ftp://url.style/host/path/name/"
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.B \-m
Use a machine readable list format, if tha server supports dat shit.  This requires dat tha server software support tha MLSD extensions, n' nuff implementations aint gots these features.
.TP 8
.B \-1
Most basic format, one item per line.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Long list format.
.TP 8
.B \-C
Columnized list format. This is tha default list format.
.TP 8
.B \-R
Recurse all subdirectories while listing.
.TP 8
.B \-a
Show all files, if server allows it (as up in "/bin/ls -a").
.TP 8
.BI "-i " "XX"
Filta tha listin (if server supports it) wit tha wildcard
.IR "XX" "."
.TP 8
.BI "-x -" "XX"
Set the
.I ls
flags ta use on tha server.
.TP 8
.BI "-u " "XX"
Use username
.I XX
instead of anonymous.
.TP 8
.BI "-p " "XX"
Use password
.I XX
with tha username.
.TP 8
.BI "-P " "XX"
Use port number
.I XX
instead of tha default FTP steez port (21).
.TP 8
.BI "-d " "XX"
Use tha file
.I XX
for debug logging.
.TP 8
.BI "-t " "XX"
Timeout after
.I XX
seconds.
.TP 8
.B -E
Use regular (PORT) data connections.
.TP 8
.B -F
Use passive (PASV) data connections.
Da default is ta use passive yo, but ta fallback to
regular if tha passive connection fails or times out.
.TP 8
.BI "-r " "XX"
Redial a maximum of 
.I XX
times until connected ta tha remote FTP server.
.TP 8
.BI "-W " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta loggin in.
.TP 8
.BI "-X " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta each file transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-Y " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
before loggin out.
.IP
The
.BR "-W" ", " "-X" ", n' " "-Y"
options is useful fo' advanced playas whoz ass need ta tweak
behavior on some servers.
For example, playas accessin mainframes might need ta send
some special SITE commandz ta set blocksize n' record format shiznit.
.IP
For these options, you can use dem multiple times each if you need
to bust multiple commands.
For the
.B "-X"
option, you can use tha cookie
.B %s
to expand tha fuck into tha name of tha file dat was transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-o " "XX"
Set advanced option
.IR "XX" "."
.IP
This option is used primarily fo' debugging.
It sets tha value of a internal variable ta a integer value.
An example usage would be:
.BI "-o " "useFEAT=0,useCLNT=1"
which up in dis case, disablez use of the
FEAT command n' enablez tha CLNT command.
Da available variablez include:
usePASV,
useSIZE,
useMDTM,
useREST,
useNLST_a,
useNLST_d,
useFEAT,
useMLSD,
useMLST,
useCLNT,
useHELP_SITE,
useSITE_UTIME,
STATfileParamWorks,
NLSTfileParamWorks,
require20,
allowProxyForPORT,
doNotGetStartCWD.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
The
purpose of
.I ncftpls
is ta do remote directory listings using
the File Transfer Protocol without enterin a interactizzle shell.
This lets you write shell scripts or other unattended
processes dat can do FTP.
.PP
Da default behavior is ta print tha directory listin up in columnized
format (i.e. ls\ \-CF) yo, but dat aint straight-up useful fo' scripting.
This example uses the
.B \-1
flag, ta print one file per line:
.RS 4
.br
.sp
$ ncftpls -1 ftp://ftp.ncftp.com/pub/ncftp/
.RE
.PP
Yo ass can also do a remote "ls\ \-l", by rockin "ncftpls\ \-l".
If you wanna try other flags, you gotta use dem wit the
.B \-x
flag.
For example, if you wanted ta do a remote "ls\ \-lrt", you could
do this:
.RS 4
.br
.sp
$ ncftpls -x "-lrt" ftp://ftp.ncftp.com/pub/ncftp/
.RE
.PP
By default tha program tries ta open tha remote host
and login anonymously yo, but you can specify a username
and password shiznit like you can with
.I ncftpget
or
.IR ncftpput "."
.PP
Note dat tha standard specifies dat URL pathnames is is relatizzle pathnames.
For FTP, dis means dat URLs specify relatizzle pathnames from tha start
directory, which fo' user logins, is typically tha userz home directory.
If you wanna use absolute pathnames, you need ta include a literal slash,
usin tha "%2F" code fo' a "/" character n' shit.  Examples:
.RS 4
.br
.sp
$ ncftpls -u linus ftp://ftp.kernel.org/%2Fusr/src/
.br
$ ncftpls ftp://steve@ftp.apple.com/%2Fetc/
.RE
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpls
returns tha followin exit joints:
.TP 8
0
Success.
.TP 8
1
Could not connect ta remote host.
.TP 8
2
Could not connect ta remote host - timed out.
.TP 8
3
Transfer failed.
.TP 8
4
Transfer failed - timed out.
.TP 8
5
Directory chizzle failed.
.TP 8
6
Directory chizzle failed - timed out.
.TP 8
7
Malformed URL.
.TP 8
8
Usage error.
.TP 8
9
Error up in login configuration file.
.TP 8
10
Library initialization failed.
.TP 8
11
Session initialization failed.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (http://www.ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftpput (1),
.IR ncftpget(1),
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ftp (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR tftp (1).
.PP
.IR "LibNcFTP" " (http://www.ncftp.com/libncftp/)."
