.TH ncftpbatch 1 "NcFTP Software" ncftpbatch
.SH NAME
ncftpbatch - Individual batch FTP thang processor
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-d
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-l
.PP
.B ncftpbatch
\-D
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.B "-d"
Begin background processin of FTP thangs up in tha current user's
$HOME/.ncftp/spool directory.
This returns immediately, cuz a thugged-out daemon process is spawned
and ran up in tha background.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Lists tha contentz of tha userz thang queue.
.TP 8
.B \-D
This is like
.BR \-d ","
except dat tha process do not become a thugged-out daemon.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
This program is responsible fo' processin background FTP requests.
It be normally only run by
.I ncftp
and not manually by a human being, however you can run it ta manually
process tha FTP thang queue.
.PP
Da thangs is spool filez freestyled ta a user's
$HOME/.ncftp/spool directory n' gotz a special format n' file-naming
convention (which gotz nuff when tha thang is ta be run).
.I ncftp
runs dis program when it needz ta yo, but if the
.I ncftpbatch
daemon takes a thugged-out dirt nap unexpectedly tha thangs dat is left up in tha queue will
not be processed until another instizzle of
.I ncftpbatch
is run.
.PP
.I ncftpget
and
.I ncftpput
can also be used ta submit thangs fo' batch processing, using
those utilities'
.B \-b
command-line flag.
If desired, you can also manually create tha spool files
although dis procedure aint documented here (see tha manual
page for
.I ncftpspooler
for mo' shiznit on how tha fuck ta do that).
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpbatch
writes ta its own log file, tha 
$HOME/.ncftp/spool/log file.
This file should be examined ta determine if any
.I ncftpbatch
processes is actively hustlin on thangs.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (http://www.ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ncftpput (1),
.IR ncftpget (1).
