.TH ncftpget 1 "NcFTP Software" ncftpget
.SH NAME
ncftpget - Internizzle file transfer program fo' scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B ncftpget
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-host" "local-directory" "remote-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpget
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "bookmark-name" "local-directory" "remote-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpget
\-f login.cfg
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "local-directory" "remote-files..."
.PP
.B ncftpget
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "ftp://url.style.host/path/name"
.PP
.B ncftpget
\-c
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-host" "remote-file"
> stdout
.PP
.B ncftpget
\-C
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "remote-host" "remote-file" "local-path-name"
.PP
.B ncftpget
\-c
.RI [ "options" ]
.I "ftp://url.style.host/path/name"
> stdout
.\"-------
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"-------
.SS
Command line flags:
.TP 8
.BI "-u " "XX"
Use username
.I XX
instead of anonymous.
.TP 8
.BI "-p " "XX"
Use password
.I XX
with tha username.
.TP 8
.BI "-P " "XX"
Use port number
.I XX
instead of tha default FTP steez port (21).
.TP 8
.BI "-j " "XX"
Use account
.I XX
in supplement ta tha username n' password (deprecated).
.TP 8
.BI "-d " "XX"
Use tha file
.I XX
for debug logging.
.TP 8
.B -a
Use ASCII transfer type instead of binary.
.TP 8
.BI "-t " "XX"
Timeout after
.I XX
seconds.
.TP 8
.BR "-v" "/" "-V"
Do (do not) use progress meters.
Da default is ta use progress metas if tha output stream be a TTY.
.TP 8
.BI "-f " "XX"
Read tha file
.I XX
for host, user, n' password shiznit.
.TP 8
.B -c
Read from remote host n' write locally ta standard out.
.TP 8
.B -C
Read from remote host n' write locally ta specified pathname.
.TP 8
.B -A
Append ta local files, instead of overwritin em.
.TP 8
.BR "-z" "/" "-Z"
Do (do not) try ta resume transfers.
Da default is ta try ta resume (\-z).
.TP 8
.B -E
Use regular (PORT) data connections.
.TP 8
.B -F
Use passive (PASV) data connections.
Da default is ta use passive yo, but ta fallback to
regular if tha passive connection fails or times out.
.TP 8
.B -DD
Delete remote file afta successfully downloadin dat shit.
.TP 8
.B -R
Recursive mode; copy whole directory trees.
.TP 8
.B -T
Do not use automatic on-the-fly TAR mode fo' downloadin whole directory trees.
.I ncftpget
uses TAR whenever possible since dis probably preserves symbolic links
and file permissions.
TAR mode can also result up in fasta transfers fo' directories containin many
small files, since a single data connection can be used rather than a FTP
data connection fo' each lil' small-ass file.
Da downside ta rockin TAR is dat it forces downloadin of tha whole directory,
even if you had previously downloaded a portion of it earlier, so you may
wanna use dis option if you wanna resume downloadin of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP 8
.BI "-r " "XX"
Redial a maximum of 
.I XX
times until connected ta tha remote FTP server.
.TP 8
.B -b
Run up in background (by submittin a funky-ass batch thang n' then spawning
.IR ncftpbatch ")."
.TP 8
.B -bb
Similar to
.B -b
option yo, but only submits tha batch thang.
Yo ass will need ta run
.I ncftpbatch
for tha batch thang ta be processed.
This is useful if you already have a
.I ncftpbatch
process hustlin, or wish ta have betta control of when batch
jobs is processed.
.IP
For example,
if you wanted ta do background processin of three
filez all on tha same remote server, it is mo' polite
to use just one
.I ncftpbatch
process ta process tha three thangs sequentially, rather than
havin three 
.I ncftpbatch
processes open three simultaneous FTP sessions ta tha same
server.
.TP 8
.BI "-B " "XX"
Try settin tha TCP/IP socket buffer size to
.I XX
bytes.
.TP 8
.BI "-W " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta loggin in.
.TP 8
.BI "-X " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
afta each file transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-Y " "XX"
Send raw FTP command
.I XX
before loggin out.
.IP
The
.BR "-W" ", " "-X" ", n' " "-Y"
options is useful fo' advanced playas whoz ass need ta tweak
behavior on some servers.
For example, playas accessin mainframes might need ta send
some special SITE commandz ta set blocksize n' record format shiznit.
.IP
For these options, you can use dem multiple times each if you need
to bust multiple commands.
For the
.B "-X"
option, you can use tha cookie
.B %s
to expand tha fuck into tha name of tha file dat was transferred.
.TP 8
.BI "-o " "XX"
Set advanced option
.IR "XX" "."
.IP
This option is used primarily fo' debugging.
It sets tha value of a internal variable ta a integer value.
An example usage would be:
.BI "-o " "useFEAT=0,useCLNT=1"
which up in dis case, disablez use of the
FEAT command n' enablez tha CLNT command.
Da available variablez include:
usePASV,
useSIZE,
useMDTM,
useREST,
useNLST_a,
useNLST_d,
useFEAT,
useMLSD,
useMLST,
useCLNT,
useHELP_SITE,
useSITE_UTIME,
STATfileParamWorks,
NLSTfileParamWorks,
require20,
allowProxyForPORT,
doNotGetStartCWD.
.\"-------
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"-------
.PP
The
purpose of
.I ncftpget
is ta do file transfers from tha command-line
without enterin a interactizzle shell.
This lets you write shell scripts or other unattended
processes dat can do FTP.
It be also useful fo' advanced playas who
wanna retrieve filez from tha shell command line without
enterin a interactizzle FTP program such as
.IR ncftp "."
.PP
One particularly useful feature of dis program is that
you can give it a
.I uniform resource locator
as tha only argument n' tha program will download
that file.
Yo ass can then copy n' paste from yo' wizzy browser
or newsreader n' use dat URL.
Example:
.RS 4
.sp
$ cd /tmp
.br
$ ncftpget ftp://ftp.ncftp.com/pub/ncftp/ncftp.tar.Z
.br
$ zcat ncftp.tar.Z | tar xf -
.br
.RE
.PP
By default tha program tries ta open tha remote host
and login anonymously yo, but you can specify a username
and password shiznit.
The
.B -u
option is used ta specify tha username ta login as,
and the
.B -p
option is used ta specify tha password.
If yo ass is hustlin tha program from tha shell, you may
omit the
.B -p
option n' tha program will prompt you fo' tha password.
.PP
Usin tha 
.B -u
and
.B -p
options is not recommended, cuz yo' account shiznit
is exposed ta mah playas whoz ass can peep yo' shell script or your
process shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example, one of mah thugs rockin the
.I ps
program could peep yo' password while tha program runs.
.PP
Yo ass may use the
.B -f
option instead ta specify a gangbangin' file wit tha account shiznit.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis is still not secure cuz mah playas who
has read access ta tha shiznit file can peep the
account shiznit.
Nevertheless, if you chizzle ta use the
.B -f
option tha file should look suttin' like this:
.RS 4
.sp
host sphygmomanometer.ncftp.com
.br
user gleason
.br
pass mypasswd
.br
.sp
.RE
Don't forget ta chizzle tha permissions on dis file
so no one else can read em.
.PP
The
.B -d
option is straight-up useful when yo ass is tryin ta diagnose
why a gangbangin' file transfer is failing.
It prints up the
entire FTP conversation ta tha file you specify, so
you can git a scam of what tha fuck went wrong.  
If you specify tha special name
.I stdout
as tha name of tha debuggin output file, tha output
will instead print ta tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Example:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpget -d stdout bowser.nintendo.co.jp . /pub/README
.br
220: FTP server ready.
.br
Connected ta bowser.nintendo.co.jp.
.br
Cmd: USER anonymous
.br
331: Guest login ok, bust yo' complete e-mail address as password.
.br
Cmd: PASS xxxxxxxx
.br
230: Welcome!
.br
Logged up in ta bowser.nintendo.co.jp as anonymous.
.br
Cmd: TYPE I
.br
200: Type set ta I.
.br
Cmd: PORT 192,168,9,37,6,76
.br
200: PORT command successful.
.br
Cmd: RETR /pub/README
.br
550: /pub/README: File up in use.
.br
Cmd: QUIT
.br
221: Peace out.
.br
.RE
.PP
Usin ASCII mode is helpful when tha text format of yo' host
differs from dat of tha remote host.
For example, if yo ass is retrievin a \.TXT file from
a Windows-based host ta a UNIX system, you could use the
.B -a
flag which would use ASCII transfer mode so dat tha file
created on tha UNIX system would be up in tha UNIX text
format instead of tha MS\-DOS text format.
.PP
Yo ass can retrieve a entire directory tree of filez by
usin the
.B -R
flag.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis will work only if tha remote FTP server
is a UNIX server, or emulates UNIXz list output.
Example:
.RS 4
.sp
$ ncftpget -R ftp.ncftp.com /tmp /pub/ncftp
.br
.sp
.RE
This would create a /tmp/ncftp hierarchy.
.\"-------
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.\"-------
.PP
.I ncftpget
returns tha followin exit joints:
.TP 8
0
Success.
.TP 8
1
Could not connect ta remote host.
.TP 8
2
Could not connect ta remote host - timed out.
.TP 8
3
Transfer failed.
.TP 8
4
Transfer failed - timed out.
.TP 8
5
Directory chizzle failed.
.TP 8
6
Directory chizzle failed - timed out.
.TP 8
7
Malformed URL.
.TP 8
8
Usage error.
.TP 8
9
Error up in login configuration file.
.TP 8
10
Library initialization failed.
.TP 8
11
Session initialization failed.
.\"-------
.SH "AUTHOR"
.\"-------
.PP
Mike Gleason, NcFTP Software (http://www.ncftp.com).
.\"-------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"-------
.PP
.IR ncftpput (1),
.IR ncftp (1),
.IR ftp (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR tftp (1).
.PP
.IR "LibNcFTP" " (http://www.ncftp.com/libncftp/)."
