.TH "ncmpcpp" "1"
.SH "NAME"
ncmpcpp \- An ncurses Music Player Daemon (MPD) client.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ncmpcpp
[options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
ncmpcpp be a ncurses client fo' MPD (Music Player Daemon), inspired by ncmpc.

Read mo' bout MPD at http://www.musicpd.org
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B \-h, \-\-host
Connect ta server at host [localhost]
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-port
Connect ta server at port [6600]
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config
Use alternatizzle configuration file
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-screen <name>
Specify tha startup screen (<name> may be: help, playlist, browser, search-engine, media-library, playlist-editor, tag-editor, outputs, visualizer, clock)
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Display help.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-\-now\-playing
Display now playin cold lil' woo wop [{{(%l) }{{%a - }%t}}|{%f}}]
.TP
.B play
Start playin n' exit.
.TP
.B pause
Pause n' exit.
.TP
.B toggle
Toggle playin n' exit.
.TP
.B stop
Quit playin n' exit.
.TP
.B next
Switch ta next cold lil' woo wop n' exit.
.TP
.B prev
Switch ta previous cold lil' woo wop n' exit.
.TP
.B volume [+-]<number>
Raise/lower volume by given number of cements n' exit.
.TP
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
When ncmpcpp starts, it tries ta read userz settings from tha ~/.ncmpcpp/config file. If no userz configuration is found, ncmpcpp uses its default configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An example configuration file containin all default joints is provided wit ncmpcpp n' can be found probably up in /usr/share/doc/ncmpcpp (exact location may depend on used distribution/OS/configure prefix).

Note: Each config option value must be enclosed up in quotation marks (var = "example"). If you wanna use quotation mark inside config option, prepend characta '\\' ta dat shit.

Note: COLOR has ta be tha name (not a number) of one of flavas 1-8 from SONG FORMAT section.

Supported configuration options:
.TP 
.B ncmpcpp_directory = PATH
Directory fo' storin ncmpcpp related files. Changin it is useful if you wanna store every last muthafuckin thang somewhere else n' provide command line settin fo' alternatizzle location ta config file which defines dat while launchin ncmpcpp.
.TP 
.B lyrics_directory = PATH
Directory fo' storin downloaded lyrics. Well shiiiit, it defaults ta ~/.lyrics since other MPD clients (eg. ncmpc) also use dat location.
.TP 
.B mpd_host = HOST
Connect ta MPD hustlin on specified host/unix socket. When HOST starts wit a '/', it be assumed ta be a unix socket.
.TP 
.B mpd_music_dir = PATH
Search fo' filez up in specified directory. This is needed fo' tag editor ta work.
.TP 
.B mpd_port = PORT
Connect ta MPD on tha specified port.
.TP 
.B mpd_connection_timeout = SECONDS
Set connection timeout ta MPD ta given value.
.TP 
.B mpd_crossfade_time = SECONDS
Default number of secondz ta crossfade, if enabled by ncmpcpp.
.TP
.B mpd_communication_mode = MODE
If set ta 'polling', ncmpcpp will constantly poll mpd fo' its status. If set ta 'notifications', ncmppcp will make use of 'idle' command n' wait fo' events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This is mo' efficient n' responsive yo, but may cause some shiznit wit <mpd-0.15, so if you run such version n' encounta strange bugs (e.g. current track time not bein updated), yo big-ass booty is ghon either gotta use 'polling' or upgrade yo' mpd.
.TP
.B visualizer_in_stereo = yes/no
Should be set ta 'yes', if fifo outputz format was set ta 44100:16:2.
.TP
.B visualizer_fifo_path = PATH
Path ta mpd fifo output. This is needed ta make noize visualizer work (note dat output sound format of dis fifo has ta be either 44100:16:1 or 44100:16:2, dependin on whether you want mono or stereo visualization)
.TP
.B visualizer_output_name = NAME
Name of output dat serves up data fo' visualizer n' shit. Needed ta keep sound n' visualization up in sync.
.TP
.B visualizer_sync_interval = SECONDS
Defines interval between syncin visualizer n' audio outputs.
.TP
.B visualizer_type = spectrum/wave
Defines default visualizer type (spectrum be available only if ncmpcpp was compiled wit fftw support).
.TP
.B visualizer_look = STRING
Defines visualizerz look (strin has ta be exactly 2 charactas long: first one is fo' wave whereas second fo' frequency spectrum).
.TP
.B system_encodin = ENCODING
If you use encodin other than utf8, set it up in order ta handle utf8 encoded strings properly.
.TP
.B seek_time = SECONDS
Base seek time ta begin with.
.TP 
.B playlist_disable_highlight_delay = SECONDS
Delay fo' highlightin playlist since tha last key was pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If set ta 0, highlightin never fades away.
.TP 
.B message_delay_time = SECONDS
Delay fo' displayed lyrics ta remain visible.
.TP
.B song_list_format
Format fo' joints' list.
.TP
.B song_columns_list_format
Format fo' joints' list displayed up in columns.
.TP
.B song_status_format
Songz format fo' statusbar.
.TP
.B song_library_format
Format fo' joints up in Media library.
.TP 
.B tag_editor_album_format
Format fo' mixtapes' list up in Tag editor.
.TP 
.B song_window_title_format
Song format fo' window title.
.TP 
.B external_editor = PATH
Path ta external editor used ta edit lyrics.
.TP
.B browser_playlist_prefix = TEXT
Prefix fo' playlists up in Browser.
.TP
.B default_tag_editor_pattern = TEXT
Default pattern used by Tag editorz parser.
.TP 
.B now_playing_prefix = TEXT
Prefix fo' currently playin song.
.TP 
.B now_playing_suffix = TEXT
Suffix fo' currently playin song.
.TP 
.B selected_item_prefix = TEXT
Prefix fo' selected items.
.TP 
.B selected_item_suffix = TEXT
Suffix fo' selected items.
.TP 
.B alternative_header_first_line_format = TEXT
Now playin cold lil' woo wop format fo' tha straight-up original gangsta line up in alternatizzle user intercourse header window.
.TP 
.B alternative_header_second_line_format = TEXT
Now playin cold lil' woo wop format fo' tha second line up in alternatizzle user intercourse header window.
.TP 
.B color1 = COLOR
One of flavas used up in Song info, Tiny tag editor n' Search engine.
.TP 
.B color2 = COLOR
One of flavas used up in Song info, Tiny tag editor n' Search engine.
.TP 
.B colors_enabled = yes/no
No need ta describe it, huh?
.TP 
.B header_text_scrollin = yes/no
If enabled, text up in header window will scroll if its length is longer then actual screen width, otherwise it won't.
.TP 
.B fancy_scrollin = yes/no
If enabled, content of other columns is ghon be updated immediately while scrolling, otherwise only afta you stop scrolling.
.TP 
.B cyclic_scrollin = yes/no
If enabled, cyclic scrollin is used (e.g. if you press down arrow bein all up in tha end of list, it'll take you ta tha beginning)
.TP 
.B mouse_list_scroll_whole_page = yes/no
If enabled, mouse wheel will scroll tha whole page of item list at a time, otherwise tha number of lines specified by lines_scrolled variable.
.TP 
.B lines_scrolled = NUMBER
Number of lines dat is scrolled wit mouse wheel.
.TP 
.B search_engine_default_search_mode = MODE_NUMBER
Number of default mode used up in search engine.
.TP 
.B playlist_show_remaining_time = yes/no
If enabled, time remainin ta end of playlist is ghon be shown afta playlistz statistics.
.TP 
.B playlist_shorten_total_times = yes/no
If enabled, total/remainin playlist time displayed up in statusbar is ghon be shown rockin shortened units' names (d:h:m:s instead of days:hours:minutes:seconds).
.TP 
.B playlist_separate_albums = yes/no
If enabled, separators is ghon be placed between mixtapes.
.TP 
.B playlist_display_mode = classic/columns
Default display mode fo' Playlist.
.TP 
.B browser_display_mode = classic/columns
Default display mode fo' Browser.
.TP 
.B search_engine_display_mode = classic/columns
Default display mode fo' Search engine.
.TP 
.B playlist_editor_display_mode = classic/columns
Default display mode fo' Playlist editor.
.TP 
.B discard_colors_if_item_is_selected = yes/no
Indicates whether custom flavaz of tags gotta be discarded if item is selected or not.
.TP 
.B header_visibilitizzle = yes/no
If enabled, header window is ghon be displayed, otherwise hidden.
.TP 
.B statusbar_visibilitizzle = yes/no
If enabled, statusbar is ghon be displayed, otherwise hidden.
.TP 
.B titles_visibilitizzle = yes/no
If enabled, column titlez is ghon be displayed, otherwise hidden.
.TP 
.B autocenter_mode = yes/no
Default state fo' autocenta mode at start.
.TP 
.B centered_cursor = yes/no
If enabled, currently highlighted posizzle up in tha list is ghon be always centered.
.TP 
.B progressbar_look = TEXT
This variable defines tha look of progressbar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Note dat it has ta be exactly two or three charactas long.
.TP 
.B default_find_mode = wrapped/normal
If set ta "wrapped", goin from last found posizzle ta next will take you ta tha straight-up original gangsta one (same goes fo' tha straight-up original gangsta posizzle n' goin ta previous one), otherwise no actions is ghon be performed.
.TP 
.B default_space_mode = select/add
If set ta "select", space will select shit instead of addin dem ta playlist (although selectin by space is default n' tha only one action fo' space up in Playlist).
.TP 
.B default_tag_editor_left_col = mixtapes/dirs
If set ta "albums", tag editor will display list of all mixtapes from database, otherwise it'll allow you ta browse tha database.
.TP 
.B incremental_seekin = yes/no
If enabled, seek time will increment by one each second of seeking.
.TP 
.B follow_now_playing_lyrics = yes/no
If enabled, lyrics is ghon be switched at songz chizzle ta currently playin onez (Note: dis works only if yo ass is viewin lyrics of item from Playlist).
.TP
.B fetch_lyrics_for_current_song_in_background = yes/no
If enabled, each time cold lil' woo wop chizzlez lyrics fetcher is ghon be automatically run up in background up in attempt ta downlizzle lyrics fo' currently playin song.
.TP
.B store_lyrics_in_song_dir = yes/no
If enabled, lyrics is ghon be saved up in songz directory, otherwise up in ~/.lyrics. Note dat it needz properly set mpd_music_dir.
.TP
.B lastfm_preferred_language = ISO 639 alpha-2 language code
If set, ncmpcpp will try ta git info from last.fm up in language you set n' if it fails, it will fall back ta english. Otherwise it will use english tha last time.
.TP
.B ncmpc_like_songs_addin = yes/no
If enabled, pressin space on item, which be already up in playlist will remove it, otherwise add it again.
.TP 
.B show_hidden_files_in_local_browser = yes/no
Trigger fo' displayin up in local browser filez n' directories dat begin wit '.'
.TP 
.B default_place_to_search_in = database/playlist
If set ta "playlist", Search engine will big-ass up searchin up in current MPD playlist rather than up in noize database.
.TP 
.B display_screens_numbers_on_start = yes/no
If enabled, screens' names n' they keybindings is ghon be shown up in header window until key is pressed, otherwise they won't be displayed at all.
.TP 
.B screen_switcher_mode = SWITCHER_MODE
If set ta "previous", key_screen_switcher will switch between current n' last used screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If set ta "sequence: user_defined_sequence", it will switch between given sequence of screens. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Syntax clarification can be found up in example config file.
.TP 
.B locked_screen_width_part = 20-80
If you wanna lock a screen, ncmpcpp asks fo' % of locked screenz width ta be reserved before dat n' serves up a thugged-out default value, which is tha one you can set here.
.TP 
.B ask_for_locked_screen_width_part = yes/no
If enabled, ncmpcpp will ask fo' % of locked screenz width each time you wanna lock a screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you disable that, it'll silently attempt ta use default value.
.TP 
.B startup_screen = SCREEN_NUMBER
Screen dat has ta be displayed at start (playlist by default).
.TP 
.B jump_to_now_playing_song_at_start = yes/no
If enabled, ncmpcpp will jump at start ta now playin cold lil' woo wop if mpd is playin or paused.
.TP 
.B ask_before_clearing_main_playlist = yes/no
If enabled, user is ghon be axed if he straight-up wants ta clear tha main playlist afta pressin key responsible fo' dis shit.
.TP 
.B clock_display_secondz = yes/no
If enabled, clock will display time up in format hh:mm:ss, otherwise hh:mm.
.TP 
.B display_volume_level = yes/no
If enabled, volume level is ghon be displayed up in statusbar, otherwise not.
.TP 
.B display_bitrate = yes/no
If enabled, bitrate of currently playin cold lil' woo wop is ghon be displayed up in statusbar.
.TP 
.B display_remaining_time = yes/no
If enabled, remainin time of currently playin cold lil' woo wop is ghon be be displayed up in statusbar instead of elapsed time.
.TP 
.B ignore_leading_the = yes/no
If enabled, word "the" all up in tha beginnin of tags/filenames is ghon be ignored while sortin items.
.TP 
.B use_console_editor = yes/no
If yo' external editor is console application, you need ta enable dat shit.
.TP 
.B block_search_constraints_change_if_items_found = yes/no
If enabled, fieldz up in Search engine above "Reset" button is ghon be blocked afta successful searching, otherwise they won't.
.TP 
.B mouse_support = yes/no
Self-descriptive, aint it?
.TP 
.B allow_physical_files_deletion = yes/no
If enabled, ncmpcpp is ghon be able ta delete filez rockin its browser screen.
.TP 
.B allow_physical_directories_deletion = yes/no
If enabled, ncmpcpp is ghon be able ta delete directories rockin its browser screen.
.TP 
.B tag_editor_extended_numeration  = yes/no
If enabled, tag editor will number tracks rockin format xx/yy (where xx is tha current track n' yy is total amount of all numbered tracks), not plain xx.
.TP
.B media_library_display_date  = yes/no
If enabled, datez of mixtapes up in media library is ghon be displayed n' bigged up in searching, otherwise not.
.TP
.B media_library_display_empty_tag  = yes/no
If enabled, left column will contain entry fo' 'empty' tag, otherwise not.
.TP
.B media_library_disable_two_column_mode  = yes/no
If enabled, pressin tha key fo' tha media library twice won't switch it ta two column mode.
.TP
.B enable_window_title = yes/no
If enabled, ncmpcpp will override current window title wit its own one.
.TP
.B regular_expressions = basic/extended
Type of currently used regular expressions.
.TP 
.B user_interface = classic/alternative
Default user intercourse used by ncmpcpp at start.
.TP 
.B media_library_left_column = a/y/g/c/p
Default tag type fo' left column up in media library. Legend fo' possible lettas is up in  SONG FORMAT section.
.TP 
.B empty_tag_marker = TEXT
Text dat is ghon be displayed, if axed tag aint set.
.TP 
.B empty_tag_color = COLOR
Color of empty tag marker.
.TP 
.B header_window_color = COLOR
Color of header window.
.TP 
.B volume_color = COLOR
Color of volume state.
.TP 
.B state_line_color = COLOR
Color of lines separatin header n' statusbar from main window.
.TP 
.B state_flags_color = COLOR
Color of MPD status flags.
.TP 
.B main_window_color = COLOR
Color of main window.
.TP 
.B main_window_highlight_color = COLOR
Color of main windowz highlight.
.TP 
.B progressbar_color = COLOR
Color of progressbar.
.TP 
.B statusbar_color = COLOR
Color of statusbar.
.TP 
.B alternative_ui_separator_color = COLOR
Color of separators used up in alternatizzle user intercourse.
.TP 
.B active_column_color = COLOR
Color of actizzle columnz highlight.
.TP 
.B visualizer_color = COLOR
Color of visualization.
.TP 
.B active_window_border = COLOR
Color of actizzle windowz border.
.TP 
.SH "KEYS"
When ncmpcpp starts, it tries ta read userz keybindings from ~/.ncmpcpp/keys file. If no userz keybindings is found, ncmpcpp uses its default keybindings fo' realz. An example keybindings file containin all default joints is provided wit ncmpcpp n' can be found probably up in /usr/share/doc/ncmpcpp (exact location may depend on used distribution/OS/configure prefix).

Yo ass can view current ncmpcppz keybindings by pressin '1' (Help).
.SH "SONG FORMAT"

For cold lil' woo wop format you can use:

 %l - length
 %f - filename
 %D - directory
 %a - artist
 %A - mixtape artist
 %t - title
 %b - mixtape
 %y - year
 %n - track number (01/12 -> 01)
 %N - full track info (01/12 -> 01/12)
 %g - genre
 %c - composer
 %p - muthafucka
 %d - disc
 %C - comment
 $R - begin right alignment

Yo ass can also put dem up in { } n' then they is ghon be displayed only if all axed joints is available and/or define alternate value wit { }|{ } e.g. {%a - %t}|{%f} will check if artist n' title tags is available n' if they are, display em. Otherwise it'll display filename.

\fBNote\fR: If you wanna set limit on maximal length of a tag, just put tha appropriate number between % n' characta dat defines tag type, e.g. ta make mixtape take max. 20 terminal cells, use '%20b'.

\fBNote\fR: Format dat is similar ta "%a - %t" (i.e. without any additionizzle braces) is equal ta "{%a - %t}", so if one of tha tags is missing, you gonna git nothing.

Text can have different color than tha main window, e.g. if you want length ta be green, write $3%l$9.

Available joints fo' colors:

 - 0 - default window color (discardz all other colors)
 - 1 - black
 - 2 - red
 - 3 - green
 - 4 - yellow
 - 5 - blue
 - 6 - magenta
 - 7 - cyan
 - 8 - white
 - 9 - end of current color

\fBNote\fR: flavas can be nested, so if you write $2some$5text$9, it'll disable only usage of blue color n' make red tha current one.

.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs on http://www.musicpd.org/mantis/
.SH "NOTE"
Since MPD uses UTF\-8, ncmpcpp need ta convert charactas ta tha charset used by tha local system. If you git characta conversion errors while yo ass is hustlin ncmpcpp, you probably need ta set up yo' locale. This is done by settin LANG n' LC_ALL/LC_CTYPE environment variablez (LC_CTYPE only affects characta handling).
.SH "HOMEPAGE"
-> http://unkart.ovh.org/ncmpcpp

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mpc(1), mpd(1)
