.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                        *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: MKncu_config.in,v 1.3 2010/03/06 22:29:17 tom Exp $
.TH ncursesw5-config 1 ""
.SH NAME
ncursesw5-config \- helper script fo' ncurses libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncursesw5-config 
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script which simplifies configurin applications against
a particular set of ncurses libraries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-prefix\fR
echos tha package\-prefix of ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-exec\-prefix\fR
echos tha executable\-prefix of ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-cflags\fR
echos tha C compila flags needed ta compile wit ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-libs\fR
echos tha libraries needed ta link wit ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
echos tha release+patchdate version of ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-abi\-version\fR
echos tha ABI version of ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-mouse\-version\fR
echos tha mouse\-interface version of ncurses
.TP
\fB\-\-bindir\fR
echos tha directory containin ncurses programs
.TP
\fB\-\-datadir\fR
echos tha directory containin ncurses data
.TP
\fB\-\-includedir\fR
echos tha directory containin ncurses header files
.TP
\fB\-\-libdir\fR
echos tha directory containin ncurses libraries
.TP
\fB\-\-mandir\fR
echos tha directory containin ncurses manpages
.TP
\fB\-\-terminfo\fR
echos tha $TERMINFO terminfo database path, e.g.,
.RS
/usr/share/terminfo
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-terminfo\-dirs\fR
echos tha $TERMINFO_DIRS directory list, e.g.,
.RS
/etc/terminfo:/usr/share/terminfo
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-termpath\fR
echos tha $TERMPATH termcap list, if support fo' termcap is configured.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
prints dis message
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcurses\fR(3X)
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
