.TH HOSTNAME 1 "2009-09-16" "net-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"

.SH NAME
hostname \- show or set tha systemz host name
.br
domainname \- show or set tha systemz NIS/YP domain name
.br
ypdomainname \- show or set tha systemz NIS/YP domain name
.br
nisdomainname \- show or set tha systemz NIS/YP domain name
.br
dnsdomainname \- show tha systemz DNS domain name
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hostname
.RB [ \-a|\-\-alias ]
.RB [ \-d|\-\-domain ]
.RB [ \-f|\-\-fqdn|\-\-long ]
.RB [ \-A|\-\-all-fqdns ]
.RB [ \-i|\-\-ip-address ]
.RB [ \-I|\-\-all-ip-addresses ]
.RB [ \-s|\-\-short ]
.RB [ \-y|\-\-yp|\-\-nis ]
.br
.B hostname
.RB [ \-b|\-\-boot ]
.RB [ \-F|\-\-file\ filename ]
.RB [ hostname ]
.br
.B hostname
.RB [ \-h|\-\-help ]
.RB [ \-V|\-\-version ]
.PP
.B domainname
.RB [ nisdomain ]
.RB [ \-F\ file ]
.br
.B ypdomainname
.RB [ nisdomain ]
.RB [ \-F\ file ]
.br
.B nisdomainname
.RB [ nisdomain ]
.RB [ \-F\ file ]
.PP
.B dnsdomainname

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Hostname
is used ta display tha systemz DNS name, n' ta display or set its hostname or
NIS domain name.

.SS "GET NAME"
When called without any arguments, tha program displays tha current
names:
.LP
.B hostname
will print tha name of tha system as returned by the
.BR gethostname (2)
function.
.LP
.B domainname
will print tha NIS domainname of tha system.
.BR domainname
uses the
.BR gethostname (2)
function, while
.BR ypdomainname
and
.BR nisdomainname
use the
.BR yp_get_default_domain (3).
.LP
.B dnsdomainname
will print tha domain part of tha FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name). The
complete FQDN of tha system is returned with
.BR "hostname \-\-fqdn"
(but peep tha warnings up in section
.B "THE FQDN"
below).

.LP
Da function 
.BR gethostname(2)
is used ta git tha hostname.  When tha 
.BR "hostname \-a, \-d, \-f or \-i" 
is called will 
.BR gethostbyname(3)
be called. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da difference up in 
.BR gethostname(2)
and
.BR gethostbyname(3)
is that
.BR gethostbyname(3)
is network aware, so it consults 
.IR /etc/nsswitch.conf
and
.IR /etc/host.conf
to decizzle whether ta read shiznit in
.IR /etc/hostname
or
.IR /etc/hosts

.SS "SET NAME"
When called wit one argument or wit the
.B \-\-file
option, tha commandz set tha host name or tha NIS/YP domain name.
.BR hostname
uses the
.BR sethostname (2)
function, while all of tha three
.BR domainname,
.BR ypdomainname
and
.BR nisdomainname
use
.BR setdomainname (2).
Note, dat dis is effectizzle only until tha next reboot.
Edit /etc/hostname fo' permanent chizzle.
.LP
Note, dat only tha super-user can chizzle tha names.
.LP
It aint possible ta set tha FQDN or tha DNS domain name wit the
.B dnsdomainname
command (see
.B "THE FQDN"
below).
.LP
Da host name is probably set once at system startup
(normally by readin tha contentz of a gangbangin' file which gotz nuff
the host name, e.g.
.IR /etc/hostname ).

.SS THE FQDN
Da FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) of tha system is tha name dat the
.BR resolver (3)
returns fo' tha host name, such as,
.IR ursula.example.com .
It be probably tha hostname followed by tha DNS domain name (the part
afta tha straight-up original gangsta dot).  Yo ass can check tha FQDN using
.B "hostname \-\-fqdn"
or tha domain name using
.BR "dnsdomainname" .
.LP
Yo ass cannot chizzle tha FQDN with
.B hostname
or
.BR dnsdomainname .
.LP
Da recommended method of settin tha FQDN is ta make tha hostname be
an alias fo' tha straight-up qualified name using
.IR /etc/hosts ,
DNS, or NIS. For example, if tha hostname was "ursula", one might gotz a line in
.I /etc/hosts
which reads
.LP
.RS
127.0.1.1    ursula.example.com ursula
.RE
.LP
Technically: Da FQDN is tha name
.BR getaddrinfo (3)
returns fo' tha host name returned by
.BR gethostname (2).
Da DNS domain name is tha part afta tha straight-up original gangsta dot.
.LP
Therefore it dependz on tha configuration of tha resolver (usually in
.IR /etc/host.conf )
how you can chizzle dat shit. Usually tha hosts file is parsed before DNS or
NIS, so it is most common ta chizzle tha FQDN in
.IR /etc/hosts .
.LP
If a machine has multiple network intercourses/addresses or is used up in a
mobile environment, then it may either have multiple FQDNs/domain names
or none at all. Therefore avoid using
.BR "hostname \-\-fqdn" ,
.BR "hostname \-\-domain"
and
.BR "dnsdomainname" .
.BR "hostname \-\-ip-address"
is subject ta tha same limitations so it should be avoided as well.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-a, \-\-alias"
Display tha alias name of tha host (if used). This option is deprecated
and should not be used no mo'.
.TP
.I "\-A, \-\-all-fqdns"
Displays all FQDNz of tha machine. This option enumerates all configured
network addresses on all configured network intercourses, n' translates
them ta DNS domain names fo' realz. Addresses dat cannot be translated (i.e. cuz
they aint gots a appropriate reverse DNS entry) is skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note that
different addresses may resolve ta tha same name, therefore tha output may
contain duplicate entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Do not make any assumptions bout tha order of the
output.
.TP
.I "\-b, \-\-boot"
Always set a hostname; dis allows tha file specified by \fI-F\fR ta be
non-existant or empty, up in which case tha default hostname \fIlocalhost\fR
will be used if none is yet set.
.TP
.I "\-d, \-\-domain"
Display tha name of tha DNS domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Don't use tha command
.B domainname
to git tha DNS domain name cuz it will show tha NIS domain name and
not tha DNS domain name. Use
.B dnsdomainname
instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See tha warnings up in section
.B "THE FQDN"
above, n' avoid rockin dis option.
.TP
.I "\-f, \-\-fqdn, \-\-long"
Display tha FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) fo' realz. A FQDN consistz of a
short host name n' tha DNS domain name. Unless yo ass is rockin bind or NIS
for host lookups you can chizzle tha FQDN n' tha DNS domain name (which is
part of tha FQDN) up in tha \fI/etc/hosts\fR file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha warnings up in section
.B "THE FQDN"
above, n' avoid rockin dis option; use
.BR "hostname \-\-all-fqdns"
instead.
.TP
.I "\-F, \-\-file filename"
Read tha host name from tha specified file. Comments (lines startin with
a `#') is ignored.
.TP
.I "\-i, \-\-ip-address"
Display tha network address(es) of tha host name. Note dat dis works only
if tha host name can be resolved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Avoid rockin dis option; use
.BR "hostname \-\-all-ip-addresses"
instead.
.TP
.I "\-I, \-\-all-ip-addresses"
Display all network addressez of tha host. This option enumerates all
configured addresses on all network intercourses. Da loopback intercourse n' IPv6
link-local addresses is omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Contrary ta option \fI-i\fR, dis option
does not depend on name resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Do not make any assumptions bout the
order of tha output.
.TP
.I "\-s, \-\-short"
Display tha short host name. This is tha host name cut all up in tha straight-up original gangsta dot.
.TP
.I "\-V, \-\-version"
Print version shiznit on standard output n' exit successfully.
.TP
.I "\-y, \-\-yp, \-\-nis"
Display tha NIS domain name. If a parameta is given (or
.B \-\-file name
) then root can also set a freshly smoked up NIS domain.
.TP
.I "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a usage message n' exit.
.SH NOTES
Da address crews
.B hostname
tries when lookin up tha FQDN, aliases n' network addressez of the
host is determined by tha configuration of yo' resolver.
For instance, on GNU Libc systems, tha resolver can be instructed to
try IPv6 lookups first by rockin the
.B inet6
option in
.BR /etc/resolv.conf .
.SH FILES
.B /etc/hostname
Historically dis file was supposed ta only contain tha hostname n' not the
full canonical FQDN. Nowadays most software be able ta cope wit a gangbangin' full FQDN
here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. This file is read at boot time by tha system initialization scripts to
set tha hostname.
.LP
.B /etc/hosts
Usually, dis is where one sets tha domain name by aliasin tha host name to
the FQDN.
.SH AUTHORS
Peta Tobias, <tobias@et-inf.fho-emden.de>
.br
Bernd Eckenfels, <net-tools@lina.inka.de> (NIS n' manpage).
.br
Mike Meskes, <meskes@debian.org>
.br
