.\" nm-connection-editor (1) manual page
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public Licence along
.\" wit dis manual; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.TH NM-CONNECTION-EDITOR "1" "15 February 2013"

.SH NAME
nm\-connection\-editor \- network connection editor fo' NetworkManager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm\-connection\-editor
.RI " [ " OPTIONS " ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nm\-connection\-editor
is a GTK\(hybased application ta add, remove, n' modify network connections
stored by NetworkManager n' shit.  NetworkManager must be hustlin fo' any network
connections ta be added, removed, or modified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-type=<type>
Type of connection ta create or show.  Values is NetworkManager
settin names, eg "802\-3\-ethernet", "802\-11\-wireless", "bridge", "bond",
"wimax", "infiniband", "vlan", etc.  Do not a god damn thang if \-\-create or \-\-show
is not given.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-show
Expand or collapse tha network list ta highlight tha network connection type
given by \-\-type.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-create
Smoke a freshly smoked up connection of tha type given by \-\-type n' allow tha user to
modify connection details.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-edit=<uuid>
Show tha network connection edit window fo' tha connection of tha given UUID.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmcli(1),
.BR NetworkManager(8),
.BR nm\-applet(1).
