.TH NOTMUCH-REPLY 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-reply \- constructs a reply template fo' a set of lyrics

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch reply
.RI "[" options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Constructs a reply template fo' a set of lyrics.

To make replyin ta email easier,
.B notmuch reply
takes a existin set of lyrics n' constructs a suitable mail
template. Da Reply-to: header (if any, otherwise From:) is used for
the To: address. Unless
.BR \-\-reply-to=sender
is specified, joints from tha To: n' Cc: headaz is copied yo, but not
includin any of tha current userz email addresses (as configured in
primary_mail or other_email up in tha .notmuch\-config file) up in the
recipient list.

It also buildz a suitable freshly smoked up subject, includin Re: all up in tha front (if
not already present), n' addin tha message IDz of tha lyrics being
replied ta ta tha References list n' settin tha In\-Reply\-To: field
correctly.

Finally, tha original gangsta contentz of tha emails is quoted by prefixing
each line wit '> ' n' included up in tha body.

Da resultin message template is output ta stdout.

Supported options for
.B reply
include
.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format= ( default | json | sexp | headers\-only )
.RS
.TP 4
.BR default
Includes subject n' quoted message body.
.TP
.BR json
Produces JSON output containin headaz fo' a reply message n' the
contentz of tha original gangsta message. This output can be used by a cold-ass lil client
to create a reply message intelligently.
.TP
.BR sexp
Produces S-Expression output containin headaz fo' a reply message and
the contentz of tha original gangsta message. This output can be used by a cold-ass lil client
to create a reply message intelligently.
.TP
.BR headers\-only
Only produces In\-Reply\-To, References, To, Cc, n' Bcc headers.
.RE
.RE

.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format-version=N

Use tha specified structured output format version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is intended
for programs dat invoke \fBnotmuch\fR(1) internally.  If omitted, the
latest supported version is ghon be used.
.RE

.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-reply\-to= ( all | sender )
.RS
.TP 4
.BR all " (default)"
Replies ta all addresses.
.TP 4
.BR sender
Replies only ta tha sender n' shit. If replyin ta userz own message
(Reply-to: or From: header is one of tha userz configured email
addresses), try To:, Cc:, n' Bcc: headaz up in dis order, n' copy
values from tha straight-up original gangsta dat gotz nuff suttin' other than only the
userz addresses.
.RE
.RE
.RS
.TP 4
.B \-\-decrypt

Decrypt any MIME encrypted parts found up in tha selected content
(ie. "multipart/encrypted" parts). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Statuz of tha decryption will be
reported (currently only supported wit --format=json and
--format=sexp) n' on successful decryption tha multipart/encrypted
part is ghon be replaced by tha decrypted content.

Decryption expects a gangbangin' functionin \fBgpg-agent\fR(1) ta provide any
needed credentials. Without one, tha decryption will fail.
.RE

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for detailz of tha supported syntax fo' <search-terms>.

Note: It be most common ta use
.B "notmuch reply"
with a search strang matchin a single message, (such as
id:<message-id>) yo, but it can be useful ta reply ta nuff muthafuckin lyrics at
once. For example, when a seriez of patches is busted up in a single
thread, replyin ta tha entire thread allows fo' tha reply ta comment
on thangs found up in multiple patches. Da default format supports
replyin ta multiple lyrics at once yo, but tha JSON n' S-Expression
formats do not.
.RE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS

This command supports tha followin special exit status codes

.TP
.B 20
Da axed format version is too old.
.TP
.B 21
Da axed format version is too new.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
