.TH NOTMUCH-CONFIG 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-config \- access notmuch configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch config get
.RI  "<" section ">.<" item ">"

.B notmuch config set
.RI  "<" section ">.<" item "> [" value " ...]"

.B notmuch config list

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B config
command can be used ta git or set settings up in tha notmuch
configuration file.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B get
Da value of tha specified configuration item is printed ta stdout. If
the item has multiple joints (it be a list), each value is separated
by a newline character.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B set
Da specified configuration item is set ta tha given value. To specify
a multiple-value item (a list), provide each value as a separate
command-line argument.

If no joints is provided, tha specified configuration item will be
removed from tha configuration file.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B list
Every configuration item is printed ta stdout, each on a separate line
of tha form:

.RI  "" section "." item "=" value

No additionizzle whitespace surroundz tha dot or equals sign characters. In a
multiple-value item (a list), tha joints is separated by semicolon characters.
.RE

Da available configuration shit is busted lyrics bout below.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B database.path
Da top-level directory where yo' mail currently exists n' ta where
mail is ghon be served up in tha future. Filez should be individual email
lyrics. Notmuch will store its database within a sub-directory of
the path configured here named
.BR ".notmuch".
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.name
Yo crazy-ass full name.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.primary_email
Yo crazy-ass primary email address.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.other_email
A list of other email addresses at which you receive email.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B new.tags
A list of tags dat is ghon be added ta all lyrics incorporated by
.BR "notmuch new".
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B new.ignore
A list of file n' directory names, without path, dat aint gonna be
searched fo' lyrics by
.BR "notmuch new".
All tha filez n' directories matchin any of tha names specified here
will be ignored, regardless of tha location up in tha mail store
directory hierarchy.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B search.exclude_tags
A list of tags dat is ghon be excluded from search thangs up in dis biatch by
default. Usin a excluded tag up in a query will override that
exclusion.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B maildir.synchronize_flags
If true, then tha followin maildir flags (in message filenames) will
be synchronized wit tha correspondin notmuch tags:

  Flag    Tag
  ----    -------
  D       draft
  F       flagged
  P       passed
  R       replied
  S       unread (added when 'S' flag aint present)

The
.B notmuch new
command will notice flag chizzlez up in filenames n' update tags, while
the
.B notmuch tag
and
.B notmuch restore
commandz will notice tag chizzlez n' update flags up in filenames.

If there done been any chizzlez up in tha maildir (new lyrics added, old
ones removed or renamed, maildir flags chizzled, etc.), it be advisable
to run
.B notmuch new
before
.B notmuch tag
or
.B notmuch restore
commandz ta ensure tha tag chizzlez is properly synchronized ta the
maildir flags, as tha commandz expect tha database n' maildir ta be
in sync.
.RE

.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variablez can be used ta control the
behavior of notmuch.
.TP
.B NOTMUCH_CONFIG
Specifies tha location of tha notmuch configuration file. Notmuch will
use ${HOME}/.notmuch\-config if dis variable aint set.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
