.\" notmuch - Not much of a email program, (just index, search n' tagging)
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2009 Carl Worth
.\"
.\" Notmuch is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation, either version 3 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Notmuch is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program.  If not, peep http://www.gnu.org/licenses/ .
.\"
.\" Author: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
.TH NOTMUCH 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch \- thread-based email index, search, n' tagging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notmuch
.RI "[" option " ...] " command  " [" arg " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Notmuch be a cold-ass lil command-line based program fo' indexing, searching,
reading, n' taggin big-ass collectionz of email lyrics.

This page raps bout how tha fuck ta git started rockin notmuch from tha command
line, n' gives a funky-ass brief overview of tha commandz available. For more
information on e.g.
.B notmuch show
consult tha \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1) playa page, also accessible via
.B notmuch help show

Da quickest way ta git started wit Notmuch is ta simply invoke the
.B notmuch
command wit no arguments, which will interactively guide you through
the process of indexin yo' mail.
.SH NOTE
While tha command-line program
.B notmuch
provides bangin functionality, it do not provide da most thugged-out
convenient intercourse fo' dat functionality. Mo' sophisticated
interfaces is sposed ta fuckin be built on top of either tha command-line
interface, or mo' likely, on top of tha notmuch library
interface. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See http://notmuchmail.org fo' mo' bout alternate
interfaces ta notmuch. Da emacs-based intercourse ta notmuch (available under
.B emacs/
in tha Notmuch source distribution) is probably da most thugged-out widely used at
this time.

.SH OPTIONS

Supported global options for
.B notmuch
include

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-help

Print a synopsiz of available commandz n' exit.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-version

Print tha installed version of notmuch, n' exit.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-config=FILE

Specify tha configuration file ta use. This overrides any
configuration file specified by ${NOTMUCH_CONFIG}.

.RE

.SH COMMANDS


.SS SETUP

The
.B notmuch setup
command is used ta configure Notmuch fo' first use, (or ta reconfigure
it later).

Da setup command will prompt fo' yo' full name, yo' primary email
address, any alternate email addresses you use, n' tha directory
containin yo' email archives. Yo crazy-ass lyrics is ghon be freestyled ta a
configuration file up in ${NOTMUCH_CONFIG} (if set) or
${HOME}/.notmuch-config . This configuration file is ghon be pimped with
descriptizzle comments, makin it easy as fuck  ta edit by hand lata ta chizzle the
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Or you can run
.B "notmuch setup"
again ta chizzle tha configuration.

Da mail directory you specify can contain any number of
sub-directories n' should primarily contain only filez wit individual
email lyrics (eg. maildir or mh archives is perfect). If there are
other, non-email filez (like fuckin indexes maintained by other email
programs) then notmuch will do its dopest ta detect dem n' ignore
them.

Mail storage dat uses mbox format, (where one mbox file gotz nuff many
lyrics), aint gonna work wit notmuch. If thatz how tha fuck yo' mail is
currently stored, it is recommended you first convert it ta maildir
format wit a utilitizzle like fuckin mb2md before hustlin
.B "notmuch setup" .

Invoking
.B notmuch
with no command argument will run
.B setup
if tha setup command has not previously been completed.
.RE

.SS OTHER COMMANDS

Several of tha notmuch commandz accept search terms wit a cold-ass lil common
syntax. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fNnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for mo' details on tha supported syntax.

The
.BR search ", " show " n' " count
commandz is used ta query tha email database.

The
.B reply
command is useful fo' preparin a template fo' a email reply.

The
.B tag
command is tha only command available fo' manipulatin database
contents.


The
.BR dump " n' " restore
commandz can be used ta create a textual dump of email tags fo' backup
purposes, n' ta restore from dat dump.

The
.B config
command can be used ta git or set settings int tha notmuch
configuration file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variablez can be used ta control the
behavior of notmuch.
.TP
.B NOTMUCH_CONFIG
Specifies tha location of tha notmuch configuration file. Notmuch will
use ${HOME}/.notmuch\-config if dis variable aint set.

.TP
.B NOTMUCH_TALLOC_REPORT
Location ta write a talloc memory usage report. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B talloc_enable_leak_report_full
in \fBtalloc\fR(3)
for mo' shiznit.

.TP
.B NOTMUCH_DEBUG_QUERY
If set ta a non-empty value, tha notmuch library will print (to stderr) Xapian
queries it constructs.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7),
\fBnotmuch-show\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)


Da notmuch joint:
.B http://notmuchmail.org
.SH CONTACT
Feel free ta bust thangs, comments, or kudos ta tha notmuch mailing
list <notmuch@notmuchmail.org> . Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subscription aint required before
postin yo, but be available from tha notmuchmail.org joint.

Real-time interaction wit tha Notmuch hood be available via IRC
(server: irc.freenode.net, channel: #notmuch).
