.TH NOTMUCH-SHOW 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-show \- show lyrics matchin tha given search terms
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch show
.RI "[" options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Shows all lyrics matchin tha search terms.

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for detailz of tha supported syntax fo' <search-terms>.

Da lyrics is ghon be grouped n' sorted based on tha threadin (all
replies ta a particular message will step tha fuck up immediately afta that
message up in date order). Da output aint indented by default yo, but
depth tags is printed so dat proper indentation can be performed by
a post-processor (like fuckin tha emacs intercourse ta notmuch).

Supported options for
.B show
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-entire\-thread=(true|false)

If true,
.B notmuch show
outputs all lyrics up in tha thread of any message matchin tha search
terms; if false, it outputs only tha matchin lyrics. For
.B --format=json
and
.B --format=sexp
this defaults ta true.  For other formats, dis defaults ta false.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-format=(text|json|sexp|mbox|raw)

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR text " (default fo' lyrics)"

Da default plain-text format has all text-content MIME parts
decoded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Various components up in tha output,
.RB ( message ", " header ", " body ", " attachment ", n' MIME " part ),
will be delimited by easily-parsed markers. Each marker consistz of a
Control-L characta (ASCII decimal 12), tha name of tha marker, and
then either a openin or closin brace, ('{' or '}'), ta either open
or close tha component. For a multipart MIME message, these parts will
be nested.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B json

Da output is formatted wit Javascript Object Notation (JSON). This
format is mo' robust than tha text format fo' automated
processing. Da nested structure of multipart MIME lyrics is
reflected up in nested JSON output. By default JSON output includes all
lyrics up in a matchin thread; dat is, by default,

.B \-\-format=json
sets
.B "\-\-entire\-thread"
Da calla can disable dis behaviour by setting
.B \-\-entire\-thread=false
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B sexp

Da output is formatted as a S-Expression (sexp). This
format is mo' robust than tha text format fo' automated
processing. Da nested structure of multipart MIME lyrics is
reflected up in nested S-Expression output. By default,
S-Expression output includes all lyrics up in a matchin thread;
that is, by default,

.B \-\-format=sexp
sets
.B "\-\-entire\-thread"
Da calla can disable dis behaviour by setting
.B \-\-entire\-thread=false

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B mbox

All matchin lyrics is output up in tha traditional, Unix mbox format
with each message bein prefixed by a line beginnin wit "From " and
a blank line separatin each message. Lines up in tha message content
beginnin wit "From " (preceded by zero or mo' '>' characters) have
an additionizzle '>' characta added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This reversible escaping
is termed "mboxrd" format n' busted lyrics bout up in detail here:

.nf
.nh
http://homepage.ntlworld.com/jonathan.deboynepollard/FGA/mail-mbox-formats.html
.hy
.fi
.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR raw " (default fo' a single part, peep \-\-part)"

For a message or a attached message part, tha original, raw content
of tha email message is output. Consumerz of dis format should expect
to implement MIME decodin n' similar functions.

For a single part (\-\-part) tha raw part content is output after
performin any necessary MIME decoding.  Note dat lyrics wit a
simple body still have two parts: part 0 is tha whole message n' part
1 is tha body.

For a multipart part, tha part headaz n' body (includin all child
parts) is output.

Da raw format must only be used wit search terms matchin single
message.
.RE
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format-version=N

Use tha specified structured output format version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is intended
for programs dat invoke \fBnotmuch\fR(1) internally.  If omitted, the
latest supported version is ghon be used.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-part=N

Output tha single decoded MIME part N of a single message.  Da search
terms must match only a single message.  Message parts is numbered in
a depth-first strutt of tha message MIME structure, n' is identified
in tha 'json', 'sexp' or 'text' output formats.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-verify

Compute n' report tha validitizzle of any MIME cryptographic signatures
found up in tha selected content (ie. "multipart/signed" parts). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Status
of tha signature is ghon be reported (currently only supported with
--format=json n' --format=sexp), n' tha multipart/signed part
will be replaced by tha signed data.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-decrypt

Decrypt any MIME encrypted parts found up in tha selected content
(ie. "multipart/encrypted" parts). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Statuz of tha decryption will be
reported (currently only supported wit --format=json and
--format=sexp) n' on successful decryption tha multipart/encrypted
part is ghon be replaced by tha decrypted content.

Decryption expects a gangbangin' functionin \fBgpg-agent\fR(1) ta provide any
needed credentials. Without one, tha decryption will fail.

Implies --verify.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-exclude=(true|false)

Specify whether ta omit threadz only matchin search.tag_exclude from
the search thangs up in dis biatch (the default) or not. In either case tha excluded
message is ghon be marked wit tha exclude flag (except when output=mbox
when there is nowhere ta put tha flag).

If --entire-thread is specified then complete threadz is returned
regardless (with tha excluded flag bein set when appropriate) but
threadz dat only match up in a excluded message is not returned when
.B --exclude=true.

Da default is
.B --exclude=true.

.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-body=(true|false)

If legit (the default)
.B notmuch show
includes tha bodiez of tha lyrics up in tha output; if false,
bodies is omitted.
.B --body=false
is only implemented fo' tha json n' sexp formats n' it is incompatible with
.B --part > 0.

This is useful if tha calla only needz tha headaz as body-less
output is much fasta n' substantially smaller.
.RE

A common use of
.B notmuch show
is ta display a single thread of email lyrics. For this, use a
search term of "thread:<thread-id>" as can be peeped up in tha first
column of output from the
.B notmuch search
command.

.SH EXIT STATUS

This command supports tha followin special exit status codes

.TP
.B 20
Da axed format version is too old.
.TP
.B 21
Da axed format version is too new.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
