.TH NOTMUCH-DUMP 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-dump \- creates a plain-text dump of tha tagz of each message

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "notmuch dump"
.RB  [ "\-\-format=(sup|batch-tag)"  "] [--]"
.RI "[ --output=<" filename "> ] [--]"
.RI "[ <" search-term ">...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

Dump tags fo' lyrics matchin tha given search terms.

Output is ta tha given filename, if any, or ta stdout.

These tags is tha only data up in tha notmuch database dat can't be
recreated from tha lyrics theyselves.  Da output of notmuch dump is
therefore tha only critical thang ta backup (and much mo' thugged-out to
incremenstrual backup than tha natizzle database files.)

.TP 4
.B \-\-format=(sup|batch-tag)

Notmuch restore supports two plain text dump formats, both wit one message-id
per line, followed by a list of tags.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B sup

The
.B sup
dump file format is specifically chosen ta be
compatible wit tha format of filez produced by sup-dump.
So if you've previously been rockin sup fo' mail, then the
.B "notmuch restore"
command serves up you a way ta import all of yo' tags (or labels as
sup calls them).
Each line has tha followin form

.RS 4
.RI < message-id >
.B (
.RI < tag "> ..."
.B )

with zero or mo' tags is separated by spaces. Note dat (malformed)
message-idz may contain arbitrary non-null characters. Note also
that tags wit spaces aint gonna be erectly restored wit dis format.

.RE

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B batch-tag

The
.B batch-tag
dump format is intended ta mo' robust against malformed message-ids
and tags containin whitespace or non-\fBascii\fR(7) characters.
Each line has tha form

.RS 4
.RI "+<" "encoded-tag" "> " "" "+<" "encoded-tag" "> ... -- " "" " id:<" quoted-message-id >

Tags is hex-encoded by replacin every last muthafuckin byte not matchin tha regex
.B [A-Za-z0-9@=.,_+-]
with
.B %nn
where nn is tha two digit hex encoding.  Da message ID be a valid Xapian
query, quoted rockin Xapian boolean term quotin rules: if tha ID gotz nuff
whitespace or a cold-ass lil close paren or starts wit a thugged-out double quote, it must be
enclosed up in double quotes n' double quotes inside tha ID must be doubled.
Da astute reader will notice dis be a special case of tha batch input
format fo' \fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1); note dat tha single message-id query is
mandatory fo' \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1).

.RE


With no search terms, a thugged-out dump of all lyrics up in tha database will be
generated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  A "--" argument instructs notmuch dat the
remainin arguments is search terms.

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for detailz of tha supported syntax fo' <search-terms>.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
