.TH NOTMUCH-COUNT 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-count \- count lyrics matchin tha given search terms
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch count
.RI  [ options "... ] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Count lyrics matchin tha search terms.

Da number of matchin lyrics (or threads) is output ta stdout.

With no search terms, a cold-ass lil count of all lyrics (or threads) up in tha database will
be displayed.

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for detailz of tha supported syntax fo' <search-terms>.

Supported options for
.B count
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-output=(lyrics|threads)

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B lyrics

Output tha number of matchin lyrics. This is tha default.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B threads

Output tha number of matchin threads.
.RE
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-exclude=(true|false)

Specify whether ta omit lyrics matchin search.tag_exclude from the
count (the default) or not.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-batch

Read queries from a gangbangin' file (stdin by default), one per line, n' output
the number of matchin lyrics (or threads) ta stdout, one per
line. On a empty input line tha count of all lyrics (or threads) in
the database is ghon be output. This option aint compatible with
specifyin search terms on tha command line.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR "\-\-input=" <filename>

Read input from given file, instead of from stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Implies
.BR --batch .
.RE

.RE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
