.TH NOTMUCH-NEW 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-new \- incorporate freshly smoked up mail tha fuck into tha notmuch database
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch new
.RB "[" --no-hooks "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

Find n' import any freshly smoked up lyrics ta tha database.

The
.B new
command scans all sub-directoriez of tha database, struttin
full-text indexin on freshly smoked up lyrics dat is found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Each freshly smoked up message
will automatically be tagged wit both the
.BR inbox " n' " unread
tags.

Yo ass should run
.B "notmuch new"
once afta first hustlin
.B "notmuch setup"
to create tha initial database. Da first run may take a long-ass time if
you gotz a thugged-out dope amount of mail (several hundred thousand
lyrics or more). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subsequently, you should run
.B "notmuch new"
whenever freshly smoked up mail is served up n' you wish ta incorporate it tha fuck into the
database. These subsequent runs is ghon be much quicker than tha initial
run.

Invoking
.B notmuch
with no command argument will run
.B new
if
.B "notmuch setup"
has previously been completed yo, but
.B "notmuch new"
has not previously been run.

.B "notmuch new"
updates tags accordin ta maildir flag chizzlez if the
.B "maildir.synchronize_flags"
configuration option is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1) for
details.

The
.B new
command supports hooks. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See  \fBnotmuch-hooks(5)\fR
for mo' details on hooks.

Supported options for
.B new
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-no\-hooks

Prevents hooks from bein run.
.RE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
