.TH NOTMUCH-SEARCH 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-search \- search fo' lyrics matchin tha given search terms
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch search
.RI  [  options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Search fo' lyrics matchin tha given search terms, n' display as
results tha threadz containin tha matched lyrics.

Da output consistz of one line per thread, givin a thread ID, the
date of tha newest (or oldest, dependin on tha sort option) matched
message up in tha thread, tha number of matched lyrics n' total
lyrics up in tha thread, tha namez of all participants up in tha thread,
and tha subject of tha newest (or oldest) message.

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for detailz of tha supported syntax fo' <search-terms>.

Supported options for
.B search
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format= ( json | sexp | text | text0 )

Presents tha thangs up in dis biatch up in either JSON, S-Expressions, newline character
separated plain-text (default), or null characta separated plain-text
(compatible wit \fBxargs\fR(1) -0 option where available).
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format-version=N

Use tha specified structured output format version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is intended
for programs dat invoke \fBnotmuch\fR(1) internally.  If omitted, the
latest supported version is ghon be used.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-output=(summary|threads|lyrics|files|tags)

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B summary

Output a summary of each thread wit any message matchin tha search
terms. Da summary includes tha thread ID, date, tha number of
lyrics up in tha thread (both tha number matched n' tha total number),
the authorz of tha thread n' tha subject.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B threads

Output tha thread IDz of all threadz wit any message matchin the
search terms, either one per line (\-\-format=text), separated by null
charactas (\-\-format=text0), as a JSON array (\-\-format=json), or
an S-Expression list (\-\-format=sexp).
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B lyrics

Output tha message IDz of all lyrics matchin tha search terms,
either one per line (\-\-format=text), separated by null characters
(\-\-format=text0), as a JSON array (\-\-format=json), or as an
S-Expression list (\-\-format=sexp).
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B files

Output tha filenamez of all lyrics matchin tha search terms, either
one per line (\-\-format=text), separated by null characters
(\-\-format=text0), as a JSON array (\-\-format=json), or as an
S-Expression list (\-\-format=sexp).
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B tags

Output all tags dat step tha fuck up on any message matchin tha search terms,
either one per line (\-\-format=text), separated by null characters
(\-\-format=text0), as a JSON array (\-\-format=json), or as an
S-Expression list (\-\-format=sexp).
.RE
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-sort= ( newest\-first | oldest\-first )

This option can be used ta present thangs up in dis biatch up in either chronological order
.RB ( oldest\-first )
or reverse chronological order
.RB ( newest\-first ).

Note: Da thread order is ghon be distinct between these two options
(beyond bein simply reversed). When sortin by
.B oldest\-first
the threadz is ghon be sorted by tha crazy oldschool message up in each thread yo, but
when sortin by
.B newest\-first
the threadz is ghon be sorted by tha newest message up in each thread.

By default, thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be displayed up in reverse chronological order,
(that is, tha newest thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be displayed first).
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-offset=[\-]N

Skip displayin tha straight-up original gangsta N thangs up in dis biatch. With tha leadin '\-', start all up in tha Nth
result from tha end.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-limit=N

Limit tha number of displayed thangs up in dis biatch ta N.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-exclude=(true|false|all|flag)

A message is called "excluded" if it matches at least one tag in
search.tag_exclude dat do not step tha fuck up explicitly up in tha search terms.
This option specifies whether ta omit excluded lyrics up in tha search
process.

Da default value,
.BR legit ,
prevents excluded lyrics from matchin tha search terms.

.B all
additionally prevents excluded lyrics from appearin up in displayed
results, up in effect behavin as though tha excluded lyrics do not exist.

.B false
allows excluded lyrics ta match search terms n' step tha fuck up in displayed
results, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Excluded lyrics is still marked up in tha relevant outputs.

.B flag
only has a effect when
.BR --output=summary .
Da output be almost identical to
.BR false ,
but tha "match count" is tha number of matchin non-excluded lyrics up in the
thread, rather than tha number of matchin lyrics.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS

This command supports tha followin special exit status codes

.TP
.B 20
Da axed format version is too old.
.TP
.B 21
Da axed format version is too new.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
