.TH NOTMUCH-INSERT 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-insert \- add a message ta tha maildir n' notmuch database
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch insert
.RI "[" options "]"
.RI "[ +<" tag> "|\-<" tag "> ... ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B notmuch insert
readz a message from standard input
and delivers it tha fuck into tha maildir directory given by configuration option
.BR database.path ,
then incorporates tha message tha fuck into tha notmuch database.
It be a alternatizzle ta rockin a separate tool ta deliver
the message then hustlin
.B notmuch new
afterwards.

Da freshly smoked up message is ghon be tagged wit tha tags specified by the
.B new.tags
configuration option, then by operations specified on tha command-line:
tags prefixed by '+' is added while
those prefixed by '\-' is removed.

If tha freshly smoked up message be a thugged-out duplicate of a existin message up in tha database
(it has same Message-ID), it is ghon be added ta tha maildir folda and
notmuch database yo, but tha tags aint gonna be chizzled.

Option arguments must step tha fuck up before any tag operation arguments.
Supported options for
.B insert
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BI "--folder=<" folda ">"

Deliver tha message ta tha specified folder,
relatizzle ta tha top-level directory given by tha value of
\fBdatabase.path\fR.
Da default is ta serve up ta tha top-level directory.

.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B "--create-folder"

Try ta create tha folda named by the
.B "--folder"
option, if it do not exist.
Otherwise tha folda must already exist fo' mail
delivery ta succeed.

.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS

This command returns exit status 0 if tha message was successfully
added ta tha mail directory, even if tha message could not be indexed
and added ta tha notmuch database.  In tha latta case, a warnin will
be printed ta standard error but tha message file is ghon be left on disk.

If tha message could not be freestyled ta disk then a non-zero exit
status is returned.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
