.TH NOTMUCH-RESTORE 1 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"
.SH NAME
notmuch-restore \- restores tha tags from tha given file (see notmuch dump)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "notmuch restore"
.RB [ "--accumulate" ]
.RB [ "--format=(auto|batch-tag|sup)" ]
.RI "[ --input=<" filename "> ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

Restores tha tags from tha given file (see
.BR "notmuch dump" ")."

Da input is read from tha given filename, if any, or from stdin.


Supported options for
.B restore
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-accumulate

Da union of tha existin n' freshly smoked up tags be applied, instead of
replacin each messagez tags as they is read up in from tha dump file.

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-format=(sup|batch-tag|auto)

Notmuch restore supports two plain text dump formats, wit each line
specifyin a message-id n' a set of tags.
For detailz of tha actual formats, peep \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1).

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B sup

The
.B sup
dump file format is specifically chosen ta be
compatible wit tha format of filez produced by sup-dump.
So if you've previously been rockin sup fo' mail, then the
.B "notmuch restore"
command serves up you a way ta import all of yo' tags (or labels as
sup calls them).

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B batch-tag

The
.B batch-tag
dump format is intended ta mo' robust against malformed message-ids
and tags containin whitespace or non-\fBascii\fR(7) characters.  See
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1) fo' details on dis format.

.B "notmuch restore"
updates tha maildir flags accordin ta tag chizzlez if the
.B "maildir.synchronize_flags"
configuration option is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1) for
details.

.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B auto

This option (the default) tries ta guess tha format from the
input. For erectly formed input up in either supported format, this
heuristic, based tha fact dat batch-tag format gotz nuff no parentheses,
should be accurate.

.RE

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
