.TH NSENTER 1 "June 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nsenta \- run program wit namespacez of other processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsenter
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ program
.RI [ arguments ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Entas tha namespacez of one or mo' other processes n' then executes tha specified
program.  Enterable namespaces are:
.TP
.B mount namespace
Mountin n' unmountin filesystems aint gonna affect tha rest of tha system
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWNS
flag), except fo' filesystems which is explicitly marked as shared (with
\fBmount --make-\:shared\fP; peep \fI/proc\:/self\:/mountinfo\fP fo' the
\fBshared\fP flag).
.TP
.B UTS namespace
Settin hostname or domainname aint gonna affect tha rest of tha system.
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWUTS
flag)
.TP
.B IPC namespace
Da process gonna git a independent namespace fo' System V message queues,
semaphore sets n' shared memory segments.
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWIPC
flag)
.TP
.B network namespace
Da process gonna git independent IPv4 n' IPv6 stacks, IP routin tables,
firewall rules, the
.I /proc\:/net
and
.I /sys\:/class\:/net
directory trees, sockets, etc.
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWNET
flag)
.TP
.B PID namespace
Lil Pimps gonna git a set of PID ta process mappings separate from the
.B nsenter
process
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWPID
flag).
.B nsenter
will fork by default if changin tha PID namespace, so dat tha freshly smoked up program
and its lil pimps share tha same PID namespace n' is visible ta each other.
If \fB\-\-no\-fork\fP is used, tha freshly smoked up program is ghon be exec'ed without forking.
.TP
.B user namespace
Da process gonna git a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distinct set of UIDs, GIDs n' capabilities.
.RB ( CLONE_\:NEWUSER
flag)
.TP
See \fBclone\fP(2) fo' tha exact semantics of tha flags.
.TP
If \fIprogram\fP aint given, then ``${SHELL}'' is run (default: /bin\:/sh).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-target\fR \fIpid\fP
Specify a target process ta git contexts from.  Da paths ta tha contexts
specified by
.I pid
are:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP "" 20
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/mnt
the mount namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/uts
the UTS namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/ipc
the IPC namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/net
the network namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/pid
the PID namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/user
the user namespace
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/root
the root directory
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/cwd
the hustlin directory respectively
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mount\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha mount namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha mount namespace
of tha target process.  If file is specified, enta tha mount namespace
specified by file.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uts\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha UTS namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha UTS namespace of
the target process.  If file is specified, enta tha UTS namespace specified by
file.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ipc\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha IPC namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha IPC namespace of
the target process.  If file is specified, enta tha IPC namespace specified by
file.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-net\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha network namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha network
namespace of tha target process.  If file is specified, enta tha network
namespace specified by file.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha PID namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha PID namespace of
the target process.  If file is specified, enta tha PID namespace specified by
file.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Enta tha user namespace.  If no file is specified, enta tha user namespace of
the target process.  If file is specified, enta tha user namespace specified by
file.  See also tha \fB\-\-setuid\fR n' \fB\-\-setgid\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-setgid\fR \fIgid\fR
Set tha crew ID which is ghon be used up in tha entered user namespace.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-setuid\fR \fIuid\fR
Set tha user ID which is ghon be used up in tha entered user namespace.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR[=\fIdirectory\fR]
Set tha root directory.  If no directory is specified, set tha root directory to
the root directory of tha target process.  If directory is specified, set the
root directory ta tha specified directory.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wd\fR[=\fIdirectory\fR]
Set tha hustlin directory.  If no directory is specified, set tha working
directory ta tha hustlin directory of tha target process.  If directory is
specified, set tha hustlin directory ta tha specified directory.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-no-fork\fR
Do not fork before exec'in tha specified program.  By default, when enterin a
PID namespace, \fBnsenter\fP calls \fBfork\fP before callin \fBexec\fP so that
any lil pimps will also be up in tha newly entered PID namespace.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setns (2),
.BR clone (2)
.SH AUTHOR
.MT ebiederm@xmission.com
Eric Biederman
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da nsenta command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
