.\" Copyright (C) 2005-2010 NVIDIA Corporation.
.\"
.\" WARNING: THIS FILE IS AUTO-GENERATED!  Edit nvidia-xconfig.1.m4 instead.
.\" Define tha .URL macro n' then override it wit tha www.tmac package if it
.\" exists.
.de URL
\\$2 \(la \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH nvidia\-xconfig 1 "2014-12-01" "nvidia\-xconfig 331.113"
.SH NAME
nvidia-xconfig \- manipulate X configuration filez fo' tha NVIDIA driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nvidia-xconfig
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B nvidia-xconfig
is a tool intended ta provide basic control over configuration options available up in tha NVIDIA X driver.
.PP
.B nvidia-xconfig
performs its operations up in nuff muthafuckin steps:
.TP
1)
Da system X configuration file is found n' read tha fuck into memory.
If no configuration file can be found,
.B nvidia-xconfig
generates one from scratch rockin default settings; up in dis case, 
.B nvidia-xconfig 
will automatically determine tha name of tha X 
configuration file ta create:
.I /etc/X11/xorg.conf
if tha X server
in use is X.org or 
.I /etc/X11/XF86Config
if tha X server up in use is XFree86.
.TP
2)
Da configuration up in memory is modified ta support tha NVIDIA driver.
This consistz of changin tha display driver ta "nvidia", removin tha commandz ta load tha "GLcore" n' "dri" modules, n' addin tha command ta load tha "glx" module.
.TP
3)
Da configuration up in memory is modified accordin ta tha options specified on tha command line.
Please peep tha NVIDIA README fo' a thugged-out description of tha NVIDIA X configuration file options.
Note that
.B nvidia-xconfig 
does not big-ass up any validation of tha X configuration file options axed on tha command line;
X configuration file option validation is left fo' tha NVIDIA X driver.
.TP
4)
Da configuration is freestyled back ta tha file from which dat shiznit was read.
A backup of tha original gangsta configuration is pimped wit "\.backup" appended.
For example, if yo' X configuration is
.I /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then
.B nvidia-xconfig
will copy it to
.I /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
before freestylin tha freshly smoked up configuration.
The
.B \-\-post\-tree (\-T)
option can be used ta print tha freshly smoked up configuration ta standard up in tree form instead.
This option is useful ta peep what
.B nvidia-xconfig
will do while leavin tha original gangsta configuration intact.
.PP
Da source code to
.B nvidia\-xconfig
is busted out under tha GPL n' available here:
.sp
.ti +5
.URL "ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/nvidia\-xconfig/"
.sp
Patches is welcome.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " "XCONFIG" ", \-\-xconfig=" "XCONFIG"
Use 
.I XCONFIG
as tha input X config file; if dis option aint specified, then tha same search path used by tha X server is ghon be used ta find tha X configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-o " "OUTPUT-XCONFIG" ", \-\-output-xconfig=" "OUTPUT-XCONFIG"
Use 
.I OUTPUT\-XCONFIG
as tha output X configuration file; if dis option aint specified, then tha input X configuration filename will also be used as tha output X configuration filename.
.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-silent"
Run silently; no lyrics is ghon be printed ta stdout, except fo' warnin n' error lyrics ta stderr.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-tree"
Read tha X configuration file, print ta stdout tha X configuration data up in a tree format, n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-v, \-\-version"
Print tha nvidia\-xconfig version n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-h, \-\-help"
Print usage shiznit fo' tha common commandline options n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-A, \-\-advanced-help"
Print usage shiznit fo' tha common commandline options as well as tha advanced options, n' then exit.
.SH "ADVANCED OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI "\-\-acpid-socket-path=" "ACPID-SOCKET-PATH" ", \-\-no\-acpid-socket-path"
Set dis option ta specify a alternate path ta tha Linux ACPI daemon (acpid)z socket, which tha NVIDIA X driver will use ta connect ta acpid.
.TP
.BI "\-\-add-argb-glx-visuals, \-\-no\-add-argb-glx-visuals"
Enablez or disablez support fo' OpenGL renderin tha fuck into 32\-bit ARGB windows n' pixmaps.
.TP
.BI "\-\-allow-glx-with-composite, \-\-no\-allow-glx-with-composite"
Enable or disable tha "AllowGLXWithComposite" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-busid=" "BUSID" ", \-\-no\-busid"
This option writes tha specified BusID ta tha thang section of tha X configuration file.  If there be multiple thang sections, then it addz tha BusID field ta each of em.  To add tha BusID ta only a specific thang or screen section, use tha '\-\-device' or '\-\-screen' options.
.TP
.BI "\-\-preserve-busid, \-\-no\-preserve-busid"
By default, nvidia\-xconfig preserves tha existin BusID up in tha X configuration file only if there be multiple X screens configured fo' tha X server n' shit.  Use '\-\-preserve\-busid' or '\-\-no\-preserve\-busid' ta force tha BusID ta be preserved or not preserved, overridin tha default behavior.
.TP
.BI "\-\-cool-bits=" "COOL-BITS" ", \-\-no\-cool-bits"
Enable or disable tha "Coolbits" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Settin dis option will enable support up in tha NV\-CONTROL X extension fo' manipulatin GPU clock n' GPU hustla control settings. Default value is 0.  For fan
control set it ta 4.  WARNING: dis may cause system damage n' void warranties.
.TP
.BI "\-\-composite, \-\-no\-composite"
Enable or disable tha "Composite" X extension.
.TP
.BI "\-\-connected-monitor=" "CONNECTED-MONITOR" ", \-\-no\-connected-monitor"
Enable or disable tha  "ConnectedMonitor" X configuration option; settin dis option forces tha X driver ta behave as if tha specified display devices is connected ta tha GPU.
.TP
.BI "\-\-connect-to-acpid, \-\-no\-connect-to-acpid"
Enable or disable tha "ConnectToAcpid" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If dis option is set, tha NVIDIA X driver will attempt ta connect ta tha Linux ACPI daemon (acpid).  Set dis option ta off ta prevent tha X driver from attemptin ta connect ta acpid.
.TP
.BI "\-\-constant-dpi, \-\-no\-constant-dpi"
Enable or disable tha "ConstantDPI" X configuration option, which controls whether tha NVIDIA X driver maintains a cold-ass lil constant dots per inch (DPI) value by recomputin tha reported size up in millimetaz of tha X screen when XRandR chizzlez tha size up in pixelz of tha X screen.
.TP
.BI "\-\-custom-edid=" "CUSTOM-EDID" ", \-\-no\-custom-edid"
Enable or disable tha  "CustomEDID" X configuration option; settin dis option forces tha X driver ta use tha EDID specified.This option be a semicolon\-separated list of pairz of display thang names n' filename pairs; e.g "CRT\-0:\tmp\edid.bin". Note dat a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display thang name must always be specified even if only one EDID is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP
.BI "\-\-dac-8bit, \-\-no\-dac-8bit"
Most Quadro parts by default bust a 10 bit color look up table (LUT) by default; settin dis option ta TRUE forces these graphics chips ta use a 8 bit (LUT).
.TP
.BI "\-d " "DEPTH" ", \-\-depth=" "DEPTH"
Set tha default depth ta 
.I DEPTH
; valid joints fo' 
.I DEPTH
are 8, 15, 16, 24, n' 30.
.TP
.BI "\-\-device=" "DEVICE"
Da nvidia\-xconfig utilitizzle operates on one or mo' devices up in tha X configuration file.  If dis option is specified, tha thang named 
.I DEVICE
in tha X configuration file is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If dis option aint specified, all tha devices within tha X configuration file is ghon be used.
.TP
.BI "\-\-disable-glx-root-clipping, \-\-no\-disable-glx-root-clipping"
Disable or enable clippin OpenGL renderin ta tha root window via tha "DisableGLXRootClipping" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-damage-events, \-\-no\-damage-events"
Use OS\-level events ta notify tha X server when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct\-renderin client has performed renderin dat need ta be composited ta tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Improves performizzle when rockin GLX wit tha composite extension.
.TP
.BI "\-\-preserve-driver-name"
By default nvidia\-xconfig chizzlez tha  display  driver  ta "nvidia" fo' all configured X screens; dis option preserves tha existin driver name of each X screen.
.TP
.BI "\-\-enable-acpi-hotkeys, \-\-no\-enable-acpi-hotkeys"
Da "EnableACPIHotkeys" option can be specified ta override tha NVIDIA X driverz default decision ta enable or disable ACPI display chizzle hotkey events.
.TP
.BI "\-a, \-\-enable-all-gpus"
Configure a X screen on every last muthafuckin GPU up in tha system.
.TP
.BI "\-\-exact-mode-timings-dvi, \-\-no\-exact-mode-timings-dvi"
Forces tha initialization of tha X server wit tha exact timings specified up in tha ModeLine.
.TP
.BI "\-E " "FILE" ", \-\-extract-edids-from-file=" "FILE"
Extract any raw EDID byte blocks contained up in tha specified X log file 
.I LOG
; raw EDID bytes is printed by tha NVIDIA X driver ta tha X log as hexidecimal when verbose loggin is enabled wit tha "\-logverbose 6" X server commandline option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Any extracted EDIDs is then freestyled as binary data ta individual files.  These filez can lata be used by tha NVIDIA X driver all up in tha "CustomEDID" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-extract-edids-output-file=" "FILENAME"
When tha '\-\-extract\-edids\-from\-file' option is used, nvidia\-xconfig writes any extracted EDID ta a gangbangin' file, typically "edid.bin" up in tha current directory.  Use dis option ta specify a alternate filename.  Note dat nvidia\-xconfig, if necessary, will append a unique number ta tha EDID filename, ta avoid overwritin existin filez (e.g., "edid.bin.1" if "edid.bin" already exists).
.TP
.BI "\-\-flatpanel-properties=" "FLATPANEL-PROPERTIES" ", \-\-no\-flatpanel-properties"
Set tha flat panel properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da supported propertizzles is 'dithering' n' 'ditheringmode'.  Please peep tha NVIDIA README 'Appendix B. X Config Options' fo' mo' details on tha possible joints n' syntax.
.TP
.BI "\-\-flip, \-\-no\-flip"
Enable or disable OpenGL flipping
.TP
.BI "\-\-force-generate"
Force generation of a freshly smoked up X config file, ignorin any existin system X config file.  This aint typically recommended, as thangs like tha mouse protocol, keyboard layout, font paths, etc, is setup by yo' Unix distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  While nvidia\-xconfig can attempt ta infer these joints, it is dopest ta use yo' Unix distributionz X config file fo' tha basiz of anythang dat nvidia\-xconfig creates.
.TP
.BI "\-\-force-stereo-flipping, \-\-no\-force-stereo-flipping"
Normally, stereo flippin is only performed when a stereo drawable is visible. This option forces stereo flippin even when no stereo drawablez is visible.
.TP
.BI "\-\-handle-special-keys=" "WHEN" ", \-\-no\-handle-special-keys"
Specify when tha X server should use tha builtin keyboard handlez ta process special key combinations (like fuckin Ctrl+Alt+Backspace); peep tha X configuration playa page fo' details.  Da value of 
.I WHEN
can be 'Always', 'Never', or 'WhenNeeded'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-include-implicit-metamodes, \-\-no\-include-implicit-metamodes"
Enable or disable tha "IncludeImplicitMetaModes" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-keyboard=" "KEYBOARD"
When generatin a freshly smoked up X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be found, or tha '\-\-force\-generate' option is specified), use 
.I KEYBOARD
as tha keyboard type, rather than attemptin ta probe tha system fo' tha keyboard type.  For a list of possible keyboard types, peep tha '\-\-keyboard\-list' option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-keyboard-driver=" "DRIVER"
In most cases nvidia\-xconfig can automatically determine tha erect keyboard driver ta use (either 'kbd' or 'keyboard'). Use dis option ta override what tha fuck nvidia\-xconfig detects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Typically, if yo ass is rockin a X.Org X server, use 'kdb'; if yo ass is rockin a XFree86 X server, use 'keyboard'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-keyboard-list"
Print ta stdout tha available keyboard types recognized by tha '\-\-keyboard' option, n' then exit.
.TP
.BI "\-\-layout=" "LAYOUT"
Da nvidia\-xconfig utilitizzle operates on a Server Layout within tha X configuration file.  If dis option is specified, tha layout named 
.I LAYOUT
in tha X configuration file is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If dis option aint specified, tha straight-up original gangsta Server Layout up in tha X configuration file is used.
.TP
.BI "\-\-logo, \-\-no\-logo"
Disable or enable tha "NoLogo" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-logo-path=" "PATH" ", \-\-no\-logo-path"
Set tha path ta tha PNG file ta be used as tha logo splash screen at X server startup.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mode=" "MODE" ""
Add tha specified mode ta tha mode list.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mode-debug, \-\-no\-mode-debug"
Enable or disable tha "ModeDebug" X configuration option; when enabled, dis option causes tha X driver ta print verbose details bout mode validation ta tha X log file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mode-list=" "MODELIST"
Remove all existin modes from tha X configurationz modelist n' add tha one(s) specified up in tha 
.I MODELIST
string.
.TP
.BI "\-\-remove-mode=" "MODE"
Remove tha specified mode from tha mode list.
.TP
.BI "\-\-metamodes=" "METAMODES"
Add tha MetaMode X configuration option wit tha value 
.I METAMODES
which will replace any existin MetaMode option already up in tha X configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mouse=" "MOUSE"
When generatin a freshly smoked up X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be found, or tha '\-\-force\-generate' option is specified), use 
.I MOUSE
as tha mouse type, rather than attemptin ta probe tha system fo' tha mouse type.  For a list of possible mouse types, peep tha '\-\-mouse\-list' option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mouse-list"
Print ta stdout tha available mouse types recognized by tha '\-\-mouse' option, n' then exit.
.TP
.BI "\-\-multigpu=" "MULTIGPU" ", \-\-no\-multigpu"
Enable or disable MultiGPU.  Valid joints fo' 
.I MULTIGPU
are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-multisample-compatibility, \-\-no\-multisample-compatibility"
Enable or disable tha use of separate front n' back multisample buffers.
.TP
.BI "\-\-nvidia-cfg-path=" "PATH"
Da nvidia\-cfg library is used ta rap wit tha NVIDIA kernel module ta query basic propertizzlez of every last muthafuckin GPU up in tha system.  This library is typically only used by nvidia\-xconfig when configurin multiple X screens.  This option  drops some lyrics ta nvidia\-xconfig where ta look fo' dis library (in case it cannot find it on its own).  This option should normally not be needed.
.TP
.BI "\-\-only-one-x-screen"
Disable all but one X screen.
.TP
.BI "\-\-overlay, \-\-no\-overlay"
Enable or disable tha "Overlay" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-cioverlay, \-\-no\-cioverlay"
Enable or disable tha color index overlay.
.TP
.BI "\-\-overlay-default-visual, \-\-no\-overlay-default-visual"
Enable or disable tha "OverlayDefaultVisual" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-transparent-index=" "INDEX" ", \-\-no\-transparent-index"
Pixel ta use as transparent when rockin color index overlays.  Valid joints fo' 
.I TRANSPARENT\-INDEX
are 0\-255.
.TP
.BI "\-T, \-\-post-tree"
Like tha '\-\-tree' option yo, but goes all up in tha full process of applyin any user axed thugged-out shiznit ta tha X configuration, before printin tha final configuration ta stdout up in a tree format.  Effectively, dis option just causes tha configuration ta be printed ta stdout as a tree instead of freestylin tha thangs up in dis biatch ta file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-power-connector-check, \-\-no\-power-connector-check"
Disable or enable tha "NoPowerConnectorCheck" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-probe-all-gpus, \-\-no\-probe-all-gpus"
Disable or enable tha "ProbeAllGpus" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-query-gpu-info"
Print shiznit bout all recognized NVIDIA GPUs up in tha system.
.TP
.BI "\-\-registry-dwords=" "REGISTRY-DWORDS" ", \-\-no\-registry-dwords"
Enable or disable tha "RegistryDwords" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-render-accel, \-\-no\-render-accel"
Enable or disable tha "RenderAccel" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-render-extension, \-\-no\-render-extension"
Disable or enable tha "NoRenderExtension" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-screen=" "SCREEN"
Da nvidia\-xconfig utilitizzle operates on one or mo' screens within a Server Layout up in tha X configuration file.  If dis option is specified, tha screen named 
.I SCREEN
in tha X configuration file is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If dis option aint specified, all screens within tha selected Server Layout up in tha X configuration file is ghon be used used.
.TP
.BI "\-\-separate-x-screens, \-\-no\-separate-x-screens"
A GPU dat supports multiple simultaneous display devices can either drive these display devices up in a single X screen, or as separate X screens.  When tha '\-\-separate\-x\-screens' option is specified, each GPU on which a X screen is currently configured is ghon be updated ta have two X screens configured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da '\-\-no\-separate\-x\-screens' option will remove tha second configured X screen on each GPU.  Please peep tha NVIDIA README description of "Separate X Screens on One GPU" fo' further details.
.TP
.BI "\-\-sli=" "SLI" ", \-\-no\-sli"
Enable or disable SLI.  Valid joints fo' 
.I SLI
are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA', 'AFRofAA', 'Mosaic'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-stereo=" "STEREO" ", \-\-no\-stereo"
Enable or disable tha stereo mode.  Valid joints fo' 
.I STEREO
are: 0 (Disabled), 1 (DDC glasses), 2 (Blueline glasses), 3 (Onboard stereo), 4 (multi\-display clone mode stereo), 5 (SeeReal digital flat panel), 6 (Sharp3D digital flat panel), 7 (Arisawa/Hyundai/Zalman/Pavione/Miracube), 8 (3D DLP), 9 (3D DLP INV), 10 (NVIDIA 3D VISION), 11 (NVIDIA 3D VISION PRO), 12 (HDMI 3D), 13 (Tridelitizzle SL).
.TP
.BI "\-\-thermal-configuration-check, \-\-no\-thermal-configuration-check"
Disable or enable tha "ThermalConfigurationCheck" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-tv-standard=" "TV-STANDARD" ", \-\-no\-tv-standard"
Enable or disable tha "TVStandard" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints fo' "TVStandard" are: "PAL\-B", "PAL\-D", "PAL\-G", "PAL\-H", "PAL\-I", "PAL\-K1", "PAL\-M", "PAL\-N", "PAL\-NC", "NTSC\-J", "NTSC\-M", "HD480i", "HD480p", "HD720p", "HD1080i", "HD1080p", "HD576i", "HD576p".
.TP
.BI "\-\-tv-out-format=" "TV-OUT-FORMAT" ", \-\-no\-tv-out-format"
Enable or disable tha "TVOutFormat" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints fo' "TVOutFormat" are: "SVIDEO" n' "COMPOSITE".
.TP
.BI "\-\-metamode-orientation=" "ORIENTATION" ", \-\-no\-metamode-orientation"
Specify tha MetaModeOrientation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Valid joints fo' 
.I ORIENTATION
are: "RightOf" (the default), "LeftOf", "Above", "Below", or "Clone".
.TP
.BI "\-\-nvidia-xinerama-info, \-\-no\-nvidia-xinerama-info"
Enable or disable providin Xinerama shiznit from tha NVIDIA X driver.
.TP
.BI "\-\-nvidia-xinerama-info-order=" "NVIDIA-XINERAMA-INFO-ORDER" ", \-\-no\-nvidia-xinerama-info-order"
Enable or disable tha "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.I NVIDIA\-XINERAMA\-INFO\-ORDER
is a cold-ass lil comma\-separated list of display thang names dat describe tha order up in which nvidiaXineramaInfo should be reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  E.g., "CRT, DFP, TV".
.TP
.BI "\-\-ubb, \-\-no\-ubb"
Enable or disable tha "UBB" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-use-edid, \-\-no\-use-edid"
Enable or disable use of tha EDID (Extended Display Identification Data) from yo' display device(s).  Da EDID is ghon be used fo' driver operations like fuckin buildin listz of available modes, determinin valid frequency ranges, n' computin tha DPI (Dots Per Inch).  This option defaults ta TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use tha EDID, when available).  It be NOT recommended dat you use dis option ta globally disable use of tha EDID; instead, use '\-\-no\-use\-edid\-freqs' or '\-\-no\-use\-edid\-dpi' ta disable specific usez of tha EDID.
.TP
.BI "\-\-use-edid-dpi, \-\-no\-use-edid-dpi"
Enable or disable use of tha physical size shiznit up in tha display devicez EDID, if any, ta compute tha DPI (Dots Per Inch) of tha X screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option defaults ta TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver uses tha EDIDz physical size, when available, ta compute tha DPI).
.TP
.BI "\-\-use-edid-freqs, \-\-no\-use-edid-freqs"
Enable or disable use of tha HorizSync n' VertRefresh ranges given up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display devicez EDID, if any.  EDID provided range shiznit will override tha HorizSync n' VertRefresh ranges specified up in tha Monitor section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option defaults ta TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use frequency shiznit from tha EDID, when available).
.TP
.BI "\-\-use-display-device=" "DISPLAY-DEVICE" ", \-\-no\-use-display-device"
Force tha X driver ta use tha display thang specified.
.TP
.BI "\-\-use-events, \-\-no\-use-events"
Enable or disable "UseEvents" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin dis option will enable tha X driver ta use tha system events up in some cases when it is waitin fo' tha hardware. With dis option X driver sets a event handlez n' waits fo' tha hardware all up in tha poll() system call. This option defaults ta FALSE.
.TP
.BI "\-\-virtual=" "WIDTHxHEIGHT" ", \-\-no\-virtual"
Specify tha virtual screen resolution.
.TP
.BI "\-\-x-prefix=" "X-PREFIX"
Da X installation prefix; tha default is /usr/X11R6/.  Only under rare circumstances should dis option be needed.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xinerama, \-\-no\-xinerama"
Enable or disable Xinerama.
.TP
.BI "\-\-color-space=" "COLORSPACE" ", \-\-no\-color-space"
Enable or disable tha "ColorSpace" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints fo' "COLORSPACE" are: "RGB" n' "YCbCr444".
.TP
.BI "\-\-color-range=" "COLORRANGE" ", \-\-no\-color-range"
Sets tha "ColorRange" X configuration option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints fo' "COLORRANGE" are: "Full" n' "Limited".
.TP
.BI "\-\-3dvision-usb-path=" "3DVISION-STD-PATH"
Set dis option ta specify tha sysfs path of tha connected STD dongle.
.TP
.BI "\-\-3dvisionpro-config-file=" "3DVISIONPRO-CONFIG-FILE"
Set dis option ta specify tha NVIDIA 3DVisionPro configuration file. Ensure X server has a read n' write access permissions ta dis file. NVIDIA X driver stores tha hub n' tha pairin configuration up in dis file ta re\-use across X restarts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If dis option aint provided, 3D VisionPro configuration aint gonna be stored.
.TP
.BI "\-\-3dvision-display-type=" "3DVISION-DISPLAY-TYPE" ", \-\-no\-3dvision-display-type"
When NVIDIA 3D Vision is enabled wit a non 3D Vision locked n loaded display, use dis option ta specify tha display type. Valid joints are: 0 (Assume it aint nuthin but a CRT), 1 (Assume it aint nuthin but a DLP) n' 2 (Assume it aint nuthin but a DLP TV n' enable tha checkerboard output).
.TP
.BI "\-\-base-mosaic, \-\-no\-base-mosaic"
Enable or disable tha "BaseMosaic" X configuration option.
.TP
.BI "\-\-restore-original-backup"
Restore a funky-ass backup of tha X configuration dat was made before any chizzlez was made by nvidia\-xconfig, if such a funky-ass backup be available. This type of backup is made by nvidia\-xconfig before it modifies a X configuration file dat it has not previously touched; dis be assumed ta be a X configuration file dat predates tha involvement of tha NVIDIA X driver n' shiznit fo' realz. As a example, nvidia\-xconfig will copy a X configuration file at /etc/X11/xorg.conf ta /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia\-xconfig\-original gangsta tha last time it make chizzlez ta dat file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-allow-empty-initial-configuration, \-\-no\-allow-empty-initial-configuration"
Allow tha X server ta start even if no connected display devices could be detected.
.TP
.BI "\-\-inband-stereo-signaling, \-\-no\-inband-stereo-signaling"
Enable or disable tha "InbandStereoSignaling" X configuration option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B nvidia-xconfig
Readz a existin X config file n' adapts it ta use tha NVIDIA driver.
If no X config file can be found, a freshly smoked up one is pimped at /etc/X11/XF86Config wit default settings.
.TP
.B nvidia-xconfig \-\-post\-tree \-\-metamode\-orientation=clone
Readz tha existin X configuration file, addz tha MetaModeOrientation option, n' then prints tha resultin config file ta standard up in tree form.
Da configuration file aint modified.
.TP
.B nvidia-xconfig \-\-enable\-all\-gpus
Examines tha system n' configures a X screen fo' each display thang it finds.
.TP
.BI "nvidia-xconfig \-\-mode=" 1600x1200
Addz a 1600x1200 mode ta a existin X configuration.
.TP
.BI "nvidia-xconfig \-\-mode-list=" "1600x1200 1280x1024"
Removes any existin modes from tha X configuration file, replacin dem wit "1600x1200" n' "1280x1024".
.TP
.BI "nvidia-xconfig \-\-metamodes=" "1024x768 +0+0, 1024x768 +1024+0"
Addz tha MetaMode "1024x768 +0+0, 1024x768 +1024+0" ta tha existin X configuration file, replacin any existin MetaModes X configuration option.
.TP
.B nvidia-xconfig \-\-only\-one\-x\-screen \-\-sli=Auto
Configures tha X server ta have just one X screen dat will use SLI when available.
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .I /etc/X11/XF86Config
.\" .I /etc/X11/xorg.conf
.SH AUTHOR
Aaron Plattner
.br
NVIDIA Corporation
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nvidia-settings (1),
.I /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/README.txt
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005-2010 NVIDIA Corporation.
