.\" Copyright (C) 2005-2010 NVIDIA Corporation.
.\"
.\" WARNING: THIS FILE IS AUTO-GENERATED!  Edit nvidia-modprobe.1.m4 instead.
.\" Define tha .URL macro n' then override it wit tha www.tmac package if it
.\" exists.
.de URL
\\$2 \(la \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH nvidia\-modprobe 1 "2014-12-01" "nvidia\-modprobe 331.113"

.SH NAME
nvidia\-modprobe \- Load tha NVIDIA kernel module n' create NVIDIA characta thang files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "nvidia\-modprobe [" "options" "]"
.br
.BI "nvidia\-modprobe [" "options" "] \-\-create\-nvidia\-device\-file=" MINOR-NUMBER "
.br
.BI "nvidia\-modprobe [" "options" "] \-\-module\-instance=" MODULE-INSTANCE "
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nvidia\-modprobe
utilitizzle is used by user-space NVIDIA driver components ta make shizzle tha NVIDIA kernel module is loaded n' dat tha NVIDIA characta thang filez is present.  These facilitizzles is normally provided by Linux distribution configuration systems like fuckin udev.  When possible, it is recommended ta use yo' Linux distributionz natizzle mechanizzlez fo' managin kernel module loadin n' thang file creation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This utilitizzle is provided as a gangbangin' fallback ta work out-of-the-box up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distribution-independent way.
.PP
When installed
.B by nvidia\-installer
,
.B nvidia\-modprobe
is installed setuid root.
.PP
Users should not normally need ta run
.B nvidia\-modprobe
by hand: tha NVIDIA user-space driver components will fork(2)/exec(3) it when needed.
.PP
When run without any options,
.B nvidia\-modprobe
will load tha NVIDIA kernel module n' then exit. When the
.B \-\-module\-instance
option is specified on systems wit multiple NVIDIA kernel modules,
.B nvidia\-modprobe
will load tha correspondin NVIDIA kernel module n' then exit. When the
.B \-\-create\-nvidia\-device\-file
option is specified,
.B nvidia\-modprobe
will also create tha axed thang file.

Da source code ta nvidia-modprobe be available here:
.URL ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/nvidia-modprobe/

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-v, \-\-version"
Print tha utilitizzle version n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-h, \-\-help"
Print usage shiznit fo' tha command line options n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-c " "MINOR-NUMBER" ", \-\-create-nvidia-device-file=" "MINOR-NUMBER"
Smoke tha NVIDIA thang file wit tha given minor number; dis option can be specified multiple times ta create multiple NVIDIA thang files.
.TP
.BI "\-i " "MODULE-INSTANCE" ", \-\-module-instance=" "MODULE-INSTANCE"
Load tha required NVIDIA kernel module dat correspondz ta tha specified 
.I MODULE\-INSTANCE
value. Da value should be between 0 n' 7.
.SH "ADVANCED OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI "\-u, \-\-unified-memory"
Load tha NVIDIA Unified Memory kernel module or create thang filez fo' it, instead of tha NVIDIA kernel module.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B nvidia\-modprobe
Run `/sbin/modprobe nvidia`
.TP
.B nvidia\-modprobe -c 0 -c 1
Run `/sbin/modprobe nvidia` n' create
.I
/dev/nvidia0
and
.I
/dev/nvidia1
.TP
.B nvidia\-modprobe -i 0
Run `/sbin/modprobe nvidia0`
.

.SH AUTHOR
Andy Ritger
.br
NVIDIA Corporation

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
