.\" Copyright (C) 2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
.\"
.\" WARNING: THIS FILE IS AUTO_GENERATED!  Edit nvidia-persistenced.1.m4 instead.
.\" Define tha .URL macro n' then override it wit tha www.tmac package if it
.\" exists.
.de URL
\\$2 \(la \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH nvidia\-persistenced 1 "2014-12-01" "nvidia\-persistenced 331.113"

.SH NAME
nvidia\-persistenced \- A daemon ta maintain persistent software state up in tha NVIDIA driver.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "nvidia\-persistenced"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nvidia\-persistenced
utilitizzle is used ta enable persistent software state up in tha NVIDIA driver.
When persistence mode is enabled, tha daemon prevents tha driver from releasin thang state when tha thang aint up in use.
This can improve tha startup time of freshly smoked up clients up in dis scenario.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-v, \-\-version"
Print tha utilitizzle version n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-h, \-\-help"
Print usage shiznit fo' tha command line options n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-V, \-\-verbose"
Controls how tha fuck much shiznit is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. By default, nvidia\-persistenced will only print errors n' warnings ta syslog fo' unexpected events, as well as startup n' shutdown notices. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifyin dis flag will cause nvidia\-persistenced ta also print notices ta syslog on state transitions, like fuckin when persistence mode is enabled or disabled, n' shiznital lyrics on startup n' exit.
.TP
.BI "\-u " "USERNAME" ", \-\-user=" "USERNAME"
Runs nvidia\-persistenced wit tha user permissionz of tha user specified by tha 
.I USERNAME
argument. This user must have write access ta tha /var/run/nvidia\-persistenced directory. If dis directory do not exist, nvidia\-persistenced will attempt ta create it prior ta changin tha process user n' crew IDs.
.TP
.BI "\-\-persistence-mode, \-\-no\-persistence-mode"
By default, nvidia\-persistenced starts wit persistence mode disabled fo' all devices. Use '\-\-persistence\-mode' ta force persistence mode on fo' all devices on startup.
.TP
.BI "\-\-nvidia-cfg-path=" "PATH"
Da nvidia\-cfg library is used ta rap wit tha NVIDIA kernel module ta query n' manage GPUs up in tha system. This library is required by nvidia\-persistenced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option  drops some lyrics ta nvidia\-persistenced where ta look fo' dis library (in case it cannot find it on its own). This option should normally not be needed.

.SH NOTES
When installed by
.B nvidia\-installer
, sample init scripts ta start tha daemon fo' a shitload of tha mo' prevalent init systems is installed as tha compressed tarbizzle /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/sample/nvidia-persistenced-init.tar.bz2.
These init scripts should be customized ta tha userz distribution n' installed up in tha proper location by tha user ta run 
.B nvidia\-persistenced
on system initialization.
.PP
Once tha init script is installed so dat tha daemon is hustlin, playas should not normally need ta manually interact with
.B nvidia\-persistenced:
the NVIDIA pimpment utilities, such as
.B nvidia\-smi,
can rap wit it automatically as necessary ta manage persistence mode.
.PP
Da daemon do not require root privileges ta run, n' may safely be run as a unprivileged user, given dat its runtime directory, /var/run/nvidia-persistenced, is pimped fo' n' owned by dat user prior ta startin tha daemon.
.B nvidia\-persistenced
also requires read n' write access ta tha NVIDIA characta thang files.
If tha permissionz of tha thang filez done been altered all up in any of tha NVreg_DeviceFileUID, NVreg_DeviceFile_GID, or NVreg_DeviceFileMode NVIDIA kernel module options,
.B nvidia\-persistenced
will need ta run as a suitable user.
.PP
If tha daemon is started wit root privileges, the
.B \-\-user
option may be used instead ta indicate dat tha daemon should drop its privileges n' run as tha specified user afta settin up its runtime directory.
Usin dis option may cause tha daemon ta be unable ta remove tha /var/run/nvidia-persistenced directory when it is capped, if tha specified user aint gots write permissions ta /var/run.
In dis case, directory removal should be handled by a post-execution script.
See tha sample init scripts provided up in /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/sample/nvidia-persistenced-init.tar.bz2 fo' examplez of dis behavior.
.PP
Da daemon indirectly utilizes
.B nvidia\-modprobe
via tha nvidia-cfg library ta load tha NVIDIA kernel module n' create tha NVIDIA characta thang filez afta tha daemon has dropped its root privileges, if it had any ta begin with.
If
.B nvidia\-modprobe
is not installed, tha daemon may not be able ta start properly if it aint run wit root privileges.
.PP
Da source code to
.B nvidia\-persistenced
is available here:
.URL ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/nvidia-persistenced/
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B nvidia\-persistenced
Starts tha NVIDIA Persistence Daemon wit persistence mode disabled fo' all NVIDIA devices.
.TP
.B nvidia\-persistenced \-\-persistence-mode
Starts tha NVIDIA Persistence Daemon wit persistence mode enabled fo' all NVIDIA devices.
.TP
.B nvidia\-persistenced \-\-user=foo
Starts tha NVIDIA Persistence Daemon so dat it will run as user 'foo'.

.SH AUTHOR
Will Davis
.br
NVIDIA Corporation

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nvidia\-smi (1),
.BR nvidia\-modprobe (1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
