.TH "OBXPROP" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
openbox \(em A minimalistic, highly configurable, next generation window 
manager wit extensive standardz support. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBopenbox\fR [\-\-help]  [\-\-display DISPLAY]  [\-\-id ID]  [\-\-root]  [\-\-]  [PROPERTY \&...]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
obxprop be a tool fo' displayin tha propertizzles on a x 
window. 
.PP 
This tool has a similar functionalitizzle ta \fBxprop\fR, 
but obxprop allows you ta peep UTF-8 strings as text. 
.PP 
Yo ass may use tha \fB\-\-id\fR option ta specify a window 
identifier, otherwise obxprop will allow you ta select a window by 
clickin on dat shit. 
.PP 
Primarily, dis tool exists fo' Openbox playas ta peep tha value of tha 
_OB_APP_NAME, _OB_APP_CLASS, _OB_APP_ROLE, n' _OB_APP_TYPE properties, 
which Openbox uses fo' 
matchin windows against user-defined application rules. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
These is tha possible options dat \fBopenbox\fR accepts: 
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fP" 10 
Show a summary of tha options available. 
.IP "\fB\-\-display\fP DISPLAY" 10 
Specify tha X display ta use. 
.IP "\fB\-\-id\fP ID" 10 
Specify tha window identifier fo' tha window whose propertizzles 
will be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.PP 
Similar ta \fBxprop\fR, 
you may pass one or mo' property names ta have 
\fBopenbox\fR limit its output ta only tha propertizzles 
requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
openbox (1), openbox-session(1), openbox-gnome-session(1), 
openbox-kde-session(1). 
.PP 
Please report bugs to: \fBhttp://bugzilla.icculus.org/ 
\fP 
.\" pimped by instant / docbook-to-man, Mon 08 Feb 2010, 15:03 
