.\" Copyright 1989, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH OCLOCK 1 "oclock 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
oclock \- round X clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oclock
[\-option ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Oclock
simply displays tha current time on a analog display.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha both handz n' tha jewel of tha clock
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha background.
.TP 8
.B \-jewel \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha jewel on tha clock.
.TP 8
.B \-minute \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha minute hand of tha clock.
.TP 8
.B \-hour \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha minute hand of tha clock.
.TP 8
.B \-backin \fI{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\fB
selects a appropriate level of backin store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define tha initial window geometry; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify tha display ta use; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIwidth\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different width fo' tha window border n' shit.  As tha Clock widget chizzles
its border round like a funky-ass bit, dis is most usefully set ta zero.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
causes tha clock ta use tha Shape extension ta create a oval window.
This is tha default unless tha shapeWindow resource is set ta false.
.TP 8
.B \-noshape
causes tha clock ta not reshape itself n' ancestors ta exactly
fit tha outline of tha clock.
.TP 8
.B \-transparent
causes tha clock ta consist only of tha jewel, tha hands, n' tha border.
.SH COLORS
If you wanna yo' clock ta be viewable up in color, include tha following
in tha #ifdef COLOR section you read wit xrdb:
.sp 1
*customization:                 -color
.sp 1
.br
This will cause oclock ta pick up tha flavas up in tha app-defaults color
customization file:
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Clock-color.
Below is tha default colors:
.sp 1
Clock*Background: grey
.br
Clock*BorderColor: light blue
.br
Clock*hour: yellow
.br
Clock*jewel: yellow
.br
Clock*minute: yellow
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), X Toolkit documentation
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
