.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ogg123.1
.\"
.TH ogg123 1 "2010 March 24" "Xiph.Org Foundation" "Vorbis Tools"

.SH NAME
ogg123 \- skits Ogg Vorbis files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ogg123 
[
.B -vqrzZVh
] [
.B -k
.I secondz 
] [
.B -x
.I nth
] [
.B -y
.I ntimes
] [
.B -b
.I buffer_size 
] [
.B -d
.I driver 
[
.B -o
.I option:value
] 
[
.B -f
.I filename
] ]
.I file
.B ...
|
.I directory
.B ...
|
.I URL
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ogg123
readz Ogg Vorbis audio filez n' decodes dem ta tha devices specified
on tha command line.  By default,
.B ogg123
writes ta tha standard sound device yo, but output can be busted ta any
number of devices.  Filez can be read from tha file system, or URLs
can be streamed via HTTP.  If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is given, all of tha filez in
it or its subdirectories is ghon be played.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--audio-buffer n"
Use a output audio buffer of approximately 'n' kilobytes.
.IP "-@ playlist, --list playlist"
Play all of tha filez named up in tha file 'playlist'.  Da playlist should have
one filename, directory name, or URL per line.  Blank lines is permitted.
Directories is ghon be treated up in tha same way as on tha command line.
.IP "-b n, --buffer n"
Use a input buffer of approximately 'n' kilobytes.  HTTP-only option.
.IP "-p n, --prebuffer n"
Prebuffer 'n' cement of tha input buffer n' shit.  Playback won't begin until
this prebuffer is complete.  HTTP-only option.
.IP "-d device, --device device"
Specify output device.  See
.B DEVICES
section fo' a list of devices.  Any number of devices may be specified.
.IP "-f filename, --file filename"
Specify output file fo' file devices.  Da filename "-" writes ta standard
out.  If tha file already exists,
.B ogg123
will overwrite dat shit.
.IP "-c c, --config c"
Config options from command-line.
.IP "-l s, --delay s"
Set termination timeout up in milliseconds. ogg123 will skip ta tha next cold lil' woo wop on
SIGINT (Ctrl-C), n' will terminizzle if two SIGINTs is received within the
specified timeout 's'. (default 500)
.IP "-h, --help"
Show command help.
.IP "-k n, --skip n"
Skip tha straight-up original gangsta 'n' seconds.  'n' may also be up in minutes:secondz or 
hours:minutes:secondz form.
.IP "-K n, --end n"
Stops playin 'n' secondz from tha start of tha stream.  'n' may also have the
same format as used up in the
.I --skip
option.
.IP "-o option[:value], --device-option option[:value]"
Sets tha option
.I option
to 
.I value
for tha precedin device.  See
.B DEVICES
for a list of valid options fo' each device.
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Quiet mode.  No lyrics is displayed.
.IP "-V, --version"
Display version shiznit.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Increase verbosity.
.IP "-x n, --nth"
Play every last muthafuckin 'n'th decoded block.  Has tha effect of playin audio at 'n' times
fasta than aiiight speed.
.IP "-y n, --ntimes"
Repeat every last muthafuckin played block 'n' times.  Has tha effect of playin audio 'n'
times slower than aiiight speed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  May be wit -x fo' bangin-ass fractional
speeds.
.IP "-r, --repeat"
Repeat playlist indefinitely.
.IP "-R, --remote"
Use remote control intercourse.
.IP "-z, --shuffle"
Play filez up in pseudo-random order.
.IP "-Z, --random"
Play filez up in pseudo-random order alllll muthafuckin day.

.SH DEVICES

.B ogg123
supports a variety of audio output devices all up in libao.  Only them
devices supported by tha target platform is ghon be available.  The
.B -f
option may only be used wit devices dat write ta files.

Options supported by all devices:
.RS
.IP debug
Turn on debuggin output [if any] fo' a cold-ass lil chosen driver.
.IP matrix:value
Force a specific output channel orderin fo' a given device.  
.I value
is a cold-ass lil comma 
seperated list of AO steez channel names, eg, L,R,C,LFE,BL,BR,SL,SR.
.IP verbose
Turn on verbose output fo' a cold-ass lil chosen driver n' shit. tha -v option will also set tha 
driver verbose option.
.IP on tha fuckin' down-low
Force chosen driver ta be straight-up silent.  Even errors aint gonna produce any 
output. -q will also set tha driver on tha down-low option.
.RE

.B
.IP aixs
AIX live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP dev:value
Set AIX output thang to
.I value
.RE

.B
.IP alsa
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP buffer_time:value
Override tha default hardware buffer size (in milliseconds).
.IP dev:value
ALSA thang label ta use. Examplez include "hw:0" fo' tha straight-up original gangsta soundcard 
and "hw:1" fo' tha second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da alsa driver normally chizzlez one of 
"surround71", 
"surround51", 
"surround40" or 
"default" 
automatically dependin on number of output channels.  For mo' shiznit,
see http://alsa.opensrc.org/ALSA+device+labels
.IP period_time:value
Override tha default hardware period size (in microseconds).
.IP period_time:value
Override tha default hardware period size (in microseconds).
.IP use_mmap:value
.I value
is set ta "yes" or "no" ta override tha compiled-in default ta use or not use 
mmap thang access.  In tha past, some buggy alsa drivers have behaved betta when
not rockin mmap access all up in tha penalty of slightly higher CPU usage.
.RE

.B
.IP arts
aRts Sound Daemon live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP multi:value
.I value
is set ta "yes" or "no" ta allow openin tha aRts playback thang fo' multiply
concurrent playback.  Although tha driver works properly up in multi mode, it is 
known ta occasionally crash tha aRts server itself.  Default behavior is "no".
.RE

.B
.IP au
Sun audio file output.  Writes tha audio samplez up in AU format.  Da AU
format supports freestylin ta unseekable filez like standard out.  In
such circumstances, tha AU header will specify tha sample format yo, but
not tha length of tha recording.

.B
.IP esd
Enlightened Sound Daemon live output. Options:
.RS
.IP host:value
.I value
specifies tha hostname where esd is hustlin.  This can include a port number
afta a cold-ass lil colon, as up in "whizbang.com:555".  (Default = localhost)
.RE

.B
.IP irix
IRIX live output audio driver.

.B
.IP macosx
MacOS X 'AUHAL' live output driver n' shit.  This driver supports MacOS X
10.5 n' lata (10.4 n' earlier uses a earlier, incompatable
interface). Options:
.RS
.IP buffer_time:value
Set tha hardware buffer size ta tha equivalent of
.I value
milliseconds.
.RE

.B
.IP nas
Network Audio Server live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP buf_size:value
Set size of audio buffer on server up in bytes.
.IP host:value
Set location of NAS server; See nas(1) fo' format. 
.RE

.B
.IP null
Null driver n' shit.  All audio data is discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (Note: Audio data is not
written ta 
.B /dev/null
!)  Yo ass could use dis driver ta test raw decodin speed without
output overhead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

.B
.IP oss
Open Sound System driver fo' Linux n' FreeBSD, versions 2, 3 n' 4. Options:
.RS
.IP dsp:value
DSP thang fo' soundcard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Defaults ta  
.B /dev/dsp.
.RE

.B
.IP pulse
Pulseaudio live audio sound driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP server:value
Specifies location of remote or alternate Pulseaudio server.
.IP sink:value
Specifies a non-default Pulseaudio sink fo' audio stream.
.RE

.B
.IP raw
Raw file output.  Writes raw audio samplez ta a gangbangin' file. Options:
.RS
.IP byteorder:value
Chooses big-ass endian ("big"), lil endian ("lil"), or natizzle ("native") byte order n' shit.  
Default is natizzle order.
.RE

.B
.IP roar
Roar Audio Daemon live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP host:value
Specifies location of remote Roar server ta use.
.RE

.B
.IP sndio
OpenBSD SNDIO live output driver n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP dev:value
Specifies audio thang ta use fo' playback.
.RE

.B
.IP sun
Sun Audio live output driver fo' NetBSD, OpenBSD, n' Solaris. Options:
.RS
.IP dev:value
Audio thang fo' soundcard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Defaults ta  
.B /dev/audio.
.RE


.B
.IP wav
WAV file output.  Writes tha sound data ta disk up in uncompressed form.
If multiple filez is played, all of dem is ghon be concatenated into
the same WAV file.  WAV filez cannot be freestyled ta unseekable files,
like fuckin standard out.  Use tha AU format instead.

.B
.IP wmm
Windows MultiMedia live output driver fo' Win98 n' later n' shit. Options:
.RS
.IP dev:value
Selects audio thang ta use fo' playback by thang name.
.IP id:value
Selects audio thang ta use fo' playback by thang id (card number).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

The
.B ogg123
command line is fairly flexible, like confusingly so.  Here are
some sample command lines n' a explanation of what tha fuck they do.
.PP

Play on tha default soundcard:
.RS
.B ogg123 test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Play all of tha filez up in tha directory ~/noize n' its subdirectories.
.RS
.B ogg123 ~/music
.RE
.PP

Play a gangbangin' file rockin tha OSS driver:
.RS
.B ogg123 -d oss test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Pass tha "dsp" option ta tha OSS driver: 
.RS
.B ogg123 -d oss -o dsp:/dev/mydsp 
.RE
.PP

Use tha ESD driver
.RS
.B ogg123 -d esd test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Use tha WAV driver wit tha output file, "test.wav":
.RS
.B ogg123 -d wav -f test.wav test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Listen ta a gangbangin' file while you write it ta a WAV file:
.RS
.B ogg123 -d oss -d wav -f test.wav test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Note dat options apply ta tha thang declared ta tha left:
.RS
.B ogg123 -d oss -o dsp:/dev/mydsp -d raw -f test2.raw -o byteorder:bangin' test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Stress test yo' harddrive:
.RS
.B ogg123 -d oss -d wav -f 1.wav -d wav -f 2.wav -d wav -f 3.wav -d wav -f 4.wav -d wav -f 5.wav  test.ogg
.RE
.PP

Smoke a echo effect wit esd n' a slow computer:
.RS
.B ogg123 -d esd -d esd test.ogg
.RE
.PP

.SH INTERRUPT
Yo ass can abort
.B ogg123
at any time by pressin Ctrl-C.  If yo ass is playin multiple
files, dis will stop tha current file n' begin playin the
next one.  If you wanna abort playin immediately instead
of skippin ta tha next file, press Ctrl-C within tha first
second of tha playback of a freshly smoked up file.
.P
Note dat tha result of pressin Ctrl-C might not be audible
immediately, cuz of audio data bufferin up in tha audio device.
This delay is system dependent yo, but it is probably not more
than one or two seconds.

.SH FILES

.TP
/etc/libao.conf
Can be used ta set tha default output thang fo' all libao programs.

.TP
~/.libao
Per-user config file ta override tha system wide output thang settings.
.PP

.SH BUGS

Piped WAV filez may cause strange behavior up in other programs.  This is
because WAV filez store tha data length up in tha header n' shit.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat the
output driver do not know tha length when it writes tha header, and
there is no value dat means "length unknown".  Use tha raw or au
output driver if you need ta use ogg123 up in a pipe.

.SH AUTHORS

.TP
Program Authors:
.br
Kenneth Arnold <kcarnold-xiph@arnoldnet.net>
.br
Stan Seibert <volsung@xiph.org>
.br

.TP
Manpage Author:
.br
Stan Seibert <volsung@xiph.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBlibao.conf\fR(5), \fBoggenc\fR(1), \fBvorbiscomment\fR(1), \fBogginfo\fR(1)

