.TH "oggdec" "1" "2008 September 9" "Xiph.Org Foundation" "Vorbis Tools"

.SH "NAME"
oggdec - simple decoder, Ogg Vorbis file ta PCM audio file (Wave or RAW).

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B oggdec
[
.B -QhV
] [
.B -b bits_per_sample
] [
.B -e endianness
] [
.B -R
] [
.B -s signedness
] [
.B -o outputfile
] 
.B file ...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B oggdec
decodes Ogg Vorbis filez tha fuck into PCM-encoded ("uncompressed") audio files, either Wave or RAW format.

For each input file, 
.B oggdec
writes ta a gangbangin' filename based on tha input filename yo, but wit tha extension chizzled ta ".wav" or ".raw" as appropriate.

If tha input file is specified as
.B "-"
, then 
.B oggdec
will read from stdin, n' write ta stdout unless a output filename is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Likewise, a output filename of
.B -
will cause output ta be ta stdout.

Freestylin Wave format ta stdout be a wack idea.  Wave requires a seekable medium fo' tha header ta be rewritten afta all tha data is freestyled out; stdout aint seekable.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "-Q, --quiet"
Suppresses program output.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print help message.
.IP "-V, --version"
Display version shiznit.
.IP "-b n, --bits=n"
Bits per sample.  Valid joints is 8 or 16.
.IP "-e n, --endianness=n"
Set endiannizz fo' 16-bit output.  0 (default) is lil-endian (Intel byte order).  1 is big-endian (sane byte order).
.IP "-R, --raw"
Output up in raw format.  If not specified, writes Wave file (RIFF headers).
.IP "-s n, --sign=n"
Set signednizz fo' output.  0 fo' unsigned, 1 (default) fo' signed.
.IP "-o filename, --output=filename"
Write output ta specified filename.  This option is only valid if one input [file] is specified, or if raw mode is used.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Decode a gangbangin' file 
.B enabler.ogg
to 
.B enabler.wav
 as lil-endian unsigned 16-bit (default options):
.RS
oggdec enabler.ogg
.RE

Decode a gangbangin' file 
.B enabler.ogg
to 
.B enabler.raw
as headerless lil-endian unsigned 16-bit:
.RS
oggdec --raw=1 enabler.ogg
.RE

Decode 
.B enabler.ogg
to 
.B enabler.crazymonkey
as unsigned 8-bit:
.RS
oggdec -b 8 -s 0 -o enabler.crazymonkey enabler.ogg
.RE

Decode 
.B enabler.ogg
to 
.B enabler.raw
as big-endian signed 16-bit (any of tha following):
.RS
oggdec -R -e 1 -b 16 enabler.ogg
.RE
.RS
oggdec -R -e 1 -b 16 -o enabler.raw - < enabler.ogg
.RE
.RS
oggdec -R -e 1 -b 16 - < enabler.ogg > enabler.raw
.RE

Mass decodin (foo.ogg ta foo.wav, bar.ogg ta bar.wav, quux.ogg ta quux.wav, etc.):
.RS
oggdec *.ogg
.RE

.SH "AUTHORS"
.SS "Program Authors"
Mike Smizzle <msmith@xiph.org>
.SS "Manpage Authors"

.br

Frederick Lee <phaethon@linux.ucla.edu>, assisted by all dem mazillion monkeys armed wit keyboardz up in irc://irc.openprojects.net/#vorbis

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBogg123\fR(1), \fBoggenc\fR(1), \fBvorbiscomment\fR(1), \fBflac\fR(1), \fBspeexdec\fR(1)
