.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oggenc.1
.\"
.TH oggenc 1 "2008 October 05" "Xiph.Org Foundation" "Vorbis Tools"

.SH NAME
oggenc \- encode audio tha fuck into tha Ogg Vorbis format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oggenc
[
.B -hrQ
]
[
.B -B
.I raw input sample size
]
[
.B -C
.I raw input number of channels
]
[
.B -R
.I raw input samplerate
]
[
.B -b
.I nominal bitrate
]
[
.B -m
.I minimum bitrate
]
[
.B -M
.I maximum bitrate
]
[
.B -q
.I quality
]
[
.B --resample 
.I frequency
]
[
.B --downmix 
]
[
.B --scale
]
[
.B -s
.I serial
]
[
.B -o
.I output_file
]
[
.B -n
.I pattern
]
[
.B -c
.I extra_comment
]
[
.B -a
.I artist
]
[
.B -t
.I title
]
[
.B -l
.I mixtape
]
[
.B -G
.I genre
]
[
.B -L
.I lyrics file
]
[
.B -Y
.I language-string
]
.I input_filez \fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oggenc
readz audio data up in either raw, Wave, or AIFF format n' encodes it tha fuck into an
Ogg Vorbis stream.
.B oggenc
may also read audio data from FLAC n' Ogg FLAC filez dependin upon compile-time options.  If tha input file "-" is specified, audio data is
read from
.I stdin
and tha Vorbis stream is freestyled to
.I stdout
unless the
.B -o
option is used ta redirect tha output.  By default, disk filez are
output ta Ogg Vorbis filez of tha same name, wit tha extension
changed ta ".ogg" or ".oga".  This namin convention can be overridden
by the
.B -o
option (in tha case of one file) or the
.B -n
option (in tha case of nuff muthafuckin files). Finally, if none of these
are available, tha output filename is ghon be tha input filename wit the
extension (that part afta tha final dot) replaced wit ogg, so file.wav
will become file.ogg.
.br
Optionally, lyrics may be embedded up in tha Ogg file, if Kate support was compiled in.
.br
Note dat some oldschool playas mail fail ta play streams wit mo' than a single Vorbis stream
(the so called "Vorbis I" simple profile).

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
Show command help.
.IP "-V, --version"
Show tha version number.
.IP "-r, --raw"
Assume input data is raw lil-endian audio data wit no
header shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If other options is not specified, defaults ta 44.1kHz
stereo 16 bit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See next three options fo' how tha fuck ta chizzle all dis bullshit.
.IP "-B n, --raw-bits=n"
Sets raw mode input sample size up in bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Default is 16.
.IP "-C n, --raw-chan=n"
Sets raw mode input number of channels. Default is 2.
.IP "-R n, --raw-rate=n"
Sets raw mode input samplerate. Default is 44100.
.IP "--raw-endiannizz n
Sets raw mode endiannizz ta big-ass endian (1) or lil endian (0). Default is
lil endian.
.IP "--utf8 \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "
Informs oggenc dat tha Vorbis Comments is already encoded as UTF-8.
Useful up in thangs where tha shell is rockin some other encoding.
.IP "-k, --skeleton"
Add a Skeleton bitstream.  Important if tha output Ogg is intended ta carry
multiplexed or chained streams.  Output file uses .oga as file extension.
.IP "--ignorelength"
Support fo' Wave filez over 4 GB n' stdin data streams.
.IP "-Q, --quiet"
Quiet mode.  No lyrics is displayed.
.IP "-b n, --bitrate=n"
Sets target bitrate ta n (in kb/s). Da encoder will attempt ta encode at approximately dis bitrate. By default, dis remains a VBR encoding. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha --managed option ta force a managed bitrate encodin all up in tha selected bitrate.
.IP "-m n, --min-bitrate=n"
Sets minimum bitrate ta n (in kb/s). Enablez bitrate pimpment mode (see --managed).
.IP "-M n, --max-bitrate=n"
Sets maximum bitrate ta n (in kb/s). Enablez bitrate pimpment mode (see --managed).
.IP "--managed"
Set bitrate pimpment mode. This turns off tha aiiight VBR encodin yo, but allows
hard or soft bitrate constraints ta be enforced by tha encoder n' shit. This mode is
much slower, n' may also be lower quality. Well shiiiit, it is primarily useful fo' bustin
filez fo' streaming.
.IP "-q n, --quality=n"
Sets encodin qualitizzle ta n, between -1 (very low) n' 10 (very high). This is tha default mode of operation, wit a thugged-out default qualitizzle level of 3. Fractionizzle qualitizzle levels like fuckin 2.5 is permitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Usin dis option allows tha encoder ta select a appropriate bitrate based on yo' desired qualitizzle level.
.IP "--resample n"
Resample input ta tha given sample rate (in Hz) before encoding. Primarily
useful fo' downsamplin fo' lower-bitrate encoding.
.IP "--downmix"
Downmix input from stereo ta mono (has no effect on non-stereo streams). Useful
for lower-bitrate encoding.
.IP "--scale"
Input scalin factor (helps wit clippin inputs).
.IP "--advanced-encode-option optionname=value"
Sets a advanced option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Advanced Options section fo' details.
.IP "-s, --serial"
Forces a specific serial number up in tha output stream. This is primarily useful fo' testing.
.IP "--discard-comments"
Prevents comments up in FLAC n' Ogg FLAC filez from bein copied ta the
output Ogg Vorbis file.
.IP "-o output_file, --output=output_file"
Write tha Ogg Vorbis stream to
.I output_file
(only valid if a single input file is specified).

.IP "-n pattern, --names=pattern"
Produce filenames as dis string, wit %g, %a, %l, %n, %t, %d replaced by
genre, artist, mixtape, track number, title, n' date, respectively (see below
for specifyin these) fo' realz. Also, %% gives a literal %.
.IP "-X, --name-remove=s"
Remove tha specified charactas from parametas ta tha -n format string. This is useful ta ensure legal filenames is generated.
.IP "-P, --name-replace=s"
Replace charactas removed by --name-remove wit tha charactas specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If dis strang is shorta than tha --name-remove list, or aint specified, tha extra charactas is just removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default settings fo' dis option, n' tha -X option above, is platform specific (and chosen ta ensure legal filenames is generated fo' each platform).

.IP "-c comment, --comment comment"
Add tha string
.I comment
as a extra comment.  This may be used multiple times, n' all
instances is ghon be added ta each of tha input filez specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da argument
should be up in tha form "tag=value".

.IP "-a artist, --artist artist"
Set tha artist comment field up in tha comments to
.I artist.

.IP "-G genre, --genre genre"
Set tha genre comment field up in tha comments to
.I genre.

.IP "-d date, --date date"
Sets tha date comment field ta tha given value. This should be tha date of recording.

.IP "-N n, --tracknum n"
Sets tha track number comment field ta tha given value.

.IP "-t title, --title title"
Set tha track title comment field to
.I title.

.IP "-l mixtape, --album mixtape"
Set tha mixtape comment field to
.I mixtape.

.IP "-L filename, --lyrics filename"
Loadz lyrics from
.I filename
and encodes dem tha fuck into a Kate stream multiplexed wit tha Vorbis stream.
Lyrics may be up in LRC or SRT format, n' should be encoded up in UTF-8 or
plain ASCII. Other encodings may be converted rockin tools like fuckin iconv
or recode fo' realz. Alternatively, tha same system as fo' comments is ghon be used
for conversion between encodings.
So called "enhanced LRC" filez is supported, n' a simple karaoke style
change is ghon be saved wit tha lyrics. For mo' complex karaoke setups,
.B kateenc(1)
should be used instead.
When embeddin lyrics, tha default output file extention is ".oga".
Note dat addin lyrics ta a stream will automatically enable Skeleton
(see tha \fB-k\fR option fo' mo' shiznit bout Skeleton).

.IP "-Y language-string, --lyrics-language language-string"
Sets tha language fo' tha correspondin lyrics file to
.I language-string.
This should be a ISO 639-1 language code (eg, "en"), or a RFC 3066 language tag
(eg, "en_US"),
.B not
a free form language name. Players will typically recognize dis standard tag
and display tha language name up in yo' own language.
Note dat tha maximum length of dis tag is 15 characters.
.PP

Note dat tha \fB-a\fR, \fB-t\fR, \fB-l\fR, \fB-L\fR, n' \fB-Y\fR  options
can be given multiple times.  They is ghon be applied, one ta each file, up in the
order given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If there be fewer mixtape, title, or artist comments given than
there is input files,
.B oggenc
will reuse tha final one fo' tha remainin files, n' issue a warning
in tha case of repeated titles.

.SH "ADVANCED ENCODER OPTIONS"

Oggenc allows you ta set a fuckin shitload of advanced encoder options rockin the
.B --advanced-encode-option
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These is intended fo' straight-up advanced playas only, n' should be
approached wit caution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. They may hella degrade audio quality
if misused. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Not all these options is currently documented.

.IP "lowpass_frequency=N"
Set tha lowpass frequency ta N kHz.

.IP "impulse_noisetune=N"
Set a noise floor bias N (range from -15. ta 0.) fo' impulse blocks.
A wack bias instructs tha encoder ta pay special attention ta the
crispnizz of transients up in tha encoded audio.  Da tradeoff fo' better
transient response be a higher bitrate.

.IP "bitrate_hard_max=N"
Set tha allowed bitrate maximum fo' tha encoded file ta N kilobits per 
second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This bitrate may be exceeded only when there is spare bits
in tha bit reservoir; if tha bit reservoir is exhausted, frames will
be held under dis value.  This settin must be used wit --managed 
to have any effect.

.IP "bitrate_hard_min=N"
Set tha allowed bitrate minimum fo' tha encoded file ta N kilobits per
second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This bitrate may be underrun only when tha bit reservoir is
not full; if tha bit reservoir is full, frames is ghon be held over this
value; if it impossible ta add bits constructively, tha frame will be
padded wit zeroes.  This settin must be used wit --managed ta have
any effect.

.IP "bit_reservoir_bits=N"
Set tha total size of tha bit reservoir ta N bits; tha default size of
the reservoir is equal ta tha nominal number of bits coded up in one
second (eg, a nominal 128kbps file gonna git a lil' bit reservoir of 128000
bits by default).  This option must be used wit --managed ta have any
effect n' affects only minimum n' maximum bitrate pimpment.
Average bitrate encodin wit no hard bitrate boundaries do not use
a bit reservoir.

.IP "bit_reservoir_bias=N"
Set tha behavior biaz of tha bit reservoir (range: 0. ta 1.).  When
set closer ta 0, tha bitrate manager attempts ta hoard bits fo' future
use up in sudden bitrate increases (biasin toward betta transient
rethang).  When set closer ta 1, tha bitrate manager neglects
transients up in favor rockin bits fo' homogenous passages.  In the
middle, tha manager uses a funky-ass balanced approach.  Da default settin is \.2, 
thus biasin slightly toward transient rethang.

.IP "bitrate_average=N"
Set tha average bitrate fo' tha file ta N kilobits per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When used
without hard minimum or maximum limits, dis option selects
reservoirless Average Bit Rate encoding, where tha encoder attempts to
perfectly track a thugged-out desired bitrate yo, but imposes no strict momentary
fluctuation limits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  When used along wit a minimum or maximum limit,
the average bitrate still sets tha average overall bitrate of the
file yo, but will work within tha boundz set by tha bit reservoir. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  When
the min, max n' average bitrates is identical, oggenc produces
Constant Bit Rate Vorbis data.

.IP "bitrate_average_damping=N"
Set tha erection time fo' tha average bitrate tracker ta N seconds.
This number represents tha fastest erection tha bitrate tracker is
allowed ta make ta hold tha bitrate ta tha selected average.  The
fasta tha erection time, tha less momentary fluctuation up in the
bitrate but (generally) tha lower qualitizzle tha audio output.  The
slower tha erection time, tha larger tha ABR fluctuations yo, but
(generally) tha betta tha audio.  When used along wit min or max
bitrate limits, dis option directly affects how tha fuck deep n' how tha fuck quickly
the encoder will dip tha fuck into its bit reservoir; tha higher tha number,
the mo' demand on tha bit reservoir.

Da settin must be pimped outa than zero n' tha useful range is
approximately \.05 ta 10.  Da default is \.75 seconds.

.IP "disable_coupling"
Disable use of channel couplin fo' multichannel encoding.  At present,
the encoder will normally use channel couplin ta further increase
compression wit stereo n' 5.1 inputs, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This option forces tha encoder
to encode each channel straight-up independently rockin neither lossy nor
lossless coupling. 

.SH EXAMPLES

Simplest version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Produces output as somefile.ogg:
.RS
oggenc somefile.wav
.RE
.PP

Specifyin a output filename:
.RS
oggenc somefile.wav -o out.ogg
.RE
.PP

Specifyin a high-qualitizzle encodin averagin 256 kbps (but still VBR):
.RS
oggenc infile.wav -b 256 -o out.ogg
.RE
.PP

Specifyin a maximum n' average bitrate, n' enforcin these:
.RS
oggenc infile.wav --managed -b 128 -M 160 -o out.ogg
.RE
.PP

Specifyin qualitizzle rather than bitrate (to a straight-up high qualitizzle mode):
.RS
oggenc infile.wav -q 6 -o out.ogg
.RE
.PP

Downsamplin n' downmixin ta 11 kHz mono before encoding:
.RS
oggenc --resample 11025 --downmix infile.wav -q 1 -o out.ogg
.RE
.PP

Addin some info bout tha track:
.RS
oggenc somefile.wav -t "Da track title" -a "artist whoz ass performed this" -l
"name of mixtape" -c
"OTHERFIELD=contentz of some other field not explicitly supported"
.RE
.PP

Addin embedded lyrics:
.RS
oggenc somefile.wav --lyrics lyrics.lrc --lyrics-language en -o out.oga
.RE
.PP

This encodes tha three files, each wit the
same artist/album tag yo, but wit different title tags on each one. The
strin given as a argument ta -n is used ta generate filenames, as shown
in tha section above. This example gives filenames
like "Da Tea Jam - Touch.ogg":
.RS
oggenc -b 192 -a "Da Tea Party" -l "Triptych" -t "Touch" track01.wav -t
"Underground" track02.wav -t "Great Big Lie" track03.wav -n "%a - %t.ogg"
.RE
.PP

Encodin from stdin, ta stdout (you can also use tha various tagging
options, like -t, -a, -l, etc.):
.RS
oggenc -
.RE
.PP

.SH AUTHORS

.TP
Program Author:
.br
Mike Smizzle <msmith@xiph.org>

.TP
Manpage Author:
.br
Stan Seibert <indigo@aztec.asu.edu>

.SH BUGS
Readin type 3 Wave filez (floatin point samples) probably don't work other than on Intel (or other 32 bit, lil endian machines).

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBvorbiscomment\fR(1), \fBogg123\fR(1), \fBoggdec\fR(1), \fBflac\fR(1), \fBspeexenc\fR(1), \fBffmpeg2theora\fR(1), \fBkateenc\fR(1)
