.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ogginfo.1
.\"
.TH ogginfo 1 "July 10, 2002" "Xiph.Org Foundation" "Vorbis Tools"

.SH NAME
ogginfo \- gives shiznit bout Ogg files, n' do extensive validitizzle checking

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ogginfo
[
.B -q
] [
.B -v
] [
.B -h
]
.I file1.ogg
.B ...
.I fileN.ogg

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ogginfo
readz one or mo' Ogg filez n' prints shiznit bout stream contents 
(includin chained and/or multiplexed streams) ta standard output. Well shiiiit, it will 
detect (but not erect) a wide range of common defects, wit nuff 
additionizzle checks specifically fo' Ogg Vorbis streams.

For all stream types
.B ogginfo
will print tha filename bein processed, tha stream serial numbers, n' various
common error conditions.

For
.B Vorbis
streams, shiznit includin tha version used fo' encoding, tha sample rate
and number of channels, tha bitrate n' playback length, n' tha contents of
the comment header is printed.

Similarly, for
.B Theora
streams, basic shiznit bout tha vizzle is provided, includin frame rate, aspect ratio, bitrate, length, n' tha comment header.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h
Show a help n' usage message.
.IP -q
Quiet mode. This may be specified multiple times. Bustin so once will remove
the detailed informatizzle lyrics, twice will remove warnings as well.
.IP -v
Verbose mode fo' realz. At tha current time, dis do not do anything.
.IP -V
Output version shiznit n' exit.

.SH AUTHORS
.br
Mike Smizzle <msmith@xiph.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBvorbiscomment\fR(1), \fBogg123\fR(1), \fBoggdec\fR(1), \fBoggenc\fR(1)
