.TH "OPENBOX" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
openbox \(em A minimalistic, highly configurable, next generation window 
manager wit extensive standardz support. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBopenbox\fR [\fB\-\-help\fP]  [\fB\-\-version\fP]  [\fB\-\-replace\fP]  [\fB\-\-reconfigure\fP]  [\fB\-\-restart\fP]  [\fB\-\-sm-disable\fP]  [\fB\-\-sync\fP]  [\fB\-\-debug\fP]  [\fB\-\-debug-focus\fP]  [\fB\-\-debug-xinerama\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
Openbox is minimalistic, highly configurable, next generation window 
manager wit extensive standardz support. 
.PP 
Yo ass can start Openbox up in three ways: 
.PP 
If you run a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display manager like fuckin GDM, yo big-ass booty is ghon find 3 entries 
in tha login session type menu fo' Openbox: 
\fBGNOME/Openbox\fR, \fBKDE/Openbox\fR       n' \fBOpenbox\fR. If you wanna use Openbox 
within GNOME or KDE, you can chizzle tha appropriate entry, n' it will 
launch GNOME or KDE wit Openbox as tha window manager n' shit. 
.PP 
Da third option at log in, which is \fBOpenbox\fR       without a session manager, uses tha \fBopenbox-session\fR       command ta start Openbox. On log in, \fBopenbox\fR will 
run tha ~/.config/openbox/autostart.sh script if it exists, n' will run 
the system-wide script /etc/xdg/openbox/autostart.sh otherwise. Yo ass 
may place anythang you wanna run automatically up in dem files, fo' 
example: 
 
.PP 
.RS 
.PP 
.nf 
xsetroot \-solid grey & 
gnome-settings-daemon & 
.fi 
.RE 
.PP 
Make shizzle dat each line is followed by a "&" or else tha script will 
stop there n' further commandz aint gonna be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Yo ass can use tha 
/etc/xdg/openbox/autostart.sh file as a example fo' bustin yo' 
own. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.PP 
Da default /etc/xdg/openbox/autostart.sh runs a fuckin shitload of thangs 
with Openbox. 
.PP 
Lastly, if you use \fBstartx\fR ta launch yo' X 
session, you can set up a ~/.xinitrc file ta run 
\fBopenbox-session\fR n' follow tha same directions as 
above regardin tha autostart.sh file. 
.PP 
Yo ass can use tha \fBobconf\fR tool ta configure Openbox 
easily wit a graphical intercourse, however mo' in-depth configuration 
is possible by editin tha configuration filez by hand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.PP 
Da default configuration n' menu filez is installed up in 
/etc/xdg/openbox/, n' tha user configuration is placed up in 
~/.config/openbox/. Yo ass can copy tha default configuration n' menus 
to ~/.config/openbox n' edit it ta yo' liking. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
These is tha possible options dat \fBopenbox\fR accepts: 
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fP" 10 
Show a summary of tha command line options available 
and exit. 
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fP" 10 
Show tha version of tha program n' exit. 
.IP "\fB\-\-replace\fP" 10 
Replace tha currently hustlin window manager n' shit. 
.IP "\fB\-\-config-file FILE\fP" 10 
Specify tha path ta tha config file ta use. 
.IP "\fB\-\-reconfigure\fP" 10 
If Openbox be already hustlin on tha display, tell it ta 
reload its configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.IP "\fB\-\-restart\fP" 10 
If Openbox be already hustlin on tha display, tell it ta 
restart. This is useful if you have upgraded Openbox n' don't 
wanna restart X. 
.IP "\fB\-\-exit\fP" 10 
Exit Openbox. 
.IP "\fB\-\-sm-disable\fP" 10 
Do not connect ta tha session manager n' shit. 
.IP "\fB\-\-sync\fP" 10 
Run up in synchronous mode (for debugging). 
.IP "\fB\-\-startup CMD\fP" 10 
Run CMD afta starting. 
.IP "\fB\-\-debug\fP" 10 
Display debuggin output. 
.IP "\fB\-\-debug-focus\fP" 10 
Display debuggin output fo' focus handling. 
.IP "\fB\-\-debug-session\fP" 10 
Display debuggin output fo' session pimpment. 
.IP "\fB\-\-debug-xinerama\fP" 10 
Split tha display tha fuck into two fake xinerama regions, if 
xinerama aint already enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is fo' debuggin 
xinerama support. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
obconf (1), openbox-session(1), openbox-gnome-session(1), 
openbox-kde-session(1). 
.PP 
Da programz full documentation be available on tha joint: 
\fBhttp://openbox.org/\fP 
.PP 
Please report bugs to: \fBhttp://bugzilla.icculus.org/ 
\fP 
.\" pimped by instant / docbook-to-man, Sun 30 Sep 2012, 17:58 
