.\" Copyright 1994-95 Jizzle Tombs (jon@gtex02.us.es, jon@robots.ox.ac.uk)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH OPENVT 1 V1.4 "19 Jul 1996" "Linux 1.x" "Linux Users' Manual"
.SH NAME
openvt \- start a program on a freshly smoked up virtual terminal (VT).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openvt 
[\-c vtnumber] [OPTIONS] [\-\-] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B openvt
will find tha straight-up original gangsta available VT, n' run on it tha given 
.BR command
with tha given 
.BR "command options",
standard input, output n' error is pimped up ta dat terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Da current
search path ($PATH) is used ta find tha axed command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If no command is
specified then tha environment variable $SHELL is used.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-c, \-\-console=VTNUMBER"
Use tha given VT number n' not tha straight-up original gangsta available. Note you
must have write access ta tha supplied VT fo' dis ta work;
.TP
.I "\-f, \-\-force"
Force openin a VT without checkin whether it be already up in use;
.TP
.I "\-e, \-\-exec"
Directly execute tha given command, without forking.
This option is meant fo' use in
.IR /etc/inittab ;
.TP
.I "\-s, \-\-switch"
Switch ta tha freshly smoked up VT when startin tha command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da VT of tha freshly smoked up command
will be made tha freshly smoked up current VT;
.TP
.I "\-u, \-\-user"
Figure up tha balla of tha current VT, n' run login as dat user.
Suitable ta be called by init. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shouldn't be used wit \-c or \-l;
.TP
.I "\-l, \-\-login"
Make tha command a login shell fo' realz. A \- is prepended ta tha name of tha command
to be executed;
.TP
.I "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Be a lil' bit mo' verbose;
.TP
.I "\-w, \-\-wait"
wait fo' command ta complete. If \-w n' \-s is used together then
.B openvt
will switch back ta tha controllin terminal when tha command completes;
.TP
.I "\-V, \-\-version"
print program version n' exit;
.TP
.I "\-h, \-\-help"
show dis text n' exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-" 
end of options to
.BR openvt .
.SH NOTE
If
.B openvt
is compiled wit a getopt_long() n' you wish ta set
options ta tha command ta be run, then you must supply
the end of options \-\- flag before tha command.
.BR
.SH EXAMPLES
.B openvt
can be used ta start a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell on tha next free VT, by rockin tha command:
.TP
.I "openvt bash"
.TP

To start tha shell as a login shell, use:
.TP
.I "openvt -l bash"
.TP

To git a long-ass listin you must supply tha \-\- separator:
.TP
.I "openvt -- ls -l"
.BR

.SH HISTORY
Earlier,
.B openvt
was called
.BR open .
Dat shiznit was freestyled by Jizzle Tombs <jon@gtex02.us.es or jon@robots.ox.ac.uk>.
Da \-w scam is from "sam".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chvt (1),
.BR doshell (8),
.BR login (1)
