.\" Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Sun Microsystems Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2,
.\" or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit this; if not write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston MA 02110-1301 USA
'\"
.TH orca 1 "20 September 2013" "GNOME"
.SH NAME
orca \- a scriptable screen reader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orca
.RI [ option... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B orca
is a screen reader fo' playas wit visual impairments,
it serves up alternatizzle access ta tha desktop by rockin rap synthesis n' braille.
.P
.B orca
works wit applications n' toolkits dat support
the Assistizzle Technologizzle Service Provider Interface (AT-SPI), which
is tha primary assistizzle technologizzle infrastructure fo' Linux and
Solaris fo' realz. Applications n' toolkits supportin tha AT-SPI include the
GNOME Gtk+ toolkit, tha Java platformz Swin toolkit, LibreOffice,
Gecko, n' WebKitGtk fo' realz. AT-SPI support fo' tha KDE Qt toolkit is being
pursued.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t, --text-setup
When starting
.BR orca ,
initiate tha text-based configuration.
.TP
.BI "\-u, --user-prefs-dir=" dirname
When starting
.BR orca ,
use
.I dirname
as a alternate directory fo' tha user preferences.
.TP
.BI "\-e, \-\-enable=" speech|braille|braille\-monitor
When starting
.BR orca ,
force tha enablin of tha supplied options.
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-disable=" speech|braille|braille\-monitor
When starting
.BR orca ,
force tha disablin of tha supplied options.
.TP
.B \-l, --list-apps
Prints tha namez of all tha currently hustlin applications.  This
is used primarily fo' debuggin purposes ta peep if
.B orca
can rap ta tha accessibilitizzle infrastructure.  Note dat if
.B orca
is already hustlin, dis aint gonna bust a cap up in tha other
.B orca
process.  It will just list tha currently hustlin applications,
and yo big-ass booty is ghon see
.B orca
listed twice: once fo' tha existing
.B orca
and once fo' dis instance.
.TP
.B \--debug
Enablez debug output for
.B orca
and sendz all debug output ta a gangbangin' file wit a name of the
form 'debug-YYYY-MM-DD-HH:MM:SS.out' up in tha current directory.
Da YYYY-MM-DD-HH:MM:SS portion is ghon be replaced wit tha current
date n' time.
.TP
.BI "\--debug-file=" filename
Enablez debug output for
.B orca
and sendz all debug output ta tha given filename.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
outputs
.B orca
version number n' exits.
.TP
.B \-h, \--help
displays
.B orca
help n' exits.
.TP
.B \--replace
Replace a cold-ass lil currently hustlin
.BR orca
process.  By default, if
.BR orca
detects a existing
.BR orca
process fo' tha same session, it aint gonna start a new
.BR orca
process.  This option will bust a cap up in n' cleanup afta any existing
.BR orca
process n' then start a new
.BR orca
in its place.
.TP

.SH KEYBOARD SETTINGS
Orca serves up two keyboard modes, Desktop n' Laptop keyboard layout. The
.B Orca_Modifier
key is 
.B Insert
in desktop keyboard layout and
.B Caps_Lock
in laptop keyboard layout.

.B Orca
uses default GNOME keyboard shortcuts ta navigate tha desktop n' interact wit various applications. Da flat review commandz provide a alternatizzle method of interaction up in certain inaccessible applications. Well shiiiit, it should not be trippin wit flat review functionalitizzle provided by other screen readers.

.SH Desktop Mode

.B Flat review commands

.B "Numpad-7"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous line n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-8"
read tha current line.

.B "Numpad-9"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next line n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-4"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous word n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-5"
read tha current word.

.B "Numpad-6"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next word n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-1"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous characta n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-2"
read tha current character.

.B "Numpad-3"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next characta n' read dat shit.

.B "Numpad-slash"
perform a left mouse click all up in tha location of tha flat review cursor.

.B "Numpad-star"
perform a right mouse click all up in tha location of tha flat review cursor.

.B Bookmark commands

.B "Alt+Insert+[1-6]"
assign a funky-ass bookmark ta a numbered slot. If a funky-ass bookmark already exists up in tha slot it is ghon be replaced wit tha freshly smoked up one.

.B "Insert+[1-6]"
go ta tha posizzle pointed ta by tha bookmark bound ta dis numbered slot.

.B "Insert+B n' Insert+Shift+B"
move between tha given bookmarks fo' tha given application or page.

.B "Alt+Insert+B"
save tha defined bookmarks fo' tha current application or page.


.B Miscellaneous functions

.B "Numpad+Plus"
 'say all' command; readz from tha current posizzle of tha caret ta tha end of tha document.

.B "Numpad+Enter"
 'Where be I' command; speaks shiznit like fuckin tha title of tha current application window, as well as tha name of tha control dat currently has focus.

.B "Insert+H"
enta tha fuck into orcaz 'learn mode'; press Escape ta exit.

.B "Insert+Shift+Backslash"
toggle live regions monitorin on n' off.

.B "Insert+F"
speak font n' attribute shiznit fo' tha current character.

.B "Insert+Space"
Launch tha orca Configuration dialog.

.B "Insert+Ctrl+Space"
reload user settings n' reinitialize skillz as necessary fo' realz. Also launches tha orca Configuration dialog fo' tha current application.

.B "Insert+S"
toggle rap on n' off.

.B "Insert+F11"
toggle tha readin of tables, either by single cell or whole row.

.SH Laptop Mode

.B Flat review commands

.B "Caps_Lock+U"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous line n' read dat shit. Double-click ta move flat review ta tha top of tha current window.

.B "Caps_Lock+I"
read tha current line. Double-click ta read tha current line along wit formattin n' capitalization details.

.B "Caps_Lock+O"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next line n' read dat shit. Double- click ta move flat review ta tha bottom of tha current window.

.B "Caps_Lock+J"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous word n' read dat shit. Double-click ta move flat review ta tha word above tha current word.

.B "Caps_Lock+K"
read tha current word. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Double-click ta spell tha word. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Triple-click ta hear tha word spelled phonetically.

.B "Caps_Lock+L"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next word n' read dat shit. Double- click ta move flat review ta tha word below tha current word.

.B "Caps_Lock+M"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha previous characta n' read dat shit. Double-click ta move flat review ta tha end of tha current line.

.B "Caps_Lock+Comma"
read tha current character n' shit. Double-click ta pronounce tha characta phonetically if it aint nuthin but a letter.

.B "Caps_Lock+Period"
move tha flat review cursor ta tha next characta n' read dat shit.

.B "Caps_Lock+7"
perform a left mouse click all up in tha location of tha flat review cursor.

.B "Caps_Lock+8"
perform a right mouse click all up in tha location of tha flat review cursor.

.B Bookmark commands

.B "Alt+Caps_Lock+[1-6]"

add a funky-ass bookmark ta tha numbered slot. If a funky-ass bookmark already exists fo' tha slot it is ghon be replaced wit tha freshly smoked up one.

.B "Caps_Lock+[1-6]"
go ta tha posizzle pointed ta by tha bookmark bound ta dis numbered slot.

.B "Caps_Lock+Band Caps_Lock+Shift+B"
move between tha given bookmarks fo' tha given application or page.

.B "Alt+Caps_Lock+B"
save tha defined bookmarks fo' tha current application or page.

.B Miscellaneous functions

.B "Caps_Lock+Semicolon"
 'Say all' command; readz from tha current posizzle of tha caret ta tha end of tha document.
.B "Caps_Lock+Enter"
 'Where be I' command; speaks shiznit like fuckin tha title of tha current application window, as well as tha name of tha control dat currently has focus.

.B "Caps_Lock+H"
enta learn mode (press Escape ta exit).

.B "Caps_Lock+Shift+Backslash"
toggle live regions monitorin on n' off.

.B "Caps_Lock+F"
speak font n' attribute shiznit fo' tha current character.

.B "Caps_Lock+Space"
launch tha orca Configuration dialog.

.B "Caps_Lock+Ctrl+Space"
reload user settings n' reinitialize skillz as necessary; also launches tha orca Configuration dialog fo' tha current application.

.B "Caps_Lock+S"
toggle rap on n' off.

.B "Caps_Lock+F11"
toggle tha readin of tables, either by single cell or whole row.

.SH FILES
.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca
.B Orca
user preferences directory
.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca/user-settings.conf
.B Orca
user preferences configuration file.
.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca/orca-customizations.py
.B Orca
user customizations configuration file

.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca/orca-scripts
.B Orca
user orca scripts directory
.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca/bookmarks
.B Orca
user bookmarks directory
.TP
.BI ~/.local/share/orca/app-settings
.B Orca
user application specific settings directory


.SH AUTHOR
.B Orca
originated as a cold-ass lil hood effort hustled by tha Sun Microsystems Inc.
Accessibilitizzle Program Office n' wit contributions from nuff hood members.
.SH SEE ALSO
For mo' shiznit please visit
.B orca
wiki at
.UR http://live.gnome.org/Orca
<http://live.gnome.org/Orca>
.UE
.P
The
.B orca
mailin list
.UR http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/orca-list
<http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/orca-list>
To post a message ta all
.B orca
list, bust a email ta orca-list@gnome.org
