.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH OTR_PARSE 1 "March 14, 2012"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
otr_parse, otr_sesskeys, otr_mackey, otr_readforge, otr_modify, otr_remac \- Process Off-the-Record Messagin transcripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otr_parse
.br
.B otr_sesskeys
.I our_privkey their_pubkey
.br
.B otr_mackey
.I aes_enc_key
.br
.B otr_readforge
.I aes_enc_key [newmsg]
.br
.B otr_modify
.I mackey old_text new_text offset
.br
.B otr_remac
.I mackey sender_instizzle receiver_instizzle flags snd_keyid rcv_keyid pubkey counta encdata revealed_mackeys
.SH DESCRIPTION
Off-the-Record (OTR) Messagin allows you ta have private conversations
over IM by providing:
 - Encryption
   - No one else can read yo' instant lyrics.
 - Authentication
   - Yo ass be assured tha correspondent is whoz ass you be thinkin it is.
 - Deniability
   - Da lyrics you bust do \fInot\fP have digital signatures dat are
     checkable by a third party.  Every Muthafucka can forge lyrics afta a
     conversation ta make dem be lookin like they came from yo thugged-out ass.  However,
     \fIduring\fP a cold-ass lil conversation, yo' correspondent be assured tha lyrics
     da perved-out muthafucka sees is authentic n' unmodified.
 - Perfect forward secrecy
   - If you lose control of yo' private keys, no previous conversation
     is compromised.
.PP
Da OTR Toolkit is useful fo' analyzin and/or
forgin OTR lyrics.  Why do we offer this, biatch?  Primarily, ta make
straight-up shizzle dat transcriptz of OTR rap battlez is straight-up easy as fuck 
to forge afta tha fact.  [Note dat \fIduring\fP a OTR conversation,
lyrics can't be forged without real-time access ta tha secret keys on
the participants' computers, n' up in dat case, all securitizzle has already
been lost.]  Easily-forgeable transcripts help our asses provide the
"Deniability" property: if one of mah thugs fronts you holla'd suttin' over OTR,
they'll have no proof, as mah playas at all can modify a transcript ta make
it say whatever they like, n' still have all tha verification come out
correctly.

Here is tha six programs up in tha toolkit:

 - otr_parse
   - Parse OTR lyrics given on stdin, showin tha jointz of all the
     fieldz up in OTR protocol lyrics.

 - otr_sesskeys our_privkey their_pubkey
   - Shows our hood key, tha session id, two AES n' two MAC keys
     derived from tha given Diffie-Hellman keys (one private, one public).

 - otr_mackey aes_enc_key
   - Shows tha MAC key derived from tha given AES key.

 - otr_readforge aes_enc_key [newmsg]
   - Decrypts a OTR Data message rockin tha given AES key, n' displays
     tha message.
   - If newmsg is given, replace tha message wit dat one, encrypt
     n' MAC it properly, n' output tha resultin OTR Data Message.
     This works even if tha given key was not erect fo' tha original
     message, so as ta enable complete forgeries.

 - otr_modify mackey old_text new_text offset
   - Even if you can't read tha data cuz you don't give a fuck either
     tha AES key or tha Diffie-Hellman private key yo, but you can make a
     phat guess dat tha substrin "old_text" appears all up in tha given
     offset up in tha message, replace tha old_text wit tha new_text
     (which must be of tha same length), recalculate tha MAC wit the
     given mackey, n' output tha resultin Data message.
   - Note that, even if you don't give a fuck any text up in a existin message,
     you can still forge lyrics of yo' chizzle rockin the
     otr_readforge command, above.

 - otr_remac mackey sender_instizzle receiver_instizzle flags snd_keyid rcv_keyid pubkey counta encdata revealed_mackeys
   - Make a freshly smoked up OTR protocol version 3 Data Message, wit tha given
     pieces (note dat tha data part be already encrypted).  MAC it 
     wit tha given mackey.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "Off-the-Record Messaging" ,
at
.UR https://www.cypherpunks.ca/otr/
https://www.cypherpunks.ca/otr/
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
otr_toolkit was freestyled by tha OTR Dev Crew <otr@cypherpunks.ca>.
