.TH pacat 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pacat \- Play back or record raw or encoded audio streams on a PulseAudio sound server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpaplay [\fIoptions\fB] [\fIFILE\fB]

parecord [\fIoptions\fB] [\fIFILE\fB]

pacat [\fIoptions\fB] [\fIFILE\fB]

parec [\fIoptions\fB] [\fIFILE\fB]

pamon [\fIoptions\fB] [\fIFILE\fB]

pacat --help\fB

pacat --version\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpacat\f1 be a simple tool fo' playin back or capturin raw or encoded audio filez on a PulseAudio sound server.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB--version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.TP
\fB-r | --record\f1
Capture audio data n' write it ta tha specified file or ta STDOUT if none is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha tool is called under tha name \fIparec\f1 dis is tha default.
.TP
\fB-p | --playback\f1
Read audio data from tha specified file or STDIN if none is specified, n' play it back. If tha tool is called under tha name \fIpacat\f1 dis is tha default.
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Enable verbose operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Dumps tha current playback time ta STDERR durin playback/capturing.
.TP
\fB-s | --server\f1\fI=SERVER\f1
Choose tha server ta connect to.
.TP
\fB-d | --device\f1\fI=SINKORSOURCE\f1
Specify tha symbolic name of tha sink/source ta play/record dis stream on/from.
.TP
\fB--monitor-stream\f1\fI=INDEX\f1
Record from tha sink input wit index INDEX.
.TP
\fB-n | --client-name\f1\fI=NAME\f1
Specify tha client name \fIpaplay\f1 shall pass ta tha server when connecting.
.TP
\fB--stream-name\f1\fI=NAME\f1
Specify tha stream name \fIpaplay\f1 shall pass ta tha server when bustin tha stream.
.TP
\fB--volume\f1\fI=VOLUME\f1
Specify tha initial playback volume ta use. Chizzle a value between 0 (silent) n' 65536 (100% volume).
.TP
\fB--rate\f1\fI=SAMPLERATE\f1
Capture or play back audio wit tha specified sample rate. Defaults ta 44100 Hz.
.TP
\fB--format\f1\fI=FORMAT\f1
Capture or play back audio wit tha specified sample format. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify one of \fBu8\f1, \fBs16le\f1, \fBs16be\f1, \fBs32le\f1, \fBs32be\f1, \fBfloat32le\f1, \fBfloat32be\f1, \fBulaw\f1, \fBalaw\f1, \fBs32le\f1, \fBs32be\f1, \fBs24le\f1, \fBs24be\f1, \fBs24-32le\f1, \fBs24-32be\f1. Dependin on tha endiannizz of tha CPU tha formats \fBs16ne\f1, \fBs16re\f1, \fBs32ne\f1, \fBs32re\f1, \fBfloat32ne\f1, \fBfloat32re\f1, \fBs32ne\f1, \fBs32re\f1, \fBs24ne\f1, \fBs24re\f1, \fBs24-32ne\f1, \fBs24-32re\f1 (for native, resp. reverse endian) is available as aliases. Defaults ta s16ne.
.TP
\fB--channels\f1\fI=CHANNELS\f1
Capture or play back audio wit tha specified number of channels. If mo' than two channels is used it is recommended ta use tha \fB--channel-map\f1 option below. Defaults ta 2.
.TP
\fB--channel-map\f1\fI=CHANNELMAP\f1
Explicitly chizzle a cold-ass lil channel map when playin back dis stream. Da argument should be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of channel names: \fBfront-left\f1, \fBfront-right\f1, \fBmono\f1, \fBfront-center\f1, \fBrear-left\f1, \fBrear-right\f1, \fBrear-center\f1, \fBlfe\f1, \fBfront-left-of-center\f1, \fBfront-right-of-center\f1, \fBside-left\f1, \fBside-right\f1, \fBtop-center\f1, \fBtop-front-center\f1, \fBtop-front-left\f1, \fBtop-front-right\f1, \fBtop-rear-left\f1, \fBtop-rear-right\f1, \fBtop-rear-center\f1, or any of tha 32 auxiliary channel names \fBaux0\f1 ta \fBaux31\f1.
.TP
\fB--fix-format\f1
If passed, tha sample format of tha stream is chizzled ta tha natizzle format of tha sink tha stream is connected to.
.TP
\fB--fix-rate\f1
If passed, tha samplin rate of tha stream is chizzled ta tha natizzle rate of tha sink tha stream is connected to.
.TP
\fB--fix-channels\f1
If passed, tha number of channels n' tha channel map of tha stream is chizzled ta tha natizzle number of channels n' tha natizzle channel map of tha sink tha stream is connected to.
.TP
\fB--no-remix\f1
Never upmix or downmix channels.
.TP
\fB--no-remap\f1
Never remap channels. Instead of mappin channels by they name dis will match dem solely by they index/order.
.TP
\fB--latency\f1\fI=BYTES\f1
Explicitly configure tha latency, wit a time specified up in bytes up in tha selected sample format. If left up tha server will pick tha latency, probably relatively high fo' juice savin reasons. Use either dis option or \fB--latency-msec\f1 yo, but not both.
.TP
\fB--latency-msec\f1\fI=MSEC\f1
Explicitly configure tha latency, wit a time specified up in milliseconds. If left up tha server will pick tha latency, probably relatively high fo' juice savin reasons. Use either dis option or \fB--latency\f1 yo, but not both.
.TP
\fB--process-time\f1\fI=BYTES\f1
Explicitly configure tha process time, wit a time specified up in bytes up in tha selected sample format. If left up tha server will pick tha process time. Use either dis option or \fB--process-time-msec\f1 yo, but not both.
.TP
\fB--process-time-msec\f1\fI=MSEC\f1
Explicitly configure tha process time, wit a time specified up in miliseconds. If left up tha server will pick tha process time. Use either dis option or \fB--process-time\f1 yo, but not both.
.TP
\fB--property\f1\fI=PROPERTY=VALUE\f1
Attach a property ta tha client n' stream. May be used multiple times
.TP
\fB--raw\f1
Play/record raw audio data. This is tha default if dis program is invoked as pacat
, 
parec
or 
pamon
.
.TP
\fB--file-format\f1\fI[=FFORMAT]\f1
Play/record encoded audio data up in tha file format specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is tha default if dis program is invoked as paplay
and 
parecord
.
.TP
\fB--list-file-formats\f1
List supported file formats.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulseaudio(1)\f1, \fBpactl(1)\f1
