.\" package-cleanup 
.TH "package-cleanup" "1" "03 November 2005" "Gijs Hollestelle" ""
.SH "NAME"
package-cleanup \- clean up locally installed, duplicate, or orphaned packages
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpackage-cleanup\fP [options] <item ...>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBpackage-cleanup\fP be a program fo' cleanin up tha locally-installed RPMs.
.PP 
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-c <config file>\fP"
Use alternatizzle config file (default is /etc/yum.conf).
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Help; display a help message n' then quit\&.
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fP" 
Print up not a god damn thang unnecessary.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-version\fP" 
Report program version n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-y\fP" 
Agree ta anythang asked.
.IP "\fB\-\-leaves\fP"
List leaf nodes up in tha local RPM database.  Leaf nodes is RPMs that
are not relied upon by any other RPM.
.IP "\fB\-\-orphans\fP"
List installed packages which is not available from currently configured
repositories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This is identical ta "yum list extras", which may provide better
output.
.IP "\fB\-\-oldkernels\fP"
Remove oldschool kernel n' kernel-devel packages.
.IP "\fB\-\-problems\fP"
List dependency problems up in tha local RPM database. If any problems is 
found it will exit wit a exit code of 1.
.IP "\fB\-\-dupes\fP"
Scan fo' duplicates up in tha local RPM database.
.IP "\fB\-\-cleandupes\fP"
Scan fo' duplicates up in tha local RPM database n' clean up the
olda versions.
.IP "\fB\-\-count <COUNT>\fP"
Number of duplicate/kernel packages ta keep on tha system (default 2)
.PP 
.SH "LEAVES OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB\-\-all\fP"
When listin leaf nodes also list leaf nodes dat are
not libraries.
.IP "\fB\-\-leaf\-regex\fP"
A package name dat matches dis regular expression is ghon be considered a leaf.
.IP "\fB\-\-exclude\-devel\fP"
When listin leaf nodes do not list pimpment packages.
.IP "\fB\-\-exclude\-bin\fP"
When listin leaf nodes do not list packages wit filez up in bin directories.
.PP 
.SH "OLDKERNELS OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB\-\-keepdevel\fP"
Do not remove kernel-devel packages when removin kernels

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "List all dependency problems:"
\fBpackage-cleanup \-\-problems\fP
.IP "List all packages dat is not up in any Yum repository:"
\fBpackage-cleanup \-\-orphans\fP
.IP "Remove oldschool kernels keepin 3 n' leavin oldschool kernel-devel packages installed:"
\fBpackage-cleanup \-\-oldkernels \-\-count=3 \-\-keepdevel\fP
.PP 
.IP "List all leaf packages wit no filez up in a funky-ass bin directory whose name begins wit either 'perl' or 'python':"
\fBpackage-cleanup \-\-leaves \-\-exclude\-bin \-\-leaf\-regex="^(perl)|(python)"\fP
.PP
.SH "FILES"
As package-cleanup uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.
.fi
