.TH pactl 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pactl \- Control a hustlin PulseAudio sound server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpactl [\fIoptions\fB] \fICOMMAND\fB [\fIARGS ...\fB]

pactl --help\fB

pactl --version\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpactl\f1 can be used ta issue control commandz ta tha PulseAudio sound server.

\fIpactl\f1 only exposes a subset of tha available operations. For tha full set use tha \fBpacmd(1)\f1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB--version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.TP
\fB-s | --server\f1\fI=SERVER\f1
Choose tha server ta connect to.
.TP
\fB-n | --client-name\f1\fI=NAME\f1
Specify tha client name \fIpactl\f1 shall pass ta tha server when connecting.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBstat\f1 [\fIshort\f1]
Dump all dem statistics bout tha memory usage of tha PulseAudio daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (Note: fo' backwardz compatibility, we also show tha output of tha \fIinfo\f1 command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In order ta only show statistics, use tha optionizzle \fIshort\f1 argument. In a gangbangin' future version of PA we will make dis tha default)
.TP
\fBinfo\f1
Dump some info bout tha PulseAudio daemon.
.TP
\fBlist\f1 [\fIshort\f1] [\fITYPE\f1]
Dump all currently loaded modules, available sinks, sources, streams, etc. \fITYPE\f1 must be one of: modules, sinks, sources, sink-inputs, source-outputs, clients, samples, cards. If not specified, all info is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If short is given, output is up in a tabular format, fo' easy as fuck  parsin by scripts.
.TP
\fBexit\f1
Asks tha PulseAudio server ta terminate.
.TP
\fBupload-sample\f1 \fIFILENAME\f1 [\fINAME\f1]
Upload a sound from tha specified audio file tha fuck into tha sample cache. Da file types supported is dem understood by \fIlibsndfile\f1. Da sample up in tha cache is named afta tha audio file, unless tha name is explicitly specified.
.TP
\fBplay-sample\f1 \fINAME\f1 [\fISINK\f1]
Play tha specified sample from tha sample cache. Well shiiiit, it is played on tha default sink, unless tha symbolic name or tha numerical index of tha sink ta play it on is specified.
.TP
\fBremove-sample\f1 \fINAME\f1
Remove tha specified sample from tha sample cache.
.TP
\fBload-module\f1 \fINAME\f1 [\fIARGUMENTS ...\f1]
Load tha specified module wit tha specified arguments tha fuck into tha hustlin sound server n' shit. Prints tha numeric index of tha module just loaded ta STDOUT. Yo ass can use it ta unload tha module later.
.TP
\fBunload-module\f1 \fIID|NAME\f1
Unload tha module instizzle identified by tha specified numeric index or unload all modulez by tha specified name.
.TP
\fBmove-sink-input\f1 \fIID\f1 \fISINK\f1
Move tha specified playback stream (identified by its numerical index) ta tha specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).
.TP
\fBmove-source-output\f1 \fIID\f1 \fISOURCE\f1
Move tha specified recordin stream (identified by its numerical index) ta tha specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).
.TP
\fBsuspend-sink\f1 \fISINK\f1 \fI1|0\f1
Suspend or resume tha specified sink (which mah be specified either by its symbolic name, or by its numeric index), dependin whether 1 (suspend) or 0 (resume) is passed as last argument. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Suspendin a sink will pause all playback. Dependin on tha module implementin tha sink dis might have tha effect dat tha underlyin thang is closed, makin it available fo' other applications ta use. Da exact behaviour dependz on tha module.
.TP
\fBsuspend-source\f1 \fISOURCE\f1 \fI1|0\f1
Suspend or resume tha specified source (which mah be specified either by its symbolic name, or by its numeric index), dependin whether 1 (suspend) or 0 (resume) is passed as last argument. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Suspendin a source will pause all capturing. Dependin on tha module implementin tha source dis might have tha effect dat tha underlyin thang is closed, makin it available fo' other applications ta use. Da exact behaviour dependz on tha module.
.TP
\fBset-card-profile\f1 \fICARD\f1 \fIPROFILE\f1
Set tha specified card (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index) ta tha specified flava (identified by its symbolic name).
.TP
\fBset-default-sink\f1 \fISINK\f1
Make tha specified sink (identified by its symbolic name) tha default sink.
.TP
\fBset-sink-port\f1 \fISINK\f1 \fIPORT\f1
Set tha specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index) ta tha specified port (identified by its symbolic name).
.TP
\fBset-default-source\f1 \fISOURCE\f1
Make tha specified source (identified by its symbolic name) tha default source.
.TP
\fBset-source-port\f1 \fISOURCE\f1 \fIPORT\f1
Set tha specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index) ta tha specified port (identified by its symbolic name).
.TP
\fBset-port-latency-offset\f1 \fICARD\f1 \fIPORT\f1 \fIOFFSET\f1
Set a latency offset ta a specified port (identified by its symbolic name) dat belongs ta a cold-ass lil card (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index). \fIOFFSET\f1 be a number which represents tha latency offset up in microseconds
.TP
\fBset-sink-volume\f1 \fISINK\f1 \fIVOLUME\f1
Set tha volume of tha specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index). \fIVOLUME\f1 can be specified as a integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a cementage (e.g. 10%, 100%) or a thugged-out decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If tha volume justification start wit a + or - tha volume adjustment is ghon be relatizzle ta tha current sink volume.
.TP
\fBset-source-volume\f1 \fISOURCE\f1 \fIVOLUME\f1
Set tha volume of tha specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index). \fIVOLUME\f1 can be specified as a integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a cementage (e.g. 10%, 100%) or a thugged-out decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If tha volume justification start wit a + or - tha volume adjustment is ghon be relatizzle ta tha current source volume.
.TP
\fBset-sink-input-volume\f1 \fIINPUT\f1 \fIVOLUME\f1
Set tha volume of tha specified sink input (identified by its numerical index). \fIVOLUME\f1 can be specified as a integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a cementage (e.g. 10%, 100%) or a thugged-out decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If tha volume justification start wit a + or - tha volume adjustment is ghon be relatizzle ta tha current sink input volume.
.TP
\fBset-source-output-volume\f1 \fIOUTPUT\f1 \fIVOLUME\f1
Set tha volume of tha specified source output (identified by its numerical index). \fIVOLUME\f1 can be specified as a integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a cementage (e.g. 10%, 100%) or a thugged-out decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If tha volume justification start wit a + or - tha volume adjustment is ghon be relatizzle ta tha current source output volume.
.TP
\fBset-sink-mute\f1 \fISINK\f1 \fI1|0|toggle\f1
Set tha mute statuz of tha specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).
.TP
\fBset-source-mute\f1 \fISOURCE\f1 \fI1|0|toggle\f1
Set tha mute statuz of tha specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).
.TP
\fBset-sink-input-mute\f1 \fIINPUT\f1 \fI1|0|toggle\f1
Set tha mute statuz of tha specified sink input (identified by its numerical index).
.TP
\fBset-source-output-mute\f1 \fIINPUT\f1 \fI1|0|toggle\f1
Set tha mute statuz of tha specified source output (identified by its numerical index).
.TP
\fBset-sink-formats\f1 \fISINK\f1 \fIFORMATS\f1
Set tha supported formatz of tha specified sink (identified by its numerical index) if supported by tha sink. \fIFORMATS\f1 is specified as a semi-colon (;) separated list of formats up in tha form 'encoding[, key1=value1, key2=value2, ...]' (for example, AC3 at 32000, 44100 n' 48000 Hz would be specified as 'ac3-iec61937, format.rate = "[ 32000, 44100, 48000 ]"'). 
.TP
\fBsubscribe\f1
Subscribe ta events, pactl do not exit by itself yo, but keeps waitin fo' freshly smoked up events.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulseaudio(1)\f1, \fBpacmd(1)\f1
