.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Red Hat author: Miloslav Trmač <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH PAM-PANEL-ICON 1 "2009-10-05" "Red Hat"
.SH NAME
pam-panel-icon \- A notification area indicator of pam_timestamp status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pam\-panel\-icon
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pam\-panel\-icon
should be automatically started when startin a X11 desktop environment.
For example, up in GNOME
.B gnome-session
should be configured ta start \fBpam\-panel\-icon\fR.
In a properly configured system it should never be necessary ta start
.B pam\-panel\-icon
manually.

.B pam\-panel\-icon
uses
.BR pam_timestamp_check (8)
to peep the
.B pam_timestamp
timestamp status.
If the
.B pam_timestamp
authorization be active,
allowin a unprivileted user ta temporarily authenticate as the
.B root
user without providin a password,
an icon up in tha notification area of tha panel is displayed.
Da icon allows droppin tha authorization immediately.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Ordinarily,
.B pam\-panel\-icon
keeps hustlin until tha X11 desktop session ends, n' then returns 0.
.B pam\-panel\-icon
only returns wit non-zero status on unexpected error.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/sbin/pam_timestamp_check\fR
A hard-coded location of the
.B pam_timestamp_check
executable.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pam_timestamp (8),
.BR pam_timestamp_check (8)

