.TH paplay 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
paplay \- Play back audio filez on a PulseAudio sound server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpaplay [\fIoptions\fB] \fIFILE\fB

paplay --help\fB

paplay --version\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpaplay\f1 be a simple tool fo' playin back audio filez on a PulseAudio sound server n' shit. Well shiiiit, it understandz all audio file formats supported by \fIlibsndfile\f1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB--version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Enable verbose operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Dumps tha current playback time ta STDERR durin playback.
.TP
\fB-s | --server\f1\fI=SERVER\f1
Choose tha server ta connect to.
.TP
\fB-d | --device\f1\fI=SINK\f1
Specify tha symbolic name of tha sink ta play dis file on.
.TP
\fB-n | --client-name\f1\fI=NAME\f1
Specify tha client name \fIpaplay\f1 shall pass ta tha server when connecting.
.TP
\fB--stream-name\f1\fI=NAME\f1
Specify tha stream name \fIpaplay\f1 shall pass ta tha server when bustin tha stream.
.TP
\fB--volume\f1\fI=VOLUME\f1
Specify tha initial playback volume ta use. Chizzle a value between 0 (silent) n' 65536 (100% volume).
.TP
\fB--channel-map\f1\fI=CHANNELMAP\f1
Explicitly chizzle a cold-ass lil channel map when playin back dis stream. Da argument should be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of channel names: \fIfront-left\f1, \fIfront-right\f1, \fImono\f1, \fIfront-center\f1, \fIrear-left\f1, \fIrear-right\f1, \fIrear-center\f1, \fIlfe\f1, \fIfront-left-of-center\f1, \fIfront-right-of-center\f1, \fIside-left\f1, \fIside-right\f1, \fItop-center\f1, \fItop-front-center\f1, \fItop-front-left\f1, \fItop-front-right\f1, \fItop-rear-left\f1, \fItop-rear-right\f1, \fItop-rear-center\f1, or any of tha 32 auxiliary channel names \fIaux0\f1 ta \fIaux31\f1.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Cuz of a limitation up in \fIlibsndfile\f1 \fIpaplay\f1 currently do not always set tha erect channel mappin fo' playback of multichannel (i.e. surround) audio files, even if tha channel mappin shiznit be available up in tha audio file.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulseaudio(1)\f1, \fBpacat(1)\f1
