.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH PAPS 1 "April  17, 2006"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
paps \- UTF-8 ta PostScript converta rockin Pango
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B paps
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B paps
readz a UTF-8 encoded file n' generates a PostScript language renderin of tha file. Da renderin is done by bustin outline curves all up in tha pango ft2 backend.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-\-landscape
Landscape output. Default is portrait.
.TP
.B \-\-columns=cl
Number of columns output. Default is 1.
.TP
.B \-\-font=desc
Set tha font description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is Monospace 12.
.TP
.B \-\-rtl
Do rtl layout.
.TP
.B \-\-paper ps
Choose paper size. Known paper sizes is legal, letter, a4. Default is A4.
.TP
.B \-\-bottom-margin=bm
Set bottom margin up in postscript points (1/72 inch). Default is 36.
.TP
.B \-\-top-margin=tm
Set top margin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is 36.
.TP
.B \-\-left-margin=lm
Set left margin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is 36.
.TP
.B \-\-right-margin=rm
Set right margin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is 36.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-header
Draw page header fo' each page.
.TP
.B \-\-markup
Interpret tha text as pango markup.
.TP
.B \-\-encoding=ENCODING
Assume tha documentation encodin is ENCODING.
.TP
.B \-\-lpi
Set tha lines per inch. This determines tha line spacing.
.TP
.B \-\-cpi
Set tha charactas per inch. This be a alternatizzle method of specifyin tha font size.
.TP
.B \-\-stretch-chars
Indicates dat charactas should be stretched up in tha y-direction ta fill up they vertical space. This is similar ta tha texttops behaviour.
.br
.SH AUTHOR
paps was freestyled by Dov Grobgeld <dov.grobgeld@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Lior Kaplan <kaplan@debian.org>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
