.\" Copyright Red Hat, Inc., 1998, 1999, 2002, 2009, 2012.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, n' tha entire permission notice up in its entirety,
.\"    includin tha disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote
.\"    shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior
.\"    freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" ALTERNATIVELY, dis thang may be distributed under tha terms of
.\" tha GNU Public License, up in which case tha provisionz of tha GPL are
.\" required INSTEAD OF tha above restrictions.  (This clause is
.\" necessary cuz of a potential wack interaction between tha GPL and
.\" tha restrictions contained up in a BSD-style copyright.)
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Cristian Gafton, 1998, <gafton@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright (c) Tomas Mraz, 2009, 2012, <tmraz@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH PASSWD 1 "Jun 20 2012" "GNU/Linux" "User utilities"
.SH NAME

passwd \- update userz authentication tokens

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passwd [-k] [-l] [-u [-f]] [-d] [-e] [-n mindays] [-x maxdays] [-w warndays] [-i inactivedays] [-S] [--stdin] [username]
.sp 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da passwd utilitizzle is used ta update userz authentication token(s).

This task be  bigged up  all up in calls ta the
.BR "Linux-PAM" " n' "
.BR "Libuser API" ". "
Essentially, it initializes itself as a "passwd" steez with
.I Linux-PAM
and utilizes configured
.I "password"
modulez ta authenticate n' then update a userz password.

.sp
A simple entry up in tha global
.I Linux-PAM
configuration file fo' dis steez would be:
.br
  
.br
 #
.br
 # passwd steez entry dat do strength checkin of
.br
 # a proposed password before uppimpin dat shit.
.br
 #
.br
 passwd password requisite pam_cracklib.so retry=3
.br
 passwd password required pam_unix.so use_authtok
.br
 #

.sp
Note, other module types is not required fo' dis application to
function erectly.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep\fR
Da option
.B \-k
is used ta indicate dat tha update should only be fo' expired
authentication tokens (passwords); tha user wishes ta keep their
non-expired tokens as before.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lock\fP
This option is used ta lock tha password of specified account and
it be available ta root only. Da lockin is performed by rendering
the encrypted password tha fuck into a invalid strang (by prefixin the
encrypted strang wit a !). Note dat tha account aint fully
locked - tha user can still log up in by other meanz of authentication
like fuckin tha ssh hood key authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use \fBchage -E 0 user\fR
command instead fo' full account locking.

.IP \fB--stdin\fR
This option is used ta indicate dat \fBpasswd\fR should read tha new
password from standard input, which can be a pipe.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unlock\fR
This is tha reverse of the
.BR -l " option - it will unlock tha account"
password by removin tha ! prefix. This option be available ta root
only. By default passwd will refuse ta create a passwordless account 
(it aint gonna unlock a account dat has only "!" as a password). Da 
force option \fB-f\fR will override dis protection.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fR
This be a quick way ta delete a password fo' a account. Well shiiiit, it will set
the named account passwordless fo' realz. Available ta root only.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-expire\fR
This be a quick way ta expire a password fo' a account. Da user will be
forced ta chizzle tha password durin tha next login attempt.
Available ta root only.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force tha specified operation.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-minimum\fR \fIDAYS\fR
This will set tha minimum password gametime, up in days, if tha user's
account supports password gametimes.  Available ta root only.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-maximum\fR \fIDAYS\fR
This will set tha maximum password gametime, up in days, if tha user's
account supports password gametimes.  Available ta root only.

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-warning\fR \fIDAYS\fR
This will set tha number of minutes up in advizzle tha user will begin receiving
warnings dat her password will expire, if tha userz account supports
password gametimes.  Available ta root only.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inactive\fR \fIDAYS\fR
This will set tha number of minutes which will pass before a expired password
for dis account is ghon be taken ta mean dat tha account is inactizzle n' should
be disabled, if tha userz account supports password gametimes.  Available to
root only.

.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR
This will output a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short shiznit bout tha statuz of tha password
for a given account fo' realz. Available ta root user only.

.SH "Remember tha followin two principles"

.IP \fBProtect\ your\ password.\fR
Don't write down yo' password - memorize dat shit.
In particular, don't write it down n' leave it anywhere, n' don't
place it up in a unencrypted file biaaatch!  Use unrelated passwordz for
systems controlled by different organizations.  Don't give or share your
password, up in particular ta one of mah thugs frontin ta be from
computa support or a vendor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Don't let mah playas peep you enta your
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Don't enta yo' password ta a cold-ass lil computa you don't trust or
if thangs "look funky"; one of mah thugs may be tryin ta hijack yo' password.
Use tha password fo' a limited time n' chizzle it periodically.

.IP \fBChoose\ a\ hard-to-guess\ password.\fR
.I passwd
all up in tha calls ta the
.BR pam_cracklib " PAM module"
will try ta prevent you from choosin a straight-up wack password,
but it aint foolproof; create yo' password wisely.
Don't use suttin' you'd find up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' doggtionary (in any language or jargon).
Don't bust a name (includin dat of a spouse, parent, child, pet,
fantasy character, hyped person, n' location) or any
variation of yo' underground or account name.  Don't use accessible
information bout you (like fuckin yo' beeper number, license plate, or
social securitizzle number) or yo' environment.  Don't bust a funky-ass birthdizzle or a
simple pattern (like fuckin "qwerty", "abc", or "aaa").  Don't use any of them
backwards, followed by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit, or preceded by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit. Instead, use
a mixture of upper n' lower case letters, as well as digits or
punctuation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When choosin a freshly smoked up password, make shizzle itz unrelated
to any previous password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use long passwordz (say at least 8 characters
long).  Yo ass might bust a word pair wit punctuation inserted, a
passphrase (an understandable sequence of lyrics), or tha first
letta of each word up in a passphrase.

.SH ""
These principlez is partially enforced by tha system yo, but only kinda so.
Vigilizzle on yo' part will make tha system much mo' secure.

.SH "EXIT CODE"

On successful completion of its task,
.B passwd
will complete wit exit code 0.  An exit code of 1 indicates a error
occurred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Textual errors is freestyled ta tha standard error stream.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.br
.BR Linux-PAM
(Pluggable Authentication modulez fo' Linux).

.SH "FILES"
.br
.B /etc/pam.d/passwd
- the
.BR Linux-PAM
configuration file

.SH BUGS
.sp 2
None known.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR pam "(8), "
.BR pam.d "(5), "
.BR libuser.conf "(5), "
and
.BR pam_chauthtok "(3). "

.sp
For mo' complete shiznit on how tha fuck ta configure dis application
with
.BR Linux-PAM ", "
see the
.BR "Linux-PAM System Administrators' Guide" "."

.SH AUTHOR
Cristian Gafton <gafton@redhat.com>
