.TH pax11publish 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pax11publish \- PulseAudio X11 Credential Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpax11publish -h\fB

pax11publish [\fIoptions\fB] [-d\fB]

pax11publish [\fIoptions\fB] -e\fB

pax11publish [\fIoptions\fB] -i\fB

pax11publish [\fIoptions\fB] -r\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIpax11publish\f1 utilitizzle can be used ta dump or manipulate tha PulseAudio server credentials dat can be stored as propertizzles on tha X11 root window.

Please note dat tha loadable module \fImodule-x11-publish\f1 exports tha same ol' dirty shiznit directly from tha PulseAudio sound server, n' should up in most cases be used up in preference over dis tool.

Use tha followin command ta dump tha raw PulseAudio-specific data dat is stored up in yo' X11 root window:

xprop -root | grep ^PULSE_
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB-d\f1
Read tha PulseAudio server credentials currently set on tha X11 root window n' dump dem up in a human readable form. This readz tha PULSE_SERVER, PULSE_SINK, PULSE_SOURCE n' PULSE_COOKIE properties.
.TP
\fB-i\f1
Similar ta \fB-d\f1, however dumps dem up in a Bourne shell compatible format so they may be used together wit tha \fIeval\f1 shell command ta set tha $PULSE_SERVER, $PULSE_SINK, $PULSE_SOURCE environment variablez fo' realz. Also readz tha authentication cookie from tha root window n' stores it up in \fI~/.config/pulse/cookie\f1. 
.TP
\fB-e\f1
Export tha currently locally used sound server, sink, source configuration ta tha X11 root window. This takes tha data from tha $PULSE_SERVER, $PULSE_SINK, $PULSE_SOURCE environment variablez n' combines dem wit tha data from \fI~/.config/pulse/client.conf\f1 (or \fI/etc/pulse/client.conf\f1 if dat file do not exist). If specific options is passed on tha command line (\fB-S\f1, \fB-O\f1, \fB-I\f1, \fB-c\f1, peep below), they take precedence fo' realz. Also uploadz tha local authentication cookie \fI~/.config/pulse/cookie\f1 ta tha X11 server.
.TP
\fB-r\f1
Removes tha configured PulseAudio configuration from tha X11 root window.
.TP
\fB-D\f1 \fIDISPLAY\f1
Connect ta tha specified X11 display, instead of tha default one configured up in $DISPLAY.
.TP
\fB-S\f1 \fISERVER\f1
Only valid fo' \fB-e\f1: export tha specified PulseAudio server as default ta tha X11 display instead of tha one configured via local configuration.
.TP
\fB-O\f1 \fISINK\f1
Only valid fo' \fB-e\f1: export tha specified sink as default sink ta tha X11 display instead of tha one configured via local configuration.
.TP
\fB-I\f1 \fISOURCE\f1
Only valid fo' \fB-e\f1: export tha specified source as default ta tha X11 display instead of tha one configured via local configuration.
.TP
\fB-c\f1 \fIFILE\f1
Only valid fo' \fB-e\f1: export tha PulseAudio authentication cookie stored up in tha specified file ta tha X11 display instead of tha one stored up in \fI~/.config/pulse/cookie\f1.
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulseaudio(1)\f1, \fBxprop(1)\f1
