.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pcmanfm.1
.\"
.TH PCManFM 1 "January 2014" "pcmanfm 1.2.3" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
PCManFM \- A lightweight Gtk+ based file manager fo' X Window.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcmanfm
[ options ] [
.I directories
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PCMan File Manager (\fBPCManFM\fP) be a extremly fast, lightweight, yet
feature-rich file manager wit tabbed browsing. Well shiiiit, it is tha default file
manager fo' tha lightweight desktop environment, \fBLXDE\fP.
.br
Features:
  * Extremly fast n' lightweight
  * Can be started up in one second on aiiight machine
  * Tabbed browsin (similar ta Firefox)
  * Drag & Drop handlin wit XDS (X direct save) support
  * Filez can be dragged between tabs
  * Load big-ass directories up in reasonable time
  * File association support (with default application setup)
  * Basic thumbnail support wit optionizzle EXIF support
  * Bookmarks support
  * Handlez non-UTF-8 encoded filenames erectly
  * Provide icon view n' detailed list view
  * Standard compliant (bigs up FreeDesktop.org justifications)
  * Clean n' user-friendly intercourse (GTK+ 2.0)
  * Full desktop pimpment
  * Can set individual wallpapers fo' each workspace
  * Removable media mounts support
  * Seamless access ta remote file systems like fuckin sftp, smb, n' ftp
  * Trash can support
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global options:
.TP 20
.BR \-d ", " \-\^\-daemon\-mode
run PCManFM as a thugged-out daemon (ignored if another PCManFM be already hustlin)
.TP
.BI \-p " profile" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-profile=" profile
load another configuration \fIprofile\fP instead of \fB"default"\fP
.TP
.B \-\^\-no\-desktop
for Nautilus compatibility
.PP
.SS Per-instizzle options:
.TP 20
.B \-\^\-desktop
launch desktop manager (ignores \fB\-d\fP)
.TP
.B \-\^\-desktop\-off
turn off desktop manager if itz hustlin
.TP
.B \-\^\-desktop\-pref
open desktop preference dialog
.TP
.B \-\^\-one\-screen
manage desktop only on current X screen (only if \fB\-\-desktop\fP is used)
.TP
.B \-n\fR,\fP \-\^\-new\-win
open \fIdirectories\fP up in freshly smoked up window
.TP
.B \-\^\-role
set X role fo' window (only if \fB\-n\fP is used)
.TP
.BI \-\^\-wallpaper\-mode= mode
Set mode of desktop wallpaper, \fImode\fP is:
 \fBcolor\fP (fill wit solid color),
 \fBstretch\fP (stretch ta fill entire monitor),
 \fBfit\fP (stretch ta fit monitor size),
 \fBcenter\fP (place on centa of monitor),
 \fBtile\fP (tile ta fill entire monitor),
 \fBcrop\fP (stretch n' crop ta fill monitor), or
 \fBscreen\fP (stretch ta fill entire screen)
.TP
.BI \-w " file" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-set\-wallpaper=" file
set desktop wallpaper from image \fIfile\fP
.TP
.BI \-\^\-show\-pref " n"
open preferences dialog on page \fIn\fP
.TP
.B \-f\fR,\fP \-\^\-find\-files
open a gangbangin' file search dialog window
.TP
.I directories
directories ta open
.SH DESKTOP MANAGEMENT
Da PCMan File Manager can manage yo' desktop. That includes drawin some
background on it n' showin iconz of Desktop folda n' shit. To activate tha desktop
management tha \fBpcmanfm\fP should be executed wit option \fB\-\-desktop\fP.
Other option dat affects dis mode is \fB\-\-one\-screen\fP. Chizzle hustlin
desktop manager parametas you can by executin \fBpcmanfm\fP wit option
\fB\-\-desktop\-pref\fP which opens window wit preferences or rockin command
line parametas fo' options \fB\-\-set\-wallpaper\fP or \fB\-\-wallpaper\-mode\fP.
Execution \fBpcmanfm \-\-desktop\-off\fP terminates desktop pimpment.

While \fBpcmanfm\fP manages desktop it displays icons on desktop. Behavior
of icons resemblez folda view up in main window of \fBpcmanfm\fP but icons on
desktop can "remember" they position. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you have two or mo' monitors then
desktop background n' set of icons is ghon be shown on each of em. Icons
positions is ghon be remembered individually fo' each of monitors.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.I XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP
Da current desktop environment. This variable affects shit which will be
shown up in menu://applications/ folder.
.TP
.I XDG_MENU_PREFIX
Da prefix fo' XDG menu definizzle XML file. This variable affects layout
of shit shown up in menu://applications/ folder.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I ~/.config/pcmanfm/default
Da default configuration flava directory
.TP
.I ~/.config/pcmanfm/default/pcmanfm.conf
Da main configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/pcmanfm/default/desktop\-items\-0.conf
Da desktop shit layout fo' screen 0 (primary screen)

.SH AUTHOR
PCManFM is named afta its authorz nickname on tha internet, PCMan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it was
written by Hong Jen Yee <pcman.tw@gmail.com>.

This manual page was freestyled by Tetralet <tetralet@debian.or.tw>
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system. Updated by Andriy Grytsenko <andrej@rep.kiev.ua>
