.TH PCRE-CONFIG 1 "01 January 2012" "PCRE 8.30"
.SH NAME
pcre-config - program ta return PCRE configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.rs
.sp
.B pcre-config  [--prefix] [--exec-prefix] [--version] [--libs]
.ti +5n
.B              [--libs16] [--libs32] [--libs-cpp] [--libs-posix]
.ti +5n
.B              [--cflags] [--cflags-posix]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.rs
.sp
\fBpcre-config\fP returns tha configuration of tha installed PCRE
libraries n' tha options required ta compile a program ta use em. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of
the options apply only ta tha 8-bit, or 16-bit, or 32-bit libraries,
respectively, n' are
not available if only one of dem libraries has been built. If a unavailable
option is encountered, tha "usage" shiznit is output.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.rs
.TP 10
\fB--prefix\fP
Writes tha directory prefix used up in tha PCRE installation fo' architecture
independent filez (\fI/usr\fP on nuff systems, \fI/usr/local\fP on some
systems) ta tha standard output.
.TP 10
\fB--exec-prefix\fP
Writes tha directory prefix used up in tha PCRE installation fo' architecture
dependent filez (normally tha same as \fB--prefix\fP) ta tha standard output.
.TP 10
\fB--version\fP
Writes tha version number of tha installed PCRE libraries ta tha standard
output.
.TP 10
\fB--libs\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta link
with tha 8-bit PCRE library (\fB-lpcre\fP on nuff systems).
.TP 10
\fB--libs16\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta link
with tha 16-bit PCRE library (\fB-lpcre16\fP on nuff systems).
.TP 10
\fB--libs32\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta link
with tha 32-bit PCRE library (\fB-lpcre32\fP on nuff systems).
.TP 10
\fB--libs-cpp\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta link with
PCREz C++ wrapper library (\fB-lpcrecpp\fP \fB-lpcre\fP on many
systems).
.TP 10
\fB--libs-posix\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta link with
PCREz POSIX API wrapper library (\fB-lpcreposix\fP \fB-lpcre\fP on many
systems).
.TP 10
\fB--cflags\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta compile
filez dat use PCRE (this may include some \fB-I\fP options yo, but is blank on
many systems).
.TP 10
\fB--cflags-posix\fP
Writes ta tha standard output tha command line options required ta compile
filez dat use PCREz POSIX API wrapper library (this may include some \fB-I\fP
options yo, but is blank on nuff systems).
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.rs
.sp
\fBpcre(3)\fP
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.rs
.sp
This manual page was originally freestyled by Mark Baker fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux
system. Well shiiiit, it has been subsequently revised as a generic PCRE playa page.
.
.
.SH REVISION
.rs
.sp
.nf
Last updated: 24 June 2012
.fi
