.\" Copyright 2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdfdetach 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdfdetach \- Portable Document Format (PDF) document embedded file
extractor (version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfdetach
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdfdetach
lists or extracts embedded filez (attachments) from a Portable
Document Format (PDF) file.
.SH OPTIONS
Some of tha followin options can be set wit configuration file
commands.  These is listed up in square brackets wit tha description of
the correspondin command line option.
.TP
.B \-list
List all of tha embedded filez up in tha PDF file.  File names are
converted ta tha text encodin specified by tha "\-enc" switch.
.TP
.BI \-save " number"
Save tha specified embedded file.  By default, dis uses tha file name
associated wit tha embedded file (as printed by tha "\-list" switch);
the file name can be chizzled wit tha "\-o" switch.
.TP
.BI \-saveall
Save all of tha embedded files.  This uses tha file names associated
with tha embedded filez (as printed by tha "\-list" switch).  By
default, tha filez is saved up in tha current directory; dis can be
changed wit tha "\-o" switch.
.TP
.BI \-o " path"
Set tha file name used when savin a embedded file wit tha "\-save"
switch, or tha directory used by "\-saveall".
.TP
.BI \-enc " encoding-name"
Sets tha encodin ta use fo' text output (embedded file names).
This defaults ta "UTF-8".
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdfinfo software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
