.\" Copyright 1999-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdffonts 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdffonts \- Portable Document Format (PDF) font analyzer (version
3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdffonts
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdffonts
lists tha fonts used up in a Portable Document Format (PDF) file along
with various shiznit fo' each font.
.PP
Da followin shiznit is listed fo' each font:
.TP
.B name
the font name, exactly as given up in tha PDF file (potentially including
a subset prefix)
.TP
.B type
the font type -- peep below fo' details
.TP
.B encoding
the font encoding
.TP
.B emb
"yes" if tha font is embedded up in tha PDF file
.TP
.B sub
"yes" if tha font be a subset
.TP
.B uni
"yes" if there be a explicit "ToUnicode" map up in tha PDF file (the
absence of a ToUnicode map don't necessarily mean dat tha text
can't be converted ta Unicode)
.TP
.B object ID
the font doggtionary object ID (number n' generation)
.PP
PDF filez can contain tha followin typez of fonts:
.PP
.RS
Type 1
.RE
.RS
Type 1C -- aka Compact Font Format (CFF)
.RE
.RS
Type 3
.RE
.RS
TrueType
.RE
.RS
CID Type 0 -- 16-bit font wit no specified type
.RE
.RS
CID Type 0C -- 16-bit PostScript CFF font
.RE
.RS
CID TrueType -- 16-bit TrueType font
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta analyze.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta analyze.
.TP
.BI \-subst
List tha substitute fonts dat poppla will use fo' non embedded fonts.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdffonts software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
