.\" Copyright 1998-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdfimages 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdfimages \- Portable Document Format (PDF) image extractor
(version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfimages
[options]
.I PDF-file image-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdfimages
saves images from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file as Portable
Pixmap (PPM), Portable Bitmap (PBM), or JPEG files.
.PP
Pdfimages readz tha PDF file
.IR PDF-file ,
scans one or mo' pages, n' writes one PPM, PBM, or JPEG file fo' each image,
.IR image-root - nnn . xxx ,
where
.I nnn
is tha image number and
.I xxx
is tha image type (.ppm, .pbm, .jpg).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta scan.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta scan.
.TP
.B \-j
Normally, all images is freestyled as PBM (for monochrome images) or PPM
(for non-monochrome images) files.  With dis option, images up in DCT
format is saved as JPEG files.  All non-DCT images is saved in
PBM/PPM format as usual.
.TP
.B \-list
Instead of freestylin tha images, list tha images along wit various shiznit fo' each image. Do not specify an
.IR image-root
with dis option.
.IP
Da followin shiznit is listed fo' each image:
.RS
.TP
.B page
the page number containin tha image
.TP
.B num
the image number
.TP
.B type
the image type:
.PP
.RS
image - a opaque image
.RE
.RS
mask - a monochrome mask image
.RE
.RS
smask - a soft-mask image
.RE
.RS
stencil - a monochrome mask image used fo' paintin a cold-ass lil color or pattern
.RE
.PP
Note: Tranparency up in images is represented up in PDF rockin a separate image fo' tha image n' tha mask/smask.
Da mask/smask used as part of a transparent image always immediately bigs up tha image up in tha image list.
.TP
.B width
image width (in pixels)
.TP
.B height
image height (in pixels)
.PP
Note: tha image width/height is tha size of tha embedded image, not tha size tha image is ghon be rendered at.
.TP
.B color
image color space:
.PP
.RS
gray - Gray
.RE
.RS
rgb - RGB
.RE
.RS
cmyk - CMYK
.RE
.RS
lab - L*a*b
.RE
.RS
icc - ICC Based
.RE
.RS
index - Indexed Color
.RE
.RS
sep - Separation
.RE
.RS
devn - DeviceN
.RE
.TP
.B comp
number of color components
.TP
.B bpc
bits per component
.TP
.B enc
encoding:
.PP
.RS
image - rasta image (may be Flate or LZW compressed but do not use a image encoding)
.RE
.RS
jpeg - Joint Photographic Experts Group
.RE
.RS
jp2 - JPEG2000
.RE
.RS
jbig2 - Joint Bi-Level Image Experts Group
.RE
.RS
ccitt - CCITT Group 3 or Group 4 Fax
.RE
.TP
.B interp
"yes" if tha interpolation is ta be performed when scalin up tha image
.TP
.B object ID
the image doggtionary object ID (number n' generation)
.RE
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-p
Include page numbers up in output file names.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any lyrics or errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdfimages software n' documentation is copyright 1998-2011 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1)
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
