.\" Copyright 1999-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdfinfo 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdfinfo \- Portable Document Format (PDF) document shiznit
extractor (version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfinfo
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdfinfo
prints tha contentz of tha \'Info' doggtionary (plus some other useful
information) from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file.
.PP
Da \'Info' doggtionary gotz nuff tha followin joints:
.PP
.RS
title
.RE
.RS
subject
.RE
.RS
keywords
.RE
.RS
author
.RE
.RS
creator
.RE
.RS
producer
.RE
.RS
creation date
.RE
.RS
modification date
.RE
.PP
In addition, tha followin shiznit is printed:
.PP
.RS
tagged (yes/no)
.RE
.RS
form (AcroForm / XFA / none)
.RE
.RS
page count
.RE
.RS
encrypted flag (yes/no)
.RE
.RS
print n' copy permissions (if encrypted)
.RE
.RS
page size
.RE
.RS
file size
.RE
.RS
linearized (yes/no)
.RE
.RS
PDF version
.RE
.RS
metadata (only if requested)
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta examine.  If multiple pages is requested
usin tha "\-f" n' "\-l" options, tha size of each axed page (and,
optionally, tha boundin boxes fo' each axed page) is printed.
Otherwise, only page one is examined.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta examine.
.TP
.B \-box
Prints tha page box boundin boxes: MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox,
TrimBox, n' ArtBox.
.TP
.B \-meta
Prints document-level metadata.  (This is tha "Metadata" stream from
the PDF filez Catalog object.)
.TP
.B \-rawdates
Prints tha raw (undecoded) date strings, directly from tha PDF file.
.TP
.BI \-enc " encoding-name"
Sets tha encodin ta use fo' text output. This defaults ta "UTF-8".
.TP
.B \-listenc
Lits tha available encodings
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdfinfo software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
