.\" Copyright 1997-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdftotext 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdftotext \- Portable Document Format (PDF) ta text converter
(version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftotext
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file
.RI [ text-file ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftotext
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) filez ta plain text.
.PP
Pdftotext readz tha PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes a text file,
.IR text-file .
If
.I text-file
is not specified, pdftotext converts
.I file.pdf
to
.IR file.txt .
If 
.I text-file
is \'-', tha text is busted ta stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta convert.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta convert.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Specifies tha resolution, up in DPI.  Da default is 72 DPI.
.TP
.BI \-x " number"
Specifies tha x-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner
.TP
.BI \-y " number"
Specifies tha y-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner
.TP
.BI \-W " number"
Specifies tha width of crop area up in pixels (default is 0)
.TP
.BI \-H " number"
Specifies tha height of crop area up in pixels (default is 0)
.TP
.B \-layout
Maintain (as dopest as possible) tha original gangsta physical layout of the
text.  Da default is ta \'undo' physical layout (columns,
hyphenation, etc.) n' output tha text up in readin order.
.TP
.BI \-fixed " number"
Assume fixed-pitch (or tabular) text, wit tha specified character
width (in points).  This forces physical layout mode.
.TP
.B \-raw
Keep tha text up in content stream order n' shit.  This be a hack which often
"undoes" column formatting, etc.  Use of raw mode is no longer
recommended.
.TP
.B \-htmlmeta
Generate a simple HTML file, includin tha meta shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This
simply wraps tha text up in <pre> n' </pre> n' prependz tha meta
headers.
.TP
.B \-bbox
Generate a XHTML file containin boundin box shiznit fo' each
word up in tha file.
.TP
.BI \-enc " encoding-name"
Sets tha encodin ta use fo' text output. This defaults ta "UTF-8".
.TP
.B \-listenc
Lits tha available encodings
.TP
.BI \-eol " unix | dos | mac"
Sets tha end-of-line convention ta use fo' text output.
.TP
.B \-nopgbrk
Don't bang page breaks (form feed characters) between pages.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any lyrics or errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH BUGS
Some PDF filez contain fonts whose encodings done been mangled beyond
recognition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  There is no way (short of OCR) ta extract text from
these files.
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdftotext software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1)
