.\" Copyright 1996-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdftops 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdftops \- Portable Document Format (PDF) ta PostScript converter
(version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftops
[options]
.RI <PDF-file>
.RI [<PS-file>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftops
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) filez ta PostScript so they
can be printed.
.PP
Pdftops readz tha PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes a PostScript file,
.IR PS-file .
If
.I PS-file
is not specified, pdftops converts
.I file.pdf
to
.I file.ps
(or
.I file.eps
with tha \-eps option).  If
.I PS-file
is \'-', tha PostScript is busted ta stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta print.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta print.
.TP
.B \-level1
Generate Level 1 PostScript.  Da resultin PostScript filez will be
significantly larger (if they contain images) yo, but will print on Level
1 printers.  This also converts all images ta black n' white.  No
more than one of tha PostScript level options (\-level1, \-level1sep,
\-level2, \-level2sep, \-level3, \-level3sep) may be given.
.TP
.B \-level1sep
Generate Level 1 separable PostScript.  All flavas is converted to
CMYK.  Images is freestyled wit separate stream data fo' tha four
components.
.TP
.B \-level2
Generate Level 2 PostScript.  Level 2 supports color images n' image
compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is tha default setting.
.TP
.B \-level2sep
Generate Level 2 separable PostScript.  All flavas is converted to
CMYK.  Da PostScript separation convention operators is used to
handle custom (spot) colors.
.TP
.B \-level3
Generate Level 3 PostScript.  This enablez all Level 2 features plus
CID font embedding.
.TP
.B \-level3sep
Generate Level 3 separable PostScript.  Da separation handlin is the
same as fo' \-level2sep.
.TP
.B \-origpagesizes
Generate a PostScript file wit variable page sizes n' orientations,
takin fo' each page tha size of tha original gangsta page up in tha PDF file. 
Da PostScript file gotz nuff "<</PageSize [WIDTH HEIGHT]>> setpagedevice"
lines up in each page header, so dat tha paper input tray gets erectly
changed on tha printer n' shit. This option should be used when pdftops is used
as a print filter n' shiznit fo' realz. Any justification of tha page size via \-paper,
\-paperw, or \-paperh will git overridden as long as each page of the
PDF file has a thugged-out defined paper size.  No mo' than one of tha mode options
(\-origpagesizes, \-eps, \-form) may be given.
.TP
.B \-eps
Generate a Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) file.  An EPS file gotz nuff
a single image, so if you use dis option wit a multi-page PDF file,
you must use \-f n' \-l ta specify a single page.  No mo' than one of
the mode options (\-origpagesizes, \-eps, \-form) may be given.
.TP
.B \-form
Generate a PostScript form which can be imported by software that
understandz forms.  A form gotz nuff a single page, so if you use this
option wit a multi-page PDF file, you must use \-f n' \-l ta specify a
single page.  Da \-level1 option cannot be used wit \-form.  No more
than one of tha mode options (\-origpagesizes, \-eps, \-form) may be
given.
.TP
.B \-opi
Generate OPI comments fo' all images n' forms which have OPI
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  (This option is only available if pdftops was compiled
with OPI support.)
.TP
.B \-binary
Write binary data up in Level 1 PostScript.  By default, pdftops writes
hex-encoded data up in Level 1 PostScript.  Binary data is non-standard
in Level 1 PostScript but reduces tha file size n' can be useful
when Level 1 PostScript is required only fo' its restricted use
of PostScript operators.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Set tha resolution up in DPI when pdftops rasterizes images with
transparencies or, fo' Level 1 PostScript, when pdftops
rasterizes images wit color masks.
By default, pdftops rasterizes images ta 300 DPI.
.TP
.B \-noembt1
By default, any Type 1 fonts which is embedded up in tha PDF file are
copied tha fuck into tha PostScript file.  This option causes pdftops to
substitute base fonts instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Embedded fonts make PostScript files
larger yo, but may be necessary fo' readable output.
.TP
.B \-noembtt
By default, any TrueType fonts which is embedded up in tha PDF file are
copied tha fuck into tha PostScript file.  This option causes pdftops to
substitute base fonts instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Embedded fonts make PostScript files
larger yo, but may be necessary fo' readable output.  Also, some
PostScript interpretas aint gots TrueType rasterizers.
.TP
.B \-noembcidps
By default, any CID PostScript fonts which is embedded up in tha PDF
file is copied tha fuck into tha PostScript file.  This option disablez that
embedding.  No attempt is made ta substitute fo' non-embedded CID
PostScript fonts.
.TP
.B \-noembcidtt
By default, any CID TrueType fonts which is embedded up in tha PDF file
are copied tha fuck into tha PostScript file.  This option disablez that
embedding.  No attempt is made ta substitute fo' non-embedded CID
TrueType fonts.
.TP
.B \-passfonts
By default, references ta non-embedded 8-bit fonts up in tha PDF file are
substituted wit tha closest "Helvetica", "Times-Roman", or "Courier" font.
This option passes references ta non-embedded fonts
all up in ta tha PostScript file.
.TP
.B \-preload
preload images n' forms
.TP
.BI \-paper " size"
Set tha paper size ta one of "letter", "legal", "A4", or "A3".  This
can also be set ta "match", which will set tha paper size ta match the
size specified up in tha PDF file. \-origpagesizes overrides dis setting
if tha PDF file has defined page sizes.
.TP
.BI \-paperw " size"
Set tha paper width, up in points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. \-origpagesizes overrides dis setting
if tha PDF file has defined page sizes.
.TP
.BI \-paperh " size"
Set tha paper height, up in points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. \-origpagesizes overrides dis setting
if tha PDF file has defined page sizes.
.TP
.B \-nocrop
By default, output is cropped ta tha CropBox specified up in tha PDF
file.  This option disablez cropping.
.TP
.B \-expand
Expand PDF pages smalla than tha paper ta fill tha paper n' shit.  By
default, these pages is not scaled.
.TP
.B \-noshrink
Don't scale PDF pages which is larger than tha paper n' shit.  By default,
pages larger than tha paper is shrunk ta fit.
.TP
.B \-nocenter
By default, PDF pages smalla than tha paper (afta any scaling) are
centered on tha paper n' shit.  This option causes dem ta be aligned ta the
lower-left corner of tha paper instead.
.TP
.B \-duplex
Set tha Duplex pagedevice entry up in tha PostScript file.  This tells
duplex-capable printas ta enable duplexing.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any lyrics or errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdftops software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
