.\" Copyright 2005-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdftoppm 1 "15 August 2011"
.SH NAME
pdftoppm \- Portable Document Format (PDF) ta Portable Pixmap (PPM)
converta (version 3.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftoppm
[options]
.I PDF-file PPM-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftoppm
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) filez ta color image filez in
Portable Pixmap (PPM) format, grayscale image filez up in Portable
Graymap (PGM) format, or monochrome image filez up in Portable Bitmap
(PBM) format.
.PP
Pdftoppm readz tha PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes one PPM file fo' each page,
.IR PPM-root - number .ppm,
where
.I number
is tha page number.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta convert.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta convert.
.TP
.B \-o
Generates only tha odd numbered pages.
.TP
.B \-e
Generates only tha even numbered pages.
.TP
.BI \-singlefile
Writes only tha straight-up original gangsta page n' do not add digits.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Specifies tha X n' Y resolution, up in DPI.  Da default is 150 DPI.
.TP
.BI \-rx " number"
Specifies tha X resolution, up in DPI.  Da default is 150 DPI.
.TP
.BI \-ry " number"
Specifies tha Y resolution, up in DPI.  Da default is 150 DPI.
.TP
.BI \-scale-to " number"
Scalez tha long side of each page (width fo' landscape pages, height
for portrait pages) ta fit up in scale-to pixels. Da size of tha short
side is ghon be determined by tha aspect ratio of tha page.
.TP
.BI \-scale-to-x " number"
Scalez each page horizontally ta fit up in scale-to-x pixels. If
scale-to-y is set ta -1, tha vertical size will determined by the
aspect ratio of tha page.
.TP
.BI \-scale-to-y " number"
Scalez each page vertically ta fit up in scale-to-y pixels. If scale-to-x
is set ta -1, tha horizontal size will determined by tha aspect ratio
of tha page.
.TP
.BI \-x " number"
Specifies tha x-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner
.TP
.BI \-y " number"
Specifies tha y-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner
.TP
.BI \-W " number"
Specifies tha width of crop area up in pixels (default is 0)
.TP
.BI \-H " number"
Specifies tha height of crop area up in pixels (default is 0)
.TP
.BI \-ss " number"
Specifies tha size of crop square up in pixels (sets W n' H)
.TP
.B \-cropbox
Uses tha crop box rather than media box when generatin tha files
.TP
.B \-mono
Generate a monochrome PBM file (instead of a cold-ass lil color PPM file).
.TP
.B \-gray
Generate a grayscale PGM file (instead of a cold-ass lil color PPM file).
.TP
.B \-png
Generates a PNG file instead a PPM file.
.TP
.B \-jpeg
Generates a JPEG file instead a PPM file.
.TP
.B \-tiff
Generates a TIFF file instead a PPM file.
.TP
.BI \-tiffcompression " none | packbits | jpeg | lzw | deflate"
Specifies tha TIFF compression type.  This defaults ta "none".
.TP
.BI \-freetype " yeaaaa | no"
Enable or disable FreeType (a TrueType / Type 1 font rasterizer).
This defaults ta "yes".
.TP
.BI \-aa " yeaaaa | no"
Enable or disable font anti-aliasing.  This defaults ta "yes".
.TP
.BI \-aaVector " yeaaaa | no"
Enable or disable vector anti-aliasing.  This defaults ta "yes".
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any lyrics or errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da Xpdf tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdftoppm software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2011 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
