.TH PDFTOHTML 1
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
pdftohtml \- program ta convert PDF filez tha fuck into HTML, XML n' PNG images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftohtml
.I "[options] <PDF-file> [<HTML-file> <XML-file>]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR pdftohtml 
command.
This manual page was freestyled fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because tha original gangsta program aint gots a manual page.
.PP
.B pdftohtml
is a program dat converts PDF documents tha fuck into HTML. Well shiiiit, it generates its output in
the current hustlin directory.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-f <int>
first page ta print
.TP
.B \-l <int>
last page ta print
.TP
.B \-q
do not print any lyrics or errors
.TP
.B \-v
print copyright n' version info
.TP
.B \-p
exchange .pdf links wit .html
.TP
.B \-c
generate complex output
.TP
.B \-s
generate single HTML dat includes all pages
.TP
.B \-i
ignore images
.TP
.B \-noframes
generate no frames. Not supported up in complex output mode.
.TP
.B \-stdout
use standard output
.TP 
.B \-zoom <fp>
zoom tha PDF document (default 1.5)
.TP
.B \-xml
output fo' XML post-processing
.TP
.B \-enc <string>
output text encodin name
.TP
.B \-opw <string>
balla password (for encrypted files)
.TP
.B \-upw <string>
user password (for encrypted files)
.TP
.B \-hidden
force hidden text extraction
.TP
3.B \-fmt
image file format fo' Splash output (png or jpg).
If complex is selected yo, but \-fmt aint specified,
\-fmt png is ghon be assumed
.TP
.B \-nomerge
do not merge paragraphs
.TP
.B \-nodrm
override document DRM settings
.TP
.B \-wbt <fp>
adjust tha word break threshold cement. Default is 10.
Word break occurs when distizzle between two adjacent charactas is
greata than dis cement of characta height.
.TP
.B \-fontfullname
outputs tha font name without any substitutions.

.SH AUTHOR

Pdftohtml was pimped by Gueorgui Ovtcharov n' Rainer Dorsch. Well shiiiit, it is
based n' benefits a shitload from Derek Noonburgz xpdf package.

This manual page was freestyled by Søren Boll Overgaard <boll@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftocairo (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
