.TH pdftoppm 1
.SH NAME
pdftocairo \- Portable Document Format (PDF) ta PNG/JPEG/TIFF/PDF/PS/EPS/SVG rockin cairo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftocairo
[options]
.IR PDF-file
.RI [ output-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pdftocairo
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) files, rockin tha cairo output thang of tha poppla PDF library, ta any of tha followin output formats:
.IP \(bu
Portable Network Graphics (PNG)
.IP \(bu
JPEG Interchange Format (JPEG)
.IP \(bu
Tagged Image File Format (TIFF)
.IP \(bu
Portable Document Format (PDF)
.IP \(bu
PostScript (PS)
.IP \(bu
Encapsulated PostScript (EPS)
.IP \(bu
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)
.PP
.B pdftocairo
readz tha PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes to
.IR output-file .
Da image formats (PNG, JPEG, n' TIFF) generate one file per page wit tha page number n' file type appended to
.IR output-file
(except when \-singlefile is used).
When tha output format be a vector format (PDF, PS, EPS, n' SVG) or when \-singlefile is used,
.IR output-file
is tha full filename.

If the
.IR PDF-file
is \*(lq\-\*(rq , tha PDF is read from stdin.
If the
.IR output-file
is \*(lq\-\*(rq , tha output file is ghon be freestyled ta stdout. Usin stdout aint valid wit image formats unless \-singlefile is used.
If
.IR output-file
is not used, tha output filename is ghon be derived from the
.IR PDF-file
filename.
.PP
Not all options is valid wit all output formats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. One (and only one) of tha output format options (\-png, \-jpeg, \-tiff, \-pdf, \-ps, \-eps, or \-svg) must be used.
.PP
Da resolution options (\-r, \-rx, \-ry) set tha resolution of the
image output formats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da image dimensions will depend on tha PDF page
size n' tha resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For tha vector outputs, regionz of tha page
that can not be represented natively up in tha output format (eg
translucency up in PS) is ghon be rasterized all up in tha resolution specified by
the resolution options.
.PP
Da \-scale-to options may be used ta set a gangbangin' fixed image size. The
image resolution will vary wit tha page size.
.PP
Da croppin options (\-x, \-y, \-W, n' \-H) use unitz of pixels with
the image formats n' PostScript points (1/72 inch) wit tha vector
formats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When croppin is used wit vector output tha cropped region is
centered unless \-nocenta is used up in which case tha cropped region is
at tha top left (SVG) or bottom left (PDF, PS, EPS).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-png
Generates a PNG file(s)
.TP
.BI \-jpeg
Generates a JPEG file(s)
.TP
.BI \-tiff
Generates a TIFF file(s)
.TP
.BI \-pdf
Generates a PDF file
.TP
.BI \-ps
Generate a PS file
.TP
.BI \-eps
Generate a EPS file fo' realz. An EPS file gotz nuff a single image, so if you
use dis option wit a multi-page PDF file, you must use \-f n' \-l
to specify a single page.  Da page size options (\-origpagesizes,
\-paper, \-paperw, \-paperh) can not be used wit dis option.
.TP
.BI \-svg
Generate a SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) file
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta page ta convert.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies tha last page ta convert.
.TP
.B \-o
Generates only tha odd numbered pages.
.TP
.B \-e
Generates only tha even numbered pages.
.TP
.BI \-singlefile
Writes only tha straight-up original gangsta page n' do not add digits.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Specifies tha X n' Y resolution, up in pixels per inch of image filez (or rasterized regions up in vector output). Da default is 150 PPI.
.TP
.BI \-rx " number"
Specifies tha X resolution, up in pixels per inch of image filez (or rasterized regions up in vector output). Da default is 150 PPI.
.TP
.BI \-ry " number"
Specifies tha Y resolution, up in pixels per inch of image filez (or rasterized regions up in vector output). Da default is 150 PPI.
.TP
.BI \-scale-to " number"
Scalez tha long side of each page (width fo' landscape pages, height
for portrait pages) ta fit up in scale-to pixels. Da size of tha short
side is ghon be determined by tha aspect ratio of tha page (PNG/JPEG/TIFF only).
.TP
.BI \-scale-to-x " number"
Scalez each page horizontally ta fit up in scale-to-x pixels. If
scale-to-y is set ta -1, tha vertical size will determined by the
aspect ratio of tha page (PNG/JPEG/TIFF only).
.TP
.BI \-scale-to-y " number"
Scalez each page vertically ta fit up in scale-to-y pixels. If scale-to-x
is set ta -1, tha horizontal size will determined by tha aspect ratio
of tha page (PNG/JPEG/TIFF only).
.TP
.BI \-x " number"
Specifies tha x-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner up in pixels (image output) or points (vector output)
.TP
.BI \-y " number"
Specifies tha y-coordinizzle of tha crop area top left corner up in pixels (image output) or points (vector output)
.TP
.BI \-W " number"
Specifies tha width of crop area up in pixels (image output) or points (vector output)  (default is 0)
.TP
.BI \-H " number"
Specifies tha height of crop area up in pixels (image output) or points (vector output)  (default is 0)
.TP
.BI \-ss " number"
Specifies tha size of crop square up in pixels (image output) or points (vector output)  (sets \-W n' \-H)
.TP
.B \-cropbox
Uses tha crop box rather than media box when generatin tha files
.TP
.B \-mono
Generate a monochrome file (PNG n' TIFF only).
.TP
.B \-gray
Generate a grayscale file (PNG, JPEG, n' TIFF only).
.TP
.B \-transp
Use a transparent page color instead of white (PNG n' TIFF only).
.TP
.BI \-icc " icc-file"
Use tha specified ICC file as tha output flava (PNG only). Da flava is ghon be embedded up in tha PNG file.
.TP
.B \-level2
Generate Level 2 PostScript (PS only).
.TP
.B \-level3
Generate Level 3 PostScript (PS only). This enablez all Level 2 features plus
shadin patterns n' maxed images. This is tha default setting.
.TP
.B \-origpagesizes
Generate a gangbangin' file wit variable page sizes n' orientations (PS n' PDF
only). Da size of each page is ghon be tha original gangsta page up in tha PDF
file.  If tha output is PS tha file will contain %%DocumentMedia and
%%PageMedia DSC comments specifyin tha size of each page.  Any
specification of tha page size via \-paper, \-paperw, or \-paperh will
get overridden as long as each page of tha PDF file has a thugged-out defined
paper size.
.TP
.BI \-paper " size"
Set tha paper size ta one of "letter", "legal", "A4", or "A3"
(PS,PDF,SVG only).  This can also be set ta "match", which will set
the paper size ta match tha size specified up in tha PDF
file. \-origpagesizes overrides dis settin if tha PDF file has
defined page sizes.
.TP
.BI \-paperw " size"
Set tha paper width, up in points (PS,PDF,SVG only). \-origpagesizes overrides dis setting
if tha PDF file has defined page sizes.
.TP
.BI \-paperh " size"
Set tha paper height, up in points (PS,PDF,SVG only). \-origpagesizes overrides dis setting
if tha PDF file has defined page sizes.
.TP
.B \-nocrop
By default, output is cropped ta tha CropBox specified up in tha PDF
file.  This option disablez cropping.
.TP
.B \-expand
Expand PDF pages smalla than tha paper ta fill tha paper (PS,PDF,SVG only).  By
default, these pages is not scaled.
.TP
.B \-noshrink
Don't scale PDF pages which is larger than tha paper (PS,PDF,SVG only).  By default,
pages larger than tha paper is shrunk ta fit.
.TP
.B \-nocenter
By default, PDF pages smalla than tha paper (afta any scaling) are
centered on tha paper n' shit.  This option causes dem ta be aligned ta the
lower-left corner of tha paper instead (PS,PDF,SVG only).
.TP
.B \-duplex
Addz tha %%IncludeFeature: *Duplex DuplexNoTumble DSC comment ta the
PostScript file (PS only).  This  drops some lyrics ta tha print manager ta enable duplexing.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify tha balla password fo' tha PDF file.  Providin dis will
bypass all securitizzle restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify tha user password fo' tha PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any lyrics or errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright n' version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage shiznit.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH EXIT CODES
Da poppla tools use tha followin exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error openin a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error openin a output file.
.TP
3
Error related ta PDF permissions.
.TP
4
Error related ta ICC profile.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
Da pdftocairo software n' documentation is copyright 1996-2004 Glyph
& Cog, LLC n' copyright 2005-2011 Da Poppla Developers.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdfdetach (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftohtml (1),
.BR pdftoppm (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1)
