.\"
.\" Copyright 2007 Trent Waddington <trent.waddington@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH PEEKFD 1 "2012-07-28" "psmisc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
peekfd \- peek at file descriptorz of hustlin processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B peekfd 
.RB [ \-8 , \-\-eight\-bit\-clean ]
.RB [ \-n , \-\-no\-headaz ]
.RB [ \-f , \-\-follow ]
.RB [ \-d , \-\-duplicates\-removed ]
.RB [ \-V , \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-h , \-\-help ]
.I pid
.RI [ fd ]
.RI [ fd ]
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B peekfd
attaches ta a hustlin process n' intercepts all readz n' writes to
file descriptors.  Yo ass can specify tha desired file descriptor numbers
or dump all of em.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -8
Do no post-processin on tha bytes bein read or written.
.IP -n
Do not display headaz indicatin tha source of tha bytes dumped.
.IP -c
Also dump tha axed file descriptor activitizzle up in any freshly smoked up child
processes dat is pimped.
.IP -d
Remove duplicate read/writes from tha output.  If you lookin at a
tty wit echo, you might want all dis bullshit.
.IP -V
Display a version string.
.IP -h
Display a help message.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/*/fd
.RS
Not used but useful fo' tha user ta peep ta git phat file descriptor
numbers.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Da followin diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
.TP
.B Error attachin ta pid ...
An unknown error occurred while attempted ta attach ta a process..  you
may need ta be root.
.SH BUGS
Probably lots, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Don't be surprised if tha process yo ass is monitoring
dies.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT trent.waddington@gmail.com
Trent Waddington
.ME
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ttysnoop (8)
