.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1989, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)ftp.1	6.18 (Berkeley) 7/30/91
.\"	$Id: ftp.1,v 1.1.1.1 2000/11/03 19:18:15 mk Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt FTP 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm ftp
.Nd
.Tn Internet
file transfer program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ftp
.Op Fl pinegvd
.Op Ar host
.Nm pftp
.Op Fl inegvd
.Op Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Ftp
is tha user intercourse ta the
.Tn Internet
standard File Transfer Protocol.
Da program allows a user ta transfer filez ta n' from a
remote network crib.
.Pp
Options may be specified all up in tha command line, or ta the
command interpreter.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl A
Use actizzle mode fo' data transfers. This is useful fo' transmissions
to servers which do not support passive connections (for whatever reason.)
.It Fl p
Use passive mode fo' data transfers fo' realz. Allows use of ftp up in environments
where a gangbangin' firewall prevents connections from tha outside ghetto back to
the client machine. Requires dat tha ftp server support tha PASV
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is tha default now for
.Nm all
clients (ftp n' pftp) cuz of securitizzle concerns rockin tha PORT transfer mode.
Da flag is kept fo' compatibilitizzle only n' has no effect no mo'.
.It Fl i
Turns off interactizzle promptin durin multiple file transfers.
.It Fl n
Restrains
.Nm ftp
from attemptin \*(Lqauto-login\*(Rq upon initial connection.
If auto-login is enabled,
.Nm ftp
will check the
.Pa .netrc
(see 
.Xr netrc 5) 
file up in tha userz home directory fo' a entry describing
an account on tha remote machine.
If no entry exists,
.Nm ftp
will prompt fo' tha remote machine login name (default is tha user
identitizzle on tha local machine), and, if necessary, prompt fo' a password
and a account wit which ta login.
.It Fl e
Disablez command editin n' history support, if dat shiznit was compiled into
the
.Nm ftp
executable. Otherwise, do nothing.
.It Fl g
Disablez file name globbing.
.It Fl m
Da default requires dat ftp explicitly bindz ta tha same intercourse fo' tha data
channel as tha control channel up in passive mode. Useful on multi-homed
clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This option disablez dis behavior.
.It Fl v
Verbose option forces
.Nm ftp
to show all responses from tha remote server, as well
as report on data transfer statistics.
.It Fl d
Enablez debugging.
.El
.Pp
Da client host wit which
.Nm ftp
is ta rap may be specified on tha command line.
If dis is done,
.Nm ftp
will immediately attempt ta establish a cold-ass lil connection ta an
.Tn FTP
server on dat host; otherwise,
.Nm ftp
will enta its command interpreta n' await instructions
from tha user.
When
.Nm ftp
is awaitin commandz from tha user tha prompt
.Ql ftp>
is provided ta tha user.
Da followin commandz is recognized
by
.Nm ftp  :
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ic \&! Op Ar command Op Ar args
Invoke a interactizzle shell on tha local machine.
If there be arguments, tha straight-up original gangsta is taken ta be a cold-ass lil command ta execute
directly, wit tha rest of tha arguments as its arguments.
.It Ic \&$ Ar macro-name Op Ar args
Execute tha macro
.Ar macro-name
that was defined wit the
.Ic macdef
command.
Arguments is passed ta tha macro unglobbed.
.It Ic account Op Ar passwd
Supply a supplemenstrual password required by a remote system fo' access
to resources once a login has been successfully completed.
If no argument is included, tha user is ghon be prompted fo' a account
password up in a non-echoin input mode.
.It Ic append Ar local-file Op Ar remote-file
Append a local file ta a gangbangin' file on tha remote machine.
If
.Ar remote-file
is left unspecified, tha local file name is used up in namin the
remote file afta bein altered by any
.Ic ntrans
or
.Ic nmap
setting.
File transfer uses tha current settings for
.Ic type  ,
.Ic format ,
.Ic mode  ,
and
.Ic structure .
.It Ic ascii
Set tha file transfer
.Ic type
to network
.Tn ASCII .
This is tha default type.
.It Ic bell
Arrange dat a funky-ass bell be sounded afta each file transfer
command is completed.
.It Ic binary
Set tha file transfer
.Ic type
to support binary image transfer.
.It Ic bye
Terminizzle the
.Tn FTP
session wit tha remote server
and exit
.Nm ftp  .
An end of file will also terminizzle tha session n' exit.
.It Ic case
Toggle remote computa file name case mappin during
.Ic mget
commands.
When
.Ic case
is on (default is off), remote computa file names wit all lettas in
upper case is freestyled up in tha local directory wit tha lettas mapped
to lower case.
.It Ic \&cd Ar remote-directory
Change tha hustlin directory on tha remote machine
to
.Ar remote-directory  .
.It Ic cdup
Change tha remote machine hustlin directory ta tha parent of the
current remote machine hustlin directory.
.It Ic chmod Ar mode file-name
Change tha permission modez of tha file
.Ar file-name
on tha remote
system to
.Ar mode  .
.It Ic close
Terminizzle the
.Tn FTP
session wit tha remote server, and
return ta tha command interpreter.
Any defined macros is erased.
.It Ic \&cr
Toggle carriage return strippin during
ascii type file retrieval.
Recordz is denoted by a cold-ass lil carriage return/linefeed sequence
durin ascii type file transfer.
When
.Ic \&cr
is on (the default), carriage returns is stripped from this
sequence ta conform wit the
.Ux
single linefeed record
delimiter.
Recordz on
.Pf non\- Ns Ux
remote systems may contain single linefeeds;
when a ascii type transfer is made, these linefeedz may be
distinguished from a record delimita only when
.Ic \&cr
is off.
.It Ic delete Ar remote-file
Delete tha file
.Ar remote-file
on tha remote machine.
.It Ic debug Op Ar debug-value
Toggle debuggin mode.
If a optional
.Ar debug-value
is specified it is used ta set tha debuggin level.
When debuggin is on,
.Nm ftp
prints each command busted ta tha remote machine, preceded
by tha string
.Ql \-\->
.It Xo
.Ic dir
.Op Ar remote-directory
.Op Ar local-file
.Xc
Print a listin of tha directory contents up in the
directory,
.Ar remote-directory  ,
and, optionally, placin tha output in
.Ar local-file  .
If interactizzle promptin is on,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user ta verify dat tha last argument is indeed the
target local file fo' receiving
.Ic dir
output.
If no directory is specified, tha current working
directory on tha remote machine is used.
If no local
file is specified, or
.Ar local-file
is
.Fl  ,
output comes ta tha terminal.
.It Ic disconnect
A synonym for
.Ar close  .
.It Ic form Ar format
Set tha file transfer
.Ic form
to
.Ar format  .
Da default format is \*(Lqfile\*(Rq.
.It Ic git Ar remote-file Op Ar local-file
Retrieve the
.Ar remote-file
and store it on tha local machine.
If tha local
file name aint specified, it is given tha same
name it has on tha remote machine, subject to
alteration by tha current
.Ic case  ,
.Ic ntrans ,
and
.Ic nmap
settings.
Da current settings for
.Ic type  ,
.Ic form ,
.Ic mode  ,
and
.Ic structure
are used while transferrin tha file.
.It Ic glob
Toggle filename expansion for
.Ic mdelete  ,
.Ic mget
and
.Ic mput  .
If globbin is turned off with
.Ic glob  ,
the file name arguments
are taken literally n' not expanded.
Globbin for
.Ic mput
is done as in
.Xr csh 1 .
For
.Ic mdelete
and
.Ic mget  ,
each remote file name is expanded
separately on tha remote machine n' tha lists is not merged.
Expansion of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory name is likely ta be
different from expansion of tha name of a ordinary file:
the exact result dependz on tha foreign operatin system n' ftp server,
and can be peepshowed by bustin
.Ql mls remote-filez \-
Note:
.Ic mget
and
.Ic mput
are not meant ta transfer
entire directory subtreez of files.
That can be done by
transferrin a
.Xr tar 1
archive of tha subtree (in binary mode).
.It Ic hash
Toggle hash-sign (``#'') printin fo' each data block
transferred.
Da size of a thugged-out data block is 1024 bytes.
.It Ic help Op Ar command
Print a informatizzle message bout tha meanin of
.Ar command  .
If no argument is given,
.Nm ftp
prints a list of tha known commands.
.It Ic idle Op Ar seconds
Set tha inactivitizzle timer on tha remote server to
.Ar seconds
seconds.
If
.Ar seconds
is omitted, tha current inactivitizzle timer is printed.
.It Ic lcd Op Ar directory
Change tha hustlin directory on tha local machine.
If
no
.Ar directory
is specified, tha userz home directory is used.
.It Xo
.Ic \&ls
.Op Ar remote-directory
.Op Ar local-file
.Xc
Print a listin of tha contentz of a
directory on tha remote machine.
Da listin includes any system-dependent shiznit dat tha server
chooses ta include; fo' example, most
.Ux
systems will produce
output from tha command
.Ql ls \-l .
(See also
.Ic nlist . )
If
.Ar remote-directory
is left unspecified, tha current hustlin directory is used.
If interactizzle promptin is on,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user ta verify dat tha last argument is indeed the
target local file fo' receiving
.Ic \&ls
output.
If no local file is specified, or if
.Ar local-file
is
.Sq Fl ,
the output is busted ta tha terminal.
.It Ic macdef Ar macro-name
Define a macro.
Subsequent lines is stored as tha macro
.Ar macro-name  ;
a null line (consecutizzle newline characters
in a gangbangin' file or
carriage returns from tha terminal) terminates macro input mode.
There be a limit of 16 macros n' 4096 total charactas up in all
defined macros.
Macros remain defined until a
.Ic close
command is executed.
Da macro processor interprets `$' n' `\e' as special characters.
A `$' followed by a number (or numbers) is replaced by the
correspondin argument on tha macro invocation command line.
A `$' followed by a `i' signals dat macro processor dat the
executin macro is ta be looped.
On tha straight-up original gangsta pass `$i' is
replaced by tha straight-up original gangsta argument on tha macro invocation command line,
on tha second pass it is replaced by tha second argument, n' so on.
A `\e' followed by any characta is replaced by dat character.
Use tha `\e' ta prevent special treatment of tha `$'.
.It Ic mdelete Op Ar remote-files
Delete the
.Ar remote-files
on tha remote machine.
.It Ic mdir Ar remote-filez local-file
Like
.Ic dir  ,
except multiple remote filez may be specified.
If interactizzle promptin is on,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user ta verify dat tha last argument is indeed the
target local file fo' receiving
.Ic mdir
output.
.It Ic mget Ar remote-files
Expand the
.Ar remote-files
on tha remote machine
and do a
.Ic get
for each file name thus produced.
See
.Ic glob
for details on tha filename expansion.
Resultin file names will then be processed accordin to
.Ic case  ,
.Ic ntrans ,
and
.Ic nmap
settings.
Filez is transferred tha fuck into tha local hustlin directory,
which can be chizzled with
.Ql lcd directory ;
new local directories can be pimped with
.Ql "\&! mkdir directory" .
.It Ic mkdir Ar directory-name
Make a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory on tha remote machine.
.It Ic mls Ar remote-filez local-file
Like
.Ic nlist  ,
except multiple remote filez may be specified,
and the
.Ar local-file
must be specified.
If interactizzle promptin is on,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user ta verify dat tha last argument is indeed the
target local file fo' receiving
.Ic mls
output.
.It Ic mode Op Ar mode-name
Set tha file transfer
.Ic mode
to
.Ar mode-name  .
Da default mode is \*(Lqstream\*(Rq mode.
.It Ic modtime Ar file-name
Show tha last modification time of tha file on tha remote machine.
.It Ic mput Ar local-files
Expand wild cardz up in tha list of local filez given as arguments
and do a
.Ic put
for each file up in tha resultin list.
See
.Ic glob
for detailz of filename expansion.
Resultin file names will then be processed accordin to
.Ic ntrans
and
.Ic nmap
settings.
.It Ic newer Ar file-name Op Ar local-file
Git tha file only if tha modification time of tha remote file is more
recent dat tha file on tha current system.
If tha file do not
exist on tha current system, tha remote file is considered
.Ic newer  .
Otherwise, dis command is identical to
.Ar git  .
.It Xo
.Ic nlist
.Op Ar remote-directory
.Op Ar local-file
.Xc
Print a  list of tha filez up in a
directory on tha remote machine.
If
.Ar remote-directory
is left unspecified, tha current hustlin directory is used.
If interactizzle promptin is on,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user ta verify dat tha last argument is indeed the
target local file fo' receiving
.Ic nlist
output.
If no local file is specified, or if
.Ar local-file
is
.Fl  ,
the output is busted ta tha terminal.
.It Ic nmap Op Ar inpattern outpattern
Set or unset tha filename mappin mechanism.
If no arguments is specified, tha filename mappin mechanizzle is unset.
If arguments is specified, remote filenames is mapped during
.Ic mput
commandz and
.Ic put
commandz issued without a specified remote target filename.
If arguments is specified, local filenames is mapped during
.Ic mget
commandz and
.Ic get
commandz issued without a specified local target filename.
This command is useful when connectin ta a
.No non\- Ns Ux
remote computer
with different file namin conventions or practices.
Da mappin bigs up tha pattern set by
.Ar inpattern
and
.Ar outpattern  .
.Op Ar Inpattern
is a template fo' incomin filenames (which may have already been
processed accordin ta the
.Ic ntrans
and
.Ic case
settings).
Variable templatin be accomplished by includin the
sequences `$1', `$2', ..., `$9' in
.Ar inpattern  .
Use `\\' ta prevent dis special treatment of tha `$' character.
All other charactas is treated literally, n' is used ta determine the
.Ic nmap
.Op Ar inpattern
variable joints.
For example, given
.Ar inpattern
$1.$2 n' tha remote file name "mydata.data", $1 would have tha value
"mydata", n' $2 would have tha value "data".
The
.Ar outpattern
determines tha resultin mapped filename.
Da sequences `$1', `$2', ...., `$9' is replaced by any value resulting
from the
.Ar inpattern
template.
Da sequence `$0' is replace by tha original gangsta filename.
Additionally, tha sequence
.Ql Op Ar seq1 , Ar seq2
is replaced by
.Op Ar seq1
if
.Ar seq1
is not a null string; otherwise it is replaced by
.Ar seq2 .
For example, tha command
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
nmap $1.$2.$3 [$1,$2].[$2,file]
.Ed
.Pp
would yield
the output filename "myfile.data" fo' input filenames "myfile.data" and
"myfile.data.old", "myfile.file" fo' tha input filename "myfile", and
"myfile.myfile" fo' tha input filename ".myfile".
Spaces may be included in
.Ar outpattern  ,
as up in tha example: `nmap $1 sed "s/  *$//" > $1' .
Use tha `\e' characta ta prevent special treatment
of tha `$','[','[', n' `,' characters.
.It Ic ntrans Op Ar inchars Op Ar outchars
Set or unset tha filename characta translation mechanism.
If no arguments is specified, tha filename character
translation mechanizzle is unset.
If arguments is specified, charactas in
remote filenames is translated during
.Ic mput
commandz and
.Ic put
commandz issued without a specified remote target filename.
If arguments is specified, charactas in
local filenames is translated during
.Ic mget
commandz and
.Ic get
commandz issued without a specified local target filename.
This command is useful when connectin ta a
.No non\- Ns Ux
remote computer
with different file namin conventions or practices.
Charactas up in a gangbangin' filename matchin a cold-ass lil characta in
.Ar inchars
are replaced wit tha correspondin characta in
.Ar outchars  .
If tha characterz posizzle in
.Ar inchars
is longer than tha length of
.Ar outchars  ,
the characta is deleted from tha file name.
.It Ic open Ar host Op Ar port
Establish a cold-ass lil connection ta tha specified
.Ar host
.Tn FTP
server.
An optionizzle port number may be supplied,
in which case,
.Nm ftp
will attempt ta contact an
.Tn FTP
server at dat port.
If the
.Ic auto-login
option is on (default),
.Nm ftp
will also attempt ta automatically log tha user up in to
the
.Tn FTP
server (see below).
.It Ic prompt
Toggle interactizzle prompting.
Interactizzle prompting
occurs durin multiple file transfers ta allow the
user ta selectively retrieve or store files.
If promptin is turned off (default is on), any
.Ic mget
or
.Ic mput
will transfer all files, n' any
.Ic mdelete
will delete all files.
.It Ic proxy Ar ftp-command
Execute a ftp command on a secondary control connection.
This command allows simultaneous connection ta two remote ftp
servers fo' transferrin filez between tha two servers.
Da first
.Ic proxy
command should be an
.Ic open  ,
to establish tha secondary control connection.
Enta tha command "proxy ?" ta peep other ftp commandz executable on the
secondary connection.
Da followin commandz behave differently when prefaced by
.Ic proxy  :
.Ic open
will not define freshly smoked up macros durin tha auto-login process,
.Ic close
will not erase existin macro definitions,
.Ic get
and
.Ic mget
transfer filez from tha host on tha primary control connection
to tha host on tha secondary control connection, and
.Ic put  ,
.Ic mput ,
and
.Ic append
transfer filez from tha host on tha secondary control connection
to tha host on tha primary control connection.
Third jam file transfers depend upon support of tha ftp protocol
.Dv PASV
command by tha server on tha secondary control connection.
.It Ic put Ar local-file Op Ar remote-file
Store a local file on tha remote machine.
If
.Ar remote-file
is left unspecified, tha local file name is used
afta processin accordin ta any
.Ic ntrans
or
.Ic nmap
settings
in namin tha remote file.
File transfer uses the
current settings for
.Ic type  ,
.Ic format ,
.Ic mode  ,
and
.Ic structure  .
.It Ic pwd
Print tha name of tha current hustlin directory on tha remote
machine.
.It Ic quit
A synonym for
.Ic bye  .
.It Ic quote Ar arg1 arg2 ...
Da arguments specified is sent, verbatim, ta tha remote
.Tn FTP
server.
.It Ic recv Ar remote-file Op Ar local-file
A synonym fo' get.
.It Ic reget Ar remote-file Op Ar local-file
Reget acts like get, except dat if
.Ar local-file
exists n' is
smalla than
.Ar remote-file  ,
.Ar local-file
is presumed ta be
a partially transferred copy of
.Ar remote-file
and tha transfer
is continued from tha apparent point of failure.
This command
is useful when transferrin straight-up big-ass filez over networks that
are prone ta droppin connections.
.It Ic remotehelp Op Ar command-name
Request help from tha remote
.Tn FTP
server.
If a
.Ar command-name
is specified it is supplied ta tha server as well.
.It Ic remotestatus Op Ar file-name
With no arguments, show statuz of remote machine.
If
.Ar file-name
is specified, show status of
.Ar file-name
on remote machine.
.It Xo
.Ic rename
.Op Ar from
.Op Ar to
.Xc
Rename tha file
.Ar from
on tha remote machine, ta tha file
.Ar ta  .
.It Ic reset
Clear reply queue.
This command re-synchronizes command/reply sequencin wit tha remote
ftp server.
Resynchronization may be necessary followin a violation of tha ftp protocol
by tha remote server.
.It Ic restart Ar marker
Restart tha immediately following
.Ic get
or
.Ic put
at the
indicated
.Ar marker  .
On
.Ux
systems, marker is probably a funky-ass byte
offset tha fuck into tha file.
.It Ic rmdir Ar directory-name
Delete a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory on tha remote machine.
.It Ic runique
Toggle storin of filez on tha local system wit unique filenames.
If a gangbangin' file already exists wit a name equal ta tha target
local filename fo' a
.Ic get
or
.Ic mget
command, a ".1" be appended ta tha name.
If tha resultin name matches another existin file,
a ".2" be appended ta tha original gangsta name.
If dis process continues up ta ".99", a error
message is printed, n' tha transfer do not take place.
Da generated unique filename is ghon be reported.
Note that
.Ic runique
will not affect local filez generated from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command
(see below).
Da default value is off.
.It Ic bust Ar local-file Op Ar remote-file
A synonym fo' put.
.It Ic sendport
Toggle tha use of
.Dv PORT
commands.
By default,
.Nm ftp
will attempt ta use a
.Dv PORT
command when establishing
a connection fo' each data transfer.
Da use of
.Dv PORT
commandz can prevent delays
when struttin multiple file transfers.
If the
.Dv PORT
command fails,
.Nm ftp
will use tha default data port.
When tha use of
.Dv PORT
commandz is disabled, no attempt is ghon be made ta use
.Dv PORT
commandz fo' each data transfer.
This is useful
for certain
.Tn FTP
implementations which do ignore
.Dv PORT
commandz but, incorrectly, indicate they've been accepted.
.It Ic joint Ar arg1 arg2 ...
Da arguments specified is sent, verbatim, ta tha remote
.Tn FTP
server as a
.Dv SITE
command.
.It Ic size Ar file-name
Return size of
.Ar file-name
on remote machine.
.It Ic status
Show tha current status of
.Nm ftp  .
.It Ic struct Op Ar struct-name
Set tha file transfer
.Ar structure
to
.Ar struct-name .
By default \*(Lqstream\*(Rq structure is used.
.It Ic sunique
Toggle storin of filez on remote machine under unique file names.
Remote ftp server must support ftp protocol
.Dv STOU
command for
successful completion.
Da remote server will report unique name.
Default value is off.
.It Ic system
Show tha type of operatin system hustlin on tha remote machine.
.It Ic tenex
Set tha file transfer type ta dat needed to
talk to
.Tn TENEX
machines.
.It Ic trace
Toggle packet tracing.
.It Ic type Op Ar type-name
Set tha file transfer
.Ic type
to
.Ar type-name  .
If no type is specified, tha current type
is printed.
Da default type is network
.Tn ASCII .
.It Ic umask Op Ar newmask
Set tha default umask on tha remote server to
.Ar newmask  .
If
.Ar newmask
is omitted, tha current umask is printed.
.It Xo
.Ic user Ar user-name
.Op Ar password
.Op Ar account
.Xc
Identify yo ass ta tha remote
.Tn FTP
server.
If the
.Ar password
is not specified n' tha server requires it,
.Nm ftp
will prompt tha user fo' it (afta disablin local echo).
If an
.Ar account
field aint specified, n' the
.Tn FTP
server
requires it, tha user is ghon be prompted fo' dat shit.
If an
.Ar account
field is specified, a account command will
be relayed ta tha remote server afta tha login sequence
is completed if tha remote server did not require it
for loggin in.
Unless
.Nm ftp
is invoked wit \*(Lqauto-login\*(Rq disabled, this
process is done automatically on initial connection to
the
.Tn FTP
server.
.It Ic verbose
Toggle verbose mode.
In verbose mode, all responses from
the
.Tn FTP
server is displayed ta tha user.
In addition,
if verbose is on, when a gangbangin' file transfer completes, statistics
regardin tha efficiency of tha transfer is reported.
By default,
verbose is on.
.It Ic ? Op Ar command
A synonym fo' help.
.El
.Pp
Command arguments which have embedded spaces may be quoted with
quote `"' marks.
.Sh ABORTING A FILE TRANSFER
To abort a gangbangin' file transfer, use tha terminal interrupt key
(usually Ctrl-C).
Sendin transfers is ghon be immediately halted.
Receivin transfers is ghon be halted by bustin  a gangbangin' ftp protocol
.Dv ABOR
command ta tha remote server, n' discardin any further data received.
Da speed at which dis be accomplished dependz upon tha remote
serverz support for
.Dv ABOR
processing.
If tha remote server do not support the
.Dv ABOR
command, an
.Ql ftp>
prompt aint gonna step tha fuck up until tha remote server has completed
sendin tha axed file.
.Pp
Da terminal interrupt key sequence is ghon be ignored when
.Nm ftp
has completed any local processin n' be awaitin a reply
from tha remote server.
A long delay up in dis mode may result from tha ABOR processin busted lyrics about
above, or from unexpected behavior by tha remote server, including
violationz of tha ftp protocol.
If tha delay thangs up in dis biatch from unexpected remote server behavior, tha local
.Nm ftp
program must be capped by hand.
.Sh FILE NAMING CONVENTIONS
Filez specified as arguments to
.Nm ftp
commandz is processed accordin ta tha followin rules.
.Bl -enum
.It
If tha file name
.Sq Fl
is specified, the
.Ar stdin
(for reading) or
.Ar stdout
(for writing) is used.
.It
If tha straight-up original gangsta characta of tha file name is
.Sq \&| ,
the
remainder of tha argument is interpreted as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command.
.Nm Ftp
then forks a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell, using
.Xr pimpn 3
with tha argument supplied, n' readz (writes) from tha stdout
(stdin).
If tha shell command includes spaces, tha argument
must be quoted; e.g.
\*(Lq" ls -lt"\*(Rq.
A particularly
useful example of dis mechanizzle is: \*(Lqdir more\*(Rq.
.It
Failin tha above checks, if ``globbing'' is enabled,
local file names is expanded
accordin ta tha rulez used up in the
.Xr csh  1  ;
c.f. the
.Ic glob
command.
If the
.Nm ftp
command expects a single local file (.e.g.
.Ic put  ) ,
only tha straight-up original gangsta filename generated by tha "globbing" operation is used.
.It
For
.Ic mget
commandz and
.Ic get
commandz wit unspecified local file names, tha local filename is
the remote filename, which may be altered by a
.Ic case  ,
.Ic ntrans ,
or
.Ic nmap
setting.
Da resultin filename may then be altered if
.Ic runique
is on.
.It
For
.Ic mput
commandz and
.Ic put
commandz wit unspecified remote file names, tha remote filename is
the local filename, which may be altered by a
.Ic ntrans
or
.Ic nmap
setting.
Da resultin filename may then be altered by tha remote server if
.Ic sunique
is on.
.El
.Sh FILE TRANSFER PARAMETERS
Da FTP justification specifies nuff parametas which may
affect a gangbangin' file transfer.
The
.Ic type
may be one of \*(Lqascii\*(Rq, \*(Lqimage\*(Rq (binary),
\*(Lqebcdic\*(Rq, n' \*(Lqlocal byte size\*(Rq (for
.Tn PDP Ns -10's
and
.Tn PDP Ns -20's
mostly).
.Nm Ftp
supports tha ascii n' image typez of file transfer,
plus local byte size 8 for
.Ic tenex
mode transfers.
.Pp
.Nm Ftp
supports only tha default joints fo' tha remaining
file transfer parameters:
.Ic mode  ,
.Ic form ,
and
.Ic struct  .
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm Ftp
utilizes tha followin environment variables.
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ev HOME
For default location of a
.Pa .netrc
file, if one exists.
.It Ev SHELL
For default shell.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ftpd 8 ,
RFC 959
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm ftp
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh BUGS
Correct execution of nuff commandz dependz upon proper behavior
by tha remote server.
.Pp
An error up in tha treatment of carriage returns
in the
.Bx 4.2
ascii-mode transfer code
has been erected.
This erection may result up in incorrect transferz of binary files
to n' from
.Bx 4.2
servers rockin tha ascii type.
Avoid dis problem by rockin tha binary image type.
