.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\"     pgpewrap, a cold-ass lil command line mungin tool
.\"     Manpage Copyright (c) 2013 Honza Horak
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"     (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"     Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"     along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH pgpewrap 1 "May 2013" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pgpewrap \- Mutt command line mungin tool

.SH SYNTAX
.PP
\fBpgpewrap\fP [ \fBflags\fP ] \-\- \fBprefix\fP [ \fBrecipients\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This be a lil C program which do some command line munging: The
first argument be a cold-ass lil command ta be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  When \fBpgpewrap\fP
encountas a "\-\-" (dash\-dash) argument, it will interpret tha next
argument as a prefix which is put up in front of all following
arguments.

.SH EXAMPLE

        pgpewrap pgpe file \-\- \-r a funky-ass b c

will execute:

        pgpe file -r a -r b -r c

This script is needed wit PGP 5 n' wit GPG, since they command
line intercourses can't be properly served by muttz format mechanism.

