.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\"     pgpring, a key rang dumper
.\"     Manpage Copyright (c) 2004-2013 Matthew Wilcox, Honza Horak
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"     (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"     Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"     along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH pgprin 1 "May 2013" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pgprin \- Mutt key rang dumper

.SH SYNTAX
.PP
\fBpgpring\fP [ \fB\-k\fP \fIkeyring\fP ] [ \fB\-2\fP | \fB\-5\fP ]
[ \fB\-s\fP ] [ \fB\-S\fP ] [ \fB\-f\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
pgprin be a key rang dumper n' shit.  It extracts shiznit from PGP's
binary key rang n' emits it up in a (almost) readable output format
understood by muttz key selection routines.  This output format
mimics tha one used by tha GNU Privacy Guard (GPG).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-k " keyring"
Dump tha contentz of tha specified keyring.
.TP
.B \-2
Use tha default keyrin fo' PGP 2.x.
.TP
.B \-5
Use tha default keyrin fo' PGP 5.
.TP
.B \-s
Dump tha secret keyring.
.TP
.B \-S
Dump signatures.
.TP
.B \-f
Dump fingerprints.

.SH AUTHORS
Thomas Roessla <roessler@does\-not\-exist.org>

