.\" Manual page fo' pgrep / pkill.
.\" Licensed under version 2 of tha GNU General Public License.
.\" Copyright 2000 Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.\"
.TH PGREP "1" "October 2012" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pgrep, pkill \- look up or signal processes based on name n' other attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgrep
[options] pattern
.br
.B pkill
[options] pattern
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pgrep
looks all up in tha currently hustlin processes n' lists tha process IDs which
match tha selection criteria ta stdout.  All tha criteria gotta match.
For example,
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root sshd
.PP
will only list tha processes called
.B sshd
AND owned by
.BR root .
On tha other hand,
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root,daemon
.PP
will list tha processes owned by
.B root
OR
.BR daemon .
.PP
.B pkill
will bust tha specified signal (by default
.BR SIGTERM )
to each process instead of listin dem on stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\fR\fIsignal\fP
.TQ
\fB\-\-signal\fR \fIsignal\fR
Defines tha signal ta bust ta each matched process.  Either tha numeric or
the symbolic signal name can be used.
.RB ( pkill
only.)
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR
Suppress aiiight output; instead print a cold-ass lil count of matchin processes.  When
count do not match anything, e.g. returns zero, tha command will return
non-zero value.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delimiter\fR \fIdelimiter\fP
Sets tha strang used ta delimit each process ID up in tha output (by default a
newline).
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-full\fR
The
.I pattern
is normally only matched against tha process name.  When
.B \-f
is set, tha full command line is used.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-pgroup\fR \fIpgrp\fP,...
Only match processes up in tha process crew IDs listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Process crew 0 is
translated into
.BR pgrep 's
or
.BR pkill 's
own process group.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR \fIgid\fP,...
Only match processes whose real crew ID is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Either tha numerical or
symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-name\fR
List tha process name as well as tha process ID.
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-list\-full\fR
List tha full command line as well as tha process ID.
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-newest\fR
Select only tha newest (most recently started) of tha matchin processes.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oldest\fR
Select only tha crazy oldschool (least recently started) of tha matchin processes.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parent\fR \fIppid\fP,...
Only match processes whose parent process ID is listed.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-session\fR \fIsid\fP,...
Only match processes whose process session ID is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Session ID 0
is translated into
.BR pgrep 's
or
.BR pkill 's
own session ID.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-terminal\fR \fIterm\fP,...
Only match processes whose controllin terminal is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da terminal name
should be specified without tha "/dev/" prefix.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-euid\fR \fIeuid\fP,...
Only match processes whose effectizzle user ID is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Either tha numerical
or symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR \fIuid\fP,...
Only match processes whose real user ID is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Either tha numerical or
symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-inverse\fR\fR
Negates tha matching.  This option is probably used in
.BR pgrep 's
context.  In
.BR pkill 's
context tha short option is disabled ta avoid accidental usage of tha option.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-lightweight\fR\fR
Shows all thread idz instead of pidz in
.BR pgrep 's
context.  In
.BR pkill 's
context dis option is disabled.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR\fR
Only match processes whose names (or command line if \-f is specified)
.B exactly
match the
.IR pattern .
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-pidfile\fR \fIfile\fR
Read
.IR PID 's
from file.  This option is like mo' useful for
.B pkill
than
.BR pgrep .
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-logpidfile\fR
Fail if pidfile (see -F) not locked.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help n' exit.
.PD
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I pattern
Specifies a Extended Regular Expression fo' matchin against tha process
names or command lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1: Find tha process ID of the
.B named
daemon:
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root named
.PP
Example 2: Make
.B syslog
reread its configuration file:
.IP
$ pkill \-HUP syslogd
.PP
Example 3: Give detailed shiznit on all
.B xterm
processes:
.IP
$ ps \-fp $(pgrep \-d, \-x xterm)
.PP
Example 4: Make all
.B netscape
processes run sickr:
.IP
$ renice +4 $(pgrep netscape)
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PD 0
.TP
0
One or mo' processes matched tha criteria.
.TP
1
No processes matched.
.TP
2
Syntax error up in tha command line.
.TP
3
Fatal error: outta memory etc.
.PD
.SH NOTES
Da process name used fo' matchin is limited ta tha 15 charactas present in
the output of /proc/\fIpid\fP/stat.  Use tha \-f option ta match against the
complete command line, /proc/\fIpid\fP/cmdline.
.PP
Da hustlin
.B pgrep
or
.B pkill
process aint NEVER gonna report itself as a
match.
.SH BUGS
Da options
.B \-n
and
.B \-o
and
.B \-v
can not be combined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Let
me know if you need ta do all dis bullshit.
.PP
Defunct processes is reported.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR regex (7),
.BR signal (7),
.BR killall (1),
.BR skill (1),
.BR bust a cap up in (1),
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
.SH STANDARDS
.B pkill
and
.B pgrep
were introduced up in Sunz Solaris 7.  This implementation is straight-up compatible.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR kjetilho@ifi.uio.no
Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.UE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
