
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, write ta tha Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
.\" Boston, MA  02111-1301  USA.
.TH pidgin 1 "" "Pidgin v2.10.10"
.SH NAME
pidgin \- Instant Messagin client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 5
\fBpidgin \fI[options]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBpidgin\fR be a graphical modular messagin client based on libpurple
which is capable of connectin ta AIM, MSN, Yahoo!, XMPP, ICQ, IRC, SILC,
Novell GroupWise, Lotus Sametime, Zephyr, Gadu-Gadu, n' QQ all at once. Well shiiiit, it has
many common features found up in other clients, as well as nuff unique features.
Pidgin aint endorsed by or affiliated wit Tha Ghetto Online, ICQ, Microsoft, or
Yahoo.
.PP
Pidgin can be extended by plugins freestyled up in multiple programmin languages and
controlled all up in DBus or \fBpurple-remote\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is provided by Pidgin rockin tha standard GNU
command line syntax:
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config=\fIDIR\fB
Use \fIDIR\fR as tha directory fo' config filez instead of \fI~/.purple\fR.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Print debuggin lyrics ta stdout.  These is tha same debuggin lyrics
that is displayed up in tha \fBDebug Window\fR.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force-online
Try ta be online even if tha network is reported (by Windows, or NetworkManager
on Linux) ta be unavailable.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a summary of command line options n' exit.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-multiple
Allow multiple instancez of Pidgin ta run.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nologin
Don't automatically login when Pidgin starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Sets tha global status to
\fBOffline\fR.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-login[=\fINAME\fR,\fINAME\fR,...]
Enable tha comma-separated list of accounts provided, disablin all other
accounts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If tha user do not specify such a cold-ass lil comma-separated list, the
first account up in accounts.xml is ghon be enabled.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print tha current version n' exit.

.SH TERMS
Pidgin uses all dem terms differently from other applications.  For convenience
they is defined here:
.TP
.B Buddy List
Da list of other playas whoz ass tha user wants ta peep status shiznit for
and have quick access ta fo' messaging.
.TP
.B Buddy
A user whoz ass has been added ta tha Buddy List.
.TP
.B Contact
A groupin of mo' than one dawg whoz ass is all tha same person. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A contact may
contain buddies from any protocol n' may contain as nuff buddies as tha user
desires.  Contact arrangements is stored locally only.
.TP
.B Alias
A private "nickname" dat may be set fo' Buddies or tha user his dirty ass.  On some
protocols, aliases is saved on tha server but not visible ta other users.  On
other protocols, aliases is saved only locally.
.TP
.B Protocol
A messagin service.  AIM, XMPP, MSN, Zephyr, etc. is protocols.  Others may
call these "service types," "account types," "skillz," n' so on.

.SH BUDDY LIST
Da \fBBuddy List\fR window is Pidginz main intercourse window.  Using
this window a user can peep which of his/her buddies is online, away, idle,
etc.  Da user can also add buddies ta n' remove buddies from tha dawg list.

Da \fBBuddy List\fR window gotz nuff a list of tha userz buddies whoz ass are
online n' have allowed tha user ta be notified of they presence.  Da icon
to tha left of each dawg indicates tha dawgz current status.  Double
clickin a funky-ass dawg will open a freshly smoked up \fBConversation\fR window.  Right clicking
will pop up a menu:
.TP
.B Git Info
Retrieves n' displays shiznit bout tha dawg.  This shiznit is
also known as a Profile.
.TP
.B IM
Opens a freshly smoked up \fBConversation\fR window ta tha selected dawg.
.TP
.B Send File
Sendz a gangbangin' file ta tha selected dawg (only available on protocols dat support
file transfer).
.TP
.B Add Buddy Pounce
A Buddy Pounce be a cold-ass lil configurable automated action ta be performed when the
buddyz state chizzles.  This will open tha \fBBuddy Pounce\fR dialog, which
will be discussed later.
.TP
.B View Log
Pidgin is capable of automatically loggin lyrics.  These logs are
either plain text filez (with a .txt extension) or html filez (with a
\&.html extension) located under tha \fI~/.purple/logs\fR directory.  This
menu command will display Pidginz log viewer wit logs loaded fo' that
buddy or chat.
.TP
.B Alias
Smoke a alias fo' dis dawg.  This will show a editable text field where
the dawgz name was displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  In dis field one can give this
buddy a alternate, mo' thugged-out name ta step tha fuck up on tha dawg list n' in
conversations.

For example, if a funky-ass dawgz name was jsmith1281xx n' his bangin real
name was 'Jizzy Q. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle,' one could create a alias as ta identify the
buddy by his common name.
.LP
Da remainder of tha menu will consist of protocol specific commands.
These commandz vary dependin on tha protocol.
.TP
.B Status Selector
At tha bottom of tha \fBBuddy List\fR be a status selector which allows one to
change his/her status.  This is ghon be discussed further up in tha \fBSTATUS
MESSAGES\fR section below.

.SH ACCOUNT EDITOR
Da account editor consistz of a list of accounts n' shiznit about
them.  It can be accessed by selectin \fBManage\fR from tha Accounts menu.
Clickin \fIDelete\fR will delete tha currently selected account.
Clickin \fIAdd\fR or \fIModify\fR will invoke a \fBModify Account\fR
window.  Here, tha user  can add or alta account shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When bustin
a freshly smoked up account, tha user will submit a username n' password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da user will
also chizzle tha protocol fo' tha account.

If \fIRemember Password\fR is chosen, tha password is ghon be saved in
Pidginz \fI~/.purple/accounts.xml\fR configuration file.

If \fIEnabled\fR is checked up in tha accounts dialog, dis account will
follow tha status currently selected up in tha status selector. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If it is
not checked, tha account will always be offline.

Each protocol has its own specific options dat can be found up in the
modify screen.

.SH PREFERENCES

All options take effect immediately.

.SH Interface

.TP
.B Show system tray icon
Specifies when ta show a Pidgin icon up in tha notification area of tha user's
panel (commonly referred ta as tha System Tray).

.TP
.B Hide freshly smoked up IM conversations
Specifies when ta hide freshly smoked up IM lyrics.  Lyrics will queue under the
specified condizzle until shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Clickin tha Pidgin icon up in the
notification area or system tray will display tha queued lyrics.  An
icon also appears up in tha dawg listz menu bar; dis icon may also be
used ta display queued lyrics.

.TP
.B Show IMs n' chats up in tabbed windows
When checked, dis option will cause IM n' chat sessions ta step tha fuck up in
windows wit multiple tabs.  One tab will represent one conversation or
chat.  Where tabs is placed is ghon be dictated by tha preferences below.

.TP
.B Show close buttons on tabs
When checked, dis option will cause a cold-ass lil clickable "U+2715 MULTIPLICATION X"
unicode characta ta step tha fuck up all up in tha right edge of each tab.  Clickin this
will cause tha tab ta be closed.

.TP
.B Placement
Specifies where ta place tabs up in tha window.  Some tab orientations may
allow some playas ta fit mo' tabs tha fuck into a single window comfortably.

.TP
.B New conversations
Specifies under which conditions tabs is placed tha fuck into existin windows or
into freshly smoked up windows.  For a single window, select \fILast pimped window\fR here.

.SH Conversations

.TP
.B Enable dawg icon animation
If a funky-ass dawgz icon happens ta be animated, dis option will enable the
animation, otherwise only tha straight-up original gangsta frame is ghon be displayed.

.TP
.B Notify buddies dat yo ass is typin ta them
Some protocols allow clients ta tell they buddies when they is typing.
This option enablez dis feature fo' protocols dat supports dat shit.

.TP
.B Default Formatting
Allows specifyin tha default formattin ta apply ta all outgoin lyrics
(only applicable ta protocols dat support formattin up in lyrics).

.SH Smiley Themes
Allows tha user ta chizzle between different smiley themes. Da "none" theme
will disable graphical emoticons - they is ghon be displayed as text instead.
Da \fBAdd\fR n' \fBRemove\fR buttons may be used ta install or uninstall
smiley themes.  Themes may also be installed by draggin n' droppin them
onto tha list of themes.

.SH Sounds

.TP
.B Method
Lets tha user chizzle between different playback methods. Da user can also
manually enta a cold-ass lil command ta be executed when a sound is ta be played\
(\fI%s\fR expandz ta tha full path ta tha file name).

.TP
.B Soundz when conversation has focus
When checked, soundz will play fo' events up in tha actizzle conversation if
the window is focused. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When unchecked, soundz aint gonna play fo' the
actizzle conversation when tha window is focused.

.TP
.B Enable Sounds
Determines when ta play sounds.

.TP
.B Sound Events
Lets tha user chizzle when n' what tha fuck soundz is ta be played.

.SH Network

.TP
.B STUN server
This allows specifyin a server which uses tha STUN protocol ta determine
a hostz hood IP address.  This can be particularly useful fo' some
protocols.

.TP
.B Autodetect IP address
When checked, causes Pidign ta attempt ta determine tha hood IP address
of tha host on which Pidgin is hustlin n' disablez tha \fBPublic IP\fR
text field listed below.

.TP
.B Public IP
If \fBAutodetect IP address\fR is disabled, dis field allows manually
specifyin tha hood IP address fo' tha host on which Pidgin is hustlin.
This is mainly useful fo' playas wit multiple network intercourses or behind
NATs.

.TP
.B Manually specify range of ports ta listen on
Specify a range ports ta listen on, overridin any defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This is
sometimes useful fo' file transfers n' Direct IM.

.TP
.B Proxy Server
Da configuration section ta enable Pidgin ta operate all up in a proxy
server n' shit.  Pidgin currently supports SOCKS 4/5 n' HTTP proxies.

.SH Browser

.TP
.B Browser
Allows tha user ta select Pidginz default wizzy browser n' shit.  Firefox, Galeon,
Konqueror, Mozilla, Netscape n' Opera is supported natively.  Da user
can also manually enta a cold-ass lil command ta be executed when a link is clicked
(\fI%s\fR expandz ta tha URL).  For example, \fIxterm -e lynx "%s"\fR will
open tha link wit lynx.

.TP
.B Open link in
Allows tha user ta specify whether ta use a existin window, a freshly smoked up tab, a
new window, or ta let tha browser ta decizzle what tha fuck ta do when callin the
browser ta open a link.  Which options is available will depend on which
browser is selected.

.SH Logging

.TP
.B Log format
Specifies how tha fuck ta log.  Pidgin supports HTML n' plain text yo, but plugins can
provide other loggin methods.

.TP
.B Log all instant lyrics
When enabled, all IM rap battlez is logged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can be overridden on a
per-conversation basis up in tha conversation window.

.TP
.B Log all chats
When enabled, all chat rap battlez is logged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can be overridden on a
per-conversation basis up in tha conversation window.

.TP
.B Log all status chizzlez ta system log
When enabled, status chizzlez is logged.

.SH Status / Idle

.TP
.B Report idle time
Determines under which conditions ta report idle time.  \fBBased on keyboard
and mouse use\fR uses keyboard n' mouse activitizzle ta determine idle time.
\fBFrom last busted message\fR uses tha time at which tha user last busted a
message up in Pidgin ta determine idle.  \fBNever\fR disablez idle reporting.

.TP
.B Auto-reply
Determines when ta bust a auto-reply on protocols which support it
(currently only AIM).

.TP
.B Chizzle status when idle
When enabled, dis uses tha \fBMinutes before becomin idle\fR n' \fBChange
status to\fR preferences busted lyrics bout below ta set status on idle.

.TP
.B Minutes before becomin idle
Specifies how tha fuck nuff minutez of inactivitizzle is required before thankin bout the
user ta be idle.

.TP
.B Chizzle status to
Specifies which "primitive" or "saved" status ta use when settin status on
idle.

.TP
.B Use status from last exit at startup
If dis is checked, Pidgin will remember what tha fuck status was actizzle when the
user closed Pidgin n' restore it all up in tha next run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When disabled, Pidgin
will always set tha status selected up in \fBStatus ta apply at startup\fR
at startup.

.TP
.B Status ta apply at startup
When \fBUse status from last exit at startup\fR is disabled, dis specifies
which "primitive" or "saved" status ta use at startup.

.SH CONVERSATIONS
When startin a freshly smoked up conversation, tha user is presented wit the
\fBConversation\fR window.  Da conversation appears up in tha upper text box
and tha user types his/her message up in tha lower text box.  Between tha two
is a row of options, represented by icons.  Some or all buttons may not be
actizzle if tha protocol do not support tha specific formatting. From left
to right:
.TP
.B Font
This menu serves up font control options fo' tha current conversation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Size,
style, n' grill may be configured here.
.TP
.B Insert
This menu serves up tha mobilitizzle ta bang images, horizontal rules, n' links
where tha protocol supports each of these features.
.TP
.B Smile!
Allows tha insertion of graphical smileys via tha mouse.  This button shows
the user a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog wit tha available smileys fo' tha current conversation.

.SH CHATS
For protocols dat allow it, \fBChats\fR can be entered all up in the
\fIBuddies\fR menu.

Additionizzle features available up in chat, dependin on tha protocol are:
.TP
.B Whisper
Da text will step tha fuck up in tha chat conversation yo, but it will only be visible
to tha sender n' tha receiver.
.TP
.B Invite
Invite other playas ta join tha chat room.
.TP
.B Ignore
Ignore anythang holla'd by tha chosen person
.TP
.B Set Topic
Set tha topic of tha chat room.  This is probably a funky-ass brief sentence
describin tha nature of tha chat--an explanation of tha chat roomz name.
.TP
.B Private Message (IM)
Send a message ta a specific thug up in tha chat.  Lyrics busted dis way will
not step tha fuck up in tha chat window yo, but instead open a freshly smoked up IM conversation.

.SH STATUS MESSAGES
Most protocols allow fo' status lyrics.  By rockin status lyrics, a user
can leave a informatizzle message fo' others ta see.  Status n' status
lyrics is configured via tha status selector all up in tha bottom of tha Buddy
List window.  By default tha menu shown here is divided tha fuck into sections for
"primitive" status types, like fuckin \fIAvailable\fR, \fIAway\fR, etc.; a gangbangin' few
"popular" statuses (includin "transient" statuses)  which have been
recently used, n' a section which shows \fBNew Status...\fR n' \fBSaved
Statuses...\fR options fo' mo' advanced status manipulation.

.TP
.B Primitizzle Statuses
A primitizzle status be a funky-ass basic status supported by tha protocol.  Examplez of
primitizzle statuses would be Available, Away, Invisible, etc.  A primitive
status can be used ta create a \fBTransient Status\fB or a \fBSaved Status\fR,
both explained below.  Essentially, primitizzle statuses is buildin blocks
of mo' fucked up statuses.

.TP
.B Transient Statuses
When one of tha statuses from tha topmost section of tha status selector's
menu is selected, dis creates a transient, or temporary, status.  Da status
will show up in tha "popular statuses" section up in tha menu until it has not been
used fo' a sufficiently long time.  A transient status may also be pimped by
selectin \fINew Status...\fR from tha status selectorz menu, then clicking
\fIUse\fR once tha user has entered tha message.

.TP
.B Saved Statuses
Saved statuses is permanent--once pimped, they will exist until deleted.
Saved statuses is useful fo' statuses n' status lyrics dat is ghon be used
on a regular basis.  They is also useful fo' bustin complex statuses in
which some accounts should always gotz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different status from others.  For
example, one might wish ta create a status called "Chillin" dat has all
accounts set ta "Away", then create another status called "Working" that
has three accounts set ta "Away" n' another account set ta "Available."

.TP
.B New Status Window
When tha user selects \fINew Status...\fR from tha status selector menu,
Pidgin presents tha user wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog askin fo' status-related shiznit.
That shiznit is discussed below:

\fITitle\fR - Da name of tha status dat will step tha fuck up in tha status selctor's
menu fo'sho.  If tha user clicks tha \fISave\fR or \fISave & Use\fR button, this
name will also be shown up in tha \fBSaved Status Window\fR.  Da title should
be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of tha status.

\fIStatus\fR - Da type of status bein pimped, like fuckin Available, Away, etc.

\fIMessage\fR - Da content of tha status message.  This is what tha fuck is visible
to other users.  Some protocols will allow formattin up in some status lyrics;
where formattin aint supported it is ghon be stripped ta tha bare text entered.

\fIUse a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different status fo' some accounts\fR - This allows tha creation of
complex statuses up in which some accounts' status differs from dat of other
accounts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  To use this, tha user will click tha expander ta tha left of the
text, then select individual accounts which gonna git a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different status
and/or status message.  When tha user selects a account, Pidgin will present
another status dialog askin fo' a status n' a message just fo' tha selected
account.

.TP
.B Saved Status Window
When tha user selects \fISaved Statuses...\fR from tha status selectorz menu,
Pidgin presents a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog dat lists all saved statuses.  "Transient" statuses,
discussed above, is \fB\fINOT\fR\fR shown here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho.  This window serves up the
abilitizzle ta manage saved statuses by allowin tha creation, modification, and
deletion of saved statuses.  Da \fIUse\fR, \fIModify\fR, n' \fIDelete\fR
buttons here allow operation on tha status selected from tha list; tha \fAdd\fR
button allows creation of a freshly smoked up saved status, n' tha \fIClose\fR button closes
the window.

.SH BUDDY POUNCE
A Buddy Pounce be a automated trigger dat occurs when a funky-ass dawg returns to
a aiiight state from a away state.  Da \fBBuddy Pounce\fR dialog box
can be activated by selectin tha \fIBuddy Pounce\fR option from the
\fBTools\fR menu fo'sho. From dis dialog, freshly smoked up pounces can be pimped wit the
\fBAdd\fR button n' existin pounces can be removed wit tha \fBDelete\fR
button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A pounce can be set ta occur on any combination of the
events listed, n' any combination of actions can result.  If \fIPounce
only when mah status aint Available\fR is checked, tha pounce will occur
only if tha user is set ta a non-available status, like fuckin invisible, do not
disturb, away, etc.  If \fIRecurring\fR is checked, tha pounce will remain
until removed by tha \fBDelete\fR button.

.SH CUSTOM SMILIES
Pidgin 2.5.0 introduced support fo' custom smilies on dem protocols fo' which
interested contributors have pimped support.  Da custom smiley manager can
be accessed by selectin \fISmiley\fR from tha \fITools\fR menu fo'sho.  From here,
custom smilies may be added, edited, or deleted by clickin tha \fIAdd\fR,
\fIEdit\fR, or \fIDelete\fR buttons, respectively.

Durin a cold-ass lil conversation wit another user, dat userz custom smileys may be
added ta tha userz own custom smiley list directly from tha conversation
window by right-clickin tha freshly smoked up custom smiley n' selectin \fIAdd Custom
Smiley...\fR

.SH PLUGINS
Pidgin allows fo' dynamic loadin of plugins ta add extra functionality
to Pidgin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See \fIplugins/HOWTO\fR or
\fIhttp://developer.pidgin.im/wiki/CHowTo\fR fo' shiznit on writing
plugins.

Da plugins dialog can be accessed by selectin \fIPlugins\fR from the
\fITools\fR menu fo'sho. Each plugin available appears up in dis dialog wit its name,
version, n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short summary of its functionality. Plugins can be enabled
with tha checkbox beside tha name n' short description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Mo' shiznit on
the currently selected plugin be available by clickin tha expander beside the
text \fIPlugin Details\fR.  If tha selected plugin has preferences or
configuration options, tha \fIConfigure Plugin\fR button will present the
pluginz preferences dialog.

.SH PERL
Pidgin allows fo' plugins ta be freestyled up in tha perl scriptin language.  See
\fIPerl Scriptin HOWTO\fR up in tha Pidgin documentation fo' mo' shiznit
about perl scripting.

.SH TCL
Pidgin allows fo' plugins ta be freestyled up in tha Tcl scriptin language. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fIplugins/tcl/TCL-HOWTO\fR fo' mo' shiznit bout Tcl scripting.

.SH D-Bus
Pidgin allows fo' interaction via D-Bus.  Currently straight-up lil documentation
about dis interaction exists.

.SH FILES
  \fI/usr/bin/pidgin\fR: Pidginz location.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/blist.xml\fR: tha dawg list.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/accounts.xml\fR: shiznit bout tha userz accounts.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/pounces.xml\fR: stores tha userz dawg pounces.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/prefs.xml\fR: Pidginz configuration file.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/status.xml\fR: stores tha userz away lyrics.
.br
  \fI~/.purple/logs/PROTOCOL/ACCOUNT/BUDDYNAME/DATE.{html,txt}\fR: conversation logs.

.SH DIRECTORIES
  \fI/usr/lib/pidgin/\fR: Pidginz plugins directory.
.br
  \fI/usr/lib/purple-2/\fR: libpurplez plugins directory.
.br
  \fI~/.purple\fR: users' local settings
.br
  \fI~/.purple/plugins/\fR: users' local plugins

.SH BUGS
Da bug tracker can be reached by visitin \fIhttp://developer.pidgin.im/query\fR

Before bustin  a funky-ass bug report, please verify dat you have tha sickest fuckin
version of Pidgin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Many bugs (major n' minor) is fixed
at each release, n' if yours is outta date, tha problem may already
have been solved.

.SH PATCHES
If you fix a funky-ass bug up in Pidgin (or otherwise enhizzle it), please submit a
patch (usin \fBmtn diff > my.diff\fR against tha sickest fuckin version from the
Monotone repository) at \fIhttp://developer.pidgin.im/simpleticket\fR

Yo ass be also encouraged ta drop by at \fB#pidgin\fR on \fIirc.freenode.net\fR
to say shit bout pimpment.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fIhttp://pidgin.im/\fR
.br
\fIhttp://developer.pidgin.im/\fR
.br
\fBpurple-remote\fR(1)
.br
\fBfinch\fR(1)

.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
(at yo' option) any lata version.

This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
\fBWITHOUT ANY WARRANTY\fR; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
General Public License fo' mo' details.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02111-1301  USA

.SH AUTHORS
Pidginz actizzle pimpers are:
.br
  Daniel 'datallah' Atallah (developer)
.br
  Pizzle 'darkrain42' Aurich (developer)
.br
  Jizzy 'rekkanoryo' Bailey (developer n' bugmaster)
.br
  Ethan 'Paco-Paco' Blanton (developer)
.br
  Thomas Butta (developer)
.br
  Ka-Hin Cheung (developer)
.br
  Sadrul Habib Chowdhury (developer)
.br
  Mark 'KingAnt' Doliner (developer) <\fIthekingant@users.sourceforge.net\fR>
.br
  Shizzle Egan (developer) <\fIseanegan@gmail.com\fR>
.br
  Casey Harkins (developer)
.br
  Ivan Komarov
.br
  Gary 'grim' Kramlich (developer)
.br
  Slick Rick 'rlaager' Laager (developer) <\fIrlaager@pidgin.im\fR>
.br
  Sulabh 'sulabh_m' Mahajan (developer)
.br
  Slick Rick 'wabz' Nelson (developer)
.br
  Christopher 'siege' O'Brien (developer)
.br
  Bartoss Ola (developer)
.br
  Etan 'deryni' Reisner (developer)
.br
  Slim Tim 'marv' Ringenbach (developer) <\fImarv_sf@users.sf.net\fR>
.br
  Mike 'Maiku' Ruprecht (developer, voice n' vizzle)
.br
  Elliott 'QuLogic' Salez de Andrade (developer)
.br
  Luke 'LSchiere' Schierer (support)
.br
  Megan 'Cae' Schneider (support/QA)
.br
  Evan Schoenberg (developer)
.br
  Kevin 'SimGuy' Stange (developer n' webmaster)
.br
  Will 'resiak' Thompson (developer)
.br
  Stu 'nosnilmot' Tomlinston (developer)
.br
  Nathan 'faceprint' Walp (developer)
.br


Our wild-ass patch writas include:
.br
  Marcus 'malu' Lundblad
.br
  Dennis 'EvilDennisR' Ristuccia
.br
  Peta 'fmoo' Ruibal
.br
  Gabriel 'Nix' Schulhof
.br
  Jorge 'Masca' Villaseñor
.br


Our artists are:
.br
  Hylke Bons <\fIh.bons@student.rug.nl\fR>
.br


Our retired pimpers are:
.br
  Herman Bloggs (win32 port) <\fIherman@bluedigits.com\fR>
.br
  Jim Duchek <\fIjim@linuxpimps.com\fR> (maintainer)
.br
  Rob Flynn <\fIgaim@robflynn.com\fR> (maintainer)
.br
  Adam Fritzla (libfaim maintainer)
.br
  Christian 'ChipX86' Hammond (developer & webmaster) <\fIchipx86@chipx86.com\fR>
.br
  Syd Logan (hacker n' designated driver [lazy bum])
.br
  Jim Seymour (XMPP pimper)
.br
  Mark Spencer (original gangsta author) <\fImarkster@marko.net\fR>
.br
  Eric Warmenhoven (forma lead pimper) <\fIeric@warmenhoven.org\fR>
.br


Our retired wild-ass patch writas include:
.br
  Felipe 'shx' Contreras
.br
  Decklin Foster
.br
  Peta 'Bleeter' Lawler
.br
  Robert 'Robot101' McQueen
.br
  Benjamin Miller
.br


This manpage was originally freestyled by Dennis Ristuccia
<\fIdennis@dennisr.net\fR>.  It has been updated n' largely rewritten by
Shizzle Egan <\fIseanegan@gmail.com\fR>,
Lil' Bow Wow Tegarden <\fItegarden@uclink.berkeley.edu\fR>,
and Jizzy Bailey <\fIrekkanoryo@pidgin.im\fR>.
