.TH PIGZ 1 local
.SH NAME
pigz, unpigz \- compress or expand files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +8
.B pigz
.RB [ " \-cdfhikKlLnNqrRtTz0..9,11 " ]
[
.B -b
.I blocksize
]
[
.B -p
.I threads
]
[
.B -S
.I suffix
]
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.ll -8
.br
.B unpigz
.RB [ " \-cfhikKlLnNqrRtTz " ]
[
.B -b
.I blocksize
]
[
.B -p
.I threads
]
[
.B -S
.I suffix
]
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pigz
compresses rockin threadz ta make use of multiple processors n' cores.
Da input is fucked up tha fuck into 128 KB chunks wit each compressed up in parallel.
Da individual check value fo' each chunk be also calculated up in parallel.
Da compressed data is freestyled up in order ta tha output, n' a cold-ass lil combined check
value is calculated from tha individual check joints.
.PP
Da compressed data format generated is up in tha gzip, zlib, or single-entry
zip format rockin tha deflate compression method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da compression produces
partial raw deflate streams which is concatenated by a single write thread
and wrapped wit tha appropriate header n' trailer, where tha trailer
gotz nuff tha combined check value.
.PP
Each partial raw deflate stream is terminated by a empty stored block
(usin tha Z_SYNC_FLUSH option of zlib), up in order ta end dat partial bit
stream at a funky-ass byte boundary.  That allows tha partial streams ta be
concatenated simply as sequencez of bytes.  This addz a straight-up lil' small-ass four to
five byte overhead ta tha output fo' each input chunk.
.PP
Da default input block size is 128K yo, but can be chizzled wit the
.B -b
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da number of compress threadz is set by default ta tha number
of online processors,
which can be chizzled rockin the
.B -p
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Specifying
.B -p 1
avoidz tha use of threadz entirely.
.PP
Da input blocks, while compressed independently, have tha last 32K of the
previous block loaded as a preset doggtionary ta preserve tha compression
effectivenizz of deflatin up in a single thread. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can be turned off using
the
.B -i
or
.B --independent
option, so dat tha blocks can be decompressed
independently fo' partial error recovery or fo' random access.
.PP
Decompression can't be parallelized, at least not without specially prepared
deflate streams fo' dat purpose.  As a result,
.I pigz
uses a single thread
(the main thread) fo' decompression yo, but will create three other threadz for
reading, writing, n' check calculation, which can speed up decompression
under some circumstances.  Parallel decompression can be turned off by
specifyin one process
(
.B -dp 1
or
.B -tp 1
).
.PP
Compressed filez can be restored ta they original gangsta form using
.I pigz -d
or
.I unpigz.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -# --fast --best
Regulate tha speed of compression rockin tha specified digit
.IR # ,
where
.B \-1
or
.B \-\-fast
indicates tha fastest compression method (less compression)
and
.B \-9
or
.B \-\-best
indicates tha slowest compression method (best compression).
.B -0
is no compression.
.B \-11
gives all dem cement betta compression at a severe cost up in execution time.
Da default is
.B \-6.
.TP
.B -b --blocksize mmm
Set compression block size ta mmmK (default 128KiB).
.TP
.B -c --stdout --to-stdout
Write all processed output ta stdout (won't delete).
.TP
.B -d --decompress --uncompress
Decompress tha compressed input.
.TP
.B -f --force
Force overwrite, compress .gz, links, n' ta terminal.
.TP
.B -h --help
Display a help screen n' quit.
.TP
.B -i --independent
Compress blocks independently fo' damage recovery.
.TP
.B -k --keep
Do not delete original gangsta file afta processing.
.TP
.B -K --zip
Compress ta PKWare zip (.zip) single entry format.
.TP
.B -l --list
List tha contentz of tha compressed input.
.TP
.B -L --license
Display the
.I pigz
license n' quit.
.TP
.B -n --no-name
Do not store or restore file name in/from header.
.TP
.B -N --name
Store/restore file name n' mod time in/from header.
.TP
.B -p --processes n
Allow up ta n processes (default is tha number of online processors)
.TP
.B -q --quiet --silent
Print no lyrics, even on error.
.TP
.B -r --recursive
Process tha contentz of all subdirectories.
.TP
.B -R --rsyncable
Input-determined block locations fo' rsync.
.TP
.B -S --suffix .sss
Use suffix .sss instead of .gz (for compression).
.TP
.B -t --test
Test tha integritizzle of tha compressed input.
.TP
.B -T --no-time
Do not store or restore mod time in/from header.
.TP
.B -v --verbose
Provide mo' verbose output.
.TP
.B -V --version
Show tha version of pigz.
.TP
.B -z --zlib
Compress ta zlib (.zz) instead of gzip format.
.TP
.B --
All arguments afta "--" is treated as file names (for names dat start wit "-")
.TP
These options is unique ta tha -11 compression level:
.TP
.B -F  --first
Do iterations first, before block split (default is last).
.TP
.B -I, --iterations n
Number of iterations fo' optimization (default 15).
.TP
.B -M, --maxsplits n
Maximum number of split blocks (default 15).
.TP
.B -O  --oneblock
Do not split tha fuck into smalla blocks (default is block splitting).
.SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty.  In no event will tha lyricist be held liable fo' any damages
arisin from tha use of dis software.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Mark Adla <madler@alumni.caltech.edu>
