.TH PINFO 1 "01 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
.B pinfo
\- curses based lynx-style info browser
.SH SYNTAX
.B pinfo 
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fBinfopage\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This be a program fo' viewin info files. Yo ass specify which page you want to
read by passin it an
.I infopage
argument. This argument gotz nuff tha name of a info page (i.e. 'bash').
Da program will then (by default) search fo' it up in tha current directory,
.IR "/usr/share/info",
.IR "/usr/info",
.IR "/usr/local/share/info",
.IR "/usr/local/info".
and
.IR "/opt/info".
Da search path can be adjusted by INFOPATH environment variable or up in tha configuration
file. Pinfo will also automatically add tha suffix '-info', '-info.Z', '-info.gz', or '-info.bz2'.
At present other suffixes is not recognized yo, but you can easily add dem to
the function 
.I openinfo() 
in 
.IR "filehandling_functions.c".
.P
When tha search fo' info pages fails, playa is called wit tha infopage
argument, n' itz output is parsed by pinfo. This means dat when you don't
have tha appropriate info page yo, but gotz a playa page instead; tha playa page
will be viewed.
.P
When no \fIinfopage\fR is specified, tha default `dir' page is shown.
.P
Supported options are
.P
.BR "-h", 
.B --help
\- print help shiznit n' exit.
.P
.BR "-v", 
.BR --version
\- print version shiznit n' exit.
.P
.BR "-m",
.BR --manual 
\- uses manual page instead of info by default. (pinfo -m could be used as a
manual pager). \fBWarning\fR: Everythang what tha fuck bigs up dis option is passed
to tha `\fIman\fR' program. Don't be trippin if pinfo options, which
followed `\fB-m\fR' don't work. When rockin dis option, pinfo do not parse
the info options as usual! It invokes tha playa part of program.
.P
Yo ass can also call tha playa function of pinfo up in another way. When pinfo is
called wit a argv[0] (the program file name), which gotz nuff tha word 'man'
in itz name, tha playa functions is enabled automatically.
.P
Previously there was a symlink ta pinfo, called pman yo, but I had ta remove it
from tha distribution, since itz name was up in conflict wit some other
utilitizzle fo' realz. Anyway, you can feel free ta create such a link if you wish.
.P
.BR "-r",
.BR --raw-filename 
\- uses a raw filename first (i.e. tha name which you specified as
\fIinfopage\fR is considered ta be a real file up in tha specified location).
.P
.BR "-f",
.BR --file 
synonym fo' -r.
.P
.BR "-a",
.BR --apropos 
\- if dis is set, apropos is called when no playa or info page could be found.
.P
.BR "-p",
.BR --plain-apropos
\- if dis is set, call only apropos.
.P
.BR "-c",
.BR --cut-man-headaz 
\- if dis is set, playa parsin code will try ta cut up tha repeated man
headers. Use wit care. ;)
.P
.BR "-s",
.BR "--squeeze-lines" \-
cut empty lines from manual pages. This option enablez auto cuttin of every
repeated newline up in a manual page.
.P
.BR "-d",
.BR --dont-handle-without-tag-table
\- don't display texinfo pages without tag table.
.P
.BR "-t",
.BR "--force-manual-tag-table" \-
forces manual detection of tag table. This allows you ta view info pages,
which may be corrupted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. (as i.e. version of jedz pages, shipped with
RH5.0). Da tag table corruption probably appears up in dat tha info links,
which you follow, move you ta like unexpected nodes.
.P
.BR "--node=\fInodename\fB",
.BR "--node \fInodename\fB" \-
Go ta tha node `\fInodename\fR' of info file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since 0.6.7 it be also
possible ta specify nodes as up in standalone info via file names, like
`(gcc)Introduction'.
.P
.BR "--rcfile=\fIfilename\fB",
.BR "--rcfile \fIfilename\fB" \-
Use alternate configuration file.
.P
.BR "--long-manual-links",
.BR "-l" \-
Use long link names up in manuals. On some systems tha manual hierarchy is
divided tha fuck into subsections like `3ncurses', etc, while on other systems all
belongs ta section `3'. If dis option is what tha fuck yo' system is like, feel
free ta use dat shit.
.P
.BR "--clear-at-exit",
.BR "-x" \-
Clear screen at exit.
.P
Da options is handled by GNU getopt, so you can here (as up in other
programs) abbreviate tha option names ta tha minimal number of
charactas by which tha options differ.
.P
Warning! If you aint gots getopt, these options aint gonna work!
.P
.SH DEFAULT KEYS WHEN BROWSING INFO FILE
.P
Just take a peep tha example configuration file (below), n' all up in tha key 
descriptions. Keys available up in manual viewer differ a lil' bit from tha keys 
available up in info viewer.
.P
.SH ENVIRONMENT
There be a variable $INFOPATH, which can specify tha paths ta be searched
for info files. It aint nuthin but format is similar ta dat of tha $PATH variable fo' realz. An
example settin could look like:
.P
.B /usr/info:/usr/somewhere/info:/not/even/in/usr/info
.P
etc. Directories is separated by colons.

.SH COLOR AND KEY DEFINITIONS
.P
There is configuration filez called ~/.pinforc and
[prefix]/etc/pinforc, fo' local n' global configuration (where prefix is the
prefix of tha directory, where pinfo is installed, i.e. /usr/local, or /).
Herez a example of such a gangbangin' file; we'll say shit bout tha contents below:
.P
.nf
.sp
# Here is some color setting.
# Whitespace between tha entries is optional.
COL_NORMAL = COLOR_WHITE, COLOR_BLACK, NO_BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_MENUSELECTED = COLOR_RED, COLOR_BLACK, BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_MENU=COLOR_BLUE,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_NOTESELECTED=COLOR_RED,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_NOTE=COLOR_GREEN,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_TOPLINE=COLOR_YELLOW,COLOR_BLUE,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_BOTTOMLINE=COLOR_YELLOW,COLOR_BLUE,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_MANUALBOLD=COLOR_WHITE,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_MANUALITALIC=COLOR_WHITE,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_URL=COLOR_MAGENTA,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_URLSELECTED=COLOR_RED,COLOR_BLACK,NO_BOLD, NO_BLINK
COL_INFOHIGHLIGHT=COLOR_WHITE,COLOR_BLACK,BOLD, NO_BLINK
#
# Here is some keybindings as well...
#
KEY_TOTALSEARCH_1 = 's'
KEY_TOTALSEARCH_2 = 'S'
KEY_SEARCH_1 = '/'
KEY_SEARCH_2 = '.'
KEY_GOTO_1='g'
KEY_GOTO_2='m'
KEY_HOME_1='h'
KEY_HOME_2='H'
KEY_PREVNODE_1='p'
KEY_PREVNODE_2='P'
KEY_NEXTNODE_1='n'
KEY_NEXTNODE_2='N'
KEY_UP_1=KEY_UP
KEY_UP_2='u'
KEY_END_1=
KEY_END_2='e'
KEY_PGDN_1=KEY_NPAGE
KEY_PGDN_2=' '
KEY_PGDN_AUTO_1=0
KEY_PGDN_AUTO_2=' '
KEY_PGUP_1=KEY_PPAGE
KEY_PGUP_2='b'
KEY_PGUP_AUTO_1=0
KEY_PGUP_AUTO_2='b'
KEY_DOWN_1=KEY_DOWN
KEY_DOWN_2='d'
KEY_TOP_1=KEY_HOME
KEY_TOP_2='t'
KEY_BACK_1=KEY_LEFT
KEY_BACK_2='l'
KEY_FOLLOWLINK_1=KEY_RIGHT
KEY_FOLLOWLINK_2='\n'
# 12 be a cold-ass lil code fo' ctrl+l
KEY_REFRESH_1=12
KEY_REFRESH_2='~'
KEY_SHELLFEED_1='!'
KEY_SHELLFEED_2='1'
KEY_QUIT_1='q'
KEY_QUIT_2='Q'
KEY_DIRPAGE_1='d'
KEY_DIRPAGE_2='D'
KEY_GOLINE_1='l'
KEY_GOLINE_2=0
KEY_PRINT_1=']'
KEY_PRINT_2=0
#
# Some options, explained up in tha playa page
#
MANUAL=false
CUT-MAN-HEADERS=true
CUT-EMPTY-MAN-LINES=true
RAW-FILENAME=false
APROPOS=false
DONT-HANDLE-WITHOUT-TAG-TABLE=false
LONG-MANUAL-LINKS=false
FILTER-0xB7=true
QUIT-CONFIRMATION=false
QUIT-CONFIRM-DEFAULT=no
CLEAR-SCREEN-AT-EXIT=true
STDERR-REDIRECTION="2> /dev/null"
HTTPVIEWER=lynx
FTPVIEWER=lynx
MAILEDITOR=pine
MANLINKS=1:8:2:3:4:5:6:7:9:n:p:o:3X11:3Xt
INFOPATH=/usr/info:/usr/share/info:/usr/local/info
HIGHLIGHTREGEXP=Bash.*has
SAFE-USER=nobody
SAFE-GROUP=nobody
.fi
.P
As you can see, tha format is simple. First I be bout ta explain tha color
definitions. First you must enta a cold-ass lil color name (all available color
names is present up in tha example, n' they self explanatory, I
think. There be also a special color COLOR_DEFAULT, which standz for
transparency). Then you enta tha foreground color, n' tha background
color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da BOLD attribute means dat we want tha foreground color to
be highlighted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. (i.e.  light blue, light green). BLINK attribute is the
blinkin attribute, or highlighted background up in some other configurations.
.P
Now letz move ta tha key definitions yo. Here we first put a key name (again
all keys is present up in tha example); then we enta itz value -- either
surrounded
by apostrophes, or a keycode number (like up in KEY_REFRESH_1), or its mnemonic
code name if itz a special key (like i.e. up in KEY_FOLLOWLINK_1).
.P
If you wish ta specify key by code value, use tha supplied program 'testkey'
to obtain tha needed value. Well shiiiit, it mainly be a gangbangin' feature, when you wanna add
some CTRL+letta keybindings, n' similar.
.P
For each function you can bind two keys, i.e. you could bind both
Enta n' Cursor Right ta tha FollowLink-function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  As you can peep in
the example above, tha two key names is KEY_FOLLOWLINK_1 and
KEY_FOLLOWLINK_2.  
.P
Herez a explanation of tha key names:
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
.B KEY_TOTALSEARCH_1
Key fo' searchin all up in all nodez of info file.
.TP 
.B KEY_TOTALSEARCH_2
Alternate key fo' searchin all up in all nodez of info file.
.TP 
.B KEY_SEARCH_1
Key fo' searchin all up in current node (or manual).
.TP 
.B KEY_SEARCH_2
Alternate key fo' searchin all up in current node (or manual).
.TP 
.B KEY_SEARCH_AGAIN_1
Key fo' repeatin tha last search.
.TP 
.B KEY_SEARCH_AGAIN_2
Alternate key fo' repeatin tha last search.
.TP
.B KEY_GOTO_1
Key fo' explicitly goin ta a node (by specifyin itz name).
.TP 
.B KEY_GOTO_2
Alternate key fo' explicitly goin ta a node (by specifyin itz name).
.TP 
.B KEY_PREVNODE_1
Key fo' goin ta a node marked as 'Prev' up in tha header n' shit. In playa page viewer
this goes ta tha previous playa section.
.TP 
.B KEY_PREVNODE_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta a node marked as 'Prev' up in tha header n' shit. In playa page
viewer dis goes ta tha previous playa section.
.TP 
.B KEY_NEXTNODE_1
Key fo' goin ta a node marked as 'Next' up in tha header n' shit. In playa page viewer
this goes ta tha next playa section.
.TP 
.B KEY_NEXTNODE_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta a node marked as 'Next' up in tha header n' shit. In playa page
viewer dis goes ta tha next playa section.
.TP 
.B KEY_UP_1
Key fo' scrollin text one line up.
.TP 
.B KEY_UP_2
Alternate key fo' scrollin text one line up.
.TP 
.B KEY_END_1
Key fo' goin ta tha end of tha node.
.TP 
.B KEY_END_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta tha end of tha node.
.TP 
.B KEY_PGDN_1
Key fo' goin one page down up in tha viewed node.
.TP 
.B KEY_PGDN_2
Alternate key fo' goin one page down up in tha viewed node.
.TP
.B KEY_PGDN_AUTO_1
Key fo' goin ta tha next node when you all up in tha end of node (default
is zero -- turned off).
.TP
.B KEY_PGDN_AUTO_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta tha next node when you all up in tha end of node
(default is space, as fo' pgdn_2).
.TP 
.B KEY_HOME_1
Key fo' goin ta tha beginnin of tha node.
.TP 
.B KEY_HOME_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta tha beginnin of tha node.
.TP 
.B KEY_PGUP_1
Key fo' goin one page up in tha viewed node.
.TP 
.B KEY_PGUP_2
Alternate key fo' goin one page up in tha viewed node.
.TP
.B KEY_PGUP_AUTO_1
Key fo' goin ta tha `up' node, when bein all up in tha top of node. (Default value
is zero -- turned off).
.TP
.B KEY_PGUP_AUTO_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta tha `up' node, when bein all up in tha top of node.
(Default value is `\-', as fo' pgup_2).
.TP 
.B KEY_DOWN_1
Key fo' scrollin tha text down one line.
.TP 
.B KEY_DOWN_2
Alternate key fo' scrollin tha text down one line.
.TP 
.B KEY_TOP_1
Key fo' goin ta tha top (first) node.
.TP 
.B KEY_TOP_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta tha top (first) node.
.TP 
.B KEY_BACK_1
Key fo' goin back (in tha history of viewed nodes).
.TP 
.B KEY_BACK_2
Alternate key fo' goin back (in tha history of viewed nodes).
.TP 
.B KEY_FOLLOWLINK_1
Key fo' followin a hypertext link.
.TP 
.B KEY_FOLLOWLINK_2
Alternate key fo' followin a hypertext link.
.TP 
.B KEY_REFRESH_1
Key fo' refreshin tha screen (hard coded is tha ^L value).
.TP 
.B KEY_REFRESH_2
Alternate key fo' refreshin tha screen.
.TP 
.B KEY_SHELLFEED_1
Key fo' callin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command, n' passin tha viewed node ta tha stdin of
that command.
.TP 
.B KEY_SHELLFEED_2
Alternate key fo' callin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command, n' passin tha viewed node ta the
stdin of dat command.
.TP 
.B KEY_QUIT_1
Key fo' exitin tha program.
.TP 
.B KEY_QUIT_2
Alternate key fo' exitin tha program.
.TP 
.B KEY_GOLINE_1
Key fo' goin ta a specified line up in file.
.TP 
.B KEY_GOLINE_2
Alternate key fo' goin ta a specified line up in file.
.TP 
.B KEY_PRINT_1
Key fo' printin viewed node or playa page.
.TP 
.B KEY_PRINT_2
Alternate key fo' printin viewed node or playa page.
.sp
.RE
.P
Da special mnemonics fo' keys (which is defined at present) are:
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
.B KEY_BREAK
.TP 
.B KEY_DOWN
.TP 
.B KEY_UP
.TP 
.B KEY_LEFT
.TP 
.B KEY_RIGHT
.TP 
.B KEY_DOWN
.TP 
.B KEY_HOME
.TP 
.B KEY_BACKSPACE
.TP 
.B KEY_NPAGE
.TP 
.B KEY_PPAGE
.TP 
.BR KEY_END " [Note: dis works probably \fBONLY\fR wit Linux ncurses]"
.TP
.B KEY_F(x)
.TP
.B KEY_CTRL('c')
\- dis assigns tha key value ta a \fIctrl+c\fR combination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fIc\fR may be
any letta you wish.
.TP
.B KEY_ALT('c')
\- dis assigns tha key value ta a \fIalt+c\fR combination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fIc\fR may be
any letta you wish. If \fIalt\fR key won't work, you may use \fIESC+key\fR 
combination.
.TP
.B 'c'
\- dis means a printable characta \fIc\fR. Da syntax is just like in
C/C++ ;).
.TP
.B [number]
\- you can also specify key as itz code number n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is useful e.g. when
specifyin control keys, n' some nonstandard keys.
A numerical value of zero turns given key bindin off.
.sp
.RE
See manual page fo' curs_getch (3x) fo' description of they meaning.
.P
Warning! Try not ta create some straight-up key bindin conflicts!
.P
Da options up in tha last part of tha example configuration file should
be fairly self-explanatory.  Da variablez dat can be set ta legit or
false do tha same thangs as tha command line arguments wit tha same
names. 
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
.B MANUAL 
If dis is set to
.B true
the default is ta first check fo' a playa page, instead of a texinfo
file.
.TP 
.B CUT-MAN-HEADERS 
If set ta true, then pinfo tries ta cut off tha repeated headers
all up in playa pages.
.TP
.B CUT-EMPTY-MAN-LINES
If set ta true, then pinfo tries ta cut off tha repeated newlines (i.e. it
will shorten each set of consecutizzle newlines ta one newline).
.TP
.B RAW-FILENAME
If set ta true, tha file argument is taken ta be tha name of a gangbangin' file in
the current hustlin directory, i.e. tha directories in
.B INFOPATH
will only be searched if a gangbangin' file wit dis name aint up in tha working
directory.
.TP
.B APROPOS
If set ta true,
.B apropos
is called if no info or playa page is found.
.TP
.B DONT-HANDLE-WITHOUT-TAG-TABLE
If set to
.B true
, pinfo aint gonna attempt ta display texinfo pages
without tag tables.
.TP
.B HTTPVIEWER
Set dis ta tha program you wanna use ta follow http links in
documents.
.TP
.B FTPVIEWER
Set dis ta tha program you wanna use ta follow ftp links in
documents.
.TP
.B MAILEDITOR
Set dis ta yo' straight-up email program, n' it is ghon be started if
you follow a email link up in a thugged-out document.
.TP
.B PRINTUTILITY
Utility, which you use fo' printing. I.e. `lpr'. If you don't use any, you
may also try suttin' like `cat >/dev/lp1', or sth. ;)
.TP
.B MANLINKS
This specifies tha section names, which may be referenced up in yo' playa pages
(i.e. Xtoolkit playa pages match tha section 3Xt (see fo' example
XtVaCreateWidget)
manpage), Xlib function pages match section 3X11, etc. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such extensions may
not be recognized by default, so it aint nuthin but a phat scam ta add them).
.TP
.B INFOPATH
This allows you ta override tha default search path fo' info pages. Da paths
should be separated by colons.
.TP
.B MAN-OPTIONS
This specifies tha options, which should be passed ta tha `man' program.
(see man(1) fo' description of what tha fuck they like).
.TP
.B STDERR-REDIRECTION
Pinfo allows you ta redirect tha stderr output of called programs. For
example if you don't wanna peep manz error lyrics bout manual page
formatting, you can use \fISTDER-REDIRECTION="2> /dev/null". This is the
default.
.TP
.B LONG-MANUAL-LINKS
This be another true/false option, which decides whether yo' system
supports long manual section names, or not. (i.e. "3ncurses" instead of "3").
.TP
.B FILTER-0xB7
This decides, whether you wanna convert 0xb7 chars ta `o', or not. For
example fo' iso-8859-2 fonts dis make manz list marks a lil' bit sickr ;)
(look fo' example at perlz playa page, ta peep how tha fuck dem marks look like).
.TP
.B QUIT-CONFIRMATION
This decides whether you wanna use quit confirmation on exit, or not.
.TP
.B QUIT-CONFIRM-DEFAULT
This yes/no option determines tha default answer ta tha QUIT-CONFIRMATION
dialog. (default answer is when you press a key, dat do not match the
axed question).
.TP
.B CLEAR-SCREEN-AT-EXIT
This true/false option determines if you wanna have yo' screen cleared at
exit, or no.
.TP
.B CALL-READLINE-HISTORY
This true/false option determines if you want ta git a prompt of last
history entry whenever callin readline wrapper, eg. up in subsequent searches.
.TP
.B HIGHLIGHTREGEXP
This be a option, all up in which you may pass ta pinfo regexps, which should
be highlighted when hustlin wit document. Warning! This may turn straight-up slow
if you use it without care!
.TP
.B SAFE-USER
This option is used ta pass tha name of user, ta which suid when pinfo is
run wit root privileges.
.TP
.B SAFE-GROUP
This option is used ta pass tha name of group, ta which suid when pinfo is
run wit root privileges.
.sp
.RE

.SH INTERNATIONALIZATION SUPPORT
Pinfo implements general featurez of gnu gettext library (the thang, which
you need ta peep nationistic lyrics ;). But it aint tha end yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Pinfo allows
you ta use nationistic info pages muthafucka! Yo ass only need ta put dem ta yo' info
directory, tha fuck into a subdirectory, which is called `$LANG'.

.SH LICENSE
This program is distributed under tha termz of GPL.

.SH BUGS
.P
Please bust bug reports ta tha lyricist.

.SH AUTHOR
Przemek Borys <\fBpborys@dione.ids.pl\fR>
.P
If dat E-mail address aint gonna work (since tha machine where it is being
handled be a lil' bit damaged lately), you can try 
\fBpborys@zeus.polsl.gliwice.pl\fR, or
\fBpborys@p-soft.silesia.linux.org.pl\fR.
.P
There was also a shitload of other people, whoz ass contributed ta dis code. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
AUTHORS file.

.SH COMMENTS
Da lyricist wanna read some comments n' suggestions from you, if any.

