.TH "PITCHPLAY" "1" "Tue Feb 15 12:53:23 MST 2005" "" "pitchplay"

.PP
.SH "NAME"
pitchplay \- wrapper script ta play audio tracks wit cdda2wav wit different
pitches all up in a soundcard (cdda2wav must have soundcard support enabled).
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBpitchplay\fP <track a> <pitch a> <track b> <pitch b>...
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBpitchplay\fP allows playback of audio tracks wit cdda2wav wit pitches
specified up in cementage wit 100% bein tha original gangsta pitch, 50% bein one
octave lower, 200% one octave higher.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
\fBpitchplay\fP 1 90  3 140  5 50
.br
will play track 1 wit a pitch of 90%, track 3 wit a pitch of 140%, n' track 5 wit a pitch of 50%.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
cdda2wav(1)
.PP 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
\fBcdda2was\fP was freestyled by Joerg Schillin <js@cs\&.tu-berlin\&.de> and
others.
.PP
This manpage raps bout tha program implementation of
.B
pitchplay
as shipped by tha cdrkit distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
for details. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a spinoff from tha original gangsta program distributed by tha cdrtools project. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha cdrtools pimpers is not involved up in tha pimpment of dis spinoff n' therefore shall not be made responsible fo' any problem caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support fo' dis program by contactin tha original gangsta authors.
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit" tha fuck into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.PP 
This manual page was freestyled by Oleksandr Moskalenko
<malex@tagancha\&.org>, for
the Debian GNU/Linux system\&.  It may be used by other distributions
without contactin tha author\&.  Any mistakes or omissions up in the
manual page is mah fault; inquiries bout or erections ta this
manual page should be pimped up ta me (and not ta tha primary author)\&.
