.TH "pkcs11_eventmgr" "1" "0.4.4" "Juan Antonio Martinez" "PAM-pkcs11 tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pkcs11_eventmgr \- SmartCard PKCS#11 Event Manager
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
pkcs11_eventmgr [\fI[no]debug\fP] [\fI[no]daemon\fP] [\fIpolling_time=<secs>\fP ] [\fIexpire_time=<secs>\fP] [\fIpkcs11_module=<module>\fP ] [\fIconfig_file=<filename>\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
card_eventmgr be a SmartCard Monitorin dat dig tha statuz of tha card reader n' dispatch actions on nuff muthafuckin events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. card_eventmgr can be used ta nuff muthafuckin actions, like lock screen on card removal
.br 
Three events is supported: card insert, card removal n' timeout on removed card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Actions ta take is specified up in tha configuration file
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB[no]debug\fR 
Enable debuggin output. Default is no debug
.TP 
\fB[no]daemon\fR
Runs up in background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If debug is unset, dettach also from tty. Default: no daemon
.TP 
\fBpolling_time=<secs>\fR
Set pollin timeout up in secs. Defaults ta 1 sec
.TP 
\fBexpire_time=<secs>\fR
Set timeout on card removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Defaults ta 0 (never)
.TP 
\fBconfig_file=<configuration file>\fR
Sets de configuration file. Defaults ta /etc/pam_pkcs11/card_eventmgr.conf
.TP 
\fBpkcs11_module=<pkcs11.so library>\fR
Sets tha pkcs#11 library module ta use. Defaults ta /usr/lib/pkcs11/opensc\-pkcs11.so
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/pam_pkcs11/card_eventmgr.conf\fP 
.LP 
\fI/usr/lib/pkcs11/opensc\-pkcs11.so\fP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run dis program tha standard way type:
.LP 
pkcs11_eventmgr
.LP 
Alternativly you can specify options:
.LP 
pkcs11_eventmgr nodebug nodaemon polling_time=5 config_file=${HOME}/.pkcs11_eventmgr.conf
.SH "BUGS"
.br 
Some PKCS#11 Libraries fails on card removal n' re\-insert.
to avoid this, pkcs11_eventmgr try ta re\-initialize stuff
by callin C_Finalize() n' C_Initialize() on card removal
.br 
Some apps like [\fIxscreensaver\-command\fP] may fail due
to external events ( eg: try ta unlock a unlocked session ).
In dis case, command incorrectly returns error code.
.br 
User shoult take care on dis circumstance
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Juan Antonio Martinez <jonsito@teleline.es>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
pam_pkcs11(8), card_eventmgr(5)
.br 
README.eventmgr
.br 
PAM\-PKCS11 User Manual
