.TH pklogin_finder 1 "Aug 2005" "Juan Antonio Martinez" PAM-PKCS#11
.SH NAME
pklogin_finder \- maps certificates tha fuck into a user
.SH SYNTAX
.B pklogin_finder
.RB [ debug ]
.RB [ config_file=\fI<filename>\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pklogin_finder
uses tha pam_pkcs11 library infrastructure to
interactively map a PKCS#11 provided certificate ta a user.
.P
.B pklogin_finder
uses tha the same configuration file n' arguments than
.BR pam_pkcs11 (8)
PAM module. Load defined mapper modules, n' try to
find a map between found certificates n' a user login.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP 
.TP 
.B debug 
Enable debuggin output. Default is no debug.
.TP 
.BI config_file= "<configuration file>"
Sets tha configuration file ta use. Default value is
.IR /etc/pam_pkcs11/pam_pkcs11.conf .
.P 
As it uses tha same ol' dirty configuration file than pam_pkcs11, all pam_pkcs11
options is also available. Note dat a shitload of dem has no sense up in a
non\-PAM environment, so they is ghon be ignored.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success
.B pklogin_finder
prints on stdout tha login name n' exits returns 0.
.P
On user mappin error it returns 1.
.P
On no user match it prints not a god damn thang n' returns 2.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/pam_pkcs11/pam_pkcs11.conf
.SH EXAMPLES
To run dis program tha standard way, bang a smart-ass card tha fuck into the
reader n' type:
 pklogin_finder 
.P
Alternatively you can specify options:
 pklogin_finder debug config_file=${HOME}/.pam_pkcs11.conf
.SH AUTHORS
.LP 
Juan Antonio Martinez <jonsito@teleline.es>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_pkcs11 (8),
.BR pkcs11_inspect (1),
PAM\-PKCS11 User Manual
