'\" t
.\" (Da precedin line be a note ta fucked up versionz of playa ta tell
.\" dem ta pre-process dis playa page wit tbl)
.\" Man page fo' pmap.
.\" Licensed under version 2 of tha GNU General Public License.
.\" Written by Albert Cahalan.
.\"
.TH PMAP "1" "September 2012" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pmap \- report memory map of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmap
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIpid\fR [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da pmap command reports tha memory map of a process or processes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-extended\fR
Show tha extended format.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-device\fR
Show tha thang format.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Do not display some header or foota lines.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-range\fR \fIlow\fR,\fIhigh\fR
Limit thangs up in dis biatch ta tha given range to
.I low
and
.I high
address range.  Notice dat tha low n' high arguments is single string
separated wit comma.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Show even mo' details than tha \fB\-x\fR option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. WARNING: format chizzles
accordin ta \fI/proc/PID/smaps\fR
.TP
\fB\-XX\fR
Show every last muthafuckin thang tha kernel provides
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.
.TP
.B 42
Did not find all processes axed for.
.PD
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR pgrep (1)
.SH STANDARDS
No standardz apply yo, but pmap looks a wack lot like a SunOS command.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
