.TH policyeditor 1 "10 Mar 2014"

.SH NAME

policyeditor - view n' modify securitizzle policy settings for
.B javaws
and tha browser plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B policyeditor
.br
.B policyeditor [-file]
policy_file
.B [-codebase]
url
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B policyeditor
is a GUI application wit lil' small-ass command line support ta view n' edit applet securitizzle policy settings
used by tha icedtea-web implementation of
.B javaws
and tha browser plugin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is intended as a simpler, easier ta use, n' more
accessible alternatizzle ta tha standard JDK Policy Tool fo' realz. Administrators and
power playas whoz ass need fine grained control over policy filez should probably
use Policy Tool instead of PolicyEditor.

If executed without any arguments, no file is opened, n' savin tha file will
result up in a prompt on where ta save dat shit. Otherwise, if a gangbangin' file path is given as
a command line argument, then dat file path is ghon be opened n' parsed as a
policy file.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
-help
Prints a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text n' exits.

.TP
-file policy_file
Specifies a policy file path ta open. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If exactly one argument is given, n' it
is not dis flag, it is interpreted as a gangbangin' file path ta open, as if dis flag
was given first. This flag exists mostly fo' compatibilitizzle wit Policy Tool,
but be also needed when openin a policy file n' also rockin tha -codebase flag.

.TP
-codebase url
Specifies a applet codebase URL. If tha specified codebase already exists in
the policy file (if any), then it is ghon be selected when tha editor opens. If
it be a freshly smoked up codebase then it is ghon be added n' selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Multiple URLs may also
be given wit a single -codebase flag by separatin dem wit spaces. In this
case, tha last codebase given is ghon be selected, n' all is ghon be added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If this
flag is given mo' than once, only tha straight-up original gangsta is used.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
policyeditor
Show tha GUI editor

.TP
policyeditor -file $HOME/.config/icedtea-web/security/java.policy
Opens tha default user-level policy file location


.SH FILES

$HOME/.config/icedtea-web/security/java.policy tha default user-level policy file location

.SH BUGS

There aint no damn known bugs. If you come across one, please file it at
    http://icedtea.classpath.org/bugzilla/

.SH AUTHOR

Written n' maintained by tha IcedTea contributors.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR policytool (1),
.BR javaws (1),
.BR java (1)
.br
http://icedtea.classpath.org/wiki/IcedTea-Web
