." Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH policytool 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
policytool \- PolicyTool Administration GUI Utility
.LP
\f3policytool\fP readz n' writes a plain text policy file based on user input via tha utilitizzle GUI.   
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
Run tha policytool Administratorz utility
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP
.LP
.LP
Run policytool n' load tha specified policy file
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP\f2[\-file\ \fP\f2filename\fP\f2]\fP
.LP
.LP
where:
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
directs \f2policytool\fP ta load a local policy file 
.TP 3
filename 
Da file name 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3policytool\fP be a GUI dat allows playas ta create n' manage policy files. For details, peep 
.na
\f2the Policytool Users Guide\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.html. 
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
Loadz \f2filename\fP. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.na
\f2Default Policy Implementation n' Syntax\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Policy Tool Users' Guide\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Securitizzle Permissions\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/permissions.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Securitizzle Overview\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/overview/jsoverview.html
.br

.LP
 
