.TH POSTQUEUE 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postqueue
\-
Postfix queue control
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostqueue\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fB-f\fR
.br
\fBpostqueue\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fB-i \fIqueue_id\fR
.br
\fBpostqueue\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fB-p\fR
.br
\fBpostqueue\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fB-s \fIsite\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostqueue\fR(1) command implements tha Postfix user intercourse
for queue pimpment. Well shiiiit, it implements operations dat are
traditionally available via tha \fBsendmail\fR(1) command.
See tha \fBpostsuper\fR(1) command fo' queue operations
that require super-user privileges like fuckin deletin a message
from tha queue or changin tha statuz of a message.

Da followin options is recognized:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also the
MAIL_CONFIG environment settin below.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Flush tha queue: attempt ta serve up all queued mail.

This option implements tha traditionizzle "\fBsendmail -q\fR" command,
by contactin tha Postfix \fBqmgr\fR(8) daemon.

Warning: flushin undeliverable mail frequently will result in
poor delivery performizzle of all other mail.
.IP "\fB-i \fIqueue_id\fR"
Schedule immediate delivery of deferred mail wit the
specified queue ID.

This option implements tha traditionizzle \fBsendmail -qI\fR
command, by contactin tha \fBflush\fR(8) server.

This feature be available wit Postfix version 2.4 n' later.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Produce a traditionizzle sendmail-style queue listing.
This option implements tha traditionizzle \fBmailq\fR command,
by contactin tha Postfix \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon.

Each queue entry shows tha queue file ID, message
size, arrival time, sender, n' tha recipients dat still need to
be delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If mail could not be served up upon tha last attempt,
the reason fo' failure is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da queue ID string
is followed by a optionizzle status character:
.RS
.IP \fB*\fR
Da message is up in tha \fBactive\fR queue, i.e. tha message is
selected fo' delivery.
.IP \fB!\fR
Da message is up in tha \fBhold\fR queue, i.e. no further delivery
attempt is ghon be made until tha mail is taken off hold.
.RE
.IP "\fB-s \fIsite\fR"
Schedule immediate delivery of all mail dat is queued fo' tha named
\fIsite\fR fo' realz. A numerical joint must be specified as a valid RFC 5321
address literal enclosed up in [], just like up in email addresses.
Da joint must be eligible fo' tha "fast flush" service.
See \fBflush\fR(8) fo' mo' shiznit bout tha "fast flush"
service.

This option implements tha traditionizzle "\fBsendmail -qR\fIsite\fR"
command, by contactin tha Postfix \fBflush\fR(8) daemon.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3,
this option be available fo' tha super-user only.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This program is designed ta run wit set-group ID privileges, so
that it can connect ta Postfix daemon processes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8) n' ta tha standard error
stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory wit tha \fBmain.cf\fR file. In order ta avoid exploitation
of set-group ID privileges, a non-standard directory be allowed only
if:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Da name is listed up in tha standard \fBmain.cf\fR file wit the
\fBalternate_config_directories\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \(bu
Da command is invoked by tha super-user.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBalternate_config_directories (empty)\fR"
A list of non-default Postfix configuration directories dat may
be specified wit "-c config_directory" on tha command line, or
via tha MAIL_CONFIG environment parameter.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBcommand_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of all postfix administratizzle commands.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_domains ($relay_domains)\fR"
Optionizzle list of destinations dat is eligible fo' per-destination
logfilez wit mail dat is queued ta dem destinations.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.IP "\fBtrigger_timeout (10s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  a trigger ta a Postfix daemon (for
example, tha \fBpickup\fR(8) or \fBqmgr\fR(8) daemon).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBauthorized_flush_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta flush tha queue.
.IP "\fBauthorized_mailq_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta view tha queue.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, mail queue
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
showq(8), list mail queue
flush(8), fast flush service
sendmail(1), Sendmail-compatible user intercourse
postsuper(1), privileged queue operations
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ETRN_README, Postfix ETRN howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da postqueue command was introduced wit Postfix version 1.1.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
