.TH POSTSUPER 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postsuper
\-
Postfix superintendent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostsuper\fR [\fB-psSv\fR]
[\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB-d \fIqueue_id\fR]
        [\fB-h \fIqueue_id\fR] [\fB-H \fIqueue_id\fR]
        [\fB-r \fIqueue_id\fR] [\fIdirectory ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostsuper\fR(1) command do maintenizzle thangs on tha Postfix
queue. Use of tha command is restricted ta tha superuser.
See tha \fBpostqueue\fR(1) command fo' unprivileged queue operations
like fuckin listin or flushin tha mail queue.

By default, \fBpostsuper\fR(1) performs tha operations
axed wit the
\fB-s\fR n' \fB-p\fR command-line options on all Postfix queue
directories - dis includes tha \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR directories wit mail filez n' tha \fBbounce\fR,
\fBdefer\fR, \fBtrace\fR n' \fBflush\fR directories wit log files.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also the
MAIL_CONFIG environment settin below.
.IP "\fB-d \fIqueue_id\fR"
Delete one message wit tha named queue ID from tha named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR, \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR).

If a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB-\fR is specified, tha program reads
queue IDs from standard input. For example, ta delete all mail
with exactly one recipient \fBuser@example.com\fR:
.sp
.nf
mailq | tail +2 | grep -v '^ *(' | awk  \'BEGIN { RS = "" }
    # $7=sender, $8=recipient1, $9=recipient2
    { if ($8 == "user@example.com" && $9 == "")
          print $1 }
\' | tr -d '*!' | postsupa -d -
.fi
.sp
Specify "\fB-d ALL\fR" ta remove all lyrics; fo' example, specify
"\fB-d ALL deferred\fR" ta delete all mail up in tha \fBdeferred\fR queue.
As a safety measure, tha word \fBALL\fR must be specified up in upper
case.
.sp
Warning: Postfix queue IDs is reused (always wit Postfix
<= 2.8; n' wit Postfix >= 2.9 when enable_long_queue_ids=no).
There be a straight-up lil' small-ass possibilitizzle dat postsupa deletes the
wrong message file when it is executed while tha Postfix mail
system is deliverin mail.
.sp
Da scenario be as bigs up:
.RS
.IP 1)
Da Postfix queue manager deletes tha message dat \fBpostsuper\fR(1)
is axed ta delete, cuz Postfix is finished wit the
message (it is delivered, or it is moonwalked back ta tha sender).
.IP 2)
New mail arrives, n' tha freshly smoked up message is given tha same queue ID
as tha message dat \fBpostsuper\fR(1) is supposed ta delete.
Da probabilitizzle fo' reusin a thugged-out deleted queue ID be bout 1 up in 2**15
(the number of different microsecond joints dat tha system clock
can distinguish within a second).
.IP 3)
\fBpostsuper\fR(1) deletes tha freshly smoked up message, instead of tha old
message dat it should have deleted.
.RE
.IP "\fB-h \fIqueue_id\fR"
Put mail "on hold" so dat no attempt is made ta serve up dat shit.
Move one message wit tha named queue ID from tha named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR) ta tha \fBhold\fR queue.

If a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB-\fR is specified, tha program reads
queue IDs from standard input.
.sp
Specify "\fB-h ALL\fR" ta hold all lyrics; fo' example, specify
"\fB-h ALL deferred\fR" ta hold all mail up in tha \fBdeferred\fR queue.
As a safety measure, tha word \fBALL\fR must be specified up in upper
case.
.sp
Note: while mail is "on hold" it aint gonna expire when its
time up in tha queue exceedz tha \fBmaximal_queue_lifetime\fR
or \fBbounce_queue_lifetime\fR setting. Well shiiiit, it becomes subject to
expiration afta it is busted out from "hold".
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.IP "\fB-H \fIqueue_id\fR"
Release mail dat was put "on hold".
Move one message wit tha named queue ID from tha named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR) ta tha \fBdeferred\fR queue.

If a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB-\fR is specified, tha program reads
queue IDs from standard input.
.sp
Note: specify "\fBpostsupa -r\fR" ta release mail dat was kept on
hold fo' a thugged-out dope fraction of \fB$maximal_queue_lifetime\fR
or \fB$bounce_queue_lifetime\fR, or longer.
.sp
Specify "\fB-H ALL\fR" ta release all mail dat is "on hold".
As a safety measure, tha word \fBALL\fR must be specified up in upper
case.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Purge oldschool temporary filez dat is left over afta system or
software crashes.
.IP "\fB-r \fIqueue_id\fR"
Requeue tha message wit tha named queue ID from tha named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR, \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR).
To requeue multiple lyrics, specify multiple \fB-r\fR
command-line options.

Alternatively, if a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB-\fR is specified,
the program readz queue IDs from standard input.
.sp
Specify "\fB-r ALL\fR" ta requeue all lyrics fo' realz. As a safety
measure, tha word \fBALL\fR must be specified up in upper case.
.sp
A requeued message is moved ta tha \fBmaildrop\fR queue,
from where it is copied by tha \fBpickup\fR(8) and
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemons ta a freshly smoked up queue file. In many
respects its handlin differs from dat of a freshly smoked up local
submission.
.RS
.IP \(bu
Da message aint subjected ta tha smtpd_miltas or
non_smtpd_miltas settings.  When mail has passed through
an external content filter, dis would produce incorrect
results wit Milta applications dat depend on original
SMTP connection state shiznit.
.IP \(bu
Da message is subjected again n' again n' again ta mail address rewriting
and substitution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is useful when rewritin rulez or
virtual mappings have chizzled.
.sp
Da address rewritin context (local or remote) is tha same
as when tha message was received.
.IP \(bu
Da message is subjected ta tha same content_filta settings
(if any) as used fo' freshly smoked up local mail submissions.  This is
useful when content_filta settings have chizzled.
.RE
.IP
Warning: Postfix queue IDs is reused (always wit Postfix
<= 2.8; n' wit Postfix >= 2.9 when enable_long_queue_ids=no).
There be a straight-up lil' small-ass possibilitizzle dat \fBpostsuper\fR(1) requeues
the wack message file when it is executed while tha Postfix mail
system is hustlin yo, but no harm should be done.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 1.1 n' later.
.IP \fB-s\fR
Structure check n' structure repair. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This should be done once
before Postfix startup.
.RS
.IP \(bu
Rename filez whose name do not match tha message file inode
number n' shit. This operation is necessary afta restorin a mail
queue from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different machine or from backup, when queue
filez was pimped wit Postfix <= 2.8 or with
"enable_long_queue_idz = no".
.IP \(bu
Move queue filez dat is up in tha wack place up in tha file system
hierarchy n' remove subdirectories dat is no longer needed.
File posizzle rearrangements is necessary afta a cold-ass lil chizzle up in the
\fBhash_queue_names\fR and/or \fBhash_queue_depth\fR
configuration parameters.
.IP \(bu
Rename queue filez pimped wit "enable_long_queue_idz =
yes" ta short names, fo' migration ta Postfix <= 2.8.  The
procedure be as bigs up:
.sp
.nf
.na
# postfix stop
# postconf enable_long_queue_ids=no
# postsuper
.ad
.fi
.sp
Run \fBpostsuper\fR(1) repeatedly until it stops reporting
file name chizzles.
.RE
.IP \fB-S\fR
A redundant version of \fB-s\fR dat requires dat long
file names also match tha message file inode number n' shit. This
option exists fo' testin purposes, n' be available with
Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is reported ta tha standard error stream n' to
\fBsyslogd\fR(8).

\fBpostsuper\fR(1) reports tha number of lyrics deleted wit \fB-d\fR,
the number of lyrics requeued wit \fB-r\fR, n' tha number of
lyrics whose queue file name was fixed wit \fB-s\fR. Da report
is freestyled ta tha standard error stream n' ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory wit tha \fBmain.cf\fR file.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Mail dat aint sanitized by Postfix (i.e. mail up in tha \fBmaildrop\fR
queue) cannot be placed "on hold".
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBhash_queue_depth (1)\fR"
Da number of subdirectory levels fo' queue directories listed with
the hash_queue_names parameter.
.IP "\fBhash_queue_names (deferred, defer)\fR"
Da namez of queue directories dat is split across multiple
subdirectory levels.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBenable_long_queue_idz (no)\fR"
Enable long, non-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
sendmail(1), Sendmail-compatible user intercourse
postqueue(1), unprivileged queue operations
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
