.TH POSTLOCK 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postlock
\-
lock mail folda n' execute command
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostlock\fR [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fB] [\fB-l \fIlock_style\fB]
        [\fB-v\fR] \fIfile command...\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostlock\fR(1) command locks \fIfile\fR fo' exclusive
access, n' executes \fIcommand\fR. Da lockin method is
compatible wit tha Postfix UNIX-style local delivery agent.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-l \fIlock_style\fR"
Override tha lockin method specified via the
\fBmailbox_delivery_lock\fR configuration parameta (see below).
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIfile\fR
A mailbox file. Da user should have read/write permission.
.IP \fIcommand...\fR
Da command ta execute while \fIfile\fR is locked fo' exclusive
access.  Da command is executed directly, i.e. without
interpretation by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command interpreter.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Da result status is 75 (EX_TEMPFAIL) when \fBpostlock\fR(1)
could not big-ass up tha axed operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Otherwise, the
exit status is tha exit status from tha command.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
With remote file systems, tha mobilitizzle ta acquire a lock do not
necessarily eliminizzle access conflicts fo' realz. Avoid file access by
processes hustlin on different machines.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "LOCKING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_attempts (20)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_delay (1s)\fR"
Da time between attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBstale_lock_time (500s)\fR"
Da time afta which a stale exclusive mailbox lockfile is removed.
.IP "\fBmailbox_delivery_lock (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
How tha fuck ta lock a UNIX-style \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox before attemptin delivery.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBfork_attempts (5)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.IP "\fBfork_delay (1s)\fR"
Da delay between attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
