.TH POSTCAT 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postcat
\-
show Postfix queue file contents
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostcat\fR [\fB-bdehnoqv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fIfiles\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostcat\fR(1) command prints tha contentz of the
named \fIfiles\fR up in human-readable form. Da filez are
sposed ta fuckin be up in Postfix queue file format. If no \fIfiles\fR
are specified on tha command line, tha program readz from
standard input.

By default, \fBpostcat\fR(1) shows tha envelope n' message
content, as if tha options \fB-beh\fR was specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To
view message content only, specify \fB-bh\fR (Postfix 2.7
and later).

Options:
.IP \fB-b\fR
Show body content.  Da \fB-b\fR option starts producing
output all up in tha straight-up original gangsta non-header line, n' stops when tha end
of tha message is reached.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print tha decimal type of each record.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Show message envelope content.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show message header content.  Da \fB-h\fR option produces
output from tha beginnin of tha message up ta yo, but not
including, tha straight-up original gangsta non-header line.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later.
.IP \fB-o\fR
Print tha queue file offset of each record.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Search tha Postfix queue fo' tha named \fIfiles\fR instead
of takin tha names literally.

This feature be available up in Postfix 2.0 n' later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is reported ta tha standard error stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, Postfix queue directory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), Postfix configuration
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
