.TH POSTMULTI 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postmulti
\-
Postfix multi-instizzle manager
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBENABLING MULTI-INSTANCE MANAGEMENT:\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e init\fR [\fB-v\fR]

\fBITERATOR MODE:\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-l\fR [\fB-aRv\fR] [\fB-g \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB-i \fIname\fR]

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-av\fR] [\fB-g \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB-i \fIname\fR] \fIcommand...\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-x\fR [\fB-aRv\fR] [\fB-g \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB-i \fIname\fR] \fIcommand...\fR

\fBLIFE-CYCLE MANAGEMENT:\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e create\fR [\fB-av\fR]
[\fB-g \fIgroup\fR] [\fB-i \fIname\fR] [\fB-G \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB-I \fIname\fR] [\fIparam=value\fR ...]

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e import\fR [\fB-av\fR]
[\fB-g \fIgroup\fR] [\fB-i \fIname\fR] [\fB-G \fIgroup\fR]
[\fB-I \fIname\fR] [\fBconfig_directory=\fI/path\fR]

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e destroy\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-i \fIname\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e deport\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-i \fIname\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e enable\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-i \fIname\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e disable\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-i \fIname\fR

\fBpostmulti\fR \fB-e assign\fR [\fB-v\fR] \fB-i \fIname\fR
[\fB-I \fIname\fR] [-G \fIgroup\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostmulti\fR(1) command allows a Postfix administrator
to manage multiple Postfix instances on a single host.

\fBpostmulti\fR(1) implements two fundamenstrual modes of
operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In \fBiterator\fR mode, it executes tha same
command fo' multiple Postfix instances.  In \fBlife-cycle
management\fR mode, it addz or deletes one instance, or
changes tha multi-instizzle statuz of one instance.

Each mode of operation has its own command syntax. For this
reason, each mode is documented up in separate sections below.
.SH "BACKGROUND"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
A multi-instizzle configuration consistz of one primary
Postfix instance, n' one or mo' secondary instances whose
configuration directory pathnames is recorded up in tha primary
instancez main.cf file. Postfix instances share program
filez n' documentation yo, but have they own configuration,
queue n' data directories.

Currently, only tha default Postfix instizzle can be used
as primary instizzle up in a multi-instizzle configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
\fBpostmulti\fR(1) command do not currently support a \fB-c\fR
option ta select a alternatizzle primary instance, n' exits
with a gangbangin' fatal error if tha \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR environment
variable is set ta a non-default configuration directory.

See tha MULTI_INSTANCE_README tutorial fo' a mo' detailed
rap of multi-instizzle pimpment wit \fBpostmulti\fR(1).
.SH "ITERATOR MODE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
In iterator mode, \fBpostmulti\fR performs tha same ol' dirty operation
on all Postfix instances up in turn.

If multi-instizzle support aint enabled, tha requested
command is performed just fo' tha primary instance.
.PP
Iterator mode implements tha followin command options:
.SH "Instizzle selection"
.IP \fB-a\fR
Perform tha operation on all instances. This is tha default.
.IP "\fB-g \fIgroup\fR"
Perform tha operation only fo' thugz of tha named \fIgroup\fR.
.IP "\fB-i \fIname\fR"
Perform tha operation only fo' tha instizzle wit tha specified
\fIname\fR.  Yo ass can specify either tha instizzle name
or tha absolute pathname of tha instancez configuration
directory.  Specify "-" ta select tha primary Postfix instance.
.IP \fB-R\fR
Reverse tha iteration order n' shit. This may be appropriate when
uppimpin a multi-instizzle system, where "sink" instances
are started before "source" instances.
.sp
This option cannot be used wit \fB-p\fR.
.SH "List mode"
.IP \fB-l\fR
List Postfix instances wit they instizzle name, instance
group name, enable/disable status n' configuration directory.
.SH "Postfix-wrapper mode"
.IP \fB-p\fR
Invoke \fBpostfix(1)\fR ta execute tha specified \fIcommand\fR.
This option implements tha \fBpostfix-wrapper\fR(5) intercourse.
.RS
.IP \(bu
With "start"-like commands, "postfix check" is executed for
instances dat is not enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da full list of commands
is specified wit tha postmulti_start_commandz parameter.
.IP \(bu
With "stop"-like commands, tha iteration order is reversed,
and disabled instances is skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da full list of commands
is specified wit tha postmulti_stop_commandz parameter.
.IP \(bu
With "reload" n' other commandz dat require a started
instance, disabled instances is skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da full list of
commandz is specified wit tha postmulti_control_commands
parameter.
.IP \(bu
With "status" n' other commandz dat don't require a started
instance, tha command is executed fo' all instances.
.RE
.IP
Da \fB-p\fR option can also be used interactively to
start/stop/etc.  a named instizzle or instizzle group. For
example, ta start just tha instances up in tha crew "msa",
invoke \fBpostmulti\fR(1) as bigs up:
.RS
.IP
# postmulti -g msa -p start
.RE
.SH "Command mode"
.IP \fB-x\fR
Execute tha specified \fIcommand\fR fo' all Postfix instances.
Da command runs wit appropriate environment settings for
MAIL_CONFIG, command_directory, daemon_directory,
config_directory, queue_directory, data_directory,
multi_instance_name, multi_instance_group and
multi_instance_enable.
.SH "Other options"
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple
\fB-v\fR options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH "LIFE-CYCLE MANAGEMENT MODE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With tha \fB-e\fR option \fBpostmulti\fR(1) can be used to
add or delete a Postfix instance, n' ta manage the
multi-instizzle statuz of a existin instance.
.PP
Da followin options is implemented:
.SH "Existin instizzle selection"
.IP \fB-a\fR
When bustin or importin a instance, place tha new
instizzle all up in tha front of tha secondary instizzle list.
.IP "\fB-g \fIgroup\fR"
When bustin or importin a instance, place tha new
instizzle before tha straight-up original gangsta secondary instizzle dat be a
gangmember of tha specified group.
.IP "\fB-i \fIname\fR"
When bustin or importin a instance, place tha new
instizzle before tha matchin secondary instance.
.sp
With other game-cycle operations, apply tha operation to
the named existin instance.  Specify "-" ta select the
primary Postfix instance.
.SH "New or existin instizzle name assignment"
.IP "\fB-I \fIname\fR"
Assign tha specified instizzle \fIname\fR ta a existing
instance, newly-created instance, or imported instance.
Instance
names other than "-" (which make tha instizzle "nameless")
must start wit "postfix-".  This restriction reduces the
likelihood of name collisions wit system files.
.IP "\fB-G \fIgroup\fR"
Assign tha specified \fIgroup\fR name ta a existin instance
or ta a newly pimped or imported instance.
.SH "Instizzle creation/deletion/status chizzle"
.IP "\fB-e \fIaction\fR"
"Edit" managed instances. Da followin actions is supported:
.RS
.IP \fBinit\fR
This command is required before \fBpostmulti\fR(1) can be
used ta manage Postfix instances.  Da "postmulti -e init"
command thugged-out shiznit tha primary instancez main.cf file by
setting:
.RS
.IP
.nf
multi_instance_wrapper =
        ${command_directory}/postmulti -p --
multi_instance_enable = yes
.fi
.RE
.IP
Yo ass can set these by other means if you prefer.
.IP \fBcreate\fR
Smoke a freshly smoked up Postfix instizzle n' add it ta the
multi_instance_directories parameta of tha primary instance.
Da "\fB-I \fIname\fR" option is recommended ta give the
instizzle a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short name dat is used ta construct default
values fo' tha private directoriez of tha freshly smoked up instance. The
"\fB-G \fIgroup\fR" option may be specified ta assign the
instizzle ta a group, otherwise, tha freshly smoked up instizzle aint a
gangmember of any groups.
.sp
Da freshly smoked up instizzle main.cf is tha stock main.cf wit the
parametas dat specify tha locationz of shared filez cloned
from tha primary instance.  For "nameless" instances, you
should manually adjust "syslog_name" ta yield a unique
"logtag" startin wit "postfix-" dat will uniquely identify
the instizzle up in tha mail logs. Well shiiiit, it is simpla ta assign the
instizzle a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short name wit tha "\fB-I \fIname\fR" option.
.sp
Optionizzle "name=value" arguments specify tha instance
config_directory, queue_directory n' data_directory.
For example:
.RS
.IP
.nf
# postmulti -I postfix-mumble \e
        -G mygroup -e create \e
        config_directory=/my/config/dir \e
        queue_directory=/my/queue/dir \e
        data_directory=/my/data/dir
.fi
.RE
.IP
If any of these pathnames aint supplied, tha program
attempts ta generate tha pathname by takin tha corresponding
primary instizzle pathname, n' by replacin tha last pathname
component by tha value of tha \fB-I\fR option.
.sp
If tha instizzle configuration directory already exists, and
gotz nuff both a main.cf n' master.cf file, \fBcreate\fR
will "import" tha instizzle as-is. For existin instances,
\fBcreate\fR n' \fBimport\fR is identical.
.IP \fBimport\fR
Import a existin instizzle tha fuck into tha list of instances
managed by tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) multi-instizzle manager.
This addz tha instizzle ta tha multi_instance_directories
list of tha primary instance.  If tha "\fB-I \fIname\fR"
option is provided it specifies tha freshly smoked up name fo' tha instance
and is used ta define a thugged-out default location fo' tha instance
configuration directory (as wit \fBcreate\fR above).  The
"\fB-G \fIgroup\fR" option may be used ta assign tha instance
to a crew fo' realz. Add a "\fBconfig_directory=\fI/path\fR" argument
to override a thugged-out default pathname based on "\fB-I \fIname\fR".
.IP \fBdestroy\fR
Destroy a secondary Postfix instance. To be a cold-ass lil muthafucka for
destruction a instizzle must be disabled, stopped n' its
queue must not contain any lyrics fo' realz. Attempts ta destroy
the primary Postfix instizzle trigger a gangbangin' fatal error, without
destroyin tha instance.
.sp
Da instizzle is removed from tha primary instizzle main.cf
filez alternate_config_directories parameta n' its data,
queue n' configuration directories is cleaned of files
and directories pimped by tha Postfix system. Da main.cf
and master.cf filez is removed from tha configuration
directory even if they done been modified since initial
creation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Finally, tha instizzle is "deported" from tha list
of managed instances.
.sp
If other filez is present up in instizzle private directories,
the directories may not be straight-up removed, a warnin is
logged ta alert tha administrator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Well shiiiit, it is expected dat an
instizzle built rockin "fresh" directories via tha \fBcreate\fR
action is ghon be straight-up removed by tha \fBdestroy\fR action
(if first disabled). If tha instizzle configuration n' queue
directories is populated wit additionizzle filez (access and
rewritin tables, chroot jail content, etc.) tha instance
directories aint gonna be straight-up removed.
.sp
Da \fBdestroy\fR action triggers potentially dangerous
file removal operations. Make shizzle tha instancez data,
queue n' configuration directories is set erectly and
do not contain any valuable files.
.IP \fBdeport\fR
Deport a secondary instizzle from tha list of managed
instances. This deletes tha instizzle configuration directory
from tha primary instancez multi_instance_directories list,
but do not remove any filez or directories.
.IP \fBassign\fR
Assign a freshly smoked up instizzle name or a freshly smoked up crew name ta the
selected instance.  Use "\fB-G -\fR" ta specify "no group"
and "\fB-I -\fR" ta specify "no name".  If you chizzle to
make a instizzle "nameless", set a suitable syslog_name in
the correspondin main.cf file.
.IP \fBenable\fR
Mark tha selected instizzle as enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This just sets the
multi_instance_enable parameta ta "yes" up in tha instance's
main.cf file.
.IP \fBdisable\fR
Mark tha selected instizzle as disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This means that
the instizzle aint gonna be started etc. wit "postfix start",
"postmulti -p start" n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da instizzle can still be
started etc. wit "postfix -c config-directory start".
.SH "Other options"
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple
\fB-v\fR options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostmulti\fR(1) command exports tha followin environment
variablez before executin tha axed \fIcommand\fR fo' a given
instance:
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
This is set when tha -v command-line option is present.
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Da location of tha configuration directory of tha instance.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix support programs n' daemon programs.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_directories (empty)\fR"
An optionizzle list of non-default Postfix configuration directories;
these directories belong ta additionizzle Postfix instances dat share
the Postfix executable filez n' documentation wit tha default
Postfix instance, n' dat is started, stopped, etc., together
with tha default Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_group (empty)\fR"
Da optionizzle instizzle crew name of dis Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_name (empty)\fR"
Da optionizzle instizzle name of dis Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_enable (no)\fR"
Allow dis Postfix instizzle ta be started, stopped, etc., by a
multi-instizzle manager.
.IP "\fBpostmulti_start_commandz (start)\fR"
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager treats
as "start" commands.
.IP "\fBpostmulti_stop_commandz (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager treats
as "stop" commands.
.IP "\fBpostmulti_control_commandz (reload flush)\fR"
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) commandz dat tha \fBpostmulti\fR(1) instizzle manager
treats as "control" commands, dat operate on hustlin instances.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
$daemon_directory/main.cf, stock configuration file
$daemon_directory/master.cf, stock configuration file
$daemon_directory/postmulti-script, game-cycle helper program
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postfix(1), Postfix control program
postfix-wrapper(5), Postfix multi-instizzle API
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or "\fBpostconf
html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
MULTI_INSTANCE_README, Postfix multi-instizzle pimpment
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostmulti\fR(1) command was introduced wit Postfix
version 2.6.
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Victor Duchovni
Morgan Stanley

Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
