.TH POSTLOG 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postlog
\-
Postfix-compatible loggin utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
\fBpostlog\fR [\fB-iv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-p \fIpriority\fB] [\fB-t \fItag\fR] [\fItext...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostlog\fR(1) command implements a Postfix-compatible logging
interface fo' use in, fo' example, shell scripts.

By default, \fBpostlog\fR(1) logs tha \fItext\fR given on tha command
line as one record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If no \fItext\fR is specified on tha command
line, \fBpostlog\fR(1) readz from standard input n' logs each input
line as one record.

Loggin is busted ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8); when tha standard error stream
is connected ta a terminal, loggin is busted there as well.

Da followin options is implemented:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-i\fR
Include tha process ID up in tha loggin tag.
.IP "\fB-p \fIpriority\fR"
Specifies tha loggin severity: \fBinfo\fR (default), \fBwarn\fR,
\fBerror\fR, \fBfatal\fR, or \fBpanic\fR.
.IP "\fB-t \fItag\fR"
Specifies tha loggin tag, dat is, tha identifyin name that
appears all up in tha beginnin of each loggin record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A default tag
is used when none is specified.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory wit tha \fBmain.cf\fR file.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), syslog daemon
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
