.TH POSTKICK 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postkick
\-
kick a Postfix service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostkick\fR [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
\fIclass steez request\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostkick\fR(1) command sendz \fIrequest\fR ta the
specified \fIservice\fR over a local transhiznit channel.
This command make Postfix private IPC accessible
for use in, fo' example, shell scripts.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIclass\fR
Name of a cold-ass lil class of local transhiznit channel endpoints,
either \fBpublic\fR (accessible by any local user) or
\fBprivate\fR (administratizzle access only).
.IP \fIservice\fR
Da name of a local transhiznit endpoint within tha named class.
.IP \fIrequest\fR
A string. Da list of valid requests is service-specific.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta tha standard error
stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBapplication_event_drain_time (100s)\fR"
How tha fuck long tha \fBpostkick\fR(1) command waits fo' a request ta enta the
Postfix daemon process input buffer before givin up.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix/private, private class endpoints
/var/spool/postfix/public, hood class endpoints
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager trigger protocol
pickup(8), local pickup daemon
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
