.TH POSTFIX 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postfix
\-
Postfix control program
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostfix\fR [\fB-Dv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
This command is reserved fo' tha superuser n' shit. To submit mail,
use tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command.

Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) command controls tha operation of tha Postfix
mail system: start or stop tha \fBmaster\fR(8) daemon, do a health
check, n' other maintenance.

By default, tha \fBpostfix\fR(1) command sets up a standardized
environment n' runs tha \fBpostfix-script\fR shell script
to do tha actual work.

But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat when support fo' multiple Postfix instances is
configured, \fBpostfix\fR(1) executes tha command specified
with tha \fBmulti_instance_wrapper\fR configuration parameter.
This command will execute tha \fIcommand\fR fo' each
applicable Postfix instance.

Da followin commandz is implemented:
.IP \fBcheck\fR
Warn bout wack directory/file ballershizzle or permissions,
and create missin directories.
.IP \fBstart\fR
Start tha Postfix mail system. This also runs tha configuration
check busted lyrics bout above.
.IP \fBstop\fR
Quit tha Postfix mail system up in a orderly fashion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If
possible, hustlin processes is allowed ta terminizzle at
their earliest convenience.
.sp
Note: up in order ta refresh tha Postfix mail system afta a
configuration chizzle, do not use tha \fBstart\fR n' \fBstop\fR
commandz up in succession. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use tha \fBreload\fR command instead.
.IP \fBabort\fR
Quit tha Postfix mail system abruptly. Hustlin processes are
signaled ta stop immediately.
.IP \fBflush\fR
Force delivery: attempt ta serve up every last muthafuckin message up in tha deferred
mail queue. Normally, attempts ta serve up delayed mail happen at
regular intervals, tha interval doublin afta each failed attempt.
.sp
Warning: flushin undeliverable mail frequently will result in
poor delivery performizzle of all other mail.
.IP \fBreload\fR
Re-read configuration files. Hustlin processes terminizzle at their
earliest convenience.
.IP \fBstatus\fR
Indicate if tha Postfix mail system is currently hustlin.
.IP "\fBset-permissions\fR \fB[\fIname\fR=\fIvalue ...\fB]\fR
Set tha ballershizzle n' permissionz of Postfix related filez and
directories, as specified up in tha \fBpostfix-files\fR file.
.sp
Specify \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR ta override n' update specific
main.cf configuration parameters. Use this, fo' example, to
change tha \fBmail_baller\fR or \fBsetgid_group\fR settin fo' an
already installed Postfix system.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later n' shit.  With
Postfix 2.0 n' earlier, use "\fB$config_directory/post-install
set-permissions\fR".
.IP "\fBupgrade-configuration\fR \fB[\fIname\fR=\fIvalue ...\fB]\fR
Update tha \fBmain.cf\fR n' \fBmaster.cf\fR filez wit shiznit
that Postfix needz up in order ta run: add or update skillz, n' add
or update configuration parameta settings.
.sp
Specify \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR ta override n' update specific
main.cf configuration parameters.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.1 n' later n' shit.  With
Postfix 2.0 n' earlier, use "\fB$config_directory/post-install
upgrade-configuration\fR".
.PP
Da followin options is implemented:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR n' \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration filez in
the named directory instead of tha default configuration directory.
Use dis ta distinguish between multiple Postfix instances on the
same host.

With Postfix 2.6 n' later, dis option forces tha postfix(1)
command ta operate on tha specified Postfix instizzle only.
This behavior is inherited by postfix(1) commandz dat run
as a thugged-out descendant of tha current process.
.IP "\fB-D\fR (with \fBpostfix start\fR only)"
Run each Postfix daemon under control of a thugged-out debugger as specified
via tha \fBdebugger_command\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostfix\fR(1) command exports tha followin environment
variablez before executin tha \fBpostfix-script\fR file:
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
This is set when tha -c command-line option is present.

With Postfix 2.6 n' later, dis environment variable forces
the postfix(1) command ta operate on tha specified Postfix
instizzle only.  This behavior is inherited by postfix(1)
commandz dat run as a thugged-out descendant of tha current process.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
This is set when tha -v command-line option is present.
.IP \fBMAIL_DEBUG\fR
This is set when tha -D command-line option is present.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR configuration parametas are
exported as environment variablez wit tha same names:
.IP "\fBcommand_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of all postfix administratizzle commands.
.IP "\fBdaemon_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix support programs n' daemon programs.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBsetgid_group (postdrop)\fR"
Da crew ballershizzle of set-gid Postfix commandz n' of group-writable
Postfix directories.
.IP "\fBsendmail_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies tha location of
the Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command.
.IP "\fBnewaliases_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies tha location of the
\fBnewaliases\fR(1) command.
.IP "\fBmailq_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Sendmail compatibilitizzle feature dat specifies where tha Postfix
\fBmailq\fR(1) command is installed.
.IP "\fBhtml_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of Postfix HTML filez dat describe how tha fuck ta build,
configure or operate a specific Postfix subsystem or feature.
.IP "\fBmanpage_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Where tha Postfix manual pages is installed.
.IP "\fBreadme_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of Postfix README filez dat describe how tha fuck ta build,
configure or operate a specific Postfix subsystem or feature.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBdata_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix-writable data filez (for example:
caches, pseudo-random numbers).
.PP
Other configuration parameters:
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_directories (empty)\fR"
An optionizzle list of non-default Postfix configuration directories;
these directories belong ta additionizzle Postfix instances dat share
the Postfix executable filez n' documentation wit tha default
Postfix instance, n' dat is started, stopped, etc., together
with tha default Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_wrapper (empty)\fR"
Da pathname of a multi-instizzle manager command dat the
\fBpostfix\fR(1) command invokes when tha multi_instance_directories
parameta value is non-empty.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_group (empty)\fR"
Da optionizzle instizzle crew name of dis Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_name (empty)\fR"
Da optionizzle instizzle name of dis Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_enable (no)\fR"
Allow dis Postfix instizzle ta be started, stopped, etc., by a
multi-instizzle manager.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Prior ta Postfix version 2.6, all of tha followin files
were up in \fB$config_directory\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some filez is now in
\fB$daemon_directory\fR so dat they can be shared among
multiple instances dat run tha same Postfix version.

Use tha command "\fBpostconf config_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf daemon_directory\fR" ta expand tha names
into they actual joints.
.na
.nf

$config_directory/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters
$config_directory/master.cf, Postfix daemon processes
$daemon_directory/postfix-files, file/directory permissions
$daemon_directory/postfix-script, administratizzle commands
$daemon_directory/post-install, post-installation configuration
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
Commands:
postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
postcat(1), examine Postfix queue file
postconf(1), Postfix configuration utility
postfix(1), Postfix control program
postkick(1), trigger Postfix daemon
postlock(1), Postfix-compatible locking
postlog(1), Postfix-compatible logging
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postmulti(1), Postfix multi-instizzle manager
postqueue(1), Postfix mail queue control
postsuper(1), Postfix housekeeping
mailq(1), Sendmail compatibilitizzle intercourse
newaliases(1), Sendmail compatibilitizzle intercourse
sendmail(1), Sendmail compatibilitizzle intercourse

Postfix configuration:
bounce(5), Postfix bounce message templates
master(5), Postfix master.cf file syntax
postconf(5), Postfix main.cf file syntax
postfix-wrapper(5), Postfix multi-instizzle API

Table-driven mechanisms:
access(5), Postfix SMTP access control table
aliases(5), Postfix alias database
canonical(5), Postfix input address rewriting
generic(5), Postfix output address rewriting
header_checks(5), body_checks(5), Postfix content inspection
relocated(5), Users dat have moved
transport(5), Postfix routin table
virtual(5), Postfix virtual aliasing

Table lookup mechanisms:
cidr_table(5), Associate CIDR pattern wit value
ldap_table(5), Postfix LDAP client
memcache_table(5), Postfix memcache client
mysql_table(5), Postfix MYSQL client
nisplus_table(5), Postfix NIS+ client
pcre_table(5), Associate PCRE pattern wit value
pgsql_table(5), Postfix PostgreSQL client
regexp_table(5), Associate POSIX regexp pattern wit value
sqlite_table(5), Postfix SQLite database driver
tcp_table(5), Postfix client-server table lookup

Daemon processes:
anvil(8), Postfix connection/rate limiting
bounce(8), defer(8), trace(8), Delivery status reports
cleanup(8), canonicalize n' enqueue message
discard(8), Postfix discard delivery agent
dnsblog(8), DNS black/whitelist logger
error(8), Postfix error delivery agent
flush(8), Postfix fast ETRN service
local(8), Postfix local delivery agent
master(8), Postfix masta daemon
oqmgr(8), oldschool Postfix queue manager
pickup(8), Postfix local mail pickup
pipe(8), serve up mail ta non-Postfix command
postscreen(8), Postfix zombie blocker
proxymap(8), Postfix lookup table proxy server
qmgr(8), Postfix queue manager
qmqpd(8), Postfix QMQP server
scache(8), Postfix connection cache manager
showq(8), list Postfix mail queue
smtp(8), lmtp(8), Postfix SMTP+LMTP client
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
spawn(8), run non-Postfix server
tlsmgr(8), Postfix TLS cache n' randomnizz manager
tlsproxy(8), Postfix TLS proxy server
trivial-rewrite(8), Postfix address rewriting
verify(8), Postfix address verification
virtual(8), Postfix virtual delivery agent

Other:
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
OVERVIEW, overview of Postfix commandz n' processes
BASIC_CONFIGURATION_README, Postfix basic configuration
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README, Postfix address rewriting
SMTPD_ACCESS_README, SMTP relay/access control
CONTENT_INSPECTION_README, Postfix content inspection
QSHAPE_README, Postfix queue analysis
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

TLS support by:
Lutz Jaenicke
Brandenburg Universitizzle of Technology
Cottbus, Germany

Victor Duchovni
Morgan Stanley

SASL support originally by:
Till Franke
SuSE Rhein/Main AG
65760 Eschborn, Germany

LMTP support originally by:
Philip A. Prindeville
Mirapoint, Inc.
USA.

Amos Gouaux
Universitizzle of Texas at Dallas
P.O. Box 830688, MC34
Richardson, TX 75083, USA

IPv6 support originally by:
Mark Huizer, Eindhoven University, Da Netherlands
Jun-ichiro 'itojun' Hagino, KAME project, Japan
Da Linux PLD project
Dean Strik, Eindhoven University, Da Netherlands
