.TH POSTDROP 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postdrop
\-
Postfix mail postin utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostdrop\fR [\fB-rv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostdrop\fR(1) command creates a gangbangin' file up in tha \fBmaildrop\fR
directory n' copies its standard input ta tha file.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also the
MAIL_CONFIG environment settin below.
.IP \fB-r\fR
Use a Postfix-internal protocol fo' readin tha message from
standard input, n' fo' reportin status shiznit on standard
output. This is currently tha only supported method.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose fo' realz. Az of Postfix 2.3,
this option be available fo' tha super-user only.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da command is designed ta run wit set-group ID privileges, so
that it can write ta tha \fBmaildrop\fR queue directory n' so that
it can connect ta Postfix daemon processes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Fatal errors: malformed input, I/O error, outta memory. Problems
are logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8) n' ta tha standard error stream.
When tha input is incomplete, or when tha process receives a HUP,
INT, QUIT or TERM signal, tha queue file is deleted.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory wit tha \fBmain.cf\fR file. In order ta avoid exploitation
of set-group ID privileges, a non-standard directory be allowed only
if:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Da name is listed up in tha standard \fBmain.cf\fR file wit the
\fBalternate_config_directories\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \(bu
Da command is invoked by tha super-user.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBalternate_config_directories (empty)\fR"
A list of non-default Postfix configuration directories dat may
be specified wit "-c config_directory" on tha command line, or
via tha MAIL_CONFIG environment parameter.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.IP "\fBtrigger_timeout (10s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  a trigger ta a Postfix daemon (for
example, tha \fBpickup\fR(8) or \fBqmgr\fR(8) daemon).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBauthorized_submit_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta submit mail wit tha \fBsendmail\fR(1)
command (and wit tha privileged \fBpostdrop\fR(1) helper command).
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix/maildrop, maildrop queue
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
sendmail(1), compatibilitizzle intercourse
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
