.TH POSTCONF 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postconf
\-
Postfix configuration utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBManagin main.cf:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-dfhnovx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR] [\fIparameta ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameter=value ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-#vX\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameta ...\fR]

\fBManagin master.cf:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-fMovx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIservice ...\fR]

\fBManagin bounce message templates:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-btv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fItemplate_file\fR]

\fBManagin other configuration:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-aAlmv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
By default, tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command displays the
valuez of \fBmain.cf\fR configuration parameters, n' warns
about possible mis-typed parameta names (Postfix 2.9 n' later).
It can also chizzle \fBmain.cf\fR configuration
parameta joints, or display other configuration shiznit
about tha Postfix mail system.

Options:
.IP \fB-a\fR
List tha available SASL server plug-in types.  Da SASL
plug-in type is selected wit tha \fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR
configuration parameta by specifyin one of tha names
listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This server plug-in be available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.IP \fBdovecot\fR
This server plug-in uses tha Dovecot authentication server,
and be available when Postfix is built wit any form of SASL
support.
.RE
.IP
This feature be available wit Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP \fB-A\fR
List tha available SASL client plug-in types.  Da SASL
plug-in type is selected wit tha \fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR or
\fBlmtp_sasl_type\fR configuration parametas by specifying
one of tha names listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This client plug-in be available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.RE
.IP
This feature be available wit Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP "\fB-b\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display tha message text dat appears all up in tha beginnin of
delivery status notification (DSN) lyrics, replacing
$\fBname\fR expressions wit actual joints as busted lyrics bout in
\fBbounce\fR(5).

To override tha built-in templates, specify a template file
name all up in tha end of tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a gangbangin' file name up in \fBmain.cf\fR wit the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of tha built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR"
When displayin \fBmain.cf\fR parameters, select only
parametas from tha specified class(es):
.RS
.IP \fBbuiltin\fR
Parametas wit built-in names.
.IP \fBservice\fR
Parametas wit service-defined names (the first field of
a \fBmaster.cf\fR entry plus a Postfix-defined suffix).
.IP \fBuser\fR
Parametas wit user-defined names.
.IP \fBall\fR
All tha above classes.
.RE
.IP
Da default be as if "\fB-C all\fR" is
specified.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print \fBmain.cf\fR default parameta settings instead of
actual settings.
Specify \fB-df\fR ta fold long lines fo' human readability
(Postfix 2.9 n' later).
.IP \fB-e\fR
Edit tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, n' update
parameta settings wit tha "\fIname=value\fR" pairs
on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line. Da file is copied
to a temporary file then renamed tha fuck into place.
Specify quotes ta protect special charactas n' whitespace
on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

Da \fB-e\fR is no longer needed wit Postfix version 2.8
and later.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Fold long lines when printin \fBmain.cf\fR or \fBmaster.cf\fR
configuration file entries, fo' human readability.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show \fBmain.cf\fR parameta joints without tha "\fIname\fR
= " label dat normally precedes tha value.
.IP \fB-l\fR
List tha namez of all supported mailbox lockin methods.
Postfix supports tha followin methods:
.RS
.IP \fBflock\fR
A kernel-based advisory lockin method fo' local filez only.
This lockin method be available on systems wit a BSD
compatible library.
.IP \fBfcntl\fR
A kernel-based advisory lockin method fo' local n' remote files.
.IP \fBdotlock\fR
An application-level lockin method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! An application locks a gangbangin' file
named \fIfilename\fR by bustin a gangbangin' file named \fIfilename\fB.lock\fR.
Da application is sposed ta fuckin remove its own lock file, as well as
stale lock filez dat was left behind afta abnormal program
termination.
.RE
.IP \fB-m\fR
List tha namez of all supported lookup table types. In Postfix
configuration files,
lookup tablez is specified as \fItype\fB:\fIname\fR, where
\fItype\fR is one of tha types listed below. Da table \fIname\fR
syntax dependz on tha lookup table type as busted lyrics bout up in the
DATABASE_README document.
.RS
.IP \fBbtree\fR
A sorted, balanced tree structure.
This be available on systems wit support fo' Berkeley DB
databases.
.IP \fBcdb\fR
A read-optimized structure wit no support fo' incremenstrual thugged-out shit.
This be available on systems wit support fo' CDB databases.
.IP \fBcidr\fR
A table dat associates joints wit Classless Inter-Domain Routing
(CIDR) patterns. This is busted lyrics bout up in \fBcidr_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This be available on systems wit support fo' DBM databases.
.IP \fBenviron\fR
Da UNIX process environment array. Da lookup key is tha variable
name. Originally implemented fo' testing, one of mah thugs may find this
useful someday.
.IP \fBfail\fR
A table dat reliably fails all requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da lookup table
name is used fo' logging. This table exists ta simplify
Postfix error tests.
.IP \fBhash\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This be available on systems wit support fo' Berkeley DB
databases.
.IP \fBinternal\fR
A non-shared, in-memory hash table. Its content is lost
when a process terminates.
.IP "\fBldap\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups rockin tha LDAP protocol. This is busted lyrics about
in \fBldap_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmemcache\fR"
Perform lookups rockin tha memcache protocol. This is busted lyrics about
in \fBmemcache_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmysql\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups rockin tha MYSQL protocol. This is busted lyrics about
in \fBmysql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpcre\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on Perl Compatible Regular Expressions. The
file format is busted lyrics bout up in \fBpcre_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpgsql\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups rockin tha PostgreSQL protocol. This is busted lyrics about
in \fBpgsql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBproxy\fR"
A lookup table dat is implemented via tha Postfix
\fBproxymap\fR(8) service. Da table name syntax is
\fItype\fB:\fIname\fR.
.IP "\fBregexp\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on regular expressions. Da file format is
busted lyrics bout up in \fBregexp_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBsdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This be available on systems wit support fo' SDBM databases.
.IP "\fBsocketmap\fR (read-only)"
Query a Sendmail-style socketmap server n' shit. Da name of the
table specifies
\fBinet\fR:\fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR:\fIsocketmap-name\fR for
a TCP-based server, or
\fBunix\fR:\fIpathname\fR:\fIsocketmap-name\fR fo' a
UNIX-domain server n' shit. In both cases, \fIsocketmap-name\fR is
the name of tha socketmap.
.IP "\fBsqlite\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups from SQLite database files. This is busted lyrics about
in \fBsqlite_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBstatic\fR (read-only)"
A table dat always returns its name as lookup result. For example,
\fBstatic:foobar\fR always returns tha strang \fBfoobar\fR as lookup
result.
.IP "\fBtcp\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups rockin a simple request-reply protocol dat is
busted lyrics bout up in \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBtexthash\fR (read-only)"
Produces similar thangs up in dis biatch as hash: files, except dat you don't
need ta run tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command before you can use tha file,
and dat it do not detect chizzlez afta tha file is read.
.IP "\fBunix\fR (read-only)"
A limited way ta query tha UNIX authentication database. The
followin tablez is implemented:
.RS
. IP \fBunix:passwd.byname\fR
Da table is tha UNIX password database. Da key be a login name.
Da result be a password file entry up in \fBpasswd\fR(5) format.
.IP \fBunix:group.byname\fR
Da table is tha UNIX crew database. Da key be a crew name.
Da result be a crew file entry up in \fBgroup\fR(5) format.
.RE
.RE
.IP
Other table types may exist dependin on how tha fuck Postfix was built.
.IP \fB-M\fR
Show \fBmaster.cf\fR file contents instead of \fBmain.cf\fR
file contents.
Specify \fB-Mf\fR ta fold long lines fo' human readability.

If \fIservice ...\fR is specified, only tha matchin skillz
will be output. For example, "\fBpostconf -Mf inet\fR"
will output all skillz dat listen on tha network.

Specify zero or mo' arguments, each wit a \fIservice-type\fR
name (\fBinet\fR, \fBunix\fR, \fBfifo\fR, or \fBpass\fR)
or wit a \fIservice-name.service-type\fR pair, where
\fIservice-name\fR is tha straight-up original gangsta field of a master.cf entry.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.9 n' later.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Show only configuration parametas dat have explicit
\fIname=value\fR settings up in \fBmain.cf\fR.
Specify \fB-nf\fR ta fold long lines fo' human readability
(Postfix 2.9 n' later).
.IP "\fB-o \fIname=value\fR"
Override \fBmain.cf\fR parameta settings.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.IP "\fB-t\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display tha templates fo' text dat appears all up in tha beginning
of delivery status notification (DSN) lyrics, without
expandin $\fBname\fR expressions.

To override tha built-in templates, specify a template file
name all up in tha end of tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a gangbangin' file name up in \fBmain.cf\fR wit the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of tha built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.IP \fB-x\fR
Expand \fI$name\fR up in \fBmain.cf\fR or \fBmaster.cf\fR
parameta joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da expansion is recursive.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.IP \fB-X\fR
Edit tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, n' remove
the parametas named on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.
Da file is copied ta a temporary file then renamed into
place.
Specify a list of parameta names, not "\fIname=value\fR"
pairs.  There is no \fBpostconf\fR(1) command ta perform
the reverse operation.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.IP \fB-#\fR
Edit tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, n' comment out
the parametas named on tha \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line,
so dat dem parametas revert ta they default joints.
Da file is copied ta a temporary file then renamed into
place.
Specify a list of parameta names, not "\fIname=value\fR"
pairs.  There is no \fBpostconf\fR(1) command ta perform
the reverse operation.

This feature be available wit Postfix 2.6 n' later.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is reported ta tha standard error stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBbounce_template_file (empty)\fR"
Pathname of a cold-ass lil configuration file wit bounce message templates.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters
/etc/postfix/master.cf, Postfix masta daemon configuraton
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
bounce(5), bounce template file format
master(5), master.cf configuration file syntax
postconf(5), main.cf configuration file syntax
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
