.TH POSTMAP 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postmap
\-
Postfix lookup table pimpment
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostmap\fR [\fB-Nbfhimnoprsvw\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-d \fIkey\fR] [\fB-q \fIkey\fR]
        [\fIfile_type\fR:]\fIfile_name\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpostmap\fR(1) command creates or queries one or mo' Postfix
lookup tables, or thugged-out shiznit a existin one. Da input n' output
file formats is sposed ta fuckin be compatible with:

.nf
    \fBmakemap \fIfile_type\fR \fIfile_name\fR < \fIfile_name\fR
.fi

If tha result filez do not exist they is ghon be pimped wit the
same crew n' other read permissions as they source file.

While tha table update is up in progress, signal delivery is
postponed, n' a exclusive, advisory, lock is placed on the
entire table, up in order ta avoid surprises up in spectator
processes.
.SH "INPUT FILE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da format of a lookup table input file be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
A table entry has tha form
.sp
.nf
     \fIkey\fR whitespace \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Empty lines n' whitespace-only lines is ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace characta be a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts wit non-whitespace text fo' realz. A line that
starts wit whitespace continues a logical line.
.PP
Da \fIkey\fR n' \fIvalue\fR is processed as is, except that
surroundin white space is stripped off. Unlike wit Postfix alias
databases, quotes cannot be used ta protect lookup keys dat contain
special charactas like fuckin `#' or whitespace.

By default tha lookup key is mapped ta lowercase ta make
the lookups case insensitive; az of Postfix 2.3 dis case
foldin happens only wit tablez whose lookup keys are
fixed-case strings like fuckin btree:, dbm: or hash:. With
earlier versions, tha lookup key is folded even wit tables
where a lookup field can match both upper n' lower case
text, like fuckin regexp: n' pcre:. This resulted up in loss of
information wit $\fInumber\fR substitutions.
.SH "COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fB-b\fR
Enable message body query mode. When readin lookup keys
from standard input wit "\fB-q -\fR", process tha input
as if it be a email message up in RFC 2822 format.  Each line
of body content becomes one lookup key.
.sp
By default, tha \fB-b\fR option starts generatin lookup
keys all up in tha straight-up original gangsta non-header line, n' stops when tha end
of tha message is reached.
To simulate \fBbody_checks\fR(5) processing, enable MIME
parsin wit \fB-m\fR. With this, tha \fB-b\fR option
generates no body-style lookup keys fo' attachment MIME
headaz n' fo' attached message/* headers.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file up in tha named directory
instead of tha default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-d \fIkey\fR"
Search tha specified maps fo' \fIkey\fR n' remove one entry per map.
Da exit status is zero when tha axed shiznit was found.

If a key value of \fB-\fR is specified, tha program readz key
values from tha standard input stream. Da exit status is zero
when at least one of tha axed keys was found.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Do not fold tha lookup key ta lower case while bustin or querying
a table.

With Postfix version 2.3 n' later, dis option has no
effect fo' regular expression tables. There, case folding
is controlled by appendin a gangbangin' flag ta a pattern.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Enable message header query mode. When readin lookup keys
from standard input wit "\fB-q -\fR", process tha input
as if it be a email message up in RFC 2822 format.  Each
logical header line becomes one lookup key fo' realz. A multi-line
header becomes one lookup key wit one or mo' embedded
newline characters.
.sp
By default, tha \fB-h\fR option generates lookup keys until
the first non-header line is reached.
To simulate \fBheader_checks\fR(5) processing, enable MIME
parsin wit \fB-m\fR. With this, tha \fB-h\fR option also
generates header-style lookup keys fo' attachment MIME
headaz n' fo' attached message/* headers.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later.
.IP \fB-i\fR
Incremenstrual mode. Read entries from standard input n' do not
truncate a existin database. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) creates
a freshly smoked up database from tha entries up in \fBfile_name\fR.
.IP \fB-m\fR
Enable MIME parsin wit "\fB-b\fR" n' "\fB-h\fR".
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later.
.IP \fB-N\fR
Include tha terminatin null characta dat terminates lookup keys
and joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) do whatever is
the default for
the host operatin system.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Don't include tha terminatin null characta dat terminates lookup
keys n' joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) do whatever
is tha default for
the host operatin system.
.IP \fB-o\fR
Do not release root privileges when processin a non-root
input file. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) drops root privileges
and runs as tha source file balla instead.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Do not inherit tha file access permissions from tha input file
when bustin a freshly smoked up file.  Instead, create a freshly smoked up file wit default
access permissions (mode 0644).
.IP "\fB-q \fIkey\fR"
Search tha specified maps fo' \fIkey\fR n' write tha straight-up original gangsta value
found ta tha standard output stream. Da exit status is zero
when tha axed shiznit was found.

If a key value of \fB-\fR is specified, tha program readz key
values from tha standard input stream n' writes one line of
\fIkey value\fR output fo' each key dat was found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da exit
status is zero when at least one of tha axed keys was found.
.IP \fB-r\fR
When uppimpin a table, do not diss bout attempts ta update
existin entries, n' make dem thugged-out shiznit anyway.
.IP \fB-s\fR
Retrieve all database elements, n' write one line of
\fIkey value\fR output fo' each element. Da elements are
printed up in database order, which aint necessarily tha same
as tha original gangsta input order.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later,
and aint available fo' all database types.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.IP \fB-w\fR
When uppimpin a table, do not diss bout attempts ta update
existin entries, n' ignore dem attempts.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIfile_type\fR
Da database type. To smoke up what tha fuck types is supported, use
the "\fBpostconf -m\fR" command.

Da \fBpostmap\fR(1) command can query any supported file type,
but it can create only tha followin file types:
.RS
.IP \fBbtree\fR
Da output file be a funky-ass btree file, named \fIfile_name\fB.db\fR.
This be available on systems wit support fo' \fBdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBcdb\fR
Da output consistz of one file, named \fIfile_name\fB.cdb\fR.
This be available on systems wit support fo' \fBcdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBdbm\fR
Da output consistz of two files, named \fIfile_name\fB.pag\fR and
\fIfile_name\fB.dir\fR.
This be available on systems wit support fo' \fBdbm\fR databases.
.IP \fBhash\fR
Da output file be a hashed file, named \fIfile_name\fB.db\fR.
This be available on systems wit support fo' \fBdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBfail\fR
A table dat reliably fails all requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da lookup table
name is used fo' loggin only. This table exists ta simplify
Postfix error tests.
.IP \fBsdbm\fR
Da output consistz of two files, named \fIfile_name\fB.pag\fR and
\fIfile_name\fB.dir\fR.
This be available on systems wit support fo' \fBsdbm\fR databases.
.PP
When no \fIfile_type\fR is specified, tha software uses tha database
type specified via tha \fBdefault_database_type\fR configuration
parameter.
.RE
.IP \fIfile_name\fR
Da name of tha lookup table source file when rebuildin a thugged-out database.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is logged ta tha standard error stream n' to
\fBsyslogd\fR(8).
No output means dat no problems was detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Duplicate entries are
skipped n' is flagged wit a warning.

\fBpostmap\fR(1) terminates wit zero exit status up in case of success
(includin successful "\fBpostmap -q\fR" lookup) n' terminates
with non-zero exit status up in case of failure.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBberkeley_db_create_buffer_size (16777216)\fR"
Da per-table I/O buffer size fo' programs dat create Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.
.IP "\fBberkeley_db_read_buffer_size (131072)\fR"
Da per-table I/O buffer size fo' programs dat read Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdefault_database_type (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default database type fo' use up in \fBnewaliases\fR(1), \fBpostalias\fR(1)
and \fBpostmap\fR(1) commands.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
postconf(1), supported database types
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
