.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   ppdc playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdc 1 "CUPS" "15 February 2012" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdc \- cups ppd compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdc
[ -D
.I name[=value]
] [ -I
.I include-directory
] [ -c
.I message-catalog
] [ -d
.I output-directory
] [ -l
.I language(s)
] [-m] [-t] [ -v ] [ -z ] [ --cr ] [ --crlf ] [ --lf ]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdc\fR compilez PPDC source filez tha fuck into one or mo' PPD
files. \fBThis program is deprecated n' is ghon be removed up in a gangbangin' future release of
CUPS.\fR
.PP
Da \fI-D\fR option sets tha named variable fo' use up in the
source file. Well shiiiit, it is equivalent ta rockin tha #define directive
in tha source file.
.PP
Da \fI-I\fR option specifies a alternate include directory;
multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied ta add additional
directories.
.PP
Da \fI-c\fR option specifies a single message catalog file up in GNU
gettext source format (filename.po) ta be used fo' localization.
.PP
Da \fI-d\fR option specifies tha output directory fo' PPD
files. Da default output directory is "ppd".
.PP
Da \fI-l\fR option specifies one or mo' languages ta use when
localizin tha PPD file(s). Da default language is "en"
(English). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate multiple languages wit commas, fo' example
"de_DE,en_UK,es_ES,es_MX,es_US,fr_CA,fr_FR,it_IT" will create PPD
filez wit German, UK Gangsta, Spanish (Spain, Mexico, n' US),
French (Frizzle n' Canada), n' Italian languages up in each file.
.PP
Da \fI-m\fR option specifies dat tha output filename should be
based on tha ModelName value instead of FileName or PCFilenName.
.PP
Da \fI-t\fR option specifies dat PPD filez should be tested instead
of generated.
.PP
Da \fI-v\fR option serves up mo' verbose output, basically a
runnin statuz of which filez is bein loaded or written.
.PP
Da \fI-z\fR option generates compressed PPD filez (filename.ppd.gz).
Da default is ta generate uncompressed PPD files.
.PP
Da \fI--cr\fR, \fI--crlf\fR, n' \fI--lf\fR options specify the
line endin ta use - carriage return, carriage return n' line feed,
or line feed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default is ta use tha line feed characta ridin' solo.
.SH SEE ALSO
ppdhtml(1), ppdi(1), ppdmerge(1), ppdpo(1), ppdcfile(5)
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
