.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdi.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   ppdi playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdi 1 "CUPS" "20 May 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdi \- import ppd files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdi
[ \-I
.I include-directory
] [ \-o
.I source-file
]
.I ppd-file
[
.I ppd-file2 ... ppd-fileN
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdi\fR imports one or mo' PPD filez tha fuck into a PPD compila source file.
Multiple languagez of tha same PPD file is merged tha fuck into a single printer
definizzle ta facilitate accurate chizzlez fo' all localizations.
.PP
Da \fI-o\fR option specifies tha PPD source file ta update. If tha source
file do not exist, a freshly smoked up source file is pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Otherwise tha existing
file is merged wit tha freshly smoked up PPD file(s) on tha command-line. If no source
file is specified, tha filename "ppdi.drv" is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
ppdc(1), ppdhtml(1), ppdmerge(1), ppdpo(1), ppdcfile(5)
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdi.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
