.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdpo.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   ppdpo playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdpo 1 "CUPS" "23 April 2012" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdpo \- ppd message catalog generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdpo
[ -D
.I name[=value]
] [ -I
.I include-directory
] [ -o
.I output-file
]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdpo\fR extracts UI strings from PPDC source filez n' thugged-out shiznit either
a GNU gettext or OS X strings format message catalog source file for
translation.
.PP
Da \fI-D\fR option sets tha named variable fo' use up in the
source file. Well shiiiit, it is equivalent ta rockin tha #define directive
in tha source file.
.PP
Da \fI-I\fR option specifies a alternate include directory;
multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied ta add additional
directories.
.PP
Da \fI-o\fR option specifies tha output file. Da supported extensions are
".po" or ".po.gz" fo' GNU gettext format message catalogs n' ".strings" for
OS X strings files.
.SH SEE ALSO
ppdc(1), ppdhtml(1), ppdi(1), ppdmerge(1), ppdcfile(5)
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdpo.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
