.TH PREZIP\-BIN 1 "2005-09-30" "prezip\-bin\-0.1.2" "Aspell Abbreviated Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
prezip\-bin \- prefix zip delta word list compressor/decompressor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prezip\-bin
[ \fB\-V\fR | \fB\-d\fR | \fB\-z\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prezip\-bin
compresses/decompresses sorted word lists from standard input to
standard output.
.PP
.I Prezip\-bin
is similar to
.I word\-list\-compress(1)
but it allows a larger characta set of
{0x00...0x09, 0x0B, 0x0C, 0x0E...0xFF} n' multi\-wordz larger than 255
charactas up in length.  It can also decompress
.I word\-list\-compress(1)
compatible files.
.SH COMMANDS
.I Prezip\-bin
accepts only one of these commands.
.TP
\fB-V\fR
Display
.I prezip\-bin
version number ta standard output.
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Read a cold-ass lil compressed word list from standard input n' decompress it to
standard output.  This can be a
.I word\-list\-compress(1)
or a
.I prezip\-bin
compressed file.
.TP
\fB-z\fR
Read a funky-ass binary word list from standard input n' compress it to
standard output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
prezip\-bin \fB\-d\fR <wordlist.cwl >wordlist.txt
Decompress file wordlist.cwl ta text file wordlist.txt
.TP
prezip\-bin \fB\-z\fR <wordlist.txt >wordlist.pz 2>errors.txt
Compress wordlist.txt ta binary file wordlist.pz n' bust any error
lyrics ta a text file named errors.txt
.TP
LC_COLLATE\=C sort \-u <wordlist.txt \fB|\fR prezip\-bin \-z >wordlist.pz
Sort a word list, then pipe it to
.I prezip\-bin
to create a cold-ass lil compressed binary wordlist.pz file.
.TP
prezip\-bin \-d <words.pz \fB|\fR aspell create masta ./words.rws
Decompress a wordlist, then pipe it to
.I aspell(1)
to create a spellin list.  Please check the
.I aspell(1)
info manual fo' proper usage n' options.
.SH TIPS
.I Prezip\-bin
is dopest used wit sorted word list type files.  It aint a general
purpose compression program since resultin filez may actually
increase up in size.
.PP
Unlike
.I word\-list\-compress(1)
if yo' word list has leadin or trailin blank spaces fo' formatting
purposes, you should remove dem first before you compress yo' list
using
.I prezip\-bin \-z
, otherwise dem spaces is ghon be included up in tha compressed binary
output.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Prezip\-bin
normally exits wit a return code of 0. If it encountas a error,
a message is busted ta standard error output (stderr), and
.I prezip\-bin
exits wit a non-zero return value.  Error lyrics is listed below:
.TP
\fB(display help/usage message)\fR
Unknown command given on tha command line so
.I prezip\-bin
displays a usage message ta standard error output.
.TP
\fBunknown format\fR
Da input file appears not ta be a expected format, or may possibly be
a mo' advanced format.  Da output file is ghon be empty.
.TP
\fBcorrupt input\fR
This is only fo' tha decompression command \fB\-d\fR. Da input file
appeared ta be of a cold-ass lil erect format yo, but suttin' appears wack now, nahmeean?
There may be some valid data up in output yo, but cuz of input corruption,
the rest of tha file can not be completed.
.TP
\fBunexpected EOF\fR
Da input file rocked up aiiight but ended sooner than expected, therefore
the output file aint complete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR aspell (1),
.BR run\-with\-aspell (1),
.BR word\-list\-compress (1)
.PP
Aspell is straight-up documented up in its Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  See the
.RB "`\|" aspell "\|'"
entry in
.B info
for mo' complete documentation.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
For help, peep tha Aspell homepizzy at <http://aspell.net>.  Send bug
reports/comments ta tha Aspell user list all up in tha above address.
.SH AUTHOR
This info page was freestyled by Jose Da Silva <digital@joescat.com>.</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
