.\" prlimit.1 --
.\" Copyright 2011 Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org>
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License

.TH PRLIMIT 1 "October 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
prlimit \-
get n' set a process resource limits.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prlimit
.RB [options]
.RB [ \-\-{resource_name}[=limits]
.RB [ \-\-pid\ PID]

.B prlimit
.RB [options]
.RB [ \-\-{resource_name}[=limits]]
.RB "command " [ argument ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a process id n' one or mo' resources, \fBprlimit\fP tries ta retrieve
and/or modify tha limits.

When \fIcommand\fR is given,
.B prlimit
will run dis command wit tha given arguments.

Da \fIlimits\fP format is composed by a soft n' a hard (ceiling) value, separated
by a semicolon (:), up in order ta modify tha existin value(s). If no limits are
used, \fBprlimit\fP will only display tha current joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If one of tha joints
is not used, then tha existin one is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To specify tha unlimited or
infinitizzle limit (RLIM_INFINITY), tha -1 or 'unlimited' strang can be passed.

Because of tha nature of limits, tha soft value must be lower or equal ta the
high limit. To peep all tha available resource limits, refer ta tha RESOURCE
OPTIONS section.

.IP "\fB<soft>:<hard>\fP  Specify both limits"
.IP "\fB<soft>:\fP        Specify only tha soft limit"
.IP "\fB:<hard>\fP        Specify only tha hard limit"
.IP "\fB<value>\fP        Specify both soft n' hard limits ta tha same value"

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-pid\fP"
Specify tha process id, if none is given, it will use tha hustlin process.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-output \fIlist\fP"
Define tha output columns ta use. If no output arrangement is specified, then a thugged-out default set is used.
Use \fB\-\-help\fP ta  git list of all supported columns.
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Verbose mode.
.IP "\fB\-\-raw\fP"
Use tha raw output format.
.IP "\fB\-\-noheadings\fP"
Do not print a header line.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.

.SH RESOURCE OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-core\fP[=limits]"
Maximum size of a cold-ass lil core file.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-data\fP[=limits]"
Maximum data size.
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-nice\fP[=limits]"
Maximum sick prioritizzle allowed ta raise.
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-fsize\fP[=limits]"
Maximum file size.
.IP "\fB\-i, \-\-sigpending\fP[=limits]"
Maximum number of pendin signals.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-memlock\fP[=limits]"
Maximum locked-in-memory address space.
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-rss\fP[=limits]"
Maximum Resident Set Size (RSS).
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-nofile\fP[=limits]"
Maximum number of open files.
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-msgqueue\fP[=limits]"
Maximum number of bytes up in POSIX message queues.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-rtprio\fP[=limits]"
Maximum real-time priority.
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-stack\fP[=limits]"
Maximum size of tha stack.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-cpu\fP[=limits]"
CPU time, up in seconds.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-nproc\fP[=limits]"
Maximum number of processes.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-as\fP[=limits]"
Address space limit.
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-locks\fP[=limits]"
Maximum number of file locks held.
.IP "\fB\-y, \-\-rttime\fP[=limits]"
Timeout fo' real-time tasks.

.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134\fP"
Display limit joints fo' all current resources.
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134 \--rss --nofile=1024:4095\fP"
Display tha limitz of tha RSS n' set tha soft n' hard limits fo' tha number
of open filez ta 1024 n' 4095, respectively.
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134 --nproc=512:\fP"
Modify only tha soft limit fo' tha number of processes.
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid $$ --nproc=unlimited\fP"
Set tha number of processes fo' both soft n' ceilin joints ta unlimited.
.IP "\fBprlimit --cpu=10 sort -u hugefile\fP"
Set tha soft n' hard CPU time limit n' run 'sort'.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR prlimit (2),
.BR ulimit (1)

.SH NOTES
.nf
Da prlimit system call is supported since Linux 2.6.36, previous kernels will
break dis program.
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org> - In memory of Dennis M. Ritchie.
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da prlimit command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
