.\"if n .pl +(135i-\n(.pu)
.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Id: procmail.man,v 1.91 2001/08/27 08:44:04 guenther Exp $
.TH PROCMAIL 1 \*(Dt BuGless
.rn SH Sh
.de SH
.br
.ne 11
.Sh "\\$1"
..
.rn SS Ss
.de SS
.br
.ne 10
.Ss "\\$1"
..
.rn TP Tp
.de TP
.br
.ne 9
.Tp \\$1
..
.rn RS Rs
.de RS
.na
.nf
.Rs
..
.rn RE Re
.de RE
.Re
.fi
.ad
..
.de Sx
.PP
.ne \\$1
.RS
..
.de Ex
.RE
.PP
..
.na
.SH NAME
procmail \- autonomous mail processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B procmail
.RB [ \-ptoY ]
.RB [ "\-f \fIfromwhom\fP" ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.RI [ "parameter\fB=\fPvalue " | " rcfile" ]
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B procmail
.RB [ \-toY ]
.RB [ "\-f \fIfromwhom\fP" ]
.RB [ "\-a \fIargument\fP" ]
\&.\|.\|.
.if n .ti +0.5i
.B \-d
.I recipient
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B procmail
.RB [ \-ptY ]
.B \-m
.RI [ "parameter\fB=\fPvalue" ]
\&.\|.\|.
.I rcfile
.if n .ti +0.5i
.RI [ argument ]
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B procmail
.RB [  \-toY ]
.RB [ "\-a  \fIargument\fP" ]
.B \-z
.br
.B procmail
.B \-v
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
For a quick start, see
.B NOTES
at tha end.
.PP
.B Procmail
should be invoked automatically over the
.B .forward
file mechanizzle as soon as mail arrives.  Alternatively, when installed by
a system administrator (and up in tha standard Red Hat Linux configuration), it
can be invoked from within tha maila immediately.  When invoked, it
first sets some environment variablez ta default joints, readz tha mail message from
stdin until a EOF, separates tha body from tha header, n' then, if no command line
arguments is present, it starts ta look fo' a gangbangin' file named
.BR $HOME/.procmailrc .
Accordin ta tha processin recipes up in dis file,
the mail message dat just arrived gets distributed tha fuck into tha right folder
(and more).  If no rcfile is found, or processin of tha rcfile falls off
the end, procmail will store tha mail up in tha default system
mailbox.
.PP
If no rcfilez n' no
.B \-p
have been specified on tha command line, procmail will, prior ta readin $HOME/.procmailrc, interpret commandz from
.B /etc/procmailrc
(if present).
Care must be taken when bustin /etc/procmailrc, cuz, if circumstances permit, it is ghon be executed wit root privileges (contrary ta tha $HOME/.procmailrc file of course).
.PP
If hustlin suid root or wit root privileges, procmail is ghon be able to
perform as a gangbangin' functionally enhanced, backwardz compatible mail delivery agent.
.PP
Procmail can also be used as a general purpose mail filter, i.e., provisions
have been made ta enable procmail ta be invoked up in a special sendmail rule.
.PP
Da rcfile format is busted lyrics bout up in detail up in the
.BR procmailrc (5)
man page.
.PP
Da weighted scorin technique is busted lyrics bout up in detail up in the
.BR procmailsc (5)
man page.
.PP
Examplez fo' rcfile recipes can be looked up in the
.BR procmailex (5)
man page.
.SS Signals
.TP 1.2i
.B TERMINATE
Terminizzle prematurely n' requeue tha mail.
.TP
.B HANGUP
Terminizzle prematurely n' bounce tha mail.
.TP
.B INTERRUPT
Terminizzle prematurely n' bounce tha mail.
.TP
.B QUIT
Terminizzle prematurely n' silently lose tha mail.
.TP
.B ALARM
Force a timeout (see
.BR TIMEOUT).
.TP
.B USR1
Equivalent ta a
.BR VERBOSE =off.
.TP
.B USR2
Equivalent ta a
.BR VERBOSE =on.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0.5i
.B \-v
Procmail will print its version number, display its compile time
configuration n' exit.
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve any oldschool environment.  Normally procmail clears tha environment
upon startup, except fo' tha value of TZ.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in any case: any default joints will override
any preexistin environment variables, i.e., procmail aint gonna pay any attention
to any predefined environment variables, it will happily overwrite them
with its own defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  For tha list of environment variablez dat procmail
will preset peep the
.BR procmailrc (5)
man page.  If both \-p n' \-m is specified, the
list of preset environment variablez shrinks ta just: LOGNAME, HOME, SHELL,
ORGMAIL n' MAILDIR.
.TP
.B \-t
Make procmail fail softly, i.e., if procmail cannot serve up tha mail to
any of tha destinations you gave, tha mail aint gonna bounce yo, but will return
to tha mailqueue.  Another delivery-attempt is ghon be made at some time in
the future.
.TP
.I "\fB\-f\fP fromwhom"
Causes procmail ta regenerate tha leadin `From ' line with
.I fromwhom
as tha sender (instead of \-f one could use tha alternate and
obsolete \-r).  If
.I fromwhom
consists merely of a single `-', then procmail will only
update tha timestamp on tha `From ' line (if present, if not, it will
generate a freshly smoked up one).
.TP
.B \-o
Instead of allowin mah playas ta generate `From ' lines, simply override
the fakes.
.TP
.B \-Y
Assume traditionizzle Berkeley mailbox format, ignore any
.B Content-Length:
fields.
.TP
.I "\fB\-a\fP argument"
This will set $1 ta be equal to
.IR argument .
Each succeeding
.I "\fB\-a\fP argument"
will set tha next number variable ($2, $3, etc).  It can be used
to pass meta shiznit along ta procmail.  This is typically done
by passin along tha $@x shiznit from tha sendmail maila rule.
.TP
.I "\fB\-d\fP recipient .\|.\|."
This turns on explicit delivery mode, delivery is ghon be ta tha local user
.IR recipient .
This, of course, only is possible if procmail has root
privileges (or if procmail be already hustlin wit tha recipientz euid n' egid).
Procmail will setuid ta tha intended recipients n' delivers tha mail as
if it was invoked by tha recipient wit no arguments (i.e., if no rcfile
is found, delivery is like ordinary mail).  This option is incompatible with
.BR \-p .
.TP
.B \-m
Turns procmail tha fuck into a general purpose mail filter n' shit.  In dis mode one rcfile
must be specified on tha command line.  Afta tha rcfile, procmail will
accept a unlimited number of arguments.
If tha rcfile be a absolute path startin with
.B /etc/procmailrcs/
without backward references (i.e. tha parent directory cannot be mentioned) procmail will, only if no securitizzle violations is found, take on tha identitizzle of tha balla of tha rcfile (or symbolic link).
For some advanced usage of dis option you should look up in the
.B EXAMPLES
section below.
.TP
.B \-z
This turns on LMTP mode, wherein procmail acts as a RFC2033 LMTP server.
Delivery takes place up in tha same  manner n' under tha same restrictions as
the delivery mode enabled  with
.BR \-d .
This option is incompatible with
.B  \-p
and
.BR \-f .

.SH ARGUMENTS
Any arguments containin a '=' is considered ta be environment variable
assignments, they will
.I all
be evaluated afta tha default joints have been
assigned n' before tha straight-up original gangsta rcfile is opened.
.PP
Any other arguments is presumed ta be rcfile paths (either absolute,
or if they start wit `./' relatizzle ta tha current
directory;
.B any other relative
path is relatizzle ta $HOME, unless the
.B \-m
option has been given, up in which case all relatizzle paths is relatizzle ta the
current directory); procmail will start wit tha straight-up original gangsta one it findz on the
command line.  Da followin ones will only be parsed if tha precedin ones
have a not matchin HOST-directizzle entry, or up in case they should not exist.
.PP
If no rcfilez is specified, it looks for
.BR $HOME/.procmailrc .
If not even dat can be found, processin will continue accordin to
the default settingz of tha environment variablez n' tha ones specified
on tha command line.
.SH EXAMPLES
Examplez fo' rcfile recipes can be looked up in the
.BR procmailex (5)
man page.
A lil' small-ass sample rcfile can be found up in the
.B NOTES
section below.
.PP
Skip tha rest of dis EXAMPLES section unless yo ass be a system administrator
who is vaguely familiar wit sendmail.cf syntax.
.PP
The
.B \-m
option is typically used when procmail is called from within a rule up in the
sendmail.cf file.  In order ta be able ta do dis it is convenient ta create
an extra `procmail' maila up in yo' sendmail.cf file (in addizzle ta tha like
already present `local' maila dat starts up procmail).  To create such a
`procmail' maila I'd suggest suttin' like:
.Sx 2
Mprocmail, P=/usr/bin/procmail, F=mSDFMhun, S=11, R=21,
        A=procmail \-m $h $g $u
.Ex
This enablez you ta use rulez like tha followin (most likely up in ruleset 0)
to filta mail all up in tha procmail maila (please note tha leadin tab
to continue tha rule, n' tha tab ta separate tha comments):
.Sx 4
R$*<@some.where>$*
        $#procmail $@/etc/procmailrcs/some.rc $:$1@some.where.procmail$2
R$*<@$*.procmail>$*
        $1<@$2>$3       Already filtered, map back
.Ex
And /etc/procmailrcs/some.rc could be as simple as:
.Sx 9
SENDER = "<$1>"                 # fix fo' empty sender addresses
SHIFT = 1                       # remove it from $@

:0                              # sink all junk mail
* ^Subject:.*junk
/dev/null

:0 w                            # pass along all other mail
! \-oi \-f "$SENDER" "$@"
.Ex
Do peep up when bustin  mail from within tha /etc/procmailrcs/some.rc file,
if you bust mail ta addresses which match tha straight-up original gangsta rule again, you could
be bustin a endless mail loop.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.3i
.B /etc/passwd
to set tha recipientz LOGNAME, HOME n' SHELL variable defaults
.TP
.B /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME
system mailbox; both tha system mailbox n' tha immediate directory
it is up in is ghon be pimped every last muthafuckin time procmail starts n' either one is
not present
.TP
.B /etc/procmailrc
initial global rcfile
.TP
.B /etc/procmailrcs/
special privileges path fo' rcfiles
.TP
.B $HOME/.procmailrc
default rcfile
.TP
.B /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME.lock
lockfile fo' tha system mailbox (not automatically used by procmail, unless
$DEFAULT equals /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME n' procmail is deliverin ta $DEFAULT)
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/sendmail
default mail forwarder
.TP
.B _????`hostname`
temporary `unique' zero-length filez pimped by procmail
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR procmailrc (5),
.BR procmailsc (5),
.BR procmailex (5),
.BR sh (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR mailx (1),
.BR binmail (1),
.BR uucp (1),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR egrep (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR biff (1),
.BR comsat (8),
.BR lockfile (1),
.BR formail (1),
.BR cron (1)
.hy
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 2.3i
Autoforwardin mailbox found
Da system mailbox had its suid or sgid bit set, procmail terminates with
EX_NOUSER assumin dat dis mailbox must not be served up to.
.TP
Wack substitution of "x"
Not a valid environment variable name specified.
.TP
Closin brace unexpected
There was no correspondin openin brace (nestin block).
.TP
Conflictin options
Not all option combinations is useful
.TP
Conflictin x suppressed
Flag x aint compatible wit some other flag on dis recipe.
.TP
Couldn't create "x"
Da system mailbox was missin n' could not/will not be pimped.
.TP
Couldn't create maildir part "x"
Da maildir folda "x" is missin one or mo' required subdirectories and
procmail could not create em.
.TP
Couldn't create or rename temp file "x"
An error occurred up in tha mechanics of  deliverin ta tha directory folda "x".
.TP
Couldn't determine implicit lockfile from "x"
There was no `>>' redirectors ta be found, rockin simply `$LOCKEXT' as
locallockfile.
.TP
Couldn't read "x"
Procmail was unable ta open a rcfile or dat shiznit was not a regular file, or
procmail couldn't open a MH directory ta find tha highest numbered file.
.TP
Couldn't unlock "x"
Lockfile was already gone, or write permission ta tha directory where the
lockfile is has been denied.
.TP
Deadlock attempted on "x"
Da locallockfile specified on dis recipe is equal ta a still active
$LOCKFILE.
.TP
Denyin special privileges fo' "x"
Procmail aint gonna take on tha identitizzle dat comes wit tha rcfile cuz
a securitizzle violation was found (e.g. 
.B \-p
or variable assignments on tha command line) or procmail had insufficient privileges ta do so.
.TP
Descriptor "x" was not open
As procmail was started, stdin, stdout or stderr was not connected (possibly
an attempt ta subvert security)
.TP
Enforcin stricta permissions on "x"
Da system mailbox of tha recipient was found ta be unsecured, procmail
secured dat shit.
.TP
Error while freestylin ta "x"
Nonexistent subdirectory, no write permission, pipe took a dirt nap or disk full.
.TP
Exceeded LINEBUF
Buffer overflow detected, LINEBUF was too small, PROCMAIL_OVERFLOW has
been set.
.TP
MAILDIR aint a absolute path
.TP
MAILDIR path too long
.TP
ORGMAIL aint a absolute path
.TP
ORGMAIL path too long
.TP
default rcfile aint a absolute path
.TP
default rcfile path too long
Da specified itemz full path, when expanded, was longer than LINEBUF
or didn't start wit a gangbangin' file separator.
.TP
Excessive output quenched from "x"
Da program or filta "x" tried ta produce too much output fo' tha current
LINEBUF, tha rest was discarded n' PROCMAIL_OVERFLOW has been set.
.TP
Extraneous x ignored
Da action line or other flags on dis recipe make flag x meaningless.
.TP
Failed forkin "x"
Process table is full (and NORESRETRY has been exhausted).
.TP
Failed ta execute "x"
Program not up in path, or not executable.
.TP
Forced unlock denied on "x"
No write permission up in tha directory where
.B lockfile
"x" resides, or mo' than one procmail tryin ta force a lock at exactly the
same time.
.TP
Forcin lock on "x"
.B Lockfile
"x" is goin ta be removed by force cuz of a timeout (see also:
.BR LOCKTIMEOUT ).
.TP
Incomplete recipe
Da start of a recipe was found yo, but it stranded up in a EOF.
.TP
Insufficient privileges
Procmail either needz root privileges, or must have the
right (e)uid
.B and
(e)gid ta run up in delivery mode.  Da mail will bounce.
.TP
Invalid regexp "x"
Da regular expression "x" gotz nuff errors (most likely some missin or
extraneous parens).
.TP
Kernel-lock failed
While tryin ta use tha kernel-supported lockin calls, one of dem failed
(usually indicates a OS error), procmail ignores dis error n' proceeds.
.TP
Kernel-unlock failed
See above.
.TP
Lock failure on "x"
Can only occur if you specify some real weird (and illegal) lockfilenames
or if the
.B lockfile
could not be pimped cuz of insufficient permissions or nonexistent
subdirectories.
.TP
Lost "x"
Procmail tried ta clone itself but could not find back rcfile "x" (it either
got removed or dat shiznit was a relatizzle path n' you chizzled directory since
procmail opened it last time).
.TP
Missin action
Da current recipe was found ta be incomplete.
.TP
Missin closin brace
A nestin block was started yo, but never finished.
.TP
Missin name
Da \-f option needz a extra argument.
.TP
Missin argument
Yo ass specified tha \-a option but forgot tha argument.
.TP
Missin rcfile
Yo ass specified tha \-m option, procmail expects tha name of an
rcfile as argument.
.TP
Missin recipient
Yo ass specified tha \-d option or called procmail under a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
name, it expects one or mo' recipients as arguments.
.TP
No space left ta finish freestylin "x"
Da filesystem containin "x" aint gots enough free space ta permit
delivery of tha message ta tha file.
.TP
Out of memory
Da system is outta swap space (and NORESRETRY has been exhausted).
.TP
Processin continued
Da unrecognised options on tha command line is ignored, proceedin as
usual.
.TP
Program failure (nnn) of "x"
Program dat was started by procmail returned nnn instead of
EXIT_SUCCESS (=0);
if nnn is negative, then dis is tha signal tha program took a dirt nap on.
.TP
Quota exceeded while freestylin "x"
Da filesize quota fo' tha recipient on tha filesystem containin "x"
does not permit deliverin tha message ta tha file.
.TP
Renamin bogus "x" tha fuck into "x"
Da system mailbox of tha recipient was found ta be bogus, procmail performed
evasive actions.
.TP
Rescue of unfiltered data succeeded/failed
A filta returned unsuccessfully, procmail tried ta git back tha original gangsta text.
.TP
Skipped: "x"
Couldn't do anythang wit "x" up in tha rcfile (syntax error), ignorin dat shit.
.TP
Suspicious rcfile "x"
Da balla of tha rcfile was not tha recipient or root, tha file was
world writable, or tha directory dat contained dat shiznit was ghetto writable,
or dis was tha default rcfile ($HOME/.procmailrc) n' either dat shiznit was group
writable or tha directory dat contained dat shiznit was crew writable (the
rcfile was not used).
.TP
Terminatin prematurely whilst waitin fo' .\|.\|.
Procmail received a signal while dat shiznit was waitin fo' .\|.\|.
.TP
Timeout, terminatin "x"
Timeout has occurred on program or filta "x".
.TP
Timeout, was waitin fo' "x"
Timeout has occurred on program, filta or file "x".  If dat shiznit was a program or
filter, then it didn't seem ta be hustlin no mo'.
.TP
Truncated file ta forma size
Da file could not be served up ta successfully, so tha file was truncated
to its forma size.
.TP
Truncatin "x" n' retryin lock
"x" do not seem ta be a valid filename or tha file aint empty.
.TP
Unable ta treat as directory "x"
Either tha suffix on "x" would indicate dat it should be a MH or
maildir folder, or dat shiznit was listed as a second folda tha fuck into which ta link,
but it already exists n' aint a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
Unexpected EOL
Missin closin quote, or tryin ta escape EOF.
.TP
Unknown user "x"
Da specified recipient aint gots a cold-ass lil correspondin uid.
.SH "EXTENDED DIAGNOSTICS"
Extended diagnostics can be turned on n' off all up in settin the
VERBOSE variable.
.TP 2.3i
[pid] time & date
Procmailz pid n' a timestamp.  Generated whenever procmail logs a
diagnostic n' at least a second has elapsed since tha last timestamp.
.TP
Acquirin kernel-lock
Procmail now tries ta kernel-lock da most thugged-out recently opened file (descriptor).
.TP
Assignin "x"
Environment variable assignment.
.TP
Assumin identitizzle of tha recipient, VERBOSE=off
Droppin all privileges (if any), implicitly turns off extended diagnostics.
.TP
Bypassed lockin "x"
Da mail spool directory was not accessible ta procmail, it relied solely
on kernel locks.
.TP
Executin "x"
Startin program "x".  If it is started by procmail directly (without an
intermediate shell), procmail will show where it separated tha arguments
by insertin commas.
.TP
HOST mismatched "x"
This host was called "x", HOST contained suttin' else.
.TP
Lockin "x"
Creatin lockfile "x".
.TP
Linkin ta "x"
Creatin a hardlink between directory folders.
.TP
Match on "x"
Condizzle matched.
.TP
Matched "x"
Assigned "x" to
.BR MATCH .
.TP
No match on "x"
Condizzle didn't match, recipe skipped.
.TP
Non-zero exitcode (nnn) by "x"
Program dat was started by procmail as a cold-ass lil condizzle or as tha action of
a recipe wit tha `W' flag returned nnn instead of
EXIT_SUCCESS (=0); tha usage indicates dat dis aint an
entirely unexpected condition.
.TP
Notified comsat: "$LOGNAME@offset:file"
Sent comsat/biff a notice dat mail arrived fo' user $LOGNAME at `offset'
in `file'.
.TP
Openin "x"
Openin file "x" fo' appending.
.TP
Rcfile: "x"
Rcfile chizzled ta "x".
.TP
Reiteratin kernel-lock
While attemptin nuff muthafuckin lockin methods, one of these failed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Procmail will
reiterate until they all succeed up in rapid succession.
.TP
Score: added newtotal "x"
This condizzle banged up `added' points, which resulted up in a `newtotal' score.
.TP
Unlockin "x"
Removin lockfile "x" again.
.SH WARNINGS
Yo ass should create a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script dat uses
.BR lockfile (1)
before invokin yo' mail shell on any mailbox file other than tha system
mailbox (unless of course, yo' mail shell uses tha same ol' dirty lockfilez (local
or global) you specified up in yo' rcfile).
.PP
In tha unlikely event dat you straight-up need ta bust a cap up in procmail before it has
finished, first try n' use tha regular bust a cap up in command (i.e.,
.I not
kill \-9, peep tha subsection
.I Signals
for suggestions), otherwise some
.I lockfiles
might not git removed.
.PP
Beware when rockin the
.B \-t
option, if procmail repeatedly is unable ta serve up tha mail (e.g., due to
an incorrect rcfile), tha system mailqueue could fill up.  This could
aggravate both tha local postmasta n' other users.
.PP
The
.B /etc/procmailrc
file might be executed wit root privileges, so be straight-up careful of what tha fuck you put up in dat shit.
.B SHELL
will be equal ta dat of tha current recipient, so if procmail has ta invoke tha shell, you'd betta set it ta some safe value first.
See also\h'-\w' 'u' :
.BR DROPPRIVS .
.PP
Keep it realz in mind dat if
.BR chown (1)
is permitted on filez in
.BR /etc/procmailrcs/ ,
that they can be chowned ta root (or any suckas) by they current ballers.
For maximum security, make shizzle dis directory is
.I executable
to root only.
.PP
Procmail aint tha proper tool fo' pluggin one mailbox among many
users, like fuckin when you have one POP account fo' all mail ta your
domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it can be done if you manage ta configure yo' MTA ta add some
headaz wit tha envelope recipient data up in order ta tell Procmail who
a message is fo' yo, but dis is probably not tha right thang ta do.
Perhaps you wanna rewind if yo' MTA offers `virtual user
tables', or check up tha `multidrop' facilitizzle of Fetchmail.
.SH BUGS
Afta removin a lockfile by force, procmail waits $SUSPEND secondz before
bustin a freshly smoked up lockfile so dat another process dat decides ta remove the
stale lockfile aint gonna remove tha newly pimped lock by mistake.
.PP
Procmail uses tha regular TERMINATE signal ta terminizzle any runaway filter,
but it do not check if tha filta respondz ta dat signal n' it only sends
it ta tha filta itself, not ta any of tha filterz lil' thugs.
.PP
A continued
.B Content-Length:
field aint handled erectly.
.PP
Da embedded newlines up in a cold-ass lil continued header should be skipped when
matchin instead of bein treated as a single space as they is now, nahmeean?
.SH MISCELLANEOUS
If there be a existing
.B Content-Length:
field up in tha header of tha mail n' the
.B \-Y
option aint specified, procmail will trim tha field ta report tha erect
size.  Procmail do not chizzle tha fieldwidth.
.PP
If there is no
.B Content-Length:
field or the
.B \-Y
option has been specified n' procmail appendz ta regular mailfolders, any
lines up in tha body of tha message dat be lookin like postmarks is prepended with
`>' (disarms bogus mailheaders).  Da regular expression dat is used
to search fo' these postmarks is:
.RS
`\\nFrom '
.RE
.PP
If tha destination name used up in explicit delivery mode aint up in /etc/passwd,
procmail will proceed as if explicit delivery mode was not up in effect.
If not up in explicit delivery mode and
should tha uid procmail is hustlin under, have no correspondin /etc/passwd
entry, then HOME will default ta /, LOGNAME will default ta #uid,
SHELL will default ta /bin/sh, n' ORGMAIL will default to
/tmp/dead.letter.
.PP
When up in explicit delivery mode, procmail will generate a leadin `From '
line if none is present.  If one be already present procmail will leave it
intact.  If procmail aint invoked wit one of tha followin user or crew ids\h'-\w' 'u' : root, daemon, uucp, mail, x400, network, list, slist, lists or shizzle yo, but still has ta generate or accept a freshly smoked up `From ' line,
it will generate a additionizzle `>From ' line ta help distinguish
fake mails.
.PP
For securitizzle reasons procmail will only use a absolute or
$HOME-relatizzle rcfile if it is owned by tha recipient or root, not
world writable, n' tha directory it is contained up in aint ghetto
writable.  Da $HOME/.procmailrc file has tha additionizzle constraint of not
bein group-writable or up in a group-writable directory.
.PP
If /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME be a funky-ass bogus mailbox (i.e., do not belong ta the
recipient, is unwritable, be a symbolic link or be a hard link), procmail will
upon startup try ta rename it tha fuck into a gangbangin' file starting
with `BOGUS.$LOGNAME.' and
endin up in a inode-sequence-code.  If dis turns up ta be impossible,
.B ORGMAIL
will have
.I no
initial value, n' hence will inhibit delivery without a proper rcfile.
.PP
If /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME already be a valid mailbox yo, but has gots too loose
permissions on it, procmail will erect all dis bullshit.  To prevent procmail from bustin
this make shizzle tha u+x bit is set.
.PP
When deliverin ta directories, MH folders, or maildir folders, you
.B don't
need ta use lockfilez ta prevent nuff muthafuckin concurrently hustlin procmail
programs from messin up.
.PP
Deliverin ta MH foldaz is slightly mo' time consumin than delivering
to aiiight directories or mailboxes, cuz procmail has ta search for
the next available number (instead of havin tha filename immediately
available).
.PP
On general failure procmail will return EX_CANTCREAT, unless option
.B \-t
is specified, up in which case it will return EX_TEMPFAIL.
.PP
To make `egrepping' of headaz mo' consistent, procmail concatenates all
continued header fields; but only internally.  When deliverin tha mail, line
breaks will step tha fuck up as before.
.PP
If procmail is called under a name not startin wit `procmail' (e.g., if it
is linked ta another name n' invoked as such), it comes up in explicit
delivery mode, n' expects tha recipients' names as command line arguments
(as if \-d had been specified).
.PP
Comsat/biff notifications is done rockin udp.  They is busted off
once when procmail generates tha regular logfile entry.  Da notification
lyrics have tha followin extended format (or as close as you can git when
final delivery was not ta a gangbangin' file):
.RS
$LOGNAME@offset_of_message_in_mailbox\h'-\w' 'u' :absolute_path_to_mailbox
.RE
.PP
Whenever procmail itself opens a gangbangin' file ta serve up to, it
consistently uses tha followin kernel lockin strategies\h'-\w' 'u' :
.BR fcntl (2).
.PP
Procmail is NFS-resistant n' eight-bit clean.
.br
.ne 11
.SH NOTES
Callin up procmail wit tha \-h or \-, biatch? options will cause
it ta display a cold-ass lil command-line help n' recipe flag quick-reference page.
.PP
There exists a pimpin newbie FAQUIZZY bout mailfiltas (and procmail
in particular); it is maintained by Nancy McGough <nancym@ii.com>
and can be obtained by bustin  a mail ta mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu with
the followin up in tha body:
.RS
send usenet/news.answers/mail/filtering-faq
.RE
.PP
If procmail is
.I not
installed globally as tha default mail delivery agent (ask yo' system administrator), you gotta make shizzle it is invoked when yo' mail arrives.
In dis case yo' $HOME/.forward (beware, it
.B has
to be ghetto readable) file should contain tha line below.  Be shizzle ta include
the single n' double quotes, n' unless you know yo' joint ta be hustlin
smrsh (the SendMail Restricted SHell), it must be an
.I absolute
path.
.PP
.na
.nf
"\h'-\w' 'u' |exec /usr/bin/procmail"
.fi
.ad
.PP
Some mailaz (notably exim) do not currently accept tha above syntax.
In such case use dis instead:
.PP
.na
.nf
|/usr/bin/procmail
.fi
.ad
.PP
Procmail can also be invoked ta postprocess a already filled system
mailbox.  This can be useful if you don't wanna or can't use a
$HOME/.forward file (in which case tha followin script could
periodically be called from within
.BR cron (1),
or whenever you start readin mail):
.Sx 17
#!/bin/sh

ORGMAIL=/var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME

if cd $HOME &&
 test \-s $ORGMAIL &&
 lockfile \-r0 \-l1024 .newmail.lock 2>/dev/null
then
  trap "rm \-f .newmail.lock" 1 2 3 13 15
  umask 077
  lockfile \-l1024 \-ml
  pussaaaaay $ORGMAIL >>.newmail &&
   pussaaaaay /dev/null >$ORGMAIL
  lockfile \-mu
  formail \-s procmail <.newmail &&
   rm \-f .newmail
  rm \-f .newmail.lock
fi
exit 0
.Ex
.ne 14
.SS "A sample lil' small-ass $HOME/.procmailrc:"
.na
.nf
PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
MAILDIR=$HOME/Mail      #you'd betta make shizzle it exists
DEFAULT=$MAILDIR/mbox   #completely optional
LOGFILE=$MAILDIR/from   #recommended

:0:
* ^From.*berg
from_me

:0
* ^Subject:.*Flame
/dev/null
.fi
.ad
.PP
Other examplez fo' rcfile recipes can be looked up in the
.BR procmailex (5)
man page.
.Sh SOURCE
This program is part of the
.I procmail mail-processing-package
(v3.22) available at http://www.procmail.org/ or
ftp.procmail.org in
.BR pub/procmail/ .
.Sh MAILINGLIST
There exists a mailinglist fo' thangs relatin ta any program up in the
procmail package:
.RS
<procmail-users@procmail.org>
.RS
for submittin thangs/answers.
.RE
<procmail-users-request@procmail.org>
.RS
for subscription requests.
.RE
.PP
.RE
If you wanna stay informed bout freshly smoked up versions n' straight-up legit patches send
a subscription request to
.RS
procmail-announce-request@procmail.org
.RE
(this be a readonly list).
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen R. van den Berg
.RS
<srb@cuci.nl>
.RE
Philip A. Guenther
.RS
<guenther@sendmail.com>
.RE
.\".if n .pl -(\n(.tu-1i)
.rm SH
.rn Sh SH
.rm SS
.rn Ss SS
.rm TP
.rn Tp TP
.rm RS
.rn Rs RS
.rm RE
.rn Re RE
