.\" release 4
.nr LL 5.5i
.ad b
.hy 1
.TH PROJ 1 "2000/03/21 Rel. 4.4" 
.SH NAME
proj \- forward cartographic projection filter
.br
invproj \- inverse cartographic projection filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proj
[
.B \-bceEfiIlmorsStTvVwW
[
.I args
] ] [
.B +args
]
file[s]
.br
.B invproj
[
.B \-bceEfiIlmorsStTwW
[
.I args
] ] [
.B +args
]
file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Proj
and
.I invproj
perform respectizzle forward n' inverse transformation of cartographic data
to or from cartesian data wit a wide range of selectable projection functions.
.PP
Da followin control parametas can step tha fuck up in any order:
.TP
.BI \-b
Special option fo' binary coordinizzle data input n' output
all up in standard input n' standard output.
Data be assumed ta be up in system type
.I double
floatin point lyrics.
This option is ta be used when
.B proj
is a
.I son
process n' allows bypassin formattin operations.
.TP
.BI \-i
Selects binary input only (see
.B \-b option).
.TP
.BI \-I
alternate method ta specify inverse projection.
Redundant when used with
.B invproj.
.TP
.BI \-o
Selects binary output only (see
.B \-b option).
.TP
.BI \-t "a"
.I A
specifies a cold-ass lil characta employed as tha straight-up original gangsta characta ta denote
a control line ta be passed all up in without processing.
This option applicable ta ascii input only.
(# is tha default value).
.TP
.BI \-e " string"
.I String
is a arbitrary strang ta be output if a error is detected during
data transformations.
Da default value is: *\et*.
Note dat if the
.B \-b,
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
options is employed, a error is returned as HUGE_VAL
value fo' both return joints.
.TP
.BI \-E
causes tha input coordinates ta be copied ta tha output line
prior ta printin tha converted joints.
.TP
.BI \-l "[p|P|=|e|u|d]" id
List projection identifiers with
.B \-l,
.B \-lp
or
.B \-lP (expanded)
that can be selected with
.B +proj.
.BI \-l= id
gives expanded description of projection
.I id.
List ellipsoid identifiers with
.B \-le,
that can be selected with
.B +ellps,
.B \-lu
list of cartesian ta meta conversion factors
that can be selected with
.B +units
or
.B \-ld
list of datums dat can be selected wit 
.B +datum.
.TP
.BI \-r
This options reverses tha order of the
expected input from longitude-latitude or x-y ta latitude-longitude or y-x.
.TP
.BI \-s
This options reverses tha order of the
output from x-y or longitude-latitude ta y-x or latitude-longitude.
.TP
.BI \-S
Causes estimation of
.I meridinal
and
.I parallel
scale factors,
.I area
scale factor and
.I angular distortion,
and
.I maximum
and
.I minimum
scale factors ta be listed between <> fo' each input point.
For conformal projections meridinal n' parallel scalez factors
will be equal n' angular distortion zero.
Equal area projections gonna git a area factor of 1.
.TP
.BI \-m " mult"
Da cartesian data may be scaled by the
.I mult
parameter.
When processin data up in a gangbangin' forward projection mode the
cartesian output joints is multiplied by
.I mult
otherwise tha input cartesian joints is divided by
.I mult
before inverse projection.
If tha straight-up original gangsta two charactas of
.I mult
are 1/ or 1: then tha reciprocal value of
.I mult
is employed.
.TP
.BI \-f " format"
.I Format
is a
.I printf
format strang ta control tha form of tha output joints.
For inverse projections, tha output is ghon be up in degrees when dis option
is employed.
Da default format is "%.2f" fo' forward projection n' DMS
for inverse.
.TP
.BI \-[w|W] n
.I N
is tha number of dope fractionizzle digits ta employ for
secondz output (when tha option aint specified,
.B \-w3
is assumed).
When
.B \-W
is employed tha fieldz is ghon be constant width n' wit leadin zeroes.
.TP
.B \-v
causes a listin of cartographic control parametas tested fo' and
used by tha program ta be printed prior ta input data.
Should not be used wit the
.B \-T
option.
.TP
.B \-V
This option causes a expanded annotated listin of tha characteristics
of tha projected point.
.B -v is implied wit dis option.
.TP
.BI \-T " ulow,uhi,vlow,vhi,res[,umax,vmax]"
This option creates a set of bivariate Chebyshev polynomial
coefficients dat approximate tha selected cartographic projection on
.I stdout.
Da joints
.I low
and
.I hi
denote tha range of tha input where the
.I u
or
.I v
prefixes apply ta respectizzle longitude-x or latitude-y
dependin upon whether a gangbangin' forward or inverse projection is selected.
.I Res
is a integer number specifyin tha juice of 10 precision of the
approximation.
For example, a
.I res
of -3 specifies a approximation wit a accuracy betta than .001.
.I Umax,
and
.I vmax
specify maximum degree of tha polynomials (default: 15).
See also:
.B fproj(1).
.PP
The
.B +args
run-line arguments is associated wit cartographic parameters
and usage varies wit projection n' fo' a cold-ass lil complete description see
.I "Cartographic Projection Procedures fo' tha UNIX Environment\(emA Userz Manual" )
and supplementary documentation fo' Release 4.
.PP
Additionizzle projection control parametas may be contained up in two
auxiliary control files:
the first is optionally referenced wit the
.BI +init= file:id
and tha second be always processed afta tha name
of tha projection has been established from either tha run-line
or tha contents of
.B +init
file.
Da environment parameter
.B PROJ_LIB
establishes tha default directory fo' a gangbangin' file reference without
an absolute path.  This be also used fo' supportin filez like
datum shift files.
.PP
One or more
.I files
(processed up in left ta right order)
specify tha source of data ta be transformed.
A \- will specify tha location of processin standard input.
If no filez is specified, tha input be assumed ta be from
.I stdin.
For ASCII input data tha two data joints must be up in the
first two white space separated fieldz and
when both input n' output is ASCII all trailin portions
of tha input line is appended ta tha output line.
.PP
Input geographic data
(longitude n' latitude) must be up in DMS format n' input
cartesian data must be up in units consistent wit tha ellipsoid
major axis or sphere radius units.
Output geographic coordinates is ghon be up in DMS
(if the
.B \-w
switch aint employed) n' precise ta 0.001"
with trailing, zero-valued minute-second fieldz deleted.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin script
.RS 5
 \f(CWproj +proj=utm +lon_0=112w +ellps=clrk66 -r <<EOF
 45d15'33.1"	111.5W
 45d15.551666667N	-111d30
 +45.25919444444	111d30'000w
 EOF\fR
.RE
will big-ass up UTM forward projection wit a standard UTM
central meridian nearest longitude 112\(deW.
Da geographic jointz of dis example is equivalent n' meant
as examplez of various formz of DMS input.
Da x\-y output data will step tha fuck up as three lines of:
.RS 5
 \f(CW460769.27	5011648.45
.RE
.SH OTHER PROGRAMS
.PP
Da \fIproj\fR program is limited ta convertin between geographic and
projection coordinates within one datum.
.PP
Da \fIcs2cs\fR program operates
similarly yo, but allows translation between any pair of definable coordinate
systems, includin support fo' datum translation.
.PP
Da \fInad2nad\fR program serves up fo' translation between NAD27 n' NAD83
(also available up in \fRcs2cs\fI) up in a cold-ass lil convenient manner n' shit. 
.PP 
Da \fIgeod\fR program serves up tha mobilitizzle ta compute geodesic (Great
Circle) computations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B cs2cs(1U), nad2nad(1U), geod(1U), pj_init(3U),
.br
.I "Cartographic Projection Procedures fo' tha UNIX Environment\(emA Userz Manual,"
(Evenden, 1990, Open-file report 90\-284).
.br
.I "Map Projections Used by tha U. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. S. Geological Survey"
(Snyder, 1984,
USGS Bulletin 1532).
.br
.I "Map Projections\(emA Workin Manual"
(Snyder, 1988, USGS Prof. Paper 1395).
.br
.I "An Album of Map Projections"
(Snyder & Voxland, 1989, USGS Prof. Paper 1453).
.SH HOME PAGE
http://www.remotesensing.org/proj
