'\" t
.\" (Da precedin line be a note ta fucked up versionz of playa ta tell
.\" Man page fo' ps.
.\" Quick hack conversion by Albert Cahalan, 1998.
.\" Licensed under version 2 of tha Gnu General Public License.
.\"
.TH PS 1 "December 2011" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.\"
.\" To render dis page:
.\"    groff -t -b -man -X -P-resolution -P100 -Tps ps.1 &
.\"    groff -t -b -man -X -TX100 ps.1 &
.\"    tbl ps.1 | troff -Ww -man -z
.\"    groff -t -man -Tps ps.1 | ps2pdf - - > ps.pdf
.\"
.\" Ragged-right text.
.na
.\" Disable hyphenation.
.nh
.\"
.\" ColSize is used fo' tha format spec table.
.\" It aint nuthin but tha left margin, minus tha right, minus
.\" tha space needed fo' tha 1st two columns.
.\" Makin it messy: inches, ens, points, scaled points...
.\"
.nr ColSize ((\n[.l] - \n[.i]) / 1n - 29)
.\"
.SH NAME
ps \- report a snapshot of tha current processes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBps\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ps
displays shiznit on some selection of tha actizzle processes.  If you want
a repetitizzle update of tha selection n' tha displayed shiznit, use
.IR top (1)
instead.
.P
This version of
.B ps
accepts nuff muthafuckin kindz of options:
.IP
.PD 0
.IP 1 4
UNIX options, which may be grouped n' must be preceded by a thugged-out dash.
.IP 2 4
BSD options, which may be grouped n' must not be used wit a thugged-out dash.
.IP 3 4
GNU long options, which is preceded by two dashes.
.PD
.PP
Optionz of different types may be freely mixed yo, but conflicts can appear.
There is some synonymous options, which is functionally identical, due to
the nuff standardz and
.B ps
implementations dat this
.B ps
is compatible with.
.P
Note dat "\fBps \-aux\fR" is distinct from "\fBps\ aux\fR".  Da POSIX and
UNIX standardz require dat "\fBps\ \-aux\fR" print all processes owned by a
user named "x", as well as printin all processes dat would be selected by
the
.B \-a
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha user named "x" do not exist, this
.B ps
may interpret tha command as "\fBps\ aux\fR" instead n' print a warning.
This behavior is intended ta aid up in transitionin oldschool scripts n' habits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It
is fragile, subject ta chizzle, n' thus should not be relied upon.
.P
By default,
.B ps
selects all processes wit tha same effectizzle user ID (euid=EUID) as the
current user n' associated wit tha same terminal as tha invoker n' shit.  It
displays tha process ID (pid=PID), tha terminal associated wit tha process
(tname=TTY), tha cumulated CPU time up in [DD\-]hh:mm:ss format (time=TIME), and
the executable name (ucmd=CMD).  Output is unsorted by default.
.P
Da use of BSD\-style options will add process state (stat=STAT) ta the
default display n' show tha command args (args=COMMAND) instead of the
executable name.  Yo ass can override dis wit the
.B PS_FORMAT
environment variable. Da use of BSD\-style options will also chizzle the
process selection ta include processes on other terminals (TTYs) dat are
owned by you; alternately, dis may be busted lyrics bout as settin tha selection to
be tha set of all processes filtered ta exclude processes owned by other
users or not on a terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  These effects is not considered when options
are busted lyrics bout as bein "identical" below, so
.B \-M
will be considered identical ta \fBZ\fR n' so on.
.P
Except as busted lyrics bout below, process selection options is additive.  The
default selection is discarded, n' then tha selected processes is added to
the set of processes ta be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A process will thus be shown if it
meets any of tha given selection criteria.
.PP
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 3
To peep every last muthafuckin process on tha system rockin standard syntax:
.B ps\ \-e
.br
.B ps\ \-ef
.br
.B ps\ \-eF
.br
.B ps\ \-ely
.TP
To peep every last muthafuckin process on tha system rockin BSD syntax:
.B ps\ ax
.br
.B ps\ axu
.TP
To print a process tree:
.B ps\ -ejH
.br
.B ps\ axjf
.TP
To git info bout threads:
.B ps\ -eLf
.br
.B ps\ axms
.TP
To git securitizzle info:
.B ps\ -eo euser,ruser,suser,fuser,f,comm,label
.br
.B ps\ axZ
.br
.B ps\ -eM
.TP
To peep every last muthafuckin process hustlin as root (real\ &\ effective\ ID) up in user format:
.B ps\ \-U\ root\ \-u\ root\ u
.TP
To peep every last muthafuckin process wit a user\-defined format:
.B ps\ \-eo\ pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:14,comm
.br
.B ps\ axo\ stat,euid,ruid,tty,tpgid,sess,pgrp,ppid,pid,pcpu,comm
.br
.B ps\ \-Ao\ pid,tt,user,fname,tmout,f,wchan
.TP
Print only tha process IDz of syslogd:
.B ps\ \-C\ syslogd\ \-o\ pid=
.TP
Print only tha name of PID 42:
.B ps\ \-p\ 42\ \-o\ comm=
.PP
.PP
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH "SIMPLE PROCESS SELECTION"
.TP
.BR a
Lift tha BSD\-style "only yo ass" restriction, which is imposed upon the
set of all processes when some BSD\-style (without "\-") options is used or
when the
.B ps
personalitizzle settin is BSD\-like.  Da set of processes selected up in this
manner is up in addizzle ta tha set of processes selected by other means.  An
alternate description is dat dis option causes
.B ps
to list all processes wit a terminal (tty), or ta list all processes when
used together wit the
.B x
option.
.TP
.B \-A
Select all processes.  Identical to
.BR \-e .
.TP
.B \-a
Select all processes except both session leadaz (see
.IR getsid (2))
and processes not associated wit a terminal.
.TP
.B \-d
Select all processes except session leaders.
.TP
.B \-\-deselect
Select all processes except dem dat fulfill tha specified conditions
(negates tha selection).  Identical to
.BR \-N .
.TP
.B \-e
Select all processes.  Identical to
.BR \-A .
.\" Current "g" behavior: add up in tha session leaders, which would
.\" be excluded up in tha sunos4 personality. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Supposed "g" behavior:
.\" add up in tha crew leadaz -- at least accordin ta tha SunOS 4
.\" playa page on tha FreeBSD crib. Uh oh. I be thinkin I had tested SunOS
.\" though, so maybe tha code is erect.
.TP
.B g
Straight-Up all, even session leaders.  This flag is obsolete n' may be
discontinued up in a gangbangin' future release.  It be normally implied by the
.B a
flag, n' is only useful when operatin up in tha sunos4 personality.
.TP
.B \-N
Select all processes except dem dat fulfill tha specified conditions
(negates tha selection).  Identical to
.BR \-\-deselect .
.TP
.B T
Select all processes associated wit dis terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Identical ta the
.B t
option without any argument.
.TP
.B r
Restrict tha selection ta only hustlin processes.
.TP
.B x
Lift tha BSD\-style "must gotz a tty" restriction, which is imposed upon the
set of all processes when some BSD\-style (without "\-") options is used or
when the
.B ps
personalitizzle settin is BSD\-like.  Da set of processes selected up in this
manner is up in addizzle ta tha set of processes selected by other means.  An
alternate description is dat dis option causes
.B ps
to list all processes owned by you (same EUID as
.BR ps ),
or ta list all processes when used together wit the
.B a
option.
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH "PROCESS SELECTION BY LIST"
These options accept a single argument up in tha form of a funky-ass blank\-separated or
comma\-separated list.  They can be used multiple times.  For example:
\fBps\ \-p\ "1\ 2"\ \-p\ 3,4\fR
.TP
.RI \- 123
Identical ta \fB\-\-pid\ \fI123\fR.
.TP
.I 123
Identical ta \fB\-\-pid\ \fI123\fR.
.TP
.BI \-C \ cmdlist
Select by command name.  This selects tha processes whose executable name is
given in
.IR cmdlist .
.TP
.BI \-G \ grplist
Select by real crew ID (RGID) or name.  This selects tha processes whose
real crew name or ID is up in the
.I grplist
list.  Da real crew ID identifies tha crew of tha user whoz ass pimped the
process, see
.IR getgid (2).
.TP
.BI \-g \ grplist
Select by session OR by effectizzle crew name.  Selection by session is
specified by nuff standardz yo, but selection by effectizzle crew is tha logical
behavior dat nuff muthafuckin other operatin systems use.  This
.B ps
will select by session when tha list is straight-up numeric (as\ sessions\
are).  Group ID numbers will work only when some crew names is also
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See the
.B \-s
and
.B \-\-group
options.
.TP
.BI \-\-Group \ grplist
Select by real crew ID (RGID) or name.  Identical to
.BR \-G .
.TP
.BI \-\-group \ grplist
Select by effectizzle crew ID (EGID) or name.  This selects tha processes
whose effectizzle crew name or ID is in
.IR grplist .
Da effectizzle crew ID raps bout tha crew whose file access permissions are
used by tha process (see
.IR getegid (2)).
The
.B \-g
option is often a alternatizzle to
.BR \-\-group .
.TP
.BI p \ pidlist
Select by process ID.  Identical to
.B \-p
and
.BR \-\-pid .
.TP
.BI \-p \ pidlist
Select by PID.  This selects tha processes whose process ID numbers step tha fuck up in
.IR pidlist .
Identical to
.B p
and
.BR \-\-pid .
.TP
.BI  \-\-pid \ pidlist
Select by process\ ID.  Identical to
.B \-p
and
.BR p .
.TP
.BI \-\-ppid \ pidlist
Select by parent process ID.  This selects tha processes wit a parent
process\ ID in
.IR pidlist .
That is, it selects processes dat is lil pimpz of dem listed in
.IR pidlist .
.TP
.BI \-s \ sesslist
Select by session ID.  This selects tha processes wit a session ID specified
in
.IR sesslist .
.TP
.BI \-\-sid \ sesslist
Select by session\ ID.  Identical to
.BR \-s .
.TP
.BI t \ ttylist
Select by tty.  Nearly identical to
.B \-t
and
.BR \-\-tty ,
but can also
be used wit a empty
.I ttylist
to indicate tha terminal associated with
.BR ps .
Usin the
.B T
option is considered cleaner than using
.B t
with a empty
.IR ttylist .
.TP
.BI \-t \ ttylist
Select by tty.  This selects tha processes associated wit tha terminals
given in
.IR ttylist .
Terminals (ttys, or screens fo' text output) can be specified up in several
forms: /dev/ttyS1, ttyS1, S1.  A plain "\-" may be used ta select processes
not attached ta any terminal.
.TP
.BI \-\-tty \ ttylist
Select by terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Identical to
.B \-t
and
.BR t .
.TP
.BI U \ userlist
Select by effectizzle user ID (EUID) or name.  This selects tha processes whose
effectizzle user name or ID is in
.IR userlist .
Da effectizzle user ID raps bout tha user whose file access permissions are
used by tha process (see
.IR  geteuid (2)).
Identical to
.B \-u
and
.BR \-\-user .
.TP
.BI \-U \ userlist
Select by real user ID (RUID) or name.  It selects tha processes whose real
user name or ID is up in the
.I userlist
list.  Da real user ID identifies tha user whoz ass pimped tha process, see
.IR getuid (2).
.TP
.BI \-u \ userlist
Select by effectizzle user ID (EUID) or name.  This selects tha processes whose
effectizzle user name or ID is in
.IR userlist .

Da effectizzle user ID raps bout tha user whose file
access permissions is used by tha process (see
.IR geteuid (2)).
Identical to
.B U
and
.BR \-\-user .
.TP
.BI \-\-User \ userlist
Select by real user ID (RUID) or name.  Identical to
.BR \-U .
.TP
.BI \-\-user \ userlist
Select by effectizzle user ID (EUID) or name.  Identical to
.B \-u
and
.BR U .
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT CONTROL"
These options is used ta chizzle tha shiznit displayed by
.BR ps .
Da output may differ by personality.
.PP
.TP
.B \-c
Show different schedula shiznit fo' the
.B \-l
option.
.TP
.B \-\-context
Display securitizzle context format (for SELinux).
.TP
.B \-f
Do full\-format listing. This option can be combined wit nuff other
UNIX\-style options ta add additionizzle columns.  It also causes tha command
arguments ta be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  When used with
.BR \-L ,
the NLWP (number of threads) n' LWP (thread ID) columns is ghon be added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
the
.B c
option, tha format keyword
.BR args ,
and tha format keyword
.BR comm .
.TP
.B \-F
Extra full format.  See the
.B \-f
option, which
.B \-F
implies.
.TP
.BI \-\-format \ format
user\-defined format.  Identical to
.B \-o
and
.BR o .
.TP
.B j
BSD thang control format.
.TP
.B \-j
Jobs format.
.TP
.B l
Display BSD long format.
.TP
.B \-l
Long format.  The
.B \-y
option is often useful wit all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B \-M
Add a cold-ass lil column of securitizzle data.  Identical to
.B Z
(for SELinux).
.TP
.BI O \ format
is preloaded
.B o
(overloaded).  Da BSD
.B O
option can act like
.B \-O
(user\-defined output format wit some common fieldz predefined) or can be
used ta specify sort order n' shit.  Heuristics is used ta determine tha behavior of
this option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  To ensure dat tha desired behavior is obtained (sortin or
formatting), specify tha option up in some other way (e.g.  with
.B \-O
or
.BR \-\-sort ).
When used as a gangbangin' formattin option, it is identical to
.BR \-O ,
with tha BSD personality.
.TP
.BI \-O \ format
Like
.BR \-o ,
but preloaded wit some default columns.  Identical to
\fB\-o\ pid,\:\fIformat\fB,\:state,\:tname,\:time,\:command\fR or
\fB\-o\ pid,\:\fIformat\fB,\:tname,\:time,\:cmd\fR,
see
.B \-o
below.
.TP
.BI o \ format
Specify user\-defined format.  Identical to
.B \-o
and
.BR \-\-format .
.TP
.BI \-o \ format
User\-defined format.
.I format
is a single argument up in tha form of a funky-ass blank\-separated or comma\-separated
list, which offers a way ta specify individual output columns.  The
recognized keywordz is busted lyrics bout up in the
.B STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS
section below.  Headaz may be renamed
.RB ( "ps \-o pid,\:ruser=RealUser \-o comm=Command" )
as desired.
If all column headaz is empty
.RB ( "ps \-o pid= \-o comm=" )
then tha header line aint gonna be output.  Column width will increase as
needed fo' wide headers; dis may be used ta widen up columns like fuckin WCHAN
.RB ( "ps \-o pid,\:wchan=\:WIDE\-\:WCHAN\-\:COLUMN \-o comm" ).
Explicit width
control
.RB ( "ps opid,\:wchan:42,\:cmd" )
is offered like a muthafucka.  Da behavior of
.B ps -o pid=X,\:comm=Y
varies wit personality; output may be one column named "X,\:comm=Y" or two
columns named "X" n' "Y".  Use multiple
.B \-o
options when up in doubt.  Use the
.B PS_FORMAT
environment variable ta specify a thugged-out default as desired; DefSysV n' DefBSD are
macros dat may be used ta chizzle tha default UNIX or BSD columns.
.TP
.B s
Display signal format.
.TP
.B u
Display user\-oriented format.
.TP
.B v
Display virtual memory format.
.TP
.B X
Regista format.
.TP
.B \-y
Do not show flags; show rss up in place of addr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This option can only be used
with
.BR \-l .
.TP
.B Z
Add a cold-ass lil column of securitizzle data.  Identical to
.B \-M
(for SELinux).
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH "OUTPUT MODIFIERS"
.\"  .TP
.\"  .B C
.\"  use raw CPU time fo' %CPU instead of decayin average
.TP
.B c
Show tha legit command name.  This is derived from tha name of tha executable
file, rather than from tha argv value.  Command arguments n' any
modifications ta dem is thus not shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option effectively turns the
.B args
format keyword tha fuck into the
.B comm
format keyword; it is useful wit the
.B \-f
format option n' wit tha various BSD\-style format options, which all
normally display tha command arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See the
.B \-f
option, tha format
keyword
.BR args ,
and tha format keyword
.BR comm .
.TP
.BI \-\-cols \ n
Set screen width.
.TP
.BI \-\-columns \ n
Set screen width.
.TP
.B \-\-cumulative
Include some dead lil pimp process data (as a sum wit tha parent).
.TP
.B e
Show tha environment afta tha command.
.TP
.B f
ASCII art process hierarchy (forest).
.TP
.B \-\-forest
ASCII art process tree.
.TP
.B h
No header n' shit.  (or, one header per screen up in tha BSD personality).  The
.B h
option is problematic.  Standard BSD
.B ps
uses dis option ta print a header on each page of output yo, but olda Linux
.B ps
uses dis option ta straight-up disable tha header n' shit.  This version of
.B ps
bigs up tha Linux usage of not printin tha header unless tha BSD personality
has been selected, up in which case it prints a header on each page of output.
Regardless of tha current personality, you can use tha long options
.B \-\-headers
and
.B \-\-no\-headers
to enable printin headaz each page or disable headaz entirely,
respectively.
.TP
.B \-H
Show process hierarchy (forest).
.TP
.B \-\-headers
Repeat header lines, one per page of output.
.TP
.BI k \ spec
Specify sortin order n' shit.  Sortin syntax is
[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIkey\fR[,[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIkey\fR[,...]].
Choose a multi\-letta key from the
.B STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da "+" is optionizzle since default direction is increasing
numerical or lexicographic order n' shit.  Identical to
.BR \-\-sort .
.RS 8
.IP
Examples:
.br
.B ps jaxkuid,\-ppid,+pid
.br
.B ps axk comm o comm,args
.br
.B ps kstart_time \-ef
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-lines \ n
Set screen height.
.TP
.BI \-n \ namelist
Set namelist file.  Identical to
.BR N .
Da namelist file is needed fo' a proper WCHAN display, n' must match the
current Linux kernel exactly fo' erect output.  Without dis option, the
default search path fo' tha namelist is:
.RS 8
.IP
$PS_SYSMAP
.br
$PS_SYSTEM_MAP
.br
/proc/*/wchan
.br
/boot/System.map\-$(uname\ \-r)
.br
/boot/System.map
.br
/lib/modules/$(uname\ \-r)/System.map
.br
/usr/src/linux/System.map
.br
/System.map
.RE
.TP
.B n
Numeric output fo' WCHAN n' USER (includin all typez of UID n' GID).
.TP
.BI N \ namelist
Specify namelist file.  Identical to
.BR \-n ,
see
.B \-n
above.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-headers
Print no header line at all.
.B \-\-no\-heading
is a alias fo' dis option.
.TP
.BI O \ order
Sortin order (overloaded).
Da BSD
.B O
option can act like
.B \-O
(user\-defined output format wit some common fieldz predefined) or can be
used ta specify sort order n' shit.  Heuristics is used ta determine tha behavior of
this option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  To ensure dat tha desired behavior is obtained (sortin or
formatting), specify tha option up in some other way (e.g.  with
.B \-O
or
.BR \-\-sort ).
.IP
For sorting, obsolete BSD
.B O
option syntax is
\fBO\fR[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIk1\fR[,[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIk2\fR[,...]].
It ordaz tha processes listin accordin ta tha multilevel sort specified by
the sequence of one\-letta short keys
.IR k1 , k2 ", ..."
busted lyrics bout up in the
.B OBSOLETE SORT KEYS
section below.  The\ "+" is currently optional, merely re\-iteratin the
default direction on a key yo, but may help ta distinguish an
.B O
sort from an
.B O
format.  Da "\-" reverses direction only on tha key it precedes.
.TP
.BI \-\-rows \ n
Set screen height.
.TP
.B S
Sum up some shiznit, like fuckin CPU usage, from dead lil pimp processes into
their parent.  This is useful fo' examinin a system where a parent process
repeatedly forks off short\-lived lil pimps ta do work.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort \ spec
Specify sortin order n' shit.  Sortin syntax is
[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIkey\fR[,[\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR]\fIkey\fR[,...]].  Chizzle a
multi\-letta key from the
.B STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da "+" is optionizzle since default direction is increasin numerical
or lexicographic order n' shit.  Identical to
.BR k .
For example:
.B ps jax \-\-sort=\:uid,\:\-ppid,\:+pid
.TP
.B w
Wide output.  Use dis option twice fo' unlimited width.
.TP
.B \-w
Wide output.  Use dis option twice fo' unlimited width.
.TP
.BI \-\-width \ n
Set screen width.
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH "THREAD DISPLAY"
.TP
.B H
Show threadz as if they was processes.
.TP
.B \-L
Show threads, possibly wit LWP n' NLWP columns.
.TP
.B m
Show threadz afta processes.
.TP
.B \-m
Show threadz afta processes.
.TP
.B \-T
Show threads, possibly wit SPID column.
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH "OTHER INFORMATION"
.TP
.BI \-\-help \ section
Print a help message.  Da section argument can be one of
\fIs\fRimple,
\fIl\fRist,
\fIo\fRutput,
\fIt\fRhreads,
\fIm\fRisc or
\fIa\fRll.
Da argument can be shortened ta one of tha underlined lettas as in: s|l|o|t|m|a.
.TP
.B \-\-info
Print debuggin info.
.TP
.B L
List all format specifiers.
.TP
.B V
Print tha procps-ng version.
.TP
.B \-V
Print tha procps-ng version.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print tha procps-ng version.
.\" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PD
.PP
.SH NOTES
This
.B ps
works by readin tha virtual filez up in /proc.  This
.B ps
does not need ta be setuid kmem or have any privileges ta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Do not give
this
.B ps
any special permissions.
.PP
This
.B ps
needz access ta namelist data fo' proper WCHAN display.  For kernels prior to
2.6, tha System.map file must be installed.
.PP
CPU usage is currently expressed as tha cementage of time dropped hustlin
durin tha entire gametime of a process.  This aint ideal, and\ it do not
conform ta tha standardz that
.B ps
otherwise conforms to.  CPU usage is unlikely ta add up ta exactly 100%.
.PP
Da SIZE n' RSS fieldz don't count some partz of a process includin the
page tables, kernel stack, struct thread_info, n' struct task_struct.  This
is probably at least 20 KiB of memory dat be always resident.  SIZE is the
virtual size of tha process (code+\:data+\:stack).
.PP
Processes marked <defunct> is dead processes (so\-called "zombies") that
remain cuz they parent has not destroyed dem properly.  These processes
will be destroyed by
.IR init (8)
if tha parent process exits.
.PP
If tha length of tha username is pimped outa than tha length of tha display
column, tha numeric user ID is displayed instead.
.PP
Commandz options such as
.B ps \-aux
are not recommended as it aint nuthin but a mad drama of two different standards.
Accordin ta tha POSIX n' UNIX standards, tha above command asks to
display all processes wit a TTY (generally tha commandz playas are
running) plus all processes owned by a user named "x".  If dat user
doesn't exist, then
.B ps
will assume you straight-up meant "\fBps\fR \fIaux\fR".
.SH "PROCESS FLAGS"
Da sum of these joints is displayed up in tha "F" column,
which is provided by the
.B flags
output specifier:
.IP
.RS 8
.PD 0
.TP 5
1
forked but didn't exec
.TP
4
used super\-user privileges
.PD
.RE
.PP
.SH "PROCESS STATE CODES"
Here is tha different joints dat the
.BR s , \ stat \ n' \ state
output specifiers (header "STAT" or "S") will display ta describe tha state
of a process:
.IP
.RS 8
.PD 0
.TP 5
D
uninterruptible chill (usually IO)
.TP
R
runnin or runnable (on run queue)
.TP
S
interruptible chill (waitin fo' a event ta complete)
.TP
T
stopped by thang control signal
.TP
t
stopped by debugger durin tha tracing
.TP
W
pagin (not valid since tha 2.6.xx kernel)
.TP
X
dead (should never be seen)
.TP
Z
defunct ("zombie") process, terminated but not reaped by its parent
.PD
.RE
.PP
For BSD formats n' when the
.B stat
keyword is used, additionizzle charactas may be displayed:
.IP
.RS 8
.PD 0
.TP 5
<
high\-prioritizzle (not sick ta other users)
.TP
N
low\-prioritizzle (nice ta other users)
.TP
L
has pages locked tha fuck into memory (for real\-time n' custom IO)
.TP
s
is a session leader
.TP
l
is multi-threaded (usin CLONE_THREAD, like NPTL pthreadz do)
.TP
+
is up in tha foreground process group
.PD
.RE
.PP
.SH "OBSOLETE SORT KEYS"
These keys is used by tha BSD
.B O
option (when it is used fo' sorting).  Da GNU
.B \-\-sort
option don't use these keys yo, but tha specifiers busted lyrics bout below up in the
.B STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note dat tha joints used up in sortin is tha internal joints
.B ps
uses n' not tha "cooked" joints used up in a shitload of tha output format fields
(e.g.  sortin on tty will sort tha fuck into thang number, not accordin ta the
terminal name displayed).  Pipe
.B ps
output tha fuck into the
.BR sort (1)
command if you wanna sort tha cooked joints.
.TS
l l lw(3i).
\fBKEY	LONG	DESCRIPTION\fR
c	cmd	simple name of executable
C	pcpu	cpu utilization
f	flags	flags as up in long format F field
g	pgrp	process crew ID
G	tpgid	controllin tty process crew ID
j	cutime	cumulatizzle user time
J	cstime	cumulatizzle system time
k	utime	user time
m	min_flt	number of minor page faults
M	maj_flt	number of major page faults
n	cmin_flt	cumulatizzle minor page faults
N	cmaj_flt	cumulatizzle major page faults
o	session	session ID
p	pid	process ID
P	ppid	parent process ID
r	rss	resident set size
R	resident	resident pages
s	size	memory size up in kilobytes
S	share	amount of shared pages
t	tty	the thang number of tha controllin tty
T	start_time	time process was started
U	uid	user ID number
u	user	user name
v	vsize	total VM size up in KiB
y	priority	kernel schedulin priority
.\"K	stime	system time (conflict, system vs. start time)
.TE
.PP
.PP
.SH "AIX FORMAT DESCRIPTORS"
This
.B ps
supports AIX format descriptors, which work somewhat like the
formattin codes of
.IR printf (1)
and
.IR printf (3).
For example, tha aiiight default output can be produced wit this:
\fBps \-eo "%p %y %x %c"\fR.
The
.B NORMAL
codes is busted lyrics bout up in tha next section.
.TS
l l l.
\fBCODE	NORMAL	HEADER\fR
%C	pcpu	%CPU
%G	group	GROUP
%P	ppid	PPID
%U	user	USER
%a	args	COMMAND
%c	comm	COMMAND
%g	rgroup	RGROUP
%n	nice	NI
%p	pid	PID
%r	pgid	PGID
%t	etime	ELAPSED
%u	ruser	RUSER
%x	time	TIME
%y	tty	TTY
%z	vsz	VSZ
.TE
.SH "STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS"
Here is tha different keywordz dat may be used ta control tha output
format (e.g. wit option
.BR \-o )
or ta sort tha selected processes wit tha GNU\-style
.B \-\-sort
option.
.PP
For example:
.B ps \-eo pid,\:user,\:args \-\-sort user
.PP
This version of
.B ps
tries ta recognize most of tha keywordz used up in other implementations of
.BR ps .
.PP
Da followin user\-defined format specifiers may contain
spaces:
.BR args , \ cmd , \ comm , \ command , \ fname , \ ucmd , \ ucomm ,
.BR lstart , \ bsdstart , \ start .
.PP
Some keywordz may not be available fo' sorting.

.\" #######################################################################
.\" lB1 lB1 lB1 lB1 s s s
.\" lB1 l1  l1  l1  s s s.
.\"
.\" lB1 lB1 lBw(5.5i)
.\" lB1 l1  l.
.\"
.TS
expand;
lB1 lB1 lBw(\n[ColSize]n)
lB1 l1  l.
CODE	HEADER	DESCRIPTION

%cpu	%CPU	T{
cpu utilization of tha process up in "##.#" format.  Currently, it is tha CPU
time used divided by tha time tha process has been hustlin (cputime/realtime
ratio), expressed as a cementage.  It aint gonna add up ta 100% unless yo ass is
lucky.  (alias
.BR pcpu ).
T}

%mem	%MEM	T{
ratio of tha processs resident set size  ta tha physical memory on the
machine, expressed as a cementage.  (alias
.BR pmem ).
T}

args	COMMAND	T{
command wit all its arguments as a string. Modifications ta tha arguments
may be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da output up in dis column may contain spaces.  A process
marked <defunct> is kinda dead, waitin ta be straight-up destroyed by its parent.
Sometimes tha process args is ghon be unavailable; when dis happens,
.B ps
will instead print tha executable name up in brackets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  (alias
.BR cmd , \ command ).
See also the
.B comm
format keyword, the
.B \-f
option, n' the
.B c
option.
.br
When specified last, dis column will extend ta tha edge of tha display.  If
.B ps
can not determine display width, as when output is repimped up (piped) tha fuck into a
file or another command, tha output width is undefined (it may be 80,
unlimited, determined by the
.B TERM
variable, n' so on).  The
.B COLUMNS
environment variable or
.B \-\-cols
option may be used ta exactly determine tha width up in dis case.  The
.B w
or
.B \-w
option may be also be used ta adjust width.
T}

blocked	BLOCKED	T{
mask of tha blocked signals, see
.IR signal (7).
Accordin ta tha width of tha field, a 32 or 64\-bit mask up in hexadecimal
format is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (alias
.BR sig_block , \ sigmask ).
T}

bsdstart	START	T{
time tha command started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If tha process was started less than 24 minutes ago,
the output format is "\ HH:MM", else it is " Mmm:SS" (where Mmm is tha three
lettaz of tha month).  See also
.BR lstart , \ start , \ start_time ", and" \ stime .
T}

bsdtime	TIME	T{
accumulated cpu time, user + system.  Da display format is usually
"MMM:SS" yo, but can be shifted ta tha right if tha process used mo' than 999
minutez of cpu time.
T}

c	C	T{
processor utilization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Currently, dis is tha integer value of tha cement
usage over tha gametime of tha process.  (see
.BR %cpu ).
T}

caught	CAUGHT	T{
mask of tha caught signals, see
.IR signal (7).
Accordin ta tha width of tha field, a 32 or 64 bits mask up in hexadecimal
format is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (alias
.BR sig_catch , \ sigcatch ).
T}

cgroup	CGROUP	T{
display control crews ta which tha process belongs.
T}

class	CLS	T{
schedulin class of tha process.  (alias
.BR policy , \ cls ).
Fieldz possible joints are:
.IP "" 2
\-	not reported
.br
TS	SCHED_OTHER
.br
FF	SCHED_FIFO
.br
RR	SCHED_RR
.br
B	SCHED_BATCH
.br
ISO	SCHED_ISO
.br
IDL	SCHED_IDLE
.br
?	unknown value
T}

cls	CLS	T{
schedulin class of tha process.  (alias
.BR policy , \ cls ).
Fieldz possible joints are:
.IP "" 2
\-	not reported
.br
TS	SCHED_OTHER
.br
FF	SCHED_FIFO
.br
RR	SCHED_RR
.br
B	SCHED_BATCH
.br
ISO	SCHED_ISO
.br
IDL	SCHED_IDLE
.br
?	unknown value
T}

cmd	CMD	T{
see
.BR args .
(alias
.BR args , \ command ).
T}

comm	COMMAND	T{
command name (only tha executable name).  Modifications ta tha command name
will not be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A process marked <defunct> is kinda dead, waitin ta be
fully destroyed by its parent.  Da output up in dis column may contain spaces.
(alias
.BR ucmd , \ ucomm ).
See also the
.B args format keyword,
the
.B \-f
option, n' the
.B c
option.
.br
When specified last, dis column will extend ta tha edge of tha display.  If
.B ps
can not determine display width, as when output is repimped up (piped) tha fuck into a
file or another command, tha output width is undefined (it may be 80,
unlimited, determined by the
.B TERM
variable, n' so on).  The
.B COLUMNS
environment variable or
.B \-\-cols
option may be used ta exactly determine tha width up in dis case.  The
.BR w \ or \ \-w
option may be also be used ta adjust width.
T}

command	COMMAND	T{
See
.BR args .
(alias
.BR args , \ command ).
T}

cp	CP	T{
per\-mill (tenthz of a cement) CPU usage.  (see
.BR %cpu ).
T}

cputime	TIME	T{
cumulatizzle CPU time, "[DD\-]hh:mm:ss" format.  (alias
.BR time ).
T}

egid	EGID	T{
effectizzle crew ID number of tha process as a thugged-out decimal integer n' shit.  (alias
.BR gid ).
T}

egroup	EGROUP	T{
effectizzle crew ID of tha process.  This is ghon be tha textual crew ID, if it
can be obtained n' tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation
otherwise.  (alias
.BR crew ).
T}

eip	EIP	T{
instruction pointer.
T}

esp	ESP	T{
stack pointer.
T}

etime	ELAPSED	T{
elapsed time since tha process was started, up in tha form [[DD\-]hh:]mm:ss.
T}

etimes	ELAPSED	T{
elapsed time since tha process was started, up in seconds.
T}

euid	EUID	T{
effectizzle user ID (alias
.BR uid ).
T}

euser	EUSER	T{
effectizzle user name.  This is ghon be tha textual user ID, if it can be obtained
and tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.  The
.B n
option can be used ta force tha decimal representation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  (alias
.BR uname , \  user ).
T}

f	F	T{
flags associated wit tha process, peep the
.B PROCESS FLAGS
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  (alias
.BR flag , \ flags ).
T}

fgid	FGID	T{
filesystem access group\ ID.  (alias
.BR fsgid ).
T}

fgroup	FGROUP	T{
filesystem access crew ID.  This is ghon be tha textual crew ID, if it can
be obtained n' tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation
otherwise.  (alias
.BR fsgroup ).
T}

flag	F	T{
see
.BR f .
(alias
.BR f , \ flags ).
T}

flags	F	T{
see
.BR f .
(alias
.BR f , \ flag ).
T}

fname	COMMAND	T{
first 8 bytez of tha base name of tha processs executable file.  Da output
in dis column may contain spaces.
T}

fuid	FUID	T{
filesystem access user ID.  (alias
.BR fsuid ).
T}

fuser	FUSER	T{
filesystem access user ID.  This is ghon be tha textual user ID, if it can be
obtained n' tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.
T}

gid	GID	T{
see
.BR egid .
(alias
.BR egid ).
T}

group	GROUP	T{
see
.BR egroup .
(alias
.BR egroup ).
T}

ignored	IGNORED	T{
mask of tha ignored signals, see
.IR signal (7).
Accordin ta tha width of tha field, a 32 or 64 bits mask up in hexadecimal
format is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (alias
.BR sig_ignore , \ sigignore ).
T}

label	LABEL	T{
securitizzle label, most commonly used fo' SELinux context data.  This is for
the
.I Mandatory Access Control
("MAC") found on high\-securitizzle systems.
T}

lstart	STARTED	T{
time tha command started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  See also
.BR bsdstart , \ start , \ start_time ", and" \ stime .
T}

lsession	SESSION	T{
displays login session identifier of a process.
T}

lwp	LWP	T{
light weight process (thread) ID of tha dispatchable entitizzle (alias
.BR spid , \ tid ).
See
.B tid
for additionizzle shiznit.
T}

machine	MACHINE	T{
displays machine name fo' processes assigned ta VM or container.
T}

maj_flt	MAJFLT	T{
Da number of major page faults dat have occurred wit dis process.
T}

min_flt	MINFLT	T{
Da number of minor page faults dat have occurred wit dis process.
T}

ni	NI	T{
nice value. This ranges from 19 (nicest) ta \-20 (not sick ta others),
see
.IR nice (1).
(alias
.BR sick ).
T}

nice	NI	T{
see
.BR ni .  (alias
.BR ni ).
T}

nlwp	NLWP	T{
number of lwps (threads) up in tha process.  (alias
.BR thcount ).
T}

nwchan	WCHAN	T{
address of tha kernel function where tha process is chillin (use
.B wchan
if you want tha kernel function name).  Hustlin tasks will display a thugged-out dash
('\-') up in dis column.
T}

ouid	OWNER	T{
displays tha Unix user identifier of tha balla of tha session of a process.
T}

pcpu	%CPU	T{
see
.BR %cpu .
(alias
.BR %cpu ).
T}

pending	PENDING	T{
mask of tha pendin signals. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.IR signal (7).
Signals pendin on tha process is distinct from signals pendin on
individual threads.  Use the
.B m
option or the
.B \-m
option ta peep both.  Accordin ta tha width of tha field, a 32 or 64 bits
mask up in hexadecimal format is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (alias
.BR sig ).
T}

pgid	PGID	T{
process crew ID or, equivalently, tha process ID of tha process group
leader n' shit.  (alias
.BR pgrp ).
T}

pgrp	PGRP	T{
see
.BR pgid .
(alias
.BR pgid ).
T}

pid	PID	T{
a number representin tha process ID (alias
.BR tgid ).
T}

pmem	%MEM	T{
see
.BR %mem .
(alias
.BR %mem ).
T}

policy	POL	T{
schedulin class of tha process.  (alias
.BR class , \ cls ).
Possible joints are:
.IP "" 2
\-	not reported
.br
TS	SCHED_OTHER
.br
FF	SCHED_FIFO
.br
RR	SCHED_RR
.br
B	SCHED_BATCH
.br
ISO	SCHED_ISO
.br
IDL	SCHED_IDLE
.br
?	unknown value
T}

ppid	PPID	T{
parent process ID.
T}

pri	PRI	T{
prioritizzle of tha process.  Higher number means lower priority.
T}

psr	PSR	T{
processor dat process is currently assigned to.
T}

rgid	RGID	T{
real crew ID.
T}

rgroup	RGROUP	T{
real crew name.  This is ghon be tha textual crew ID, if it can be obtained
and tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.
T}

rss	RSS	T{
resident set size, tha non\-swapped physical memory dat a task has used (in\
kiloBytes).  (alias
.BR rssize , \ rss ).
T}

rssize	RSS	T{
see
.BR rss .
(alias
.BR rss , \ rss ).
T}

rsz	RSZ	T{
see
.BR rss .
(alias
.BR rss , \ rssize ).
T}

rtprio	RTPRIO	T{
realtime priority.
T}

ruid	RUID	T{
real user ID.
T}

ruser	RUSER	T{
real user ID.  This is ghon be tha textual user ID, if it can be obtained and
the field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.
T}

s	S	T{
minimal state display (one character).  See section
.B PROCESS STATE CODES
for tha different joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See also
.B stat
if you want additionizzle shiznit displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (alias
.BR state ).
T}

sched	SCH	T{
schedulin policy of tha process.  Da policies SCHED_OTHER (SCHED_NORMAL),
SCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR, SCHED_BATCH, SCHED_ISO, n' SCHED_IDLE is respectively
displayed as 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, n' 5.
T}

seat	SEAT	T{
displays login session identifier of a process.
T}

sess	SESS	T{
session ID or, equivalently, tha process ID of tha session leader n' shit.  (alias
.BR session , \ sid ).
T}

sgi_p	P	T{
processor dat tha process is currently executin on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Displays "*" if the
process aint currently hustlin or runnable.
T}

sgid	SGID	T{
saved crew ID.  (alias
.BR svgid ).
T}

sgroup	SGROUP	T{
saved crew name.  This is ghon be tha textual crew ID, if it can be obtained
and tha field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.
T}

sid	SID	T{
see
.BR sess .
(alias
.BR sess , \ session ).
T}

sig	PENDING	T{
see
.BR pendin .
(alias
.BR pendin , \ sig_pend ).
T}

sigcatch	CAUGHT	T{
see
.BR caught .
(alias
.BR caught , \ sig_catch ).
T}

sigignore	IGNORED	T{
see
.BR ignored .
(alias
.BR ignored , \ sig_ignore ).
T}

sigmask	BLOCKED	T{
see
.BR blocked .
(alias
.BR blocked , \ sig_block ).
T}

size	SIZE	T{
approximate amount of swap space dat would be required if tha process were
to dirty all writable pages n' then be swapped out.  This number is hella
rough!
T}

spid	SPID	T{
see
.BR lwp .
(alias
.BR lwp , \ tid ).
T}

stackp	STACKP	T{
address of tha bottom (start) of stack fo' tha process.
T}

start	STARTED	T{
time tha command started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If tha process was started less than 24 minutes ago,
the output format is "HH:MM:SS", else it is "\ \ Mmm\ dd" (where Mmm be a
three\-letta month name).  See also
.BR lstart , \ bsdstart , \ start_time ", and" \ stime .
T}

start_time	START	T{
startin time or date of tha process.  Only tha year is ghon be displayed if the
process was not started tha same year
.B ps
was invoked, or "MmmDD" if dat shiznit was not started tha same day, or "HH:MM"
otherwise.  See also
.BR bsdstart , \ start , \ lstart ", and" \ stime .
T}

stat	STAT	T{
multi\-characta process state.  See section
.B PROCESS STATE CODES
for tha different joints meaning.  See also
.BR s \ n' \ state
if you just want tha straight-up original gangsta characta displayed.
T}

state	S	T{
see
.BR s ". (alias" \ s ).
T}

suid	SUID	T{
saved user ID.  (alias
.BR svuid ).
T}

supgid	SUPGID	T{
group idz of supplementary groups, if any.  See
.BR getgroups (2).
T}

supgrp	SUPGRP	T{
group namez of supplementary groups, if any.  See
.BR getgroups (2).
T}

suser	SUSER	T{
saved user name.  This is ghon be tha textual user ID, if it can be obtained and
the field width permits, or a thugged-out decimal representation otherwise.  (alias
.BR svuser ).
T}

svgid	SVGID	T{
see
.BR sgid .
(alias
.BR sgid ).
T}

svuid	SVUID	T{
see
.BR suid .
(alias
.BR suid ).
T}

sz	SZ	T{
size up in physical pagez of tha core image of tha process.  This includes text,
data, n' stack space.  Device mappings is currently excluded; dis is
subject ta chizzle.  See
.BR vss \ n' \ rss .
T}

tgid	TGID	T{
a number representin tha thread crew ta which a task belongs (alias
.BR pid ).
It be tha process ID of tha thread crew leader.
T}

thcount	THCNT	T{
see
.BR nlwp .
(alias
.BR nlwp ).
number of kernel threadz owned by tha process.
T}

tid	TID	T{
the unique number representin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dispatacable entitizzle (alias
.BR lwp , \ spid ).
This value may also step tha fuck up as: a process ID (pid); a process crew ID (pgrp);
a session ID fo' tha session leader (sid); a thread crew ID fo' tha thread
group leader (tgid); n' a tty process crew ID fo' tha process crew leader
(tpgid).
T}

time	TIME	T{
cumulatizzle CPU\ time, "[DD\-]HH:MM:SS" format.  (alias
.BR cputime ).
T}

tname	TTY	T{
controllin tty (terminal).  (alias
.BR tt , \ tty ).
T}

tpgid	TPGID	T{
ID of tha foreground process crew on tha tty (terminal) dat tha process is
connected to, or \-1 if tha process aint connected ta a tty.
T}

tt	TT	T{
controllin tty (terminal).  (alias
.BR tname , \ tty ).
T}

tty	TT	T{
controllin tty (terminal).  (alias
.BR tname , \ tt ).
T}

ucmd	CMD	T{
see
.BR comm .
(alias
.BR comm , \ ucomm ).
T}

ucomm	COMMAND	T{
see
.BR comm .
(alias
.BR comm , \ ucmd ).
T}

uid	UID	T{
see
.BR euid .
(alias
.BR euid ).
T}

uname	USER	T{
see
.BR euser .
(alias
.BR euser , \ user ).
T}

unit	UNIT	T{
displays systemd unit which a process belongs to.
T}

user	USER	T{
see
.BR euser .
(alias
.BR euser , \ uname ).
T}

uunit	UUNIT	T{
displays systemd user unit which a process belongs to.
T}

vsize	VSZ	T{
see
.BR vss .
(alias
.BR vss ).
T}

vsz	VSZ	T{
virtual memory size of tha process up in KiB (1024\-byte units).  Device
mappings is currently excluded; dis is subject ta chizzle.  (alias
.BR vsize ).
T}

wchan	WCHAN	T{
name of tha kernel function up in which tha process is chillin, a "\-" if the
process is hustlin, or a "*" if tha process is multi\-threaded and
.B ps
is not displayin threads.
T}

.TE
.\" #######################################################################
.PP
.PP
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Da followin environment variablez could affect
.BR ps :
.TP 3
.B COLUMNS
Override default display width.
.TP
.B LINES
Override default display height.
.TP
.B PS_PERSONALITY
Set ta one of posix, old, linux, bsd, sun, digital...  (see section
.B PERSONALITY
below).
.TP
.B CMD_ENV
Set ta one of posix, old, linux, bsd, sun, digital...  (see section
.B PERSONALITY
below).
.TP
.B I_WANT_A_BROKEN_PS
Force obsolete command line interpretation.
.TP
.B LC_TIME
Date format.
.TP
.B PS_COLORS
Not currently supported.
.TP
.B PS_FORMAT
Default output format override. Yo ass may set dis ta a gangbangin' format
strin of tha type used fo' the
.B \-o
option.
The
.B DefSysV
and
.B DefBSD
values is particularly useful.
.TP
.B PS_SYSMAP
Default namelist (System.map) location.
.TP
.B PS_SYSTEM_MAP
Default namelist (System.map) location.
.TP
.B POSIXLY_CORRECT
Don't find excuses ta ignore wack "features".
.TP
.B POSIX2
When set ta "on", acts as
.BR POSIXLY_CORRECT .
.TP
.B UNIX95
Don't find excuses ta ignore wack "features".
.TP
.B _XPG
Cancel \fBCMD_ENV\fR=\fIirix\fR non\-standard behavior.
.PP
In general, it aint nuthin but a wack scam ta set these variables.  Da one exception is
.B CMD_ENV
or
.BR PS_PERSONALITY ,
which could be set ta Linux fo' aiiight systems.  Without dat setting,
.B ps
bigs up tha useless n' wack partz of tha Unix98 standard.
.PP
.SH "PERSONALITY"
.TS
l	l.
390	like tha OS/390 OpenEdizzle \fBps\fR
aix	like AIX \fBps\fR
bsd	like FreeBSD \fBps\fR (totally non\-standard)
compaq	like Digital Unix \fBps\fR
debian	like tha oldschool Debian \fBps\fR
digital	like Tru64 (was Digital\ Unix, was OSF/1) \fBps\fR
gnu	like tha oldschool Debian \fBps\fR
hp	like HP\-UX \fBps\fR
hpux	like HP\-UX \fBps\fR
irix	like Irix \fBps\fR
linux	***** \fBrecommended\fR *****
old	like tha original gangsta Linux \fBps\fR (totally non\-standard)
os390	like OS/390 Open Edizzle \fBps\fR
posix	standard
s390	like OS/390 Open Edizzle \fBps\fR
sco	like SCO \fBps\fR
sgi	like Irix \fBps\fR
solaris2	like Solaris 2+ (SunOS 5) \fBps\fR
sunos4	like SunOS 4 (Solaris 1) \fBps\fR (totally non\-standard)
svr4	standard
sysv	standard
tru64	like Tru64 (was Digital Unix, was OSF/1) \fBps\fR
unix	standard
unix95	standard
unix98	standard
.TE
.PP
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgrep (1),
.BR pstree (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR proc (5).
.PP
.PP
.SH STANDARDS
This
.B ps
conforms to:
.PP
.PD 0
.IP 1 4
Version 2 of tha Single Unix Justification
.IP 2 4
Da Open Group Technical Standard Base Justifications, Issue\ 6
.IP 3 4
IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004\ Edition
.IP 4 4
X/Open System Interfaces Extension [UP\ XSI]
.IP 5 4
ISO/IEC 9945:2003
.PD
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.B ps
was originally freestyled by
.UR lankeste@\:fwi.\:uva.\:nl
Branko Lankester
.UE .
.UR johnsonm@\:redhat.\:com
Mike K. Johnson
.UE
re\-wrote it hella ta use tha proc filesystem, changin all dem thangs
in tha process.
.UR mjshield@\:nyx.\:cs.\:du.\:edu
Mike Shields
.UE
added tha pid\-list feature.
.UR cblake@\:bbn.\:com
Charlez Blake
.UE
added multi\-level sorting, tha dirent\-style library, tha device
name\-to\-number mmaped database, tha approximate binary search directly on
System.map, n' nuff code n' documentation cleanups.  Dizzy Mossberger\-Tang
wrote tha generic BFD support fo' psupdate.
.UR albert@\:users.\:sf.\:net
Albert Cahalan
.UE
rewrote ps fo' full Unix98 n' BSD support, along wit some skanky hacks for
obsolete n' foreign syntax.
.PP
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@\:freelists.\:org
.UE .
No subscription is required or suggested.
