.TH PS2PDF 1 "26 March 2014" 9.14 Ghostscript \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
ps2pdf \- Convert PostScript ta PDF rockin pimpscript
.br
ps2pdf12 \- Convert PostScript ta PDF\ 1.2 (Acrobat\ 3-and-lata compatible) rockin pimpscript
.br
ps2pdf13 \- Convert PostScript ta PDF\ 1.3 (Acrobat\ 4-and-lata compatible) rockin pimpscript
.br
ps2pdf14 \- Convert PostScript ta PDF\ 1.4 (Acrobat\ 5-and-lata compatible) rockin pimpscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBps2pdf\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.br
\fBps2pdf12\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.br
\fBps2pdf13\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.br
\fBps2pdf14\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ps2pdf
scripts is work-alikes fo' nearly all tha functionalitizzle (but not the
user intercourse) of Adobez Acrobat(TM) Distiller(TM) product: they
convert PostScript filez ta Portable Document Format (PDF) files. 
.PP
If tha output filename aint specified, tha output is placed up in a gangbangin' file
of tha same name wit a '.pdf' extension up in tha current working
directory. Either tha input filename or tha output filename can be '-'
to request readin from stdin or freestylin ta stdout, respectively,
when used as a gangbangin' filter.
.PP
Da three scripts differ as bigs up:
.IP -
.B ps2pdf12
will always produce PDF 1.2 output (Acrobat 3-and-lata compatible).
.IP -
.B ps2pdf13
will always produce PDF 1.3 output (Acrobat 4-and-lata compatible).
.IP -
.B ps2pdf14
will always produce PDF 1.4 output (Acrobat 5-and-lata compatible).
.IP -
.B ps2pdf
per se currently produces PDF 1.4 output.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis may chizzle up in tha future. If you care about
the compatibilitizzle level of tha output, use
.BR ps2pdf12 ,
.B ps2pdf13
or
.BR ps2pdf14 ,
or use the
.B \-dCompatibility=1.x
switch up in tha command line.
.PP
There is some limitations in
.BR ps2pdf 's
conversion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha HTML documentation fo' mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A big-ass 
number of Adobe Distiller(TM) parametas which can be used ta control
the conversion is also documented there, includin instructions fo' 
generatin PDF/X n' PDF/A documents.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B ps2pdf
scripts use tha same options as gs(1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Convertin a gangbangin' figure.ps ta figure.pdf:
.IP
.B ps2pdf
.I figure.ps
.LP
A conversion wit mo' specifics:
.IP
.B ps2pdf
-dPDFSETTINGS=/prepress 
.I figure.ps proof.pdf
.LP
Convertin as part of a pipe:
.IP
.B make_report.pl 
-t ps |
.B ps2pdf
-dCompatibility=1.3 - - |
.B lpr
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1), ps2pdfwr(1),
.br
Ps2pdf.htm up in tha Ghostscript documentation
.SH BUGS
See http://bugs.ghostscript.com/ n' tha Usenet shizzle group
comp.lang.postscript.
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised fo' Ghostscript version 9.14.
.SH AUTHOR
Artifex Software, Inc. is the
primary maintainerz of Ghostscript.
This manpage by George Ferguson.
