.\"
.\" gstack manual page.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Ross Thompson
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2004, 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" Original Gangsta author: Ross Thompson <ross@whatsis.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; peep tha file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
.\" Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH GSTACK 1 "Feb 15 2008" "Red Hat Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"

.SH NAME
gstack \- print a stack trace of a hustlin process

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gstack
pid

.SH DESCRIPTION

\f3gstack\f1 attaches ta tha actizzle process named by tha \f3pid\f1 on
the command line, n' prints up a execution stack trace.  If ELF
symbols exist up in tha binary (usually tha case unless you have run
strip(1)), then symbolic addresses is printed as well.

If tha process is part of a thread group, then \f3gstack\f1 will print
out a stack trace fo' each of tha threadz up in tha group.

.SH SEE ALSO
nm(1), ptrace(2), gdb(1)

.SH AUTHORS
Ross Thompson <ross@whatsis.com>

Red Hat, Inc. <http://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla>
