.\"
.\" Copyright 1993-2002 Werner Almesberger
.\"           2002-2012 Craig Small
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH PSTREE 1 "2012-07-28" "psmisc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pstree \- display a tree of processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B pstree
.RB [ \-a  , \ \-\-arguments ]
.RB [ \-c  , \ \-\-compact ]
.RB [ \-h  , \ \-\-highlight\-all  , \ \-H \fIpid\fB  , \ \-\-highlight\-pid\ \fIpid\fB ]
.RB [ \-g  ] \ \-\-show\-pgidz ]
.RB [ \-l  , \ \-\-long ]
.RB [ \-n  , \ \-\-numeric\-sort ]
.RB [ \-p  , \ \-\-show\-pidz ]
.RB [ \-s  , \ \-\-show\-parents ]
.RB [ \-u  , \ \-\-uid\-changes ]
.RB [ \-Z  , \ \-\-security\-context ]
.RB [ \-A  , \ \-\-ascii  , \ \-G  , \ \-\-vt100  , \ \-U  , \ \-\-unicode ]
.RB [ \fIpid\fB  , \ \fIuser\fB]
.br
.B pstree
.RB \-V  , \ \-\-version
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pstree
shows hustlin processes as a tree.  Da tree is rooted at either
.I pid
or
.B init
if
.I pid
is omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If a user name is specified, all process trees rooted at
processes owned by dat user is shown.
.PP
.B pstree
visually merges identical branches by puttin dem up in square brackets
and prefixin dem wit tha repetizzle count, e.g.
.nf
.sp
    init\-+\-getty
         |\-getty
         |\-getty
         `\-getty
.sp
.fi
becomes
.nf
.sp
    init\-\-\-4*[getty]
.sp
.fi
.PP
.PP
Lil Pimp threadz of a process is found under tha parent process n' are
shown wit tha process name up in curly braces, e.g.
.nf
.sp
    icecast2\-\-\-13*[{icecast2}]
.sp
.fi
.PP
If
.B pstree
is called as
.B pstree.x11
then it will prompt tha user all up in tha end of tha line ta press return and
will not return until dat has happened. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is useful fo' when
.B pstree
is run up in a xterminal.
.PP
Certain kernel or mount parameters, like fuckin tha hidepid option fo' procfs,
will hide shiznit fo' some processes. In these thangs
.B pstree
will attempt ta build tha tree without dis shiznit, showin process
names as question marks.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-a\fP
Show command line arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If tha command line of a process is
swapped out, dat process is shown up in parentheses.
.B \-a
implicitly disablez compaction fo' processes but not threads.
.IP \fB\-A\fP
Use ASCII charactas ta draw tha tree.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
Disable compaction of identical subtrees.  By default, subtrees are
compacted whenever possible.
.IP \fB\-G\fP
Use VT100 line drawin characters.
.IP \fB\-h\fP
Highlight tha current process n' its ancestors.  This be a no-op if
the terminal don't support highlightin or if neither tha current
process nor any of its ancestors is up in tha subtree bein shown.
.IP \fB\-H\fP
Like
.BR \-h ,
but highlight tha specified process instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Unlike with
.BR \-h ,
.B pstree
fails when using
.B \-H
if highlightin is not
available.
.IP \fB\-g\fP
Show PGIDs.  Process Group IDs is shown as decimal numbers in
parentheses afta each process name.
.B \-p
implicitly disablez compaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If both PIDs n' PGIDs is displayed
then PIDs is shown first.
.IP \fB\-l\fP
Display long lines.  By default, lines is truncated ta tha display
width or 132 if output is busted ta a non-tty or if tha display width is
unknown.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Sort processes wit tha same ancestor by PID instead of by name. 
(Numeric sort.)
.IP \fB\-p\fP
Show PIDs.  PIDs is shown as decimal numbers up in parentheses afta each
process name.
.B \-p
implicitly disablez compaction.
.IP \fB\-s\fP
Show parent processez of tha specified process.
.IP \fB\-u\fP
Show uid transitions.  Whenever tha uid of a process differs from the
uid of its parent, tha freshly smoked up uid is shown up in parentheses afta the
process name.
.IP \fB\-U\fP
Use UTF-8 (Unicode) line drawin characters.  Under Linux 1.1-54 and
above, UTF-8 mode is entered on tha console with
.B echo \-e '\\033%8'
and left with
.B echo \-e '\\033%@'
.IP \fB\-V\fP
Display version shiznit.
.IP \fB\-Z\fP
(SELinux) Show securitizzle context fo' each process.  This flag will only
work if pstree is compilied wit SELinux support.
.SH FILES
.TP
/proc
location of tha proc file system
.SH BUGS
Some characta sets may be incompatible wit tha VT100 characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1).
.\"{{{}}}
