.TH pulseaudio 1 User Manuals
.SH NAME
pulseaudio \- Da PulseAudio Sound System
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpulseaudio [\fIoptions\fB]

pulseaudio --help\fB

pulseaudio --version\fB

pulseaudio --dump-conf\fB

pulseaudio --dump-modules\fB

pulseaudio --dump-resample-methods\fB

pulseaudio --cleanup-shm\fB

pulseaudio --start\fB

pulseaudio --kill\fB

pulseaudio --check\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
PulseAudio be a networked low-latency sound server fo' Linux, POSIX n' Windows systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB--version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.TP
\fB--dump-conf\f1
Load tha daemon configuration file \fIdaemon.conf\f1 (see below), parse remainin configuration options on tha command line n' dump tha resultin daemon configuration, up in a gangbangin' format dat is compatible wit \fIdaemon.conf\f1.
.TP
\fB--dump-modules\f1
List available loadable modules. Combine wit \fB-v\f1 fo' a mo' elaborate listing.
.TP
\fB--dump-resample-methods\f1
List available audio resamplers.
.TP
\fB--cleanup-shm\f1
Identify stale PulseAudio POSIX shared memory segments up in \fI/dev/shm\f1 n' remove dem if possible. This is done implicitly whenever a freshly smoked up daemon starts up or a cold-ass lil client tries ta connect ta a thugged-out daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it should normally not be necessary ta issue dis command by hand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only available on systems wit POSIX shared memory segments implemented via a virtual file system mounted ta \fI/dev/shm\f1 (e.g. Linux).
.TP
\fB--start\f1
Start PulseAudio if it aint hustlin yet. This is different from startin PulseAudio without \fB--start\f1 which would fail if PA be already hustlin. PulseAudio is guaranteed ta be straight-up initialized when dis call returns. Implies \fB--daemon\f1.
.TP
\fB-k | --kill\f1
Bust a cap up in a already hustlin PulseAudio daemon of tha callin user (Equivalent ta bustin  a SIGTERM).
.TP
\fB--check\f1
Return 0 as return code when tha PulseAudio daemon be already hustlin fo' tha callin user, or non-zero otherwise. Produces no output on tha console except fo' errors ta stderr.
.TP
\fB--system\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Run as system-wide instizzle instead of per-user n' shit. Please note dat dis disablez certain featurez of PulseAudio n' is generally not recommended unless tha system knows no local playas (e.g. be a thin client). This feature needz special configuration n' a thugged-out dedicated UNIX user set up. Well shiiiit, it is highly recommended ta combine dis wit \fB--disallow-module-loading\f1 (see below).
.TP
\fB-D | --daemonize\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Daemonize afta startup, i.e. detach from tha terminal.
.TP
\fB--fail\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Fail startup when any of tha commandz specified up in tha startup script \fIdefault.pa\f1 (see below) fails.
.TP
\fB--high-priority\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Try ta acquire a high Unix sick level. This will only succeed if tha callin user has a non-zero RLIMIT_NICE resource limit set (on systems dat support this), or we called SUID root (see below), or we is configure ta be run as system daemon (see \fI--system\f1 above). Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta enable this, since it is only a negligible securitizzle risk (see below).
.TP
\fB--realtime\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Try ta acquire a real-time schedulin fo' PulseAudioz I/O threads. This will only succeed if tha callin user has a non-zero RLIMIT_RTPRIO resource limit set (on systems dat support this), or we called SUID root (see below), or we is configure ta be run as system daemon (see \fI--system\f1 above). Well shiiiit, it is recommended ta enable dis only fo' trusted users, since it aint nuthin but a major securitizzle risk (see below).
.TP
\fB--disallow-module-loading\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Disallow module loadin afta startup. This be a securitizzle feature since it disallows additionizzle module loadin durin runtime n' on user request. Well shiiiit, it is highly recommended when \fI--system\f1 is used (see above). Note however, dat dis breaks certain features like automatic module loadin on bangin' plug.
.TP
\fB--disallow-exit\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Disallow user axed exit
.TP
\fB--exit-idle-time\f1\fI=SECS\f1
Terminizzle tha daemon when idle n' tha specified number of secondz passed.
.TP
\fB--scache-idle-time\f1\fI=SECS\f1
Unload autoloaded samplez from tha cache when tha aint been used fo' tha specified number of seconds.
.TP
\fB--log-level\f1\fI[=LEVEL]\f1
If a argument is passed, set tha log level ta tha specified value, otherwise increase tha configured verbositizzle level by one. Da log levels is numerical from 0 ta 4, correspondin ta \fIerror\f1, \fIwarn\f1, \fInotice\f1, \fIinfo\f1, \fIdebug\f1. Default log level is \fInotice\f1, i.e. all log lyrics wit lower log levels is printed: \fIerror\f1, \fIwarn\f1, \fInotice\f1.
.TP
\fB-v | --verbose\f1
Increase tha configured verbositizzle level by one (see \fB--log-level\f1 above). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify multiple times ta increase log level multiple times.
.TP
\fB--log-target\f1\fI={auto,syslog,journal,stderr,file:PATH,newfile:PATH}\f1
Specify tha log target. If set ta \fIauto\f1 (which is tha default), then loggin is pimped up ta syslog when \fB--daemonize\f1 is passed, otherwise ta STDERR. If set ta \fIjournal\f1 loggin is pimped up ta tha systemd journal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If set ta \fIfile:PATH\f1, loggin is pimped up ta tha file indicated by PATH. \fInewfile:PATH\f1 is otherwise tha same as file:PATH yo, but existin filez is never overwritten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha specified file already exists, a suffix be added ta tha file name ta avoid overwriting.
.TP
\fB--log-meta\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Show source code location up in log lyrics.
.TP
\fB--log-time\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Show timestamps up in log lyrics.
.TP
\fB--log-backtrace\f1\fI=FRAMES\f1
When FRAMES is pimped outa than 0, log fo' each message a stack trace up ta tha number of specified stack frames.
.TP
\fB-p | --dl-search-path\f1\fI=PATH\f1
Set tha search path fo' dynamic shared objects (plugins).
.TP
\fB--resample-method\f1\fI=METHOD\f1
Use tha specified resampla by default (See \fB--dump-resample-methods\f1 above fo' possible joints).
.TP
\fB--use-pid-file\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Smoke a PID file. If dis options is disabled it is possible ta run multiple sound servers per user.
.TP
\fB--no-cpu-limit\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
Do not install CPU load limita on platforms dat support dat shit. By default, PulseAudio will terminizzle itself when it notices dat it takes up too much CPU time. This is useful as a protection against system lockups when real-time schedulin is used (see below). Disablin dis mechanizzle is useful when debuggin PulseAudio wit tools like \fBvalgrind(1)\f1 which slow down execution.
.TP
\fB--disable-shm\f1\fI[=BOOL]\f1
PulseAudio clients n' tha server can exchange audio data via POSIX shared memory segments (on systems dat support this). If disabled PulseAudio will rap exclusively over sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Please note dat data transfer via shared memory segments be always disabled when PulseAudio is hustlin wit \fB--system\f1 enabled (see above).
.TP
\fB-L | --load\f1\fI="MODULE ARGUMENTS"\f1
Load tha specified plugin module wit tha specified arguments.
.TP
\fB-F | --file\f1\fI=FILENAME\f1
Run tha specified script on startup. May be specified multiple times ta specify multiple scripts ta be run up in order n' shit. Combine wit \fB-n\f1 ta disable loadin of tha default script \fIdefault.pa\f1 (see below).
.TP
\fB-C\f1
Open a cold-ass lil command interpreta on STDIN/STDOUT afta startup. This may be used ta configure PulseAudio dynamically durin runtime. Equivalent ta \fB--load\f1\fI=module-cli\f1.
.TP
\fB-n\f1
Don't load default script file \fIdefault.pa\f1 (see below) on startup. Useful up in conjunction wit \fB-C\f1 or \fB--file\f1.
.SH FILES
\fI~/.config/pulse/daemon.conf\f1, \fI/etc/pulse/daemon.conf\f1: configuration settings fo' tha PulseAudio daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha version up in tha userz home directory do not exist tha global configuration file is loaded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See \fBpulse-daemon.conf(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.

\fI~/.config/pulse/default.pa\f1, \fI/etc/pulse/default.pa\f1: tha default configuration script ta execute when tha PulseAudio daemon is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If tha version up in tha userz home directory do not exist tha global configuration script is loaded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See \fBdefault.pa(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.

\fI~/.config/pulse/client.conf\f1, \fI/etc/pulse/client.conf\f1: configuration settings fo' PulseAudio client applications. If tha version up in tha userz home directory do not exist tha global configuration file is loaded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See \fBpulse-client.conf(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.
.SH SIGNALS
\fISIGINT, SIGTERM\f1: tha PulseAudio daemon will shut down (Same as \fB--kill\f1).

\fISIGHUP\f1: dump a long-ass status report ta STDOUT or syslog, dependin on tha configuration.

\fISIGUSR1\f1: load module-cli, allowin runtime reconfiguration via STDIN/STDOUT.

\fISIGUSR2\f1: load module-cli-protocol-unix, allowin runtime reconfiguration via a AF_UNIX socket. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBpacmd(1)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.
.SH UNIX GROUPS AND USERS
Group \fIpulse-rt\f1: if tha PulseAudio binary is marked SUID root, then membershizzle of tha callin user up in dis crew decides whether real-time and/or high-prioritizzle schedulin is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Please note dat enablin real-time schedulin be a securitizzle risk (see below).

Group \fIpulse-access\f1: if PulseAudio is hustlin as a system daemon (see \fB--system\f1 above) access is granted ta thugz of dis crew when they connect via AF_UNIX sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If PulseAudio is hustlin as a user daemon dis crew has no meaning.

User \fIpulse\f1, crew \fIpulse\f1: if PulseAudio is hustlin as a system daemon (see \fB--system\f1 above) n' is started as root tha daemon will drop privileges n' become a aiiight user process rockin dis user n' group. If PulseAudio is hustlin as a user daemon dis user n' crew has no meaning.
.SH REAL-TIME AND HIGH-PRIORITY SCHEDULING
To minimize tha risk of drop-outs durin playback it is recommended ta run PulseAudio wit real-time schedulin if tha underlyin platform supports dat shit. This decouplez tha schedulin latency of tha PulseAudio daemon from tha system load n' is thus tha dopest way ta make shizzle dat PulseAudio always gets CPU time when it needz it ta refill tha hardware playback buffers. Unfortunately dis be a securitizzle risk on most systems, since PulseAudio runs as user process, n' givin realtime schedulin privileges ta a user process always comes wit tha risk dat tha user misuses it ta lock up tha system -- which is possible since bustin a process real-time effectively disablez preemption.

To minimize tha risk PulseAudio by default do not enable real-time scheduling. Well shiiiit, it is however recommended ta enable it on trusted systems. To do dat start PulseAudio wit \fB--realtime\f1 (see above) or enabled tha appropriate option up in \fIdaemon.conf\f1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since acquirin realtime schedulin be a privileged operation on most systems, some special chizzlez ta tha system configuration need ta be made ta allow dem ta tha callin user n' shit. Two options is available:

On newer Linux systems tha system resource limit RLIMIT_RTPRIO (see \fBsetrlimit(2)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit) can be used ta allow specific playas ta acquire real-time scheduling. This can be configured up in \fI/etc/security/limits.conf\f1, a resource limit of 9 is recommended.

Alternatively, tha SUID root bit can be set fo' tha PulseAudio binary. Then, tha daemon will drop root privileges immediately on startup, however retain tha CAP_NICE capabilitizzle (on systems dat support it) yo, but only if tha callin user be a gangmember of tha \fIpulse-rt\f1 crew (see above). For all other playas all capabilitizzles is dropped immediately. Da advantage of dis solution is dat tha real-time privileges is only granted ta tha PulseAudio daemon -- not ta all tha userz processes.

Alternatively, if tha risk of lockin up tha machine is considered too big-ass ta enable real-time scheduling, high-prioritizzle schedulin can be enabled instead (i.e. wack sick level). This can be enabled by passin \fB--high-priority\f1 (see above) when startin PulseAudio n' may also be enabled wit tha appropriate option up in \fIdaemon.conf\f1. Negatizzle sick levels can only be enabled when tha appropriate resource limit RLIMIT_NICE is set (see \fBsetrlimit(2)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit), possibly configured up in \fI/etc/security/limits.conf\f1 fo' realz. A resource limit of 31 (correspondin wit sick level -11) is recommended.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Da PulseAudio client libraries check fo' tha existence of tha followin environment variablez n' chizzle they local configuration accordingly:

\fI$PULSE_SERVER\f1: tha server strang specifyin tha server ta connect ta when a cold-ass lil client asks fo' a sound server connection n' don't explicitly ask fo' a specific server n' shit. Da server strang be a list of server addresses separated by whitespace which is tried up in turn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A server address consistz of a optionizzle address type specifier (unix:, tcp:, tcp4:, tcp6:), followed by a path or host address fo' realz. A host address may include a optionizzle port number.

\fI$PULSE_SINK\f1: tha symbolic name of tha sink ta connect ta when a cold-ass lil client creates a playback stream n' don't explicitly ask fo' a specific sink.

\fI$PULSE_SOURCE\f1: tha symbolic name of tha source ta connect ta when a cold-ass lil client creates a record stream n' don't explicitly ask fo' a specific source.

\fI$PULSE_BINARY\f1: path of PulseAudio executable ta run when server auto-spawnin is used.

\fI$PULSE_CLIENTCONFIG\f1: path of file dat shall be read instead of \fIclient.conf\f1 (see above) fo' client configuration.

\fI$PULSE_COOKIE\f1: path of file dat gotz nuff tha PulseAudio authentication cookie. Defaults ta \fI~/.config/pulse/cookie\f1.

These environment settings take precedence -- if set -- over tha configuration settings from \fIclient.conf\f1 (see above).
.SH AUTHORS
Da PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-say shit bout (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio be available from \fBhttp://pulseaudio.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpulse-daemon.conf(5)\f1, \fBdefault.pa(5)\f1, \fBpulse-client.conf(5)\f1, \fBpacmd(1)\f1
