.TH PV 1 "January 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pv \- monitor tha progress of data all up in a pipe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pv
[\fIOPTION\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]...
.br
.B pv
[\fI\-h\fR|\fI\-V\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pv
allows a user ta peep tha progress of data all up in a pipeline, by giving
information like fuckin time elapsed, cementage completed (with progress bar),
current throughput rate, total data transferred, n' ETA.

To use it, bang it up in a pipeline between two processes, wit the
appropriate options.  Its standard input is ghon be passed all up in ta its
standard output n' progress is ghon be shown on standard error.

.B pv
will copy each supplied
.B FILE
in turn ta standard output
.BR "" "(" -
means standard input), or if no
.BR FILE s
are specified just standard input is copied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is tha same ol' dirty behaviour
as
.BR pussaaaaay (1).

A simple example ta peep how tha fuck quickly a gangbangin' file is transferred using
.BR nc (1):

.RS
.B pv file | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000
.RE

A similar example, transferrin a gangbangin' file from another process n' passin the
expected size to
.BR pv :

.RS
.B pussaaaaay file | pv -s 12345 | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000
.RE

A mo' fucked up example rockin numeric output ta feed tha fuck into the
.BR dialog (1)
program fo' a gangbangin' full-screen progress display:
 
.RS
.B (tar cf - . \e
.br
.B " | pv -n -s $(du -sb . | awk '{print $1}') \e"
.br
.B " | gzip -9 > out.tgz) 2>&1 \e"
.br
.B | dialog --gauge 'Progress' 7 70
.RE

Takin a image of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk, skippin errors:

.RS
.B pv -EE /dev/sda > disk-image.img
.RE

Freestylin a image back ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk:

.RS
.B pv disk-image.img > /dev/sda
.RE

Zeroin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk:

.RS
.B pv < /dev/zero > /dev/sda
.RE

Note dat if tha input size cannot be calculated, n' tha output be a funky-ass block
device, then tha size of tha block thang is ghon be used and
.B pv
will automatically stop at dat size as if
.B \-S
had been given.

(Linux only): Watchin file descriptor 3 opened by another process 1234:

.RS
.B pv -d 1234:3
.RE

(Linux only): Watchin all file descriptors used by process 1234:

.RS
.B pv -d 1234
.RE


.SH OPTIONS
.B pv
takes nuff options, which is divided tha fuck into display switches, output
modifiers, n' general options.


.SH DISPLAY SWITCHES
If no display switches is specified,
.B pv
behaves as if
.BR \-p ", " \-t ", " \-e ", " \-r ", n' " \-b
had been given (i.e. every last muthafuckin thang except average rate is switched on).
Otherwise, only dem display types dat is explicitly switched on will be
shown.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-progress
Turn tha progress bar on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If standard input aint a gangbangin' file n' no
size was given (with the
.B \-s
modifier), tha progress bar cannot indicate how tha fuck close ta completion the
transfer is, so it will just move left n' right ta indicate dat data is
moving.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-timer
Turn tha timer on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This will display tha total elapsed time that
.B pv
has been hustlin for.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-eta
Turn tha ETA timer on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This will attempt ta guess, based on previous
transfer rates n' tha total data size, how tha fuck long it is ghon be before
completion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option gonna git no effect if tha total data size cannot
be determined.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-rate
Turn tha rate counta on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This will display tha current rate of data
transfer.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-average\-rate
Turn tha average rate counta on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This will display tha average rate of
data transfer so far.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bytes
Turn tha total byte counta on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This will display tha total amount of
data transferred so far.
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-buffer\-percent
Turn on tha transfer buffer cementage display.  This will show the
percentage of tha transfer buffer up in use - but peep tha caveat under
.B %T
in the
.B FORMATTING
section below.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-last\-written NUM
Show tha last
.B NUM
bytes freestyled - but peep tha caveat under
.B %nA
in the
.B FORMATTING
section below.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-format FORMAT
Ignore tha options
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-T ,
and
.BR \-A ,
and instead use tha format string
.B FORMAT
to determine tha output format.  See the
.B FORMATTING
section below.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-numeric
Numeric output.  Instead of givin a visual indication of progress,
.B pv
will give a integer cementage, one per line, on standard error, suitable
for pipin (via convoluted redirection) into
.BR dialog (1).
Note that
.B \-f
is not required if
.B \-n
is bein used.
.TP
.B ""
Note dat if
.B \-\-numeric
is up in use, then adding
.B \-\-bytes
will cause tha number of bytes processed so far ta be output instead of a
percentage; if
.B \-\-line\-mode
is also up in use, then instead of bytes or a cementage, tha number of lines
so far is output.  And finally, if
.B \-\-timer
is also up in use, then each output line is prefixed wit tha elapsed time 
so far, as a thugged-out decimal number of seconds.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No output.  Useful if the
.B \-L
option is bein used on its own ta just limit tha transfer rate of a pipe.


.SH OUTPUT MODIFIERS
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-wait
Wait until tha straight-up original gangsta byte has been transferred before showin any progress
information or calculatin any ETAs.  Useful if tha program yo ass is pipin to
or from requires extra shiznit before it starts, eg pipin data into
.BR gpg (1)
or
.BR mcrypt (1)
which require a passphrase before data can be processed.
.TP
.B \-s SIZE, \-\-size SIZE
Assume tha total amount of data ta be transferred is
.B SIZE
bytes when calculatin cementages n' ETAs.  Da same suffixez of "k", "m"
etc can be used as with
.BR -L .
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-line\-mode
Instead of countin bytes, count lines (newline characters). Da progress
bar will only move when a freshly smoked up line is found, n' tha value passed ta the
.B \-s
option is ghon be interpreted as a line count.
.TP
.B \-0, \-\-null
Count lines as null terminated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This option implies \-\-line\-mode.
.TP
.B \-i SEC, \-\-interval SEC
Wait
.B SEC
secondz between thugged-out shit.  Da default is ta update every last muthafuckin second.
Note dat dis can be a thugged-out decimal like fuckin 0.1.
.TP
.B \-w WIDTH, \-\-width WIDTH
Assume tha terminal is
.B WIDTH
charactas wide, instead of tryin ta work it up (or assumin 80 if it
cannot be guessed).
.TP
.B \-H HEIGHT, \-\-height HEIGHT
Assume tha terminal is
.B HEIGHT
rows high, instead of tryin ta work it up (or assumin 25 if it
cannot be guessed).
.TP
.B \-N NAME, \-\-name NAME
Prefix tha output shiznit with
.BR NAME .
Useful up in conjunction with
.B \-c
if you gotz a cold-ass lil fucked up pipeline n' you wanna be able ta tell different
partz of it apart.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force output.  Normally,
.B pv
will not output any visual display if standard error aint a terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. 
This option forces it ta do so.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cursor
Use cursor positionin escape sequences instead of just rockin carriage
returns.  This is useful up in conjunction with
.B \-N
(name) if yo ass is rockin multiple
.B pv
invocations up in a single, long, pipeline.


.SH DATA TRANSFER MODIFIERS
.TP
.B \-L RATE, \-\-rate-limit RATE
Limit tha transfer ta a maximum of
.B RATE
bytes per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A suffix of "k", "m", "g", or "t" can be added ta denote
kilobytes (*1024), megabytes, n' so on.
.TP
.B \-B BYTES, \-\-buffer-size BYTES
Use a transfer buffer size of
.B BYTES
bytes.  A suffix of "k", "m", "g", or "t" can be added ta denote
kilobytes (*1024), megabytes, n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default buffer size is the
block size of tha input filez filesystem multiplied by 32 (512kb max), or
400kb if tha block size cannot be determined.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-no-splice
Never use
.BR splice (2),
even if it would normally be possible.  The
.BR splice (2)
system call be a mo' efficient way of transferrin data from or ta a pipe
than regular
.BR read (2)
and
.BR write (2),
but means dat tha transfer buffer may not be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This prevents
.B \-A
and
.B \-T
from working, so if you wanna use
.B \-A
or
.B \-T
then yo big-ass booty is ghon need ta use
.BR \-C ,
at tha cost of a lil' small-ass loss up in transfer efficiency.
(This option has no effect on systems where
.BR splice (2)
is unavailable).
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-skip-errors
Ignore read errors by attemptin ta skip past tha offendin sections.  The
correspondin partz of tha output is ghon be null bytes.  At first only a gangbangin' few
bytes is ghon be skipped yo, but if there be nuff errors up in a row then tha skips
will move up ta chunkz of 512.  This is intended ta be similar to
.B dd conv=sync,noerror
but has not been as thoroughly tested.
.TP
.B ""
Specify
.B \-E
twice ta only report a read error once per file, instead of reportin each
byte range skipped.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-stop-at-size
If a size was specified with
.BR \-s ,
stop transferrin data once dat nuff bytes done been written, instead of
continuin ta tha end of input.
.TP
.B \-d PID[:FD], \-\-watchfd PID[:FD]
Instead of transferrin data, peep file descriptor
.B FD
of process
.BR PID ,
and show its progress.  The
.B pv
process will exit when
.B FD
either chizzlez ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file, chizzlez read/write mode, or is closed;
other data transfer modifiers - n' remote control - may not be used with
this option.
.TP
.B ""
If only a
.B PID
is specified, then dat process is ghon be peeped it, n' all regular filez it
opens is ghon be shown wit a progress bar. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  The
.B pv
process will exit when process
.B PID
exits.
.TP
.B \-R PID, \-\-remote PID
If
.B PID
is a instizzle of
.B pv
that be already hustlin,
.B \-R PID
will cause dat instizzle ta act as though it had been given
this instancez command line instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For example, if
.B pv -L 123k
is hustlin wit process ID 9876, then hustlin
.B pv -R 9876 -L 321k
will cause it ta start rockin a rate limit of 321k instead of 123k.
Note dat some options cannot be chizzled while hustlin, such as
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-E ,
and
.BR \-S .

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-P FILE, \-\-pidfile FILE
Save tha process ID of
.B pv
in
.BR FILE .
Da file is ghon be truncated if it already exists, n' is ghon be removed when
.B pv
exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  While
.B pv
is hustlin, it will contain a single number - tha process ID of
.B pv
- followed by a newline.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a usage message on standard output n' exit successfully.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version         
Print version shiznit on standard output n' exit successfully.


.SH FORMATTING
If the
.B \-F
option is given, then tha output format is determined by tha given format
string.  Within dat string, tha followin sequences can be used:
.TP
.B %p
Progress bar.
Expandz ta fill tha remainin space. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should only be specified once.
Equivalent to
.BR \-p .
.TP
.B %t
Elapsed time.  Equivalent to
.BR \-t .
.TP
.B %e
ETA.  Equivalent to
.BR \-e .
.TP
.B %r
Current data transfer rate.  Equivalent to
.BR \-r .
.TP
.B %a
Average data transfer rate.  Equivalent to
.BR \-a .
.TP
.B %b
Bytes transferred so far (or lines if
.B \-l
was specified).  Equivalent to
.BR \-b .
.TP
.B %T
Percentage of tha transfer buffer up in use.  Equivalent to
.BR \-T .
Shows "{----}" if tha transfer is bein done with
.BR splice (2),
since splicin ta or from pipes do not use tha buffer.
.TP
.B %nA
Show tha last 
.B n
bytes freestyled (e.g.
.B %16A
for tha last 16 bytes).
Shows only dots if tha transfer is bein done with
.BR splice (2),
since splicin ta or from pipes do not use tha buffer.
.TP
.B %N
Name prefix given by
.BR -N .
Padded ta 9 charactas wit spaces, n' suffixed wit :.
.TP
.B %%
A single %.
.P
Da format strang equivalent of turnin on all display switches is
.BR "\`%N %b %T %t %r %a %p %e'" .


.SH EXIT STATUS
An exit statuz of 1 indicates a problem wit the
.B \-R
or
.B \-P
options.

Any other exit status be a funky-ass bitmask of tha following:

.TP
.B 2
One or mo' filez could not be accessed, 
.BR stat (2)ed,
or opened.
.TP
.B 4
An input file was tha same ol' dirty as tha output file.
.TP
.B 8
Internal error wit closin a gangbangin' file or movin ta tha next file.
.TP
.B 16
There was a error while transferrin data from one or mo' input files.
.TP
.B 32
A signal was caught dat caused a early exit.
.TP
.B 64
Memory allocation failed.

A zero exit status indicates no problems.


.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Wood <andrew.wood@ivarch.com>
.br
.I http://www.ivarch.com/

Kevin Coyner <kcoyner@debian.org>
.br
(Debian package maintainer)

Jakub Hrozek <jhrozek@redhat.com>
.br
(Fedora package maintainer)

Cedric Delfosse <cedric@debian.org>
.br
(previous Debian package maintainer)

Eduardo Aguiar <eduardo.oliveira@sondabrasil.com.br>
.br
(provided Portuguese [Brazilian] translation)

Stephane Lacasse <stephane@gorfou.ca>
.br
(provided French translation)
.br
.I http://gorfou.ca/

Marcos Kreinacke <public@kreinacke.com>
.br
(provided German translation)

Bartoss Fenski <fenio@o2.pl>
.br
(provided Polish translation, along wit Krystian Zubel)
.br
.I http://skawina.eu.org/

Joshua Jensen
.br
(reported RPM installation bug)

Boris Folgmann
.br
(reported cursor handlin bug)
.br
.I http://www.folgmann.com/en/

Mathias Gumz
.br
(reported NLS bug)

Daniel Roethlisberger
.br
(submitted patch ta use lockfilez fo' -c if terminal lockin fails)

Adam Buchbinder
.br
(lotz of help wit a Cygwin port of -c)

Mark Tomich
.br
(suggested -B option)
.br
.I http://metuchen.dyndns.org

Gert Menke
.br
(reported bug when pipin ta dd wit a big-ass input buffer size)

Ville Herva <Ville.Herva@iki.fi>
.br
(informatizzle bug report bout rate limitin performance)

Elias Pipping
.br
(patch ta compile properly on Darwin 9; potential NULL deref report)

Patrick Collison
.br
(similar patch fo' OS X)

Boris Lohner
.br
(reported problem dat -L do not diss if given non-numeric value)

Sebastian Kayser
.br
(supplied testin fo' SIGPIPE, demonstrated internationalisation problem)

Laszlo Ersek
.br
(reported shared memory leak on SIGINT wit -c)
.br
.I http://phptest11.atw.hu/

Phil Rutschman
.br
(provided a patch fo' straight-up restorin terminal state on exit)
.br
.I http://bandgap.rsnsoft.com/

Henry Precheur
.br
(reportin n' suggestions fo' --rate-limit bug when rate is under 10)
.br
.I http://henry.precheur.org/

E. Rosten
.br
(supplied patch fo' block bufferin up in line mode)
.br
.I http://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/~er258/

Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.br
(reported compilation error wit default CFLAGS on non-GCC compilers)

Alexandre de Verteuil
.br
(reported bug up in OS X build n' supplied test environment ta fix in)

Martin Baum
.br
(supplied patch ta return nonzero exit status if terminated by signal)

Sam Nelson
.br
(supplied patch ta fix trailin slash on DESTDIR)
.br
.I http://www.siliconfuture.net/

Daniel Pape
.br
(reported Cygwin installation problem cuz of DESTDIR)

Henry Gebhardt <hsggebhardt@googlemail.com>
.br
(supplied patches ta improve SI prefixes n' add --average-rate)

Vladimir Kokarev
.br
Alexander Leo
.br
(reported dat exit status did not reflect file errors)

Thomas Rachel
.br
(submitted patches fo' IEEE1541 (MiB suffixes), 1+e03 bug)

Guillaume Marcais
.br
(submitted speedup patch fo' line mode)

Moritz Barsnick
.br
(submitted patch fo' compile warnin up in size calculation)

Pawel Piatek
.br
(submitted RPM n' patches fo' AIX)

Sami Liedes
.br
(submitted patch fo' --timer n' --bytes wit --numeric)

Steven Willis
.br
(reported problem wit "-R" cappin' non-PV remote processes)

Vladimir Pal, Vladimir Ermakov
.br
(submitted patch which hustled ta pimpment of --format option)

Peta Samuelson <peter@p12n.org>
.br
(submitted patch ta calculate size if stdout be a funky-ass block device)

Miguel Diaz
.br
(much Cygwin help (and packaging), found narrow-terminal bug)

Jim Salter
.br
(commissioned work on tha --skip-errors option)
.br
.I http://ubuntuwiki.net

Wouta Pronk
.br
(reported build problem on SCO)

Bryan Dongray
.br
(provided patches fo' test scripts failin on olda Red Hats)
.br
.I http://www.dongrays.com

Zev Weiss
.br
(provided patch ta fix splice() not rockin stdin)
.br
.I http://www.bewilderbeest.net

Zin Shishak
.br
(provided patch fo' --null / -0)

Jacek Wielemborek
.br
(implemented fdwatch up in Python, suggested
.B pv
port)
.br
.I http://deetah.jogger.pl/kategorie/english

Kim Krecht
.br
(suggested buffer fill status n' last bytes output display options)

Cristian Ciupitu
.br
(pointed up file descriptor leak wit helpful suggestions)
.br
.I http://ciupicri.github.io
.br
(Josh Stone initially noticed tha missin close)

.SH BUGS
Known bugs:
.TP
.B *
The
.B -c
option do not work properly on Cygwin without
.B cygserver
running, if started near tha bottom of tha screen (IPC is needed ta handle
the terminal scrolling).  To fix this, start
.B cygserver
before using
.BR "pv -c" .
.P
.TP
.B *
The
.B -R
option aint available on Cygwin without
.B cygserver
runnin (SYSV IPC is needed). To fix this, start
.B cygserver
before hustlin tha instizzle of
.B pv
you want, at runtime, ta chizzle tha parametas of.
.P
If you find any other bugs, please contact tha primary lyricist, either by
email or by rockin tha contact form on tha wizzy crib.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pussaaaaay (1),
.BR dialog (1),
.BR splice (2)


.SH LICENSE
This is free software, distributed under tha ARTISTIC 2.0 license.
