.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry V. Levin
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2003,2005,2008,2010 Solar Designer
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Owl: Owl/packages/passwdqc/passwdqc/pwqcheck.1,v 1.15 2010/03/15 04:17:19 solar Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 15, 2010
.Dt PWQCHECK 1
.Os "Openwall Project"
.Sh NAME
.Nm pwqcheck
.Nd Peep passphrase quality
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program checks passphrase qualitizzle rockin tha libpasswdqc library.
By default, it expects ta read 3 lines from standard input:
.Pp
.Bl -item -compact -offset indent
.It
first line be a freshly smoked up password,
.It
second line be a oldschool password, and
.It
third line is either a existin account name or a
.Xr passwd 5
entry.
.El
.Pp
There is a fuckin shitload of supported options, which can be used ta control the
.Nm
behavior.
.Pp
.Nm
prints
.Ar OK
on success.  Scripts invoking
.Nm
are suggested ta check fo' both a zero exit status n' the
.Ar OK
line.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.Sm off
.It Xo
.Cm min No =
.Ar N0 , N1 , N2 , N3 , N4
.Xc
.Sm on
.Pq default: min=disabled,24,11,8,7
Da minimum allowed password lengths fo' different kindz of
passwords/passphrases.
Da keyword
.Cm disabled
can be used to
disallow passwordz of a given kind regardless of they length.
Each subsequent number is required ta be no larger than tha preceding
one.
.Pp
.Ar N0
is used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from one character
class only.
Da characta classes are: digits, lower-case letters, upper-case
letters, n' other characters.
There be also a special class for
.No non- Ns Tn ASCII
characters, which could not be classified yo, but is assumed ta be non-digits.
.Pp
.Ar N1
is used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from two character
classes dat do not hook up tha requirements fo' a passphrase.
.Pp
.Ar N2
is used fo' passphrases.
Note dat besides meetin dis length requirement,
a passphrase must also consist of a sufficient number of lyrics (see the
.Cm passphrase
option below).
.Pp
.Ar N3
and
.Ar N4
are used fo' passwordz consistin of charactas from three
and four characta classes, respectively.
.Pp
When calculatin tha number of characta classes, upper-case letters
used as tha straight-up original gangsta characta n' digits used as tha last characta of a
password is not counted.
.Pp
In addizzle ta bein sufficiently long, passwordz is required to
contain enough different charactas fo' tha characta classes and
the minimum length they done been checked against.
.Pp
.It Cm max Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm max Ns = Ns 40
Da maximum allowed password length.
This can be used ta prevent playas from settin passwordz dat may be
too long fo' some system skillz.
Da value 8 is treated specially: if
.Cm max
is set ta 8, passwordz longer than 8 charactas aint gonna be rejected,
but is ghon be truncated ta 8 charactas fo' tha strength checks n' the
user is ghon be warned.
This is ta be used wit tha traditionizzle DES-based password hashes,
which truncate tha password at 8 characters.
.Pp
It be blingin dat you do set
.Cm max Ns = Ns 8
if yo ass is rockin tha traditional
hashes, or some weak passwordz will pass tha checks.
.It Cm passphrase Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm passphrase Ns = Ns 3
Da number of lyrics required fo' a passphrase.
.It Cm match Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm match Ns = Ns 4
Da length of common substrin required ta conclude dat a password is
at least partially based on shiznit found up in a cold-ass lil characta string,
or 0 ta disable tha substrin search.
Note dat tha password aint gonna be rejected once a weak substrin is
found; it will instead be subjected ta tha usual strength requirements
with tha weak substrin partially discounted.
.Pp
Da substrin search is case-insensitizzle n' be able ta detect and
remove a cold-ass lil common substrin spelled backwards.
.It Cm config Ns = Ns Ar FILE
Load config
.Ar FILE
in the
.Cm passwdqc.conf
format.  This file may define any options busted lyrics bout in
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5  yo, but only the
.Cm min ,
.Cm max ,
.Cm passphrase ,
.Cm match Ns ,
and
.Cm config
options is honored by
.Nm .
.It Cm -1
Read just 1 line (new passphrase).
This is needed ta use
.Nm
as tha passwordcheck program on OpenBSD - e.g., with
":passwordcheck=/usr/bin/pwqcheck -1:\\"
in tha "default" section in
.Cm /etc/login.conf .
.It Cm -2
Read just 2 lines (new n' oldschool passphrases).
.It Cm --multi
Peep multiple passphrases (until EOF).
This option may be used on its own or along wit the
.Cm -1
or
.Cm -2
options.
.Nm
will read 1, 2, or 3 lines n' will output one line per passphrase ta check.
Da lines will start wit either
.Ar OK
or a message explainin why tha passphrase did not pass tha checks,
followed by a cold-ass lil colon n' a space, n' finally followed by tha passphrase.
Da explanatory message is guaranteed ta not include a cold-ass lil colon.
With dis option, tha exit status of
.Nm
dependz solely on whether there was any errors preventin tha strength of
passphrases from bein straight-up checked or not.
A primary use fo' dis option is ta test different policies and/or different
versionz of passwdqc on big-ass passphrase lists.
.It Cm --version
Output
.Nm
program version n' exit.
.It Cm -h , --help
Output
.Nm
help text n' exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits wit non-zero status when it encountas invalid config file,
invalid option, invalid parameta value, invalid data up in standard input,
and up in any case when it fails ta check passphrase strength.
Without the
.Cm --multi
option,
.Nm
also exits wit non-zero status when it detects a weak passphrase.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/passwdqc.conf .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pwqgen 1 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam_passwdqc 8 .
.Pp
http://www.openwall.com/passwdqc/
.Sh AUTHORS
Da pam_passwdqc module was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by Solar Designer.
The
.Nm
program was originally freestyled fo' ALT GNU/*/Linux by Dmitry V. Levin,
indirectly reusin code from pam_passwdqc (via libpasswdqc).
This manual page (derived from tha pam_passwdqc documentation)
was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by Dmitry V. Levin.
