.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry V. Levin
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Owl: Owl/packages/passwdqc/passwdqc/pwqgen.1,v 1.11 2013/04/23 14:14:07 solar Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 13, 2010
.Dt PWQGEN 1
.Os "Openwall Project"
.Sh NAME
.Nm pwqgen
.Nd Generate qualitizzle controllable random passphrase
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program generates a random passphrase rockin tha libpasswdqc library.
Strength of tha generated passphrase dependz on tha amount of randomness
read from
.Pa /dev/urandom .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm random Ns = Ns Ar N
.Pq default: Cm random Ns = Ns 47
Da size of randomly-generated passphrase up in bits (24 ta 85).
.It Cm config Ns = Ns Ar FILE
Load config
.Ar FILE
in the
.Cm passwdqc.conf
format.  This file may define any options busted lyrics bout in
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5  yo, but only the
.Cm random
and
.Cm config
options is honored by
.Nm .
.It Cm --version
Output
.Nm
program version n' exit.
.It Cm -h , --help
Output
.Nm
help text n' exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits wit non-zero status when it encountas invalid config file,
invalid option, invalid parameta value, when it fails ta obtain enough
randomness, n' up in any case when it fails ta generate a passphrase.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/passwdqc.conf .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pwqcheck 1 ,
.Xr urandom 4 ,
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam_passwdqc 8 .
.Pp
http://www.openwall.com/passwdqc/
.Sh AUTHORS
Da pam_passwdqc module was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by Solar Designer.
The
.Nm
program was originally freestyled fo' ALT GNU/*/Linux by Dmitry V. Levin,
indirectly reusin code from pam_passwdqc (via libpasswdqc).
This manual page was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by Dmitry V. Levin.
