.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TH PWSCORE 1 "10 Nov 2011" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
pwscore \- simple configurable tool fo' checkin qualitizzle of a password
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpwscore\fR [user]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpwscore\fR be a simple tool fo' checkin qualitizzle of a password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da password
is read from stdin.

Da tool uses tha \fBlibpwquality\fR library ta big-ass up configurable checks
for minimum length, doggtionary checkin against cracklib dictionaries,
and other checks.

It either reports a error if tha password fails any of tha checks, or it
prints up tha password qualitizzle score as a integer value between \fB0\fR and
\fB100\fR.

Da password qualitizzle score is relatizzle ta tha \fBminlen\fR settin up in the
configuration file. But up in general joints below 50 can be treated as moderate
qualitizzle n' above it fairly phat qualitizzle fo' realz. Any password dat passes tha quality
checks (especially tha mandatory cracklib check) should withstand dictionary
attacks n' scores above 50 wit tha default minlen settin even fast brute
force attacks.

.PD
.SH OPTIONS
Da first n' only optionizzle argument is tha user name dat is used ta check
the similaritizzle of tha password ta tha username.

.SH FILES
\fB/etc/security/pwquality.conf\fR - Da configuration file fo' tha libpwquality
library.

.PD
.SH "RETURN CODES"
\fBpwscore\fR returns 0 on success, non zero on error.

.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pwscore(1), pwquality.conf(5), pam_pwquality(8)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
.fi
