.TH QRENCODE 1 "Oct. 9, 2012" "qrencode 3.4.2"
.SH NAME
qrencode \- Encode input data up in a QR Code n' save as a PNG or EPS image.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "qrencode"
[OPTION]...
[STRING]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Libqrencode be a library fo' encodin data up in a QR Code symbol, a kind of 2D
symbologizzle dat can be scanned by handy terminals like fuckin a mobile beeper with
CCD. Da capacitizzle of QR Code is up ta 7000 digits or 4000 characters, n' has
high robustness.

Qrencode be a utilitizzle software rockin libqrencode ta encode strang data in
a QR Code n' save as a PNG or EPS image.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
display help message.
.TP
.B \-o FILENAME, \-\-output=FILENAME
write image ta FILENAME. If '\-' is specified, tha result is ghon be output ta standard output. If \-S is given, structured symbols is freestyled ta FILENAME-01.png, FILENAME-02.png, ... (suffix is removed from FILENAME, if specified)
.TP
.B \-s NUMBER, \-\-size=NUMBER
specify tha size of dot (pixel). (default=3)
.TP
.B \-l {LMQH}, \-\-level={LMQH}
specify error collectin level from L (lowest) ta H (highest). (default=L)
.TP
.B \-v NUMBER, \-\-symversion=NUMBER
specify tha version of tha symbol. (default=auto)
.TP
.B \-m NUMBER, \-\-margin=NUMBER
specify tha width of margin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (default=4)
.TP
.B \-d NUMBER, \-\-dpi=NUMBER
specify tha DPI of tha generated PNG. (default=72)
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-t {PNG,EPS,SVG,ANSI,ANSI256,ASCII,ASCIIi,UTF8,ANSIUTF8}
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-type={PNG,EPS,SVG,ANSI,ANSI256,ASCII,ASCIIi,UTF8,ANSIUTF8}
specify tha type of tha generated image. (default=PNG)
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-structured
make structured symbols. Version must be specified.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kanji
assume dat tha input text gotz nuff kanji (shift-jis).
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-casesensitive
encode lower-case alphabet charactas up in 8-bit mode. (default)
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ignorecase
ignore case distinctions n' use only upper-case characters.
.TP
.B \-8, \-\-8bit
encode entire data up in 8-bit mode. \-k, \-c n' \-i is ghon be ignored.
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-micro
encode up in a Micro QR Code. (experimental)
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-\-foreground=RRGGBB[AA]
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-background=RRGGBB[AA]
specify foreground/background color up in hexadecimal notation.
6-digit (RGB) or 8-digit (RGBA) form is supported.
Color output support available only up in PNG n' SVG.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
display tha version number n' copyrightz of tha qrencode.
.TP
.B [STRING]
input data. If it aint specified, data is ghon be taken from standard input.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B qrencode \-l L \-v 1 \-o output.png 'Yo muthafucka, ghetto!'
encode tha fuck into a symbol version 1, level L.
.TP
.B qrencode \-iSv 1 \-\-output=output.png
read standard input n' encode it tha fuck into a structured-appended symbols in
case-insensitizzle mode.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kentaro Fukuchi.

.SH RESOURCES
.TP
Main Web Joint: http://fukuchi.org/works/qrencode/
.TP
Source code repository: https://github.com/fukuchi/libqrencode/

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Kentaro Fukuchi.
