.TH QUOTASYNC 1
.SH NAME
quotasync \- synchronize in-kernel file system usage n' limits ta disk format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quotasync
[
.B -ug
] 
.IR mount-point ...
.br
.B quotasync
[
.B -ug
] 
.B -a
.br
.B quotasync
.B -h
|
.B -V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quotasync
flushes file system usage n' limits from kernel memory ta quota filez stored
in tha file system. By default only tha user quotas is synchronized.
.P
This tool can be useful if you wanna display accurate quotas by tools that
parse quota files, like
.BR repquota (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --user
Synchronize user usage n' limits.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Synchronize crew usage n' limits.
.TP
.B -a, --all
Synchronize usage n' limits on all file systems. Yo ass gotta specify this
option or ta specify desired file systems.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Show program version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show program usage n' exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If axed synchronization fails, or invalid option is given,
.B quotasync
will terminizzle wit non-zero exit code. Otherwise it will return zero.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 16
.B aquota.user " or " aquota.group
Quota file all up in tha file system root (version 2 quota, non-XFS/GFS2 file systems).
.TP 16
.B quota.user " or " quota.group
Quota file all up in tha file system root (version 1 quota, non-XFS/GFS2 file systems).
.TP 16
.B /etc/mtab
List of mounted file systems maintained by user space.
.TP 16
.B /proc/mounts
List of mounted file systems maintained by kernel.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR mount (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8).
