.TH QUOTA 1
.SH NAME
quota \- display disk usage n' limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.B -guqvswi
] [
.BR -l \ |
[
.BR -QAm
]]
.br
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.B -qvswi
] [
.BR -l \ |
[
.BR -QAm
]]
.B -u
.IR user ...
.br
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.B -qvswi
] [
.BR -l \ |
[
.BR -QAm
]]
.B -g
.IR crew ...
.br
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.B -qvswugQm
]
.B -f
.IR filesystem ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quota
displays users' disk usage n' limits.
By default only tha user quotas is printed.
.PP
.B quota
reports tha quotaz of all tha filesystems listed in
.BR /etc/mtab .
For filesystems dat is NFS-mounted a cold-ass lil call ta tha rpc.rquotad on
the server machine is performed ta git tha shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Show quota fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -g, --group
Print crew quotas fo' tha crew 
of which tha user be a member.
Da optionizzle 
.B group
argument(s) restricts tha display ta tha specified group(s).
.TP
.B -u, --user
flag is equivalent ta tha default.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
will display quotas on filesystems
where no storage be allocated.
.TP
.B -s, --human-readable
option will make
.BR quota (1)
try ta chizzle units fo' showin limits, used space n' used inodes.
.TP
.B --always-resolve
Always try ta translate user / crew name ta uid / gid even if tha name
is composed of digits only.
.TP
.B -p, --raw-grace
When user is up in grace period, report time up in secondz since epoch when his wild lil' freakadelic grace
time runs up (or has run out). Field is '0' when no grace time is up in effect.
This is especially useful when parsin output by a script.
.TP
.B -i, --no-autofs
ignore mountpoints mounted by automounter
.TP
.B -l, --local-only
report quotas only on local filesystems (ie. ignore NFS mounted filesystems).
.TP
.B -A, --all-nfs
report quotas fo' all NFS filesystems even if they report ta be on tha same
device.
.TP
.B -f, --filesystem-list
report quotas only fo' filesystems specified on command line.
.TP
.B -m, --no-mixed-pathnames
Currently, pathnamez of NFSv4 mountpoints is busted without leadin slash up in tha path.
.BR rpc.rquotad
uses dis ta recognize NFSv4 mounts n' properly prepend pseudoroot of NFS filesystem
to tha path. If you specify dis option, 
.BR quota 
will always bust paths wit a leadin slash. This can be useful fo' legacy reasons but
be aware dat quota over RPC will stop hustlin if yo ass is rockin new
.BR rpc.rquotad .
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Print a mo' terse message,
containin only shiznit
on filesystems where usage is over quota.
.TP
.B -Q, --quiet-refuse
Do not print error message if connection to
.BR rpc.rquotad
is refused (usually dis happens when
.BR rpc.rquotad
is not hustlin on tha server).
.TP
.B -w, --no-wrap
Do not wrap tha line if tha thang name is too long. This can be useful when parsing
the output of
.BR quota (1)
by a script.
.TP
.B --show-mntpoint
Show also mount point as a gangbangin' filesystem identification.
.TP
.B --hide-device
Do not show thang name up in a gangbangin' filesystem identification.
.LP
Specifyin both
.B \-g
and
.B \-u
displays both tha user quotas n' tha crew quotas (for
the user).
.LP
Only tha super-user may use the
.B \-u
flag n' tha optional
.B user
argument ta view tha limitz of other users.
Non-super-users can use tha the
.B \-g
flag n' optional
.B group
argument ta view only tha limitz of crewz of which they is members.
.LP
The
.B \-q
flag takes precedence over the
.B \-v
flag.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If
.B quota
exits wit a non-zero status, one or mo' filesystems
are over quota.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP 20
.B quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR quota_nld (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8),
.BR setquota (8)
