.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" rapper.1 - Raptor RDF parsin n' serializin utilitizzle manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Dizzy Beckett - http://www.dajobe.org/
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Universitizzle of Bristol - http://www.bristol.ac.uk/
.\"
.TH rapper 1 "2010-04-28"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.SH NAME
rapper \- Raptor RDF parsin n' serializin utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rapper
.RB [ OPTIONS ]
.IR "INPUT-URI"
.IR "[INPUT-BASE-URI]"
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.B rapper -o ntriplez http://planetrdf.com/guide/rss.rdf
.br
.B rapper -i rss-tag-soup -o rss-1.0 pile-of-rss.xml http://example.org/base/
.br
.B rapper --count http://example.org/index.rdf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B rapper
utilitizzle allows parsin of RDF content by the
.B Raptor
RDF parser toolkit emittin tha thangs up in dis biatch as RDF triplez in
a chizzle of syntaxes.  Da \fIINPUT-URI\fR can be a gangbangin' file name, '-'
for standard input or if Raptor is built wit a WWW retrieval
library, a general URI.  Da optionizzle \fIINPUT-BASE-URI\fR is used as the
document parser base URI if present otherwise defaults ta tha \fIINPUT-URI\fR.
A value of '-' means no base URI.
.SH OPTIONS
rapper uses tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-') if supported by the
getopt_long function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Otherwise tha short options is only available.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a summary of tha options.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input FORMAT
Set tha input
.I FORMAT
to one of 'rdfxml' (RDF/XML, default), 'ntriples'
(N-Triples, peep below), 'turtle' (Turtle, peep below)
or 'rss-tag-soup' (RSS Tag Soup).  Da RSS Tag Soup parser
can turn tha nuff XML RSS formats n' Atom 0.3 tha fuck into RDF triples.
.IP
Da list of
parsers dependz on how tha fuck libraptor(3) was built.  Da list of
supported parsers is given up in tha help summary given by \-h.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-input-uri URI
Set tha input/parser base
.I URI
or use value '-' fo' no base.
Da default is tha INPUT-URI argument value.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output FORMAT
Set tha output
.I FORMAT
to 'ntriples' (N-Triples, default), 'rdfxml' (RDF/XML), 'rdfxml-abbrev'
(RDF/XML wit abbreviations) or 'rss-1.0' (RSS 1.0, also a RDF/XML syntax).
.IP
Da list of
serializers dependz on how tha fuck libraptor(3) was built.  Da list of
supported serializers is given up in tha help summary given by \-h.
.TP
.B \-O, \-\-output-uri URI
Set tha output/serializer base
.I URI
or use value '-' fo' no base.
Da default is tha input base uri, either set by tha argument
INPUT-BASE-URI or via options
.B \-I, \-\-input-uri URI
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-count
Only count tha triplez n' produce no other output.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-ignore-errors
Ignore errors, do not emit tha lyrics n' try ta continue parsing.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-feature FEATURE[=VALUE]
Set a parser or serializer feature
.I FEATURE
to a value, or ta 1 if
.I VALUE
is omitted,
Use \-f help ta git listz of valid parser n' serializer features.
.IP
If tha form \-f 'xmlns:\fIprefix\fP=\(dq\fIuri\fP\(dq' is used,
the prefix n' namespace uri given is ghon be set fo' serializing.
Da syntax matches XML up in dat either or both of \fIprefix\fP
or \fIuri\fP can be omitted.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-guess
Guess tha parser ta use from tha source-URI rather than use
the \-i FORMAT.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No extra shiznit lyrics.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-replace-newlines
Replace newlines up in multi-line literals wit spaces.
.TP
.B \-\-show-graphs
Print graph names (URIs) as they is peeped up in tha input.  This only
has a meanin fo' parsers dat support graph names like fuckin tha TRiG parser.
.TP
.B \-\-show-namespaces
Print namespaces as they is peeped up in tha input.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-trace
Print URIs retrieved durin parsing.  Especially useful fo' 
monitorin what tha fuck tha guess n' GRDDL parsers is bustin.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-ignore-warnings
Ignore warnings, do not emit tha lyrics.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print tha raptor version n' exit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.br
.B rapper -q -i ntriplez -o rdfxml -f 'xmlns:rss="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/"' -f 'xmlns:ex="http://example.org/"' tests/test.nt
.br
.B rapper -q -o rdfxml -f 'xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"' tests/rdf-schema.rdf 'http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#'
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
\fIRDF/XML Syntax (Revised)\fR,
W3C Recommendation,
.UR http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/
.UE

\fIN-Triples\fR, up in \fIRDF Test Cases\fR, Jan Grant n' Dizzle Beckett (eds.),
W3C Recommendation,
.UR http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-testcases/#ntriples
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-testcases/#ntriples
.UE

\fITurtle Terse RDF Triple Language\fR, Dizzle Beckett,
.UR http://www.dajobe.org/2004/01/turtle/
http://www.dajobe.org/2004/01/turtle/
.UE

\fIRDFA up in XHTML: Syntax n' Processing\fR, Lil' Bow Wow Adida, Mark Birbeck,
Shizzle McCarron n' Steven Pemberton (eds.),
W3C Candidate Recommendation, 20 June 2008
.UR http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/CR-rdfa-syntax-20080620/
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/CR-rdfa-syntax-20080620/
.UE

\fIRDF Joint Summary (RSS) 1.0\fR, 2000-12-06
.UR http://purl.org/rss/1.0/spec
http://purl.org/rss/1.0/spec
.UE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libraptor(3), raptor-config(1)
.SH CHANGES
.SS 2.0.0
Removed -a option dat did nothing.
.LP
Removed -m option from rapper but dat shiznit was never documented here.
.LP
Removed -n option dat was long hidden.
.LP
Removed -s option dat was equivalent ta -f scanForRDF
.SS 1.4.16
Added -I/--input-uri n' -O/--output-uri ta set tha input n' output
(parser n' serializer) base URIs separately.
.SS 1.4.15
Added -t/--trace ta do URI traces.
.SS 1.4.5
Updated ta add serializer rdfxml-abbrev
.SS 1.4.3
Updated potential parser n' serializers n' busted lyrics bout -f for
definin namespaces.
.SS 1.3.0
Added \-f fo' features.
.br
Added \-g fo' guessin tha parser ta use.
.SS 1.1.0
Removed \-a, \-\-assume since rdf:RDF is now always optional.
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzle Beckett - 
.UR http://www.dajobe.org/
http://www.dajobe.org/
.UE
.br
