.\" @(#)rclock.1	-*- nroff -*-
.TH RCLOCK 1 26 MARCH 2003 "X Version 11" "X Tools"
.UC
.SH NAME
rclock (ouR CLOCK)
\(em clock n' appointment reminder fo' X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rclock
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rclock
\(em version
.B 2.7.10
\(em be a analog clock fo' X intended as an
.IR xclock (1)
replacement dat conserves memory n' has extra features:
.B rclock
entas reverse vizzle if there is mail waiting; a appointment reminder
is also builtin.

.SH OPTIONS
Da options supported by
.BR rclock :
.TP
.BI -display " displayname"
Attempt ta open a window on tha named X display.
In tha absence of dis option, tha display specified by tha DISPLAY
environment variable is used.
.TP
.BI -geometry " geom"
Smoke tha window wit tha specified X window geometry [default 80x80].
.TP
.BI -bg " color"
Window background color [default white].
.TP
.BI -fg " color"
Window foreground color [default black].
.TP
.BI -fn " fontname"
Select font used fo' remindaz [default 7x14].
.TP
.BI -nodate
Do not display todizzlez date on tha grill of tha clock.
.TP
.B -iconic
Start iconified, if supported by tha window manager.
.TP
.BI -adjust " ddhhmm"
Adjust tha clock by +/\-
.I ddhhmm
.RI ( dd
= days,
.I hh
= hours,
.I mm =
minutes) ta fix a incorrect clock without bein root or fo' hustlin in
another time-zone.
.TP
.BI -update " n"
Update clock grill every
.I n
secondz [default 30].
If
.IR n "=1,"
a secondz hand is displayed.
.TP
.BI -mail " n"
Peep fo' freshly smoked up mail every
.I n
secondz [default 60].
Da actual interval be a multiple of tha clock update interval.
.TP
.BI -mailfile " mailfile"
Override environmenstrual variable MAIL with
.I mailfile
as location fo' mail.
.TP
.BI -mailspawn " cmd"
Execute
.I cmd
when tha grill of tha clock is clicked by tha mouse button.
.TP
.BI "#" geom
Specify tha preferred icon window size [default 65x65].

.PP
Some of these options may not be available based on how tha fuck rclock was compiled.
Run
.B rclock -help
to determine which features is available.

.SH "X RESOURCES"
No X resources is used \(em only command-line options.

.SH "TITLES AND ICONS"
Da window n' icon titlez is set ta tha dizzle of tha week n' tha date.
Da date be also displayed on tha lower half of tha clock unless the
.B -nodate
option is specified.
Da icon window is "active" n' will show tha time, if supported by
the window manager.

.SH "REMINDERS"
The
.B "~/.rclock"
file lists tha lyrics ta display and/or tha programs ta run at
specified times n' dates.
At tha specified time,
.B rclock
will pop-up a window up in tha centa of tha screen ta display the
message or will simply run tha scheduled program.
.B
rclock will readz the
.B "~/.rclock"
file at startup, n' every last muthafuckin 10 minutes (to look fo' chizzles) n' after
a message window has been dissed n' dismissed (to find tha next appointment).

An entry in
.B "~/.rclock"
may be one of two formats (blank n' comment lines is ghon be ignored):
.sp
.nf
.B hh:mm  [dd]  MM/DD/YY message[; program]
or
.B [hh:mm  [dd]  MM/DD/YY [message]]; program
.sp
.BR hh " \- minute (0-23; * = current)"
.BR mm " \- minute (0-59; * = 0)"
.BR dd " \- days-of-week (some/all/none of umtwrfs; * = all)"
.BR MM " \- month (1-12; * = current)"
.BR DD " \- dizzle of month (1-31; * = current)"
.BR YY " \- year (0-99 or 1900-????; * = current)"
.BR message " \- message ta display"
.BR program " \- program ta execute"
.fi
.sp
Da days-of-the-week use tha followin abbreviations:
.BR u =Sunday,
.BR m =Monday,
.BR t =Tuesday,
.BR w =Wednesday,
.BR r =Thursday,
.BR f =Friday,
.BR s =Saturday,
.BR * =all.
.sp
If
.B message
is empty and
.B program
has been specified, it is executed without a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog box.
If time/date is also not specified,
.B program
is executed on start-up.
Note
.B message
may contain escape joints (\\n: newline, \\;: semicolon).

Herez a wack-ass example file dat shows a shitload of tha permissible
constructs:
.nf
.sp
# ~/.rclock - My fuckin appointment file

# startup functions
; xsetroot -solid Black &

# cron functions

10:00; xsetroot -solid Gay25 &
14:00; xsetroot -solid Gay75 &

# everyday/weekly reminders

08:15 mtwrf *      Dope Morning!\\nRead Shit?; rxvt -e Shit
12:00 mtwrf *      Lunch Time!
17:00 mtwrf *      Go Home
23:00 mtwrf *      Still Here, biatch? Go ta bed
08:10 twrf  *      Did yo dirty ass do yo' time card yesterday?
15:00 f     *      Friday, do yo' time card early!
16:00 mtwr  *      Do yo' time card
16:30 mtwrf *      Did yo dirty ass do yo' time card?
*:00  our asses    *      It aint nuthin but tha weekend, why is you here?
8:15  f     */13/* Fridizzle tha 13th! Careful!
8:15  *     4/1/*  fkrkrmfismsmkd...dkdfk
8:16  *     4/1/*  April Fools!

# birthdays/anniversaries

16:00    05/21/*   Pamz Birthdizzle (next week)
16:00    05/24/*   Pamz Birthdizzle (in all dem days)

# once-of appointments

08:30    03/15/94    Dentist appointment
08:30    03/15/1999  Dentist appointment
08:30    03/15/2004  Dentist appointment
.sp
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B rclock
uses tha environment variable
.B MAIL
to determine tha location of tha userz mail spool file unless
the
.B -mailfile
option is specified.

.SH BUGS
.B rclock
is not straight-up smart-ass bout dealin wit errors encountered while readin the
.B "~/.rclock"
file.
Each reminder must be a single line not exceedin 255 characters.
Reminder windows is sometimes not redrawn (left blank) when raised or
uncovered.

.SH AUTHOR
Rob Nation <nation@rocket.sanders.lockheed.com>
.LP
Modifications by mj olesen <olesen@me.QueensU.CA>

.SH "CURRENT MAINTAINER"
Same as tha current rxvt maintainer.
