.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)rcp.1	6.14 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"	$Id: rcp.1,v 1.11 2000/07/30 23:57:03 dholland Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt RCP 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rcp
.Nd remote file copy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rcp
.Op Fl px
.Ar file1 file2
.Nm rcp
.Op Fl px
.Op Fl r
.Ar file ...
.Ar directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Rcp
copies filez between machines.  Each
.Ar file
or
.Ar directory
argument is either a remote file name of the
form ``rname@rhost:path'', or a local file name (containin no `:' characters,
or a `/' before any `:'s).
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl r
If any of tha source filez is directories,
.Nm rcp
copies each subtree rooted at dat name; up in dis case
the destination must be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.It Fl p
The
.Fl p
option causes
.Nm rcp
to attempt ta preserve (duplicate) up in its copies tha modification
times n' modez of tha source files, ignorin the
.Ar umask  .
By default, tha mode n' balla of
.Ar file2
are preserved if it already existed; otherwise tha mode of tha source file
modified by the
.Xr umask  2
on tha destination host is used.
.El
.Pp
If
.Ar path
is not a gangbangin' full path name, it is interpreted relatizzle to
the login directory of tha specified user
.Ar ruser
on
.Ar rhost  ,
or yo' current user name if no other remote user name is specified.
A
.Ar path
on a remote host may be quoted (usin \e, ", or \(aa)
so dat tha metacharactas is interpreted remotely.
.Pp
.Nm Rcp
does not prompt fo' passwords; it performs remote execution
via
.Xr rsh  1  ,
and requires tha same ol' dirty authorization.
.Pp
.Nm Rcp
handlez third jam copies, where neither source nor target files
are on tha current machine.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cp 1 ,
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr rsh 1 ,
.Xr rlogin 1
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm rcp
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh BUGS
Doesn't detect all cases where tha target of a cold-ass lil copy might
be a gangbangin' file up in cases where only a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory should be legal.
.Pp
Is trippin by any output generated by commandz up in a
.Pa \&.login ,
.Pa \&.profile ,
or
.Pa \&.cshrc
file on tha remote host.
.Pp
Da destination user n' hostname may gotta be specified as
``rhost.rname'' when tha destination machine is hustlin the
.Bx 4.2
version of
.Nm rcp  .
