.\"
.\" librsync -- dynamic cachin n' delta update up in HTTP
.\" $Id: rdiff.1,v 1.1 2002/01/25 21:25:34 bje Exp $
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 by Martin Pool <mbp@humbug.org.au>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" 
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH rdiff 1 "$Date: 2002/01/25 21:25:34 $" 
.SH NAME
rdiff \- compute n' apply signature-based file differences
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
\fBrdiff\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fBsignature\fP \fIold-file signature-file\fP
.PP
\fBrdiff\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fBdelta\fP \fIsignature-file new-file delta-file\fP
.PP
\fBrdiff\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fBpatch\fP \fIbasis-file delta-file new-file\fP
.fi
.SH USAGE
Yo ass can use \fBrdiff\fP ta update files, much like \fBrsync\fP do.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat unlike \fBrsync\fP, \fBrdiff\fP puts you up in control.  There
are three steps ta uppimpin a gangbangin' file: \fBsignature\fP, \fBdelta\fP, and
\fBpatch\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
In every last muthafuckin case where a gangbangin' filename must be specified, \- may be used
instead ta mean either standard input or standard output as
appropriate.  Be aware dat if you do this, you gonna need ta terminizzle your
\fIoptions\fP wit \-\- or \fBrdiff\fP is ghon be thinkin yo ass is passin it
an empty option.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
0 fo' successful completion, 1 fo' environmenstrual problems (file not
found, invalid options, IO error, etc), 2 fo' a cold-ass lil corrupt file n' 3 for
an internal error or unhandled thang up in librsync or rdiff.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR librsync "(3)"
.SH "AUTHOR"
Martin Pool <mbp@samba.org>
.PP
Da original gangsta rsync algorithm was discovered by Andrew Tridgell.
.PP
rdiff pimpment has been supported by Linuxcare, Inc n' VA Linux
Systems.
