.TH RDIFFDIR 1 "May 09, 2014" "Version 0.6.24" "User Manuals" \"  -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
rdiffdir \- compute n' apply signatures n' diffs ta directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rdiffdir
.BI [ options ]
.B sig[nature]
.I basis_dir signature_file

.B rdiffdir
.BI [ options ]
.B delta
.I full_sigtar
.BI { incr_sigtar }
.I new_dir delta_file

.B rdiffdir
.BI [ options ]
.B patch
.I basis_dir delta_file

.B rdiffdir
.BI [ options ]
.B tar
.I basis_dir tar_file

If
.I signature_file
or
.I delta_file
are "-", tha data is ghon be read from stdin or freestyled ta stdout as appropriate.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rdiffdir
is supposed ta be like rdiff yo, but can operate on directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  See
.BR rdiff (1)
for mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da syntax is similar.

Regardin the
.B delta
command, the
.I full_sigtar
operand be a
.I signature_file
written by a earlier
.B signature
or
.B tar
command (the latta rockin the
.B --write-sig-to
option). Da optional
.I incr_sigtar
operandz is signature filez freestyled by earlier
.B delta
commandz rockin the
.I --write-sig-to
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This way tha Nth invocation of the
.B delta
command can parse (and extend) tha signature chain dat has been dropped by the
first
.B signature
or
.B tar
command wit a gangbangin' full signature, n' then extended by tha subsequent N-1
.B delta
invocations wit incremenstrual signatures. Well shiiiit, it is tha responsibilitizzle of tha user
to specify tha sigtar operandz up in logical increment order.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "--write-sig-to " sigfile
This option is only used in
.B delta
and
.B tar
modes.  When specified, rdiffdir will write a signature of the
directory it is processin ta sigfile.  Da end result is ghon be a thugged-out delta
and a freshly smoked up signature calculated over the
.B same
data.

.TP
.B -z, --gzip-compress
Enable gzip compression n' decompression of signature n' delta
files.

.SH SELECTION OPTIONS

In
.B signature
and
.B delta
modes, rdiffdir accepts
.BR duplicitizzle -like
selection options includin --exclude, --exclude-filelist-stdin, etc.
See the
.BR duplicitizzle (1)
manual page fo' mo' shiznit.

.SH BUGS
Hard links is currently unsupported (they is ghon be treated as
non-linked regular files).

Wack signatures is ghon be treated as empty instead of loggin appropriate
error message.

.SH AUTHOR
Lil' Bow Wow Escoto <bescoto@stanford.edu>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR duplicitizzle (1),
.BR python (1),
.BR rdiff (1),
.BR rdiff-backup (1).
