.\" @(#)readom.1	1.23 06/01/12 Copyright 1996-2006 J. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schilling
.\" 
.\" Modified version of readcd.1 by J. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schilling, 11/2006
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
.\" dis program; peep tha file COPYING.  If not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH READOM 1 "Version 2.0" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\z USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
readom \- read or write data Compact Discs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readom
.BI dev= device
[
.I options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Readom
is used ta read or write Compact Discs.
.PP
The
.I device
refers ta a thang location similar ta tha one used up in tha wodim command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Refer ta its manpage fo' details.
.PP
Also note dat dis version of readom uses a modified libusal library which has
a different behaviour compared ta tha one distributed by its original gangsta lyricist.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
If no options except tha 
.I dev=
option done been specified, 
.B readom
goes tha fuck into interactizzle mode.
Select a primary function n' then follow tha instructions.
.PP
.TP
.B \-version
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.BI dev= target
Sets tha SCSI target fo' tha drive, peep notes above.
A typical thang justification is
.BI dev= 6,0
\&.
If a gangbangin' filename must be provided together wit tha numerical target 
specification, tha filename is implementation specific.
Da erect filename up in dis case can be found up in tha system specific
manualz of tha target operatin system.
On a 
.I FreeBSD
system without 
.I CAM
support, you need ta use tha control thang (e.g.
.IR /dev/rcd0.ctl ).
A erect thang justification up in dis case may be
.BI dev= /dev/rcd0.ctl:@
\&.
.sp
On Linux, drives connected ta a parallel port adapta is mapped
to a virtual SCSI bus. Different adaptas is mapped ta different
targets on dis virtual SCSI bus.
.sp
If no 
.I dev
option is present, 
.B readom
will try ta git tha thang from tha 
.B CDR_DEVICE
environment.
.sp
If tha argument ta the
.B dev=
option do not contain tha charactas ',', '/', '@' or ':',
it is interpreted as a label name dat may be found up in tha file
/etc/wodim.conf (see FILES section).
.TP
.BI timeout= #
Set tha default SCSI command timeout value ta 
.IR # " seconds.
Da default SCSI command timeout is tha minimum timeout used fo' sending
SCSI commands.
If a SCSI command fails cuz of a timeout, you may try ta raise the
default SCSI command timeout above tha timeout value of tha failed command.
If tha command runs erectly wit a raised command timeout,
please report tha betta timeout value n' tha correspondin command ta 
the lyricist of tha program.
If no 
.I timeout 
option is present, a thugged-out default timeout of 40 secondz is used.
.TP
.BI debug= "#, " -d
Set tha misc debug value ta # (with debug=#) or increment
the misc debug level by one (with -d). If you specify
.I -dd,
this equals ta 
.BI debug= 2.
This may help ta find problems while openin a thugged-out driver fo' libusal.
as well as wit sector sizes n' sector types.
Using
.B \-debug
slows down tha process n' may be tha reason fo' a funky-ass buffer underrun.
.TP
.BR kdebug= "#, " kd= #
Tell tha 
.BR usal -driver
to modify tha kernel debug value while SCSI commandz is hustlin.
.TP
.BR \-silent ", " \-s
Do not print up a status report fo' failed SCSI commands.
.TP
.B \-v
Increment tha level of general verbositizzle by one.
This is used e.g. ta display tha progress of tha process.
.TP
.B \-V
Increment tha verbose level wit respect of SCSI command transhiznit by one.
This helps ta debug problems
durin tha process, dat occur up in tha CD-Recorder n' shit. 
If you git incomprehensible error lyrics you should use dis flag
to git mo' detailed output.
.B \-VV
will show data buffer content up in addition.
Using
.B \-V
or
.B \-VV
slows down tha process.
.TP
.BI f= file
Specify tha filename where tha output should be freestyled or tha input should
be taken from. Usin '-' as filename will cause
.B readom
to use 
.BR stdout " resp. " stdin .
.TP
.B \-w
Switch ta write mode. If dis option aint present,
.B readom
readz from tha specified device.
.TP
.B \-c2scan
Scans tha whole CD or tha range specified by tha 
.BI sectors= range
for C2 errors. C2 errors is errors dat is uncorrectable afta tha second
stage of tha 24/28 + 28/32 Reed Solomon erection system at audio level
(2352 bytes sector size). If a audio CD has C2 errors, interpolation is needed
to hide tha errors. If a thugged-out data CD has C2 errors, these errors is up in most
cases erected by tha ECC/EDC code dat make 2352 bytes outta 2048 data
bytes. Da ECC/EDC code should be able ta erect bout 100 C2 error bytes
per sector.
.sp
If you find C2 errors you may wanna reduce tha speed rockin the
.B speed=
option as C2 errors may be a result of dynamic unbalizzle on tha medium.
.TP
.B \-scanbus
Scan all SCSI devices on all SCSI busses n' print tha inquiry
strings. This option may be used ta find SCSI address of tha 
devices on a system.
Da numbers printed up as labels is computed by: 
.B "bus * 100 + target
.TP
.BI sectors= range
Specify a sector range dat should be read.
Da range is specified by tha startin sector number, a minus sign n' the
endin sector number.
Da end sector aint included up in tha list, so 
.BR sectors= 0-0
will not read anythang n' may be used ta check fo' a CD up in tha drive.
.TP
.BR speed= #
Set tha speed factor of tha read or write process ta #.
# be a integer, representin a multiple of tha audio speed.
This be bout 150 KB/s fo' CD-ROM n' bout 172 KB/s fo' CD-Audio.
If no 
.I speed
option is present, 
.B readom
will use maximum speed.
Only MMC compliant drives will benefit from dis option.
Da speed of non MMC drives aint chizzled.
.sp
Usin a lower speed may increase tha readabilitizzle of a CD or DVD.
.TP
.BR ts= #
Set tha maximum transfer size fo' a single SCSI command ta #.
Da syntax fo' tha 
.B ts=
option is tha same ol' dirty as fo' wodim fs=# or sdd bs=#.
.sp
If no 
.B ts=
option has been specified,
.B readom
defaults ta a transfer size of 256 kB. If libusal gets lower joints from the
operatin system, tha value is reduced ta tha maximum value dat is possible
with tha current operatin system.
Sometimes, it may help ta further reduce tha transfer size or ta enhizzle it,
but note dat it may take a long-ass time ta find a funky-ass betta value by fuckin wit
with the
.B ts=
option.
.TP
.B \-notrunc
Do not truncate tha output file when openin dat shit.
.TP
.B \-fulltoc
Retrieve a gangbangin' full TOC from tha current disk n' print it up in hex.
.TP
.B \-clone
Do a cold-ass lil clone read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Read tha CD wit all sub-channel data n' a gangbangin' full TOC.
Da full TOC data is ghon be put tha fuck into a gangbangin' file wit similar name as wit the
.B f=
option but tha suffix 
.B .toc
added.
.TP
.B \-noerror
Do not abort if tha high level error checkin in
.B readom
found a uncorrectable error up in tha data stream.
.TP
.B \-nocorr
Switch tha drive tha fuck into a mode where it ignores read errors up in data sectors that
are a result of uncorrectable ECC/EDC errors before reading.
If
.B readom
completes, tha error recovery mode of tha drive is switched back ta tha remembered 
old mode.
.TP
.BI retries= #
Set tha retry count fo' high level retries in
.B readom
to 
.IR # .
Da default is ta do 128 retries which may be too much if you like ta read a CD
with nuff unreadable sectors.
.TP
.B \-overhead
Meta tha SCSI command overhead time.
This is done by executin nuff muthafuckin commandz 1000 times n' printin the
total time used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If you divide tha displayed times by 1000, you git 
the average overhead time fo' a single command.
.TP
.BR meshpoints= #
Print read-speed at # locations.
Da purpose of dis option is ta create a list of read speed joints suitable
for e.g.
.BR gnuplot .
Da speed joints is calculated assumin dat 1000 bytes is one kilobyte
as documented up in tha SCSI standard.
Da output data pimped fo' dis purpose is freestyled ta 
.IR stdout .
.TP
.B \-factor
Output tha speed joints for
.BR meshpoints= #
as factor based on 
.I "single speed
of tha current medium.
This only works if
.B readom
is able ta determine tha current medium type.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
For all examplez below, it is ghon be assumed dat tha drive is
connected ta tha primary SCSI buz of tha machine. Da SCSI target id is
set ta 2.
.PP
To read tha complete media from a CD-ROM freestylin tha data ta tha file
.IR cdimage.raw :
.PP
    readom dev=2,0 f=cdimage.raw
.PP
To read sectors from range 150 ... 10000 from a CD-ROM freestylin tha data ta tha file
.IR cdimage.raw :
.PP
    readom dev=2,0 sectors=150-10000 f=cdimage.raw
.PP
To write tha data from tha file
.I cdimage.raw
(e.g. a gangbangin' filesystem image from 
.BR genisoimage )
to a DVD-RAM, call:
.PP
    readom dev=2,0 -w f=cdimage.raw

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RSH
If tha 
.B RSH
environment is present, tha remote connection aint gonna be pimped via
.BR rcmd (3)
but by callin tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSH .
Use e.g. 
.BR RSH= /usr/bin/ssh
to create a secure shell connection.
.sp
Note dat dis forces 
.B wodim
to create a pipe ta tha 
.B rsh(1)
program n' disallows
.B wodim
to directly access tha network socket ta tha remote server.
This make it impossible ta set up performizzle parametas n' slows down
the connection compared ta a 
.B root
initiated
.B rcmd(3)
connection.
.TP
.B RSCSI
If tha 
.B RSCSI
environment is present, tha remote SCSI server aint gonna be tha program
.B /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi
but tha program pointed ta by
.BR RSCSI .
Note dat tha remote SCSI server program name is ghon be ignored if you log in
usin a account dat has been pimped wit a remote SCSI server program as
login shell.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wodim (1),
.BR genisoimage (1),
.BR rcmd (3),
.BR ssh (1).

.SH NOTES
.PP
Unless you wanna risk gettin problems,
.B readom
should be run as root. If you don't wanna allow playas ta become root on yo' system,
.B readom
may safely be installed suid root.
For mo' shiznit peep tha additionizzle notez of yo' system/program
distribution or README.suidroot which is part of tha Cdrkit source.
.PP
Documentation of the
.B wodim
program gotz nuff mo' technical details which could also apply to
.B readom.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.PP
A typical error message fo' a SCSI command looks like:
.sp
.RS
.nf
readom: I/O error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. test unit ready: scsi sendcmd: no error
CDB:  00 20 00 00 00 00
status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
Sense Bytes: 70 00 05 00 00 00 00 0A 00 00 00 00 25 00 00 00 00 00
Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
Sense Code: 0x25 Qual 0x00 (logical unit not supported) Fru 0x0
Sense flags: Blk 0 (not valid)
cmd finished afta 0.002s timeout 40s
.fi
.sp
.RE
Da first line gives shiznit bout tha transhiznit of tha command.
Da text afta tha straight-up original gangsta colon gives tha error text fo' tha system call
from tha view of tha kernel. Well shiiiit, it probably is:
.B "I/O error
unless other problems happen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da next lyrics contain a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description for
the SCSI command dat fails. Da rest of tha line  drops some lyrics ta you if there were
any problems fo' tha transhiznit of tha command over tha SCSI bus.
.B "fatal error
means dat dat shiznit was not possible ta transhiznit tha command (i.e. no thang present
at tha axed SCSI address).
.PP
Da second line prints tha SCSI command descriptor block fo' tha failed command.
.PP
Da third line gives shiznit on tha SCSI status code returned by tha 
command, if tha transhiznit of tha command succeeds. 
This is error shiznit from tha SCSI device.
.PP
Da fourth line be a hex dump of tha auto request sense shiznit fo' tha 
command.
.PP
Da fifth line is tha error text fo' tha sense key if available, followed
by tha segment number dat is only valid if tha command was a
.I copy
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha error message aint directly related ta tha current command,
the text
.I deferred error
is appended.
.PP
Da sixth line is tha error text fo' tha sense code n' tha sense qualifier if available.
If tha type of tha thang is known, tha sense data is decoded from tables
in
.IR scsierrs.c " .
Da text is followed by tha error value fo' a gangbangin' field replaceable unit.
.PP
Da seventh line prints tha block number dat is related ta tha failed command
and text fo' nuff muthafuckin error flags. Da block number may not be valid.
.PP
Da eight line reports tha timeout set up fo' dis command n' tha time
that tha command straight-up needed ta complete.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Da 
.B readom
program busted lyrics bout here is tha Cdrkit spinoff from tha original
.B readcd
application (see AUTHOR section fo' details). Well shiiiit, it may contain bugs not present
in tha original gangsta implementation.
.PP
It be definitely less portable than tha original gangsta implementation.
.PP
For platform specific bugs, peep tha correspondin README.platform file up in the
Cdrkit documentation (eg. README.linux).

.SH "MAILING LISTS
If you wanna actively take part on tha pimpment of readom,
you may join tha pimper mailin list via dis URL:
.sp
.B
http://alioth.debian.org/mail/?group_id=31006
.PP
Da mail address of tha list is:
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org




.SH AUTHOR
.nf
J\*org Schilling
Seestr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 110
D-13353 Berlin
Germany
.fi

.PP
This be application be a spinoff from tha original gangsta implementation of readcd served up in
the cdrtools package [1] pimped by Joerg Schilling, whoz ass deserves da most thugged-out credits
for its success. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat he aint involved tha fuck into tha pimpment
of dis spinoff n' therefore da perved-out muthafucka shall not be made responsible fo' any problem
caused by dat shit. Do not try ta git support from tha original gangsta author!
.PP
Additionizzle shiznit can be found on:
.br
https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/
.PP
If you have support thangs, bust dem to
.PP
.B
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org
.br
.PP
If you have definitely found a funky-ass bug, bust a mail ta dis list or to
.PP
.B
submit@bugs.debian.org
.br
.PP
writin at least a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description tha fuck into tha Subject n' "Package: cdrkit"
into tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha mail body.
.SH SOURCES
.PP
.br
[1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de

