.TH REDSHIFT: "1" "October 2011" "redshift" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
redshift \- Set color temperature of display accordin ta time of day.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redshift
\fI[\-l LAT:LON | \-l PROVIDER:OPTIONS] [\-t DAY:NIGHT] \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B redshift
adjusts tha color temperature of yo' screen accordin ta your
surroundings. This may help yo' eyes hurt less or reduce tha risk for
delayed chill phase syndrome if yo ass is hustlin up in front of tha screen
at night.

Da color temperature is set accordin ta tha posizzle of tha sun. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A
different color temperature is set durin night n' daytime. During
twilight n' early morning, tha color temperature transitions smoothly
from night ta daytime temperature ta allow yo' eyes ta slowly
adapt over a period of bout a hour fo' realz. At night tha color temperature
should be set ta match tha lamps up in yo' room. This is typically a low
temperature at round 3000K\-4000K (default is 3700K). Durin tha day,
the color temperature should match tha light from outside, typically
around 5500K\-6500K (default is 5500K). Da light has a higher
temperature on a overcast day.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display dis help message
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose output
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Show program version
.TP
\fB\-b\fR DAY:NIGHT
Screen brightnizz ta apply (between 0.1 n' 1.0)
.TP
\fB\-c\fR FILE
Load settings from specified configuration file
.TP
\fB\-g\fR R:G:B
Additionizzle gamma erection ta apply
.TP
\fB\-l\fR LAT:LON
Yo crazy-ass current location, up in degrees, given as floatin point numbers,
towardz uptown n' eastside, wit wack numbers representin downtown and
west, respectively.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR PROVIDER[:OPTIONS]
Select provider fo' automatic location thugged-out shit
(Type `list' ta peep available providers)
.TP
\fB\-m\fR METHOD
Method ta use ta set color temperature
(Type `list' ta peep available methods)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
One blasted mode (do not continuously adjust color temperature)
.TP
\fB\-O\fR TEMP
One blasted manual mode (set color temperature)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Print mode (only print parametas n' exit)
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Reset mode (remove adjustment from screen)
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Disable temperature transitions
.TP
\fB\-t\fR DAY:NIGHT
Color temperature ta set at daytime/night
.PP
Da neutral temperature is 6500K. Usin dis value will not
change tha color temperature of tha display. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin the
color temperature ta a value higher than dis thangs up in dis biatch in
more blue light, n' settin a lower value will result in
more red light.

Default temperature joints:
.IP
Daytime: 5500K, night: 3700K
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
A configuration file wit tha name `redshift.conf' can optionally be
placed up in `~/.config/'. Da file has standard INI format. General
program options is placed under tha `redshift' header, while options
for location providaz n' adjustment methodz is placed under a
header wit tha name of dat provider or method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! General options are:
.TP
\fBtemp\-day\fR = integer
Daytime temperature
.TP
\fBtemp\-night\fR = integer
Night temperature
.TP
\fBtransition\fR = 0 or 1
Disable or enable transitions
.TP
\fBbrightness\-day\fR = 0.1\-1.0
Screen brightnizz at daytime
.TP
\fBbrightness\-night\fR = 0.1\-1.0
Screen brightnizz at night
.TP
\fBgamma\fR = R:G:B
Gamma adjustment ta apply
.TP
\fBadjustment\-method\fR = name
Select adjustment method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Options fo' tha adjustment method can be
given under tha configuration file headin of tha same name.
.TP
\fBlocation\-provider\fR = name
Select location provider n' shit. Options fo' tha location provider can be
given under tha configuration file headin of tha same name.
.PP
Options fo' location providaz n' adjustment methodz can be found in
the help output of tha providaz n' methods.
.SH EXAMPLE
Example fo' Copenhagen, Denmark:
.IP
\fB$\fR redshift \-l 55.7:12.6 \-t 5700:3600 \-g 0.8 \-m vidmode \-v
.PP
An example configuration file wit tha same effect as tha above
command line:
.IP
.nf
[\fBredshift\fR]
temp\-day=5700
temp\-night=3600
gamma=0.8
adjustment\-method=randr
location\-provider=manual

[\fBmanual\fR]
lat=55.7
lon=12.6
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
.B redshift
was freestyled by Jizzle Lund Steffensen <jonlst@gmail.com>.
.PP
Both
.B redshift
and dis manual page is busted out under tha GNU General Public
License, version 3.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs ta <https://bugs.launchpad.net/redshift>
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Redshift won't affect tha color of yo' cursor when yo' graphics driver
is configured ta use hardware cursors. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some graphics drivers have an
option ta disable hardware cursors up in xorg.conf.
