.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)renice.8   8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.TH RENICE "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
renice \- alta prioritizzle of hustlin processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B renice
.RB [ \-n ]
.I priority
.RB [ \-gpu ]
.IR identifier ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B renice
altas tha schedulin prioritizzle of one or mo' hustlin processes.  The
first argument is tha \fIpriority\fR value ta be used.
Da other arguments is interpreted as process IDs (by default),
process crew IDs, user IDs, or user names.
.BR renice 'ing
a process crew causes all processes up in tha process crew ta have their
schedulin prioritizzle altered.
.BR renice 'ing
a user causes all processes owned by tha user ta have they scheduling
prioritizzle altered.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-prioritizzle " \fIpriority\fR
Specify tha scheduling
.I priority
to be used fo' tha process, process group, or user n' shit.  Use of tha option
.BR \-n " or " \-\-priority
is optionizzle yo, but when used it must be tha straight-up original gangsta argument.
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-pgrp " \fIpgid\fR...
Force tha succeedin arguments ta be interpreted as process crew IDs.
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-user " \fIname_or_uid\fR...
Force tha succeedin arguments ta be interpreted as usernames or UIDs.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pid " \fIpid\fR...
Force tha succeedin arguments ta be interpreted as process IDs
(the default).
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Da followin command would chizzle tha prioritizzle of tha processes with
PIDs 987 n' 32, plus all processes owned by tha playas daemon n' root:
.TP
.B "       renice" +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32
.SH NOTES
Users other than tha superuser may only alta tha prioritizzle of processes they
own, n' can only monotonically increase they ``nice value'' (for security
reasons) within tha range 0 ta 19,
unless a sick resource limit is set (Linux 2.6.12 n' higher).  The
superuser may alta tha prioritizzle of any process n' set tha prioritizzle ta any
value up in tha range \-20 ta 19.
Useful prioritizzles are: 19 (the affected processes will run only when nothing
else up in tha system wants to), 0 (the ``base'' schedulin priority), anything
negatizzle (to make thangs go straight-up fast).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
to map user names ta user IDs
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getprioritizzle (2),
.BR setprioritizzle (2)
.SH BUGS
Non-superusers cannot increase schedulin prioritizzlez of they own processes,
even if they was tha ones dat decreased tha prioritizzles up in tha straight-up original gangsta place.
.PP
Da Linux kernel (at least version 2.0.0) n' linux libc (at least version
5.2.18) do not smoke entirely on what tha fuck tha specifics of tha systemcall
interface ta set sick joints is.  Thus causes renice ta report bogus previous
nice joints.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B renice
command rocked up in 4.0BSD.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da renice command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
