.\" repodiff
.TH "repodiff" "1" "21 October 2008" "Jizzy Antill" ""
.SH "NAME"
repodiff \- list differences between two or mo' Yum repositories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrepodiff\fP \-\-old=old_repo_baseurl \-\-new=new_repo_baseurl
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBrepodiff\fP be a program which will list differences between two setz of 
repositories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  \fBNote\fP dat by default only source packages is compared.
.PP 
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-\-old, \-o\fP"
Add a repo. as a oldschool repo. Note dat if you prefix tha url wit "mirror:" then
the followin url is treated as a mirror n' not a funky-ass baseurl.
.IP "\fB\-\-new, \-n\fP"
Add a repo. as a freshly smoked up repo. Note dat if you prefix tha url wit "mirror:" then
the followin url is treated as a mirror n' not a funky-ass baseurl.
.IP "\fB\-\-archlist, \-a\fP"
Add architectures ta chizzle tha default from just comparin source packages.
Note dat if you want tha same as a native
"x86_64" architecture machine you just need ta pass "x86_64" (this is different
from earlier versions where you needed ta specify
"x86_64,athlon,i686,i586,i486,i386,noarch" n' you still gots "src").
.IP "\fB\-\-size, \-s\fP"
Output additionizzle data bout tha size of tha chizzles.
.IP "\fB\-\-compare\-arch\fP"
Normally packages is just compared based on they name, dis flag make the
comparison also use tha arch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So foo.i386 n' foo.x86_64 is different.
.IP "\fB\-\-simple\fP"
Output a simple one line message fo' modified packages.
.IP "\fB\-\-downgrade\fP"
Split tha data fo' modified packages between upgraded n' downgraded packages.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Compare source pkgs up in two local repos:"
\fBrepodiff \-\-old=/tmp/repo-old \-\-new=/tmp/repo-new\fP
.IP "Compare x86_64 compat. binary pkgs up in two remote repos, n' two local one:"
\fBrepodiff \-a x86_64 \-\-old=http://example.com/repo1-old \-\-old=/tmp/repo-old \-\-new=http://example.com/repo1-new \-\-new=/tmp/repo-new\fP
.IP "Compare x86_64 compat. binary pkgs yo, but also compare arch:"
\fBrepodiff \-a x86_64 \-\-compare\-arch \-\-old=http://example.com/repo1-old \-\-old=/tmp/repo-old \-\-new=http://example.com/repo1-new \-\-new=/tmp/repo-new\fP
.IP "Compare two releasez of Fedora (15 => 16):"
\fBrepodiff \-\-old='mirror:https://mirrors.fedoraproject.org/metalink?repo=fedora-source-15&arch=i386' \-\-new='mirror:https://mirrors.fedoraproject.org/metalink?repo=fedora-source-16&arch=i386' \-\-size \-\-simple \-\-downgrade\fP
.PP 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
