.\" repoclosure
.TH "repoclosure" "1" "13 January 2013" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
repoclosure \- display a list of unresolved dependencies fo' a yum repository
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrepoclosure\fP [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBrepoclosure\fP be a program dat readz package metadata from one or mo' yum
repositories, checks all dependencies, n' displays a list of packages with
unresolved dependencies.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display a help message, n' then quit.
.IP "\fB\-c CONFIG, \-\-config=CONFIG\fP"
Config file ta use (defaults ta /etc/yum.conf).
.IP "\fB\-a ARCH, \-\-arch=ARCH\fP"
Peep packagez of tha given archs, can be specified multiple times (default:
current arch).
.IP "\fB\-\-basearch=BASEARCH\fP"
Set tha basearch fo' yum ta run as.
.IP "\fB\-b, \-\-builddeps\fP"
Peep build dependencies only (needz source repos enabled).
.IP "\fB\-l LOOKASIDE, \-\-lookaside=LOOKASIDE\fP"
Specify a lookaside repo id ta query, can be specified multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-r REPOID, \-\-repoid=REPOID\fP"
Specify repo idz ta query, can be specified multiple times (default is
all enabled).
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-tempcache\fP"
Use a temp dir fo' storing/accessin yum-cache.
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fP"
Run on tha fuckin' down-lowly: no warnings printed ta stderr.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-newest\fP"
Peep only tha newest packages up in tha repos.
.IP "\fB\-\-repofrompath=REPOID,PATH/URL\fP"
Specify a path or url ta a repository (same path as up in a funky-ass baseurl) ta add to
the repositories fo' dis query. This option can be used multiple times. If
you wanna view only tha pkgs from dis repository combine dis with
\-\-repoid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da repoid fo' tha repository is specified by REPOID.
.IP "\fB\-p PKG, \-\-pkg=PKG\fP"
Peep closure fo' dis package only
.IP "\fB\-g GROUP, \-\-group=GROUP\fP"
Peep closure fo' packages up in dis crew only

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi

.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi
