.\" reposync
.TH "reposync" "1" "27 April 2007" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
reposync \- synchronize yum repositories ta a local directory
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBreposync\fP [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBreposync\fP is used ta synchronize a remote yum repository ta a local
directory, rockin yum ta retrieve tha packages.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display a help message, n' then quit.
.IP "\fB\-c CONFIG, \-\-config=CONFIG\fP"
Config file ta use (defaults ta /etc/yum.conf).
.IP "\fB\-a ARCH, \-\-arch=ARCH\fP"
Act as if hustlin tha specified arch (default: current arch, note: do
not override $releasever n' shit. x86_64 be a superset fo' i*86.).
.IP "\fB\-\-source\fP"
Also downlizzle .src.rpm files.
.IP "\fB\-r REPOID, \-\-repoid=REPOID\fP"
Specify repo idz ta query, can be specified multiple times (default is
all enabled).
.IP "\fB\-e\ CACHEDIR, \-\-cachedir CACHEDIR\fP"
Directory up in which ta store metadata.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-tempcache\fP"
Use a temp dir fo' storing/accessin yum-cache.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-delete\fP"
Delete local packages no longer present up in repository.
.IP "\fB\-p DESTDIR, \-\-download_path=DESTDIR\fP"
Path ta downlizzle packages to: defaults ta current directory.
.IP "\fB\-\-norepopath\fP"
Don't add tha reponame ta tha downlizzle path.
Can only be used when syncin a single repository (default is
to add tha reponame).
.IP "\fB\-g, \-\-gpgcheck\fP"
Remove packages dat fail GPG signature checkin afta downloading.
exit status is '1' if at least one package was removed.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-urls\fP"
Just list urlz of what tha fuck would be downloaded, don't download.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-plugins\fP"
Enable yum plugin support.
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-downloadcomps\fP"
Also downlizzle comps.xml.
.IP "\fB\-\-download-metadata\fP"
Downlizzle all tha non-default metadata
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-newest\-only\fP"
Downlizzle only newest packages per-repo.
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fP"
Output as lil shiznit as possible.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Sync all packages from tha 'updates' repo ta tha current directory:"
\fB reposync \-\-repoid=updates\fP
.IP "Sync only tha newest packages from tha 'updates' repo ta tha current directory:"
\fB reposync \-n \-\-repoid=updates\fP
.IP "Sync packages from tha 'updates' n' 'extras' repos ta tha current directory:"
\fB reposync \-\-repoid=updates \-\-repoid=extras\fP
.IP "Sync all packages from tha 'updates' repo ta tha \fBrepos\fP directory:"
\fB reposync \-p repos \-\-repoid=updates\fP
.IP "Sync all packages from tha 'updates' repo ta tha \fBrepos\fP directory excludin x86_64 arch. Edit \fI/etc/yum.conf\fR addin option \fBexclude=*.x86_64\fR. Then: 
\fBreposync \-p repos \-\-repoid=updates\fP
.SH "FILES"
\fBreposync\fP uses tha yum libraries fo' retrievin shiznit and
packages. If no configuration file is specified, tha default yum
configuration is ghon be used.
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
