.\" repo-rss
.TH "repo-rss" "1" "2005" "Seth Vidal" ""
.SH "NAME"
repo-rss \- generates a RSS feed from one or mo' Yum repositories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrepo-rss\fP [options] repoid1 [repoid2...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBrepo-rss\fP be a program fo' generatin RSS feedz fo' one or more
Yum repositories.
.PP 
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Help; display a help message n' then quit\&.
.IP "\fB\-f <file>\fP" 
Specify tha file ta which tha RSS is ghon be written. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Default is repo-rss.xml.
.IP "\fB\-l <link>\fP" 
Specify tha URL ta tha RSS feed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Default is http://yum.baseurl.org/.
.IP "\fB\-t <title>\fP"
Specify tha title fo' tha RSS feed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Default is "RSS Repository - Recent Packages".
.IP "\fB\-d <description>\fP"
Specify tha description of tha RSS feed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Default is "Most recent packages up in Repositories".
.IP "\fB\-r <days>\fP"
Specify tha number of minutes ta consider most recent.  Default is 3.
.IP "\fB\-\-tempcache\fP"
Enable tha use of a temporary directory fo' tha yum cache.  This is enabled by
default fo' non-root users.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Generate a RSS fo' tha thugged-out shit-released repository n' save it as thugged-out shit-release.xml:"
\fBrepo-rss \-f thugged-out shit-released.xml thugged-out shit-released\fP
.PP 
.SH "FILES"
As repo-rss uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
