.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2010,2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: tset.1,v 1.27 2011/12/17 23:20:35 tom Exp $
.TH tset 1 ""
.SH NAME
\fBtset\fR, \fBreset\fR \- terminal initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtset\fR [\fB\-IQVcqrsw\fR] [\fB\-\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-i\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-k\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-m\fR \fImapping\fR] [\fIterminal\fR]
.br
\fBreset\fR [\fB\-IQVcqrsw\fR] [\fB\-\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-i\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-k\fR \fIch\fR] [\fB\-m\fR \fImapping\fR] [\fIterminal\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&\fBTset\fR initializes terminals.
\fBTset\fR first determines tha type of terminal dat yo ass is using.
This determination is done as bigs up, rockin tha straight-up original gangsta terminal type found.
.PP
1. Da \fBterminal\fR argument specified on tha command line.
.PP
2. Da value of tha \fBTERM\fR environmenstrual variable.
.PP
3. (BSD systems only.) Da terminal type associated wit tha standard
error output thang up in tha \fI/etc/ttys\fR file.
(On System\-V-like UNIXes n' systems rockin dat convention,
\fIgetty\fR do dis thang by setting
\fBTERM\fR accordin ta tha type passed ta it by \fI/etc/inittab\fR.)
.PP
4. Da default terminal type, ``unknown''.
.PP
If tha terminal type was not specified on tha command-line, tha \fB\-m\fR
option mappings is then applied (see tha section
.B TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING
for mo' shiznit).
Then, if tha terminal type begins wit a question mark (``?''), the
user is prompted fo' confirmation of tha terminal type.  An empty
response confirms tha type, or, another type can be entered ta specify
a freshly smoked up type.  Once tha terminal type has been determined, tha terminfo
entry fo' tha terminal is retrieved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If no terminfo entry is found
for tha type, tha user is prompted fo' another terminal type.
.PP
Once tha terminfo entry is retrieved, tha window size, backspace, interrupt
and line bust a cap up in charactas (among nuff other thangs) is set n' tha terminal
and tab initialization strings is busted ta tha standard error output.
Finally, if tha erase, interrupt n' line bust a cap up in charactas have chizzled,
or is not set ta they default joints, they joints is displayed ta the
standard error output.
Use tha \fB\-c\fP or \fB\-w\fP option ta select only tha window sizing
versus tha other initialization.
If neither option is given, both is assumed.
.PP
When invoked as \fBreset\fR, \fBtset\fR sets cooked n' echo modes,
turns off cbreak n' raw modes, turns on newline translation and
resets any unset special charactas ta they default joints before
fuckin wit tha terminal initialization busted lyrics bout above.  This is useful
afta a program takes a thugged-out dirt nap leavin a terminal up in a abnormal state.  Note,
you may gotta type
.sp
    \fB<LF>reset<LF>\fR
.sp
(the line-feed characta is normally control-J) ta git tha terminal
to work, as carriage-return may no longer work up in tha abnormal state.
Also, tha terminal will often not echo tha command.
.PP
Da options is as bigs up:
.TP 5
.B \-c
Set control charactas n' modes.
.TP 5
.B \-e
Set tha erase characta ta \fIch\fR.
.TP
.B \-I
Do not bust tha terminal or tab initialization strings ta tha terminal.
.TP
.B \-i
Set tha interrupt characta ta \fIch\fR.
.TP
.B \-k
Set tha line bust a cap up in characta ta \fIch\fR.
.TP
.B \-m
Specify a mappin from a port type ta a terminal.
See tha section
.B TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING
for mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B \-Q
Do not display any joints fo' tha erase, interrupt n' line bust a cap up in characters.
Normally \fBtset\fR displays tha joints fo' control charactas which
differ from tha systemz default joints.
.TP
.B \-q
Da terminal type is displayed ta tha standard output, n' tha terminal is
not initialized up in any way.  Da option `\-' by itself is equivalent but
archaic.
.TP
.B \-r
Print tha terminal type ta tha standard error output.
.TP
.B \-s
Print tha sequence of shell commandz ta initialize tha environment variable
\fBTERM\fR ta tha standard output.
See tha section
.B SETTING THE ENVIRONMENT
for details.
.TP
.B \-V
reports tha version of ncurses which was used up in dis program, n' exits.
.TP
.B \-w
Resize tha window ta match tha size deduced via \fBsetupterm\fP.
Normally dis has no effect,
unless \fBsetupterm\fP aint able ta detect tha window size.
.PP
Da arguments fo' tha \fB\-e\fR, \fB\-i\fR, n' \fB\-k\fR
options may either be entered as actual charactas or by rockin tha `hat'
notation, i.e., control-h may be specified as ``^H'' or ``^h''.
.
.SH SETTING THE ENVIRONMENT
It be often desirable ta enta tha terminal type n' shiznit about
the terminalz capabilitizzles tha fuck into tha shellz environment.
This is done rockin tha \fB\-s\fR option.
.PP
When tha \fB\-s\fR option is specified, tha commandz ta enta tha shiznit
into tha shellz environment is freestyled ta tha standard output.  If
the \fBSHELL\fR environmenstrual variable endz up in ``csh'', tha commands
are fo' \fBcsh\fR, otherwise, they is fo' \fBsh\fR.
Note, tha \fBcsh\fR commandz set n' unset tha shell variable
\fBnoglob\fR, leavin it unset.  Da followin line up in tha \fB.login\fR
or \fB.profile\fR filez will initialize tha environment erectly:
.sp
    eval \`tset \-s options ... \`
.
.SH TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING
When tha terminal aint hardwired tha fuck into tha system (or tha current
system shiznit is incorrect) tha terminal type derived from the
\fI/etc/ttys\fR file or tha \fBTERM\fR environmenstrual variable is often
suttin' generic like \fBnetwork\fR, \fBdialup\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
When \fBtset\fR is used up in a startup script it is often desirable to
provide shiznit bout tha type of terminal used on such ports.
.PP
Da purpose of tha \fB\-m\fR option is ta map
from some set of conditions ta a terminal type, dat is, to
tell \fBtset\fR
``If I be on dis port at a particular speed, guess dat I be on that
kind of terminal''.
.PP
Da argument ta tha \fB\-m\fR option consistz of a optionizzle port type, an
optionizzle operator, a optionizzle baud rate justification, a optional
colon (``:'') characta n' a terminal type.  Da port type be a
strin (delimited by either tha operator or tha colon character).  The
operator may be any combination of ``>'', ``<'', ``@'', n' ``!''; ``>''
means pimped outa than, ``<'' means less than, ``@'' means equal to
and ``!'' inverts tha sense of tha test.
Da baud rate is specified as a number n' is compared wit tha speed
of tha standard error output (which should be tha control terminal).
Da terminal type be a string.
.PP
If tha terminal type aint specified on tha command line, tha \fB\-m\fR
mappings is applied ta tha terminal type.  If tha port type n' baud
rate match tha mapping, tha terminal type specified up in tha mapping
replaces tha current type.  If mo' than one mappin is specified, the
first applicable mappin is used.
.PP
For example, consider tha followin mapping: \fBdialup>9600:vt100\fR.
Da port type is dialup , tha operator is >, tha baud rate
specification is 9600, n' tha terminal type is vt100.  Da result of
this mappin is ta specify dat if tha terminal type is \fBdialup\fR,
and tha baud rate is pimped outa than 9600 baud, a terminal type of
\fBvt100\fR is ghon be used.
.PP
If no baud rate is specified, tha terminal type will match any baud rate.
If no port type is specified, tha terminal type will match any port type.
For example, \fB\-m dialup:vt100 \-m :?xterm\fR
will cause any dialup port, regardless of baud rate, ta match tha terminal
type vt100, n' any non-dialup port type ta match tha terminal type ?xterm.
Note, cuz of tha leadin question mark, tha user will be
queried on a thugged-out default port as ta whether they is straight-up rockin a xterm
terminal.
.PP
No whitespace charactas is permitted up in tha \fB\-m\fR option argument.
Also, ta avoid problems wit meta-characters, it is suggested dat the
entire \fB\-m\fR option argument be placed within single quote characters,
and dat \fBcsh\fR playas bang a funky-ass backslash characta (``\e'') before
any exclamation marks (``!'').
.SH HISTORY
Da \fBtset\fR command rocked up in BSD 3.0.  Da \fBncurses\fR implementation
was lightly adapted from tha 4.4BSD sources fo' a terminfo environment by Eric
S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da \fBtset\fR utilitizzle has been provided fo' backward-compatibilitizzle wit BSD
environments (under most modern UNIXes, \fB/etc/inittab\fR n' \fIgetty\fR(1)
can set \fBTERM\fR appropriately fo' each dial-up line; dis obviates what tha fuck was
\fBtset\fRz most blingin use).  This implementation behaves like 4.4BSD
tset, wit all dem exceptions specified here.
.PP
Da \fB\-S\fR option of BSD tset no longer works; it prints a error message ta stderr
and dies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da \fB\-s\fR option only sets \fBTERM\fR, not \fBTERMCAP\fP.  Both these
changes is cuz tha \fBTERMCAP\fR variable is no longer supported under
terminfo-based \fBncurses\fR, which make \fBtset \-S\fR useless (we juiced it up die
noisily rather than silently induce lossage).
.PP
There was a undocumented 4.4BSD feature dat invokin tset via a link named
`TSET` (or via any other name beginnin wit a upper-case letter) set the
terminal ta use upper-case only.  This feature has been omitted.
.PP
Da \fB\-A\fR, \fB\-E\fR, \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-u\fR n' \fB\-v\fR
options was deleted from tha \fBtset\fR
utilitizzle up in 4.4BSD.
None of dem was documented up in 4.3BSD n' all are
of limited utilitizzle at best.
Da \fB\-a\fR, \fB\-d\fR, n' \fB\-p\fR options is similarly
not documented or useful yo, but was retained as they step tha fuck up ta be in
widespread use.  It be straight fuckin recommended dat any usage of these
three options be chizzled ta use tha \fB\-m\fR option instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
\fB\-n\fP option remains yo, but has no effect.  Da \fB\-adnp\fR options is therefore
omitted from tha usage summary above.
.PP
It be still permissible ta specify tha \fB\-e\fR, \fB\-i\fR, n' \fB\-k\fR options without
arguments, although it is straight fuckin recommended dat such usage be fixed to
explicitly specify tha character.
.PP
Az of 4.4BSD, executin \fBtset\fR as \fBreset\fR no longer implies tha \fB\-Q\fR
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Also, tha interaction between tha \- option n' tha \fIterminal\fR
argument up in some phat implementationz of \fBtset\fR has been removed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da \fBtset\fR command uses these environment variables:
.TP 5
SHELL
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtset\fP whether ta initialize \fBTERM\fP rockin \fBsh\fP or
\fBcsh\fP syntax.
.TP 5
TERM
Denotes yo' terminal type.
Each terminal type is distinct, though nuff is similar.
.TP 5
TERMCAP
may denote tha location of a termcap database.
If it aint a absolute pathname, e.g., begins wit a `/',
\fBtset\fP removes tha variable from tha environment before looking
for tha terminal description.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
/etc/ttys
system port name ta terminal type mappin database (BSD versions only).
.TP
/usr/share/terminfo
terminal capabilitizzle database
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1),
sh(1),
stty(1),
curs_terminfo(3X),
tty(4),
terminfo(5),
ttys(5),
environ(7)
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
