.\" $XTermId: resize.man,v 1.30 2013/01/06 16:13:44 tom Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2012,2013 by Thomas E. Dickey
.\"
.\"                         All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE LISTED COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote the
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior written
.\" authorization.
.\"
.\" updated by Thomas E. Dickey fo' XFree86, 1998-2006.
.\"
.ds N Resize
.ds n resize
.\"
.\" Bulleted paragraph
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.\" Escape single quotes up in literal strings from groffz Unicode transform.
.ie \n(.g .ds AQ \(aq
.el       .ds AQ '
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.TH RESIZE 1 "2013-09-10" "Patch #297" "X Window System"
.SH NAME
resize - set environment n' terminal settings ta current xterm window size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*n
[ \fB\-v\fP | \fB\-u\fP | \fB\-c\fP ] [ \fB\-s\fP [ \fIrow col\fP ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I \*N
prints a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command fo' settin tha appropriate environment variables
to indicate tha current size of \fIxterm\fP window from which tha command
is run.
.PP
.I \*N
determines tha command all up in nuff muthafuckin steps:
.bP
first, it findz tha name of tha userz shell program.
It uses tha \fBSHELL\fP variable if set,
otherwise it uses tha userz data from /etc/passwd.
.bP
then it decides whether ta use Bourne shell syntax or C-Shell syntax.
It uses a funky-ass built-in table of known shells,
which can be overridden by tha \fB\-u\fP n' \fB\-c\fP options.
.bP
then \fI\*n\fP asks tha operatin system fo' tha terminal settings.
This is tha same ol' dirty shiznit which can be manipulated rockin \fIstty\fP.
.bP
then \fI\*n\fP asks tha terminal fo' its size up in characters.
Dependin on whether tha "\fB\-s\fP option is given,
\fI\*n\fP uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different escape sequence ta ask fo' dis shiznit.
.bP
at dis point, \fI\*n\fP attempts ta update tha terminal settings
to reflect tha terminal windowz size up in pixels:
.RS
.bP
if tha \fB\-s\fP option is used,
\fI\*n\fP then asks tha terminal fo' its size up in pixels.
.bP
otherwise,
\fI\*n\fP asks tha operatin system fo' tha shiznit
and thugged-out shiznit dat afta ensurin dat tha windowz dimensions are
a multiple of tha characta height n' width.
.bP
in either case, tha updated terminal settings is done
usin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different system call than used fo' \fIstty\fP.
.RE
.bP
then \fI\*n\fP thugged-out shiznit tha terminal settings ta reflect any altered
values like fuckin its size up in rows or columns.
This affects tha joints shown by \fIstty\fP.
.bP
finally, \fI\*n\fP writes tha shell command fo' settin the
environment variablez ta tha standard output.
.SH EXAMPLES
For \*nz output ta take effect,
\fI\*n\fP must either be evaluated
as part of tha command line (usually done wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell alias or function) or
else repimped up ta a gangbangin' file which can then be read in.
From tha C shell (usually
known as \fI/bin/csh\fP), tha followin alias could be defined up in the
userz \fI.cshrc\fP:
.sp
.nf
        %  alias rs \*(AQset noglob; eval \fC\`\fP\*n\fC\`\fP\*(AQ
.fi
.sp
Afta resizin tha window, tha user would type:
.sp
.nf
        %  rs
.fi
.sp
Userz of versionz of tha Bourne shell (usually known as \fI/bin/sh\fP) that
don't have command
functions will need ta bust tha output ta a temporary file n' then read it back
in wit tha \*(``.\*('' command:
.sp
.nf
        $  \*n > /tmp/out
        $  .\0/tmp/out
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options may be used wit \fI\*n\fP:
.TP 8
.B \-c
This option indicates dat C shell commandz should be generated even if the
userz current shell aint \fI/bin/csh\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-s \fR[\fIrows columns\fP]
This option indicates dat Sun console escape sequences is ghon be used
instead of tha VT100-style \fIxterm\fP escape codes.
If \fIrows\fP and
\fIcolumns\fP is given,
\fI\*n\fP will ask tha \fIxterm\fP ta resize itself rockin dem joints.
.IP
Both of tha escape sequences used fo' dis option
(first ta obtain tha window size and
second ta modify it)
are subject ta \fIxterm\fPz \fBallowWindowOps\fP resource setting.
Da window manager may also chizzle ta disallow tha chizzle.
.IP
Da VT100-style escape sequence used ta determine the
screen size always works fo' VT100-compatible terminals.
VT100s have no correspondin way ta modify tha screensize.
.TP 8
.B \-u
This option indicates dat Bourne shell commandz should be generated even if
the userz current shell aint \fI/bin/sh\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-v
This causes \fI\*n\fP ta print a version number ta tha standard output,
and then exit.
.PP
Note dat tha Sun console escape sequences is recognized
by XFree86 \fIxterm\fP and
by \fIdtterm\fP.
Da \fI\*n\fP program may be installed as \fIsunsize\fP,
which causes make it assume tha \fB\-s\fP option.
.PP
Da \fIrows\fP and
\fIcolumns\fP arguments must step tha fuck up last; though they is normally
associated wit tha \fB\-s\fP option, they is parsed separately.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/etc/termcap
for tha base termcap entry ta modify.
.TP 15
~/.cshrc
userz alias fo' tha command.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
SHELL
.I \*N
determines tha userz current shell by first checkin if \fB$SHELL\fP
is set, n' rockin dis shit.
Otherwise it determines tha userz shell by lookin up in tha password file
(/etc/passwd).
Generally Bourne-shell variants (includin \fIksh\fP)
do not modify \fB$SHELL\fP,
so it is possible fo' \fI\*n\fP ta be trippin if one runs
\fI\*n\fP from a Bourne shell spawned from a C shell.
.TP 15
TERM
.I \*N
sets dis ta "xterm" if not already set.
.TP 15
TERMCAP
.I \*N
sets dis variable on systems rockin termcap,
e.g., when \*n is linked wit tha \fItermcap\fP library
rather than a \fIterminfo\fP library.
Da latta do not provide tha complete text fo' a termcap entry.
.TP 15
COLUMNS, LINES
.I \*N
sets these variablez on systems rockin terminfo.
Many applications (includin tha curses library) 
use dem variablez when set ta override they screensize.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
use_env(3)
.br
csh(1), stty(1), tset(1)
.br
xterm(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Vandevoorde (MIT-Athena), Edward Moy (Berkeley)
.br
Thomas Dickey (invisible-island.net).
.br
Copyright (c) 1984, 1985 by X Consortium
.br
See
.IR X (7)
for a cold-ass lil complete copyright notice.
