.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Mike Sadd (sadd@cornell.edu)
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.TH REXEC 1 "February 14, 1997"
.SH NAME
rexec \-\- remote execution client fo' a exec server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rexec 
[  
.B \-abcdhns \-l 
username 
.B \-p 
password
] host command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rexec
calls tha 
.B rexec(3)
routine ta act as a cold-ass lil client fo' tha remote host's
.B rexecd(8)
server n' shit.  
.PP
It asks dat ``command'' be run on tha host computer,
usin username/password authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.B rexec(3)
and
.B rexecd(8)
for detailz of tha protocol.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Rexec
accepts nuff muthafuckin options yo, but only three is likely ta be straight-up useful:
.\"
.LP
\fB\-l username\fP
.IP
Set tha log-in name on tha remote host ta username.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-p password\fP
.IP
Provide tha password fo' tha remote account.  Da command line argument
will be blanked afta bein parsed, ta prevent it from being
seen wit 
.B ps(1).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it is still not straight-up secure ta type tha password on tha 
command line.  In particular, be shizzle dat tha shellz history file
is protected.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP
Explicitly prompt fo' name n' password, even if provided in
the environment, up in tha $HOME/.netrc file, or up in tha environmental
variablez REXEC_USER n' REXEC_PASS.
.PP
Other options dat might be useful wit non-standard remote exec
daemons, or ta debug connections:
.TP
\fB\-a\fP
Do not set up a auxiliary channel fo' standard error from command;
the remote standard error n' output is then both returned on the
local standard output.  By default, 
.B rexec
asks dat a separate channel be set up fo' diagnostic output
from tha remote command.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP
Use signal handlin as up in BSD rsh(1).  Only tha signals 
SIGINT, SIGQUIT, n' SIGTERM is echoed ta tha remote process.
They do not remain raised locally, so rexec waits fo' the
remote command ta shutdown its side of tha socket.  Also, CNTRL-Z will
only suspend execution locally--the remote command may continue ta run.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP
Do not close remote standard input when local standard input closes.
Normally tha standard input ta tha remote command is closed when
the local standard input is closed.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Turn on debuggin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In particular tha command busted ta the
remote host is ghon be echoed.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Print a usage message.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Do not echo signals received by tha rexec onto tha remote
process.  Normally, signals which can be trapped is passed
on ta tha remote process; then, when you type CNTRL-C, tha remote
process terminates as well.
.SH USERNAME AND PASSWORD
.B Rexec(1)
searches fo' tha username n' password up in tha followin order:
.IP
1. If -n is given on tha command line, tha user will always be
prompted fo' both, even if they is also given on tha command line.
.IP
2. Da command line is ghon be parsed
.IP
3. If tha environmenstrual variablez REXEC_USER or REXEC_PASS are
defined, they will define tha username or password.
.IP
4. Da $HOME/.netrc file is ghon be searched. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
.B ftp(1)
for a thugged-out description of dis filez format.
.IP
5. Finally, tha user is ghon be prompted if either tha username or password 
remains undefined.

.SH SECURITY
Userz of dis command should be aware dat 
.B rexec(3)
transmits they password ta tha remote host clear text, not
encrypted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If tha network aint secure ta tha remote host, the
password can be comprimised.

.SH SIGNALS
Without tha -b option,
all signals which can be handled is echoed ta tha remote process.
Afterwards, however, they remain raised up in tha local process.  
Typically, dis means dat 
.B rexec(1)
will exit afta receivin a gangbangin' fatal signal, even if tha remote
process has arranged ta handle or ignore dat shit.

Differin operatin systems use differin signal numbers; fo' example
AIX n' SunOS use 18 fo' SIGTSTP (^Z), while Linux uses 20.  Therefore, 
it may gotz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different effect remotely than
locally.  In particular, typin CNTL-Z may not suspend tha execution
of tha remote process.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
rexec othermachine pussaaaaay ">remote_file; date" <local_file
.PP
will bust local_file ta tha othermachine as remote_file.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Please bust bug reports, system incompatibilities,
and thang offers ta tha lyricist.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rexec(3), rexecd(8), rsh(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Mike Sadd 
.br
mas22@cornell.edu
.br
http://www.tc.cornell.edu/~sadd/

Thanks ta Orange Gopher (2/10/97) n' Johannes Plass
(plass@dipmza.physik.uni-mainz.de, Oct. 17 1996) fo' useful suggestions.
