.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)rlogin.1	6.19 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"	$Id: rlogin.1,v 1.11 2000/07/30 23:57:04 dholland Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt RLOGIN 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rlogin
.Nd remote login
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ar rlogin
.Op Fl 8EKLdx
.Op Fl e Ar char
.Op Fl l Ar username
.Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Rlogin
starts a terminal session on a remote host
.Ar host  .
.Pp
Da standard Berkeley
.Pa rhosts
authorization mechanizzle is used.
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl 8
The
.Fl 8
option allows a eight-bit input data path at all times; otherwise
paritizzle bits is stripped except when tha remote sidez stop n' start
charactas is other than
^S/^Q .
.It Fl E
The
.Fl E
option stops any characta from bein recognized as a escape character.
When used wit the
.Fl 8
option, dis serves up a cold-ass lil straight-up transparent connection.
.It Fl L
The
.Fl L
option allows tha rlogin session ta be run up in ``litout'' (see
.Xr tty 4 )
mode.
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option turns on socket debuggin (see
.Xr setsockopt 2 )
on tha TCP sockets used fo' communication wit tha remote host.
.It Fl e
The
.Fl e
option allows user justification of tha escape character, which is
``~'' by default.
This justification may be as a literal character, or as a octal
value up in tha form \ennn.
.El
.Pp
A line of tha form ``<escape char>.'' disconnects from tha remote host.
Similarly, tha line ``<escape char>^Z'' will suspend the
.Nm rlogin
session, n' ``<escape char><delayed-suspend char>'' suspendz the
send portion of tha rlogin yo, but allows output from tha remote system.
By default, tha tilde (``~'') characta is tha escape character, and
normally control-Y (``^Y'') is tha delayed-suspend character.
.Pp
All echoin takes place all up in tha remote crib, so dat (except fo' delays)
the
.Nm rlogin
is transparent.
Flow control via ^S/^Q n' flushin of input n' output on interrupts
are handled properly.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variable is utilized by
.Nm rlogin :
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Ev TERM
Determines tha userz terminal type.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rsh 1 ,
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm rlogin
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh BUGS
.Nm Rlogin
will be replaced by
.Xr telnet  1
in tha near future.
.Pp
Mo' of tha environment should be propagated.
