." Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH rmiregistry 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
rmiregistry \- Da Java Remote Object Registry
.LP
.RS 3
Da \f3rmiregistry\fP command starts a remote object registry on tha specified port on tha current host. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
rmiregistry [\fP\f4port\fP\f3]
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3rmiregistry\fP command creates n' starts a remote object registry on tha specified \f2port\fP on tha current host. If \f2port\fP is omitted, tha registry is started on port 1099. Da \f3rmiregistry\fP command produces no output n' is typically run up in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For example:
.LP
.LP
\f2rmiregistry &\fP
.LP
.LP
A remote object registry be a funky-ass bootstrap namin steez dat is used by RMI servers on tha same host ta bind remote objects ta names. Clients on local n' remote hosts can then look up remote objects n' make remote method invocations.
.LP
.LP
Da registry is typically used ta locate tha straight-up original gangsta remote object on which a application need ta invoke methods. That object up in turn will provide application\-specific support fo' findin other objects.
.LP
.LP
Da methodz of tha \f2java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry\fP class is used ta git a registry operatin on tha local host or local host n' port.
.LP
.LP
Da URL\-based methodz of tha \f2java.rmi.Naming\fP class operate on a registry n' can be used ta look up a remote object on any host, n' on tha local host: bind a simple (string) name ta a remote object, rebind a freshly smoked up name ta a remote object (overridin tha oldschool binding), unbind a remote object, n' list tha URLs bound up in tha registry.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-J 
Used up in conjunction wit any \f2java\fP option, it passes tha option followin tha \f2\-J\fP (no spaces between tha \-J n' tha option) on ta tha \f2java\fP interpreter n' shit. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
java(1), 
.na
\f2java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/rmi/registry/LocateRegistry.html n' 
.na
\f2java.rmi.Naming\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/rmi/Naming.html  
