.\" Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" Skeleton based on nano-tiny.1:
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass may distribute and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of either of tha followin licenses:
.\"
.\" * Da GNU General Public License, as published by tha Jacked Software
.\"   Foundation, version 3 or (at yo' option) any lata version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  You
.\"   should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"   along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * Da GNU Jacked Documentation License, as published by tha Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at yo' option) any later
.\"   version, wit no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, n' no
.\"   Back-Cover Texts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU Free
.\"   Documentation License along wit dis program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" $Id: rnano.1 4188 2007-12-08 04:27:44Z dolorous $
.TH RNANO 1 "version 2.0.0" "August 23, 2007"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
rnano \- Restricted mode fo' Nanoz ANOther editor, a enhanced free
Pico clone

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rnano
.I [OPTIONS]\ [[\+LINE,COLUMN]\ FILE]...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents tha \fBrnano\fP command.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invoke bold grill n' italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBnano\fP be a small, free n' thugged-out editor which aims ta replace
Pico, tha default editor included up in tha non-free Pine package. Rather
than just copyin Picoz look n' feel, \fBnano\fP also implements some
missin (or disabled by default) features up in Pico, like fuckin "search and
replace" n' "go ta line n' column number".
.PP
\fBrnano\fP be a restricted version of \fBnano\fP, which only edits
specific filez n' don't allow tha user access ta tha filesystem or a
command shell.
.PP
In restricted mode, \fBnano\fP will \fInot\fP:
.IP \[bu] 2
read or write ta any file not specified on tha command line;
.IP \[bu]
read any nanorc files;
.IP \[bu]
allow suspending;
.IP \[bu]
allow a gangbangin' file ta be appended to, prepended to, or saved under a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
name;
.IP \[bu]
use backup filez or spell checking.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \+\fILINE\fP,\fICOLUMN\fP
Places cursor at line number \fILINE\fP n' column number \fICOLUMN\fP
(at least one of which must be specified) on startup, instead of the
default of line 1, column 1.
.TP
.B \-?
Same as \fB-h (\-\-help)\fP.
.TP
.B \-h (\-\-help)
Show a summary of command line options n' exit.
.TP
.B \-V (\-\-version)
Show tha current version number n' exit.
.PP
See tha \fBnano\fP(1) manpage fo' tha complete documentation of
\fBnano\fP.

.SH BUGS
Please bust any comments or bug reports ta \fBnano@nano-editor.org\fP.

Da \fBnano\fP mailin list be available from \fBnano-devel@gnu.org\fP.

To subscribe, email ta \fBnano-devel-request@gnu.org\fP wit a subject
of "subscribe".

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://www.nano-editor.org/

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Allegretta <chrisa@asty.org>, et al (see AUTHORS fo' details).
This manual page was originally freestyled by Thijs Kinkhorst
<thijs@kinkhorst.com>, fo' tha Debian system (but may be used by
others).
