.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Henrique de Moraes Holschuh -- hmh@debian.org
.\"
.TH RNGTEST 1 "March 2004" "rng-tools 5"

.SH NAME
rngtest \- Peep tha randomnizz of data rockin FIPS 140-2 tests

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rngtest
[\fB\-c\fR \fIn\fR | \fB\-\-blockcount=\fIn\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR \fIn\fR | \fB\-\-blockstats=\fIn\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fIn\fR | \fB\-\-timedstats=\fIn\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-pipe\fR]
[\fB\-?\fR] [\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-\-version\fR]
.RI

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrngtest\fR works on blockz of 20000 bits at a time, rockin tha FIPS 140-2
(errata of 2001-10-10) tests ta verify tha randomnizz of tha block of data.
.PP
It takes input from \fIstdin\fR, n' outputs statistics ta \fIstderr\fR,
optionally echoin blocks dat passed tha FIPS tests ta \fIstdout\fR
(when operatin up in \fIpipe mode\fR).  Errors is busted ta \fIstderr\fR.
.PP
At startup, \fIrngtest\fR will trow away tha straight-up original gangsta 32 bitz of data when
operatin up in \fIpipe mode\fR.  It will use tha next 32 bitz of data to
bootstrap tha FIPS tests (even when not operatin up in \fIpipe mode\fR).
These bits is not tested fo' randomness.
.PP
Statistics is dumped ta \fIstderr\fR when tha program exits.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pipe\fR
Enable \fIpipe mode\fR.  All data blocks dat pass tha FIPS tests are
echoed ta \fIstdout\fR, n' \fIrngtest\fR operates up in silent mode.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIn\fR, \fB\-\-blockcount=\fIn\fR (default: 0)
Exit afta processin n input blocks, if n aint zero.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIn\fR, \fB\-\-blockstats=\fIn\fR (default: 0)
Dump statistics every last muthafuckin n blocks, if n aint zero.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIn\fR, \fB\-\-timedstats=\fIn\fR (default: 0)
Dump statistics every last muthafuckin n seconds, if n aint zero.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short summary of all program options.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version

.SH STATISTICS
\fIrngtest\fR will dump statistics ta \fIstderr\fR when it exits, and
when holla'd at ta by \fIblockstats\fR or \fItimedstats\fR.
.PP
\fBFIPS 140-2 successes\fR n' \fBFIPS 140-2 failures\fR counts tha number of
20000-bit blocks either accepted or rejected by tha FIPS 140-2 tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  The
other statistics show a funky-ass breakdown of tha FIPS 140-2 failures by FIPS 
140-2 test.  See tha FIPS 140-2 document fo' mo' shiznit (note dat these
tests is defined on FIPS 140-1 n' FIPS 140-2 errata of 2001-10-10. They
were removed up in FIPS 140-2 errata of 2002-12-03).
.PP
Da speed statistics is taken fo' every last muthafuckin 20000-bit block transferred or
processed.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR if no errors happen, n' no blocks fail tha FIPS tests.
.TP
\fB1\fR if no errors happen yo, but at least one block fails tha FIPS tests.
.TP
\fB10\fR if there be problems wit tha parameters.
.TP
\fB11\fR if a input/output error happens.
.TP
\fB12\fR if a operatin system or resource starvation error happens.

.SH SEE ALSO
random(4), rngd(8)
.TP
FIPS PUB 140-2 Securitizzle Requirements fo' Cryptographic Modules, NIST, 
http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/140-2.htm

.SH AUTHORS
Henrique de Moraes Holschuh <hmh@debian.org>

