.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" roqet.1 - Rasqal RDF query utility
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Dizzy Beckett - http://www.dajobe.org/
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Universitizzle of Bristol - http://www.bristol.ac.uk/
.\"
.TH roqet 1 "2011-06-11"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.SH NAME
roqet \- Rasqal RDF query utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B roqet
.RB [ OPTIONS ]
.IR "<query-URI>"
.IR "[base-URI]"
.br
.B roqet
.RB [ OPTIONS ] -e
.IR "query-string"
.IR "[base-URI]"
.br
.B roqet
.RB [ OPTIONS ] -p
.IR "sparql-protocol-service-URI" 
.RB [ -e
.IR "query-string"
.RB ]
.IR "[base-URI]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B roqet
utilitizzle allows queryin of RDF content rockin the
.B Rasqal
RDF query library, printin tha thangs up in dis biatch up in variable bindings,
RDF graph or boolean format.  Da query is read from \fIquery-URI\fR and
the optionizzle \fIbase-URI\fR is used as tha base URI of tha query if present.
.SH MAIN OPTIONS
roqet uses tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-') if supported by the
getopt_long function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Otherwise only tha short options is available.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-exec QUERY
Execute tha query up in tha argument
.I QUERY
instead of readin tha query from a URI (when \fB\-e\fP /
\fB\-\-exec\fP aint given).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input LANGUAGE
Set tha input query
.I LANGUAGE
to one of tha supported languages which includes 'sparql'
(SPARQL Query Language fo' RDF, default), 'sparql11' n' 'laqrs'.
Da full list of supported languages n' subsets is given up in tha help
summary wit the
\fB\-h\fP / \fB\-\-help\fP option.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-protocol SERVICE-URI
Call tha SPARQL HTTP protocol \fISERVICE-URI\fP ta execute tha query
instead of executin it inside tha Rasqal query engine locally.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-results FORMAT
Set tha query thangs up in dis biatch format.
.IP
For variable bindings, tha joints of
.I FORMAT
vary upon what tha fuck Rasqal supports but include 'simple'
for a simple text format (default), 'xml'
for tha SPARQL Query Results XML format, 'rdfxml'
and 'turtle' fo' RDF syntax formats,
and 'json' fo' a JSON version of tha thangs up in dis biatch.
.IP
For RDF graph thangs up in dis biatch, tha joints of
.I FORMAT
are 'ntriples' (N-Triples, default), 'rdfxml-abbrev'
(RDF/XML Abbreviated), 'rdfxml' (RDF/XML), 'turtle' (Turtle), 'json'
(RDF/JSON resource centric), 'json-triples' (RDF/JSON triples)
or 'rss-1.0' (RSS 1.0, also a RDF/XML syntax).
.IP
Da exact list of formats dependz on what tha fuck libraptor2(3) was built with
but is given erect up in tha usage message wit \-h.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-count
Only count tha triplez n' produce no other output.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dump\-query FORMAT
Print tha parsed query up in a given
.I FORMAT
one of 'none' (default), 'debug', 'structure' or 'sparql'
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-data URI
Add RDF data source URI (not a named graph).  If no data sources
are given, tha query itself must point ta tha data like fuckin via
SPARQL FROM \fIuri\fP statements.
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-ignore\-errors
Do not print error lyrics n' do not exit wit a non-0 status.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-feature NAME(=VALUE)
Set query feature
.I NAME
to the
.I VALUE
or integer 1 if omitted.
Da known features can be shown wit \fB-f help\fP or \fB--feature help\fP.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-format NAME
Set tha data source format \fIname\fP fo' subsequent data graphs called
with \fB\-D\fP / \fB\-\-data\fP or \fB\-G\fP / \fB\-\-named\fP.
Da default if dis aint specified is fo' tha query engine to
guess.  Da \fIname\fP be a Raptor parser name.
.TP
.B \-G, \-\-named URI
Add RDF data source URI (named graph)
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a summary of tha options.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-dryrun
Prepare tha query but do not execute dat shit.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No extra shiznit lyrics.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-source URI
Add RDF data source URI (named graph)
.I URI
by addin it ta tha list of query data source URIs.
.I FORMAT
to 'simple' (default) or 'xml' (an experimenstrual XML format)
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print tha rasqal library version n' exit.
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-warnings LEVEL
Set tha warnin 
.I LEVEL
in tha range 0 (do not warn bout anything) ta 100 (show every
warning). Da Rasqal default is up in tha middle (50).
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.B roqet sparql-query-file.rq
.LP
Run a SPARQL query contained up in tha local file sparql-query-file.rq.
Da data used would be busted lyrics bout up in FROM statements up in tha query file.
.IP
.B roqet -q -i sparql http://example.org/sparql-query.rq
.LP
Run a SPARQL query dat is up in tha wizzy at URI
http://example.org/sparql-query.rq
without a extra lyrics (quiet, -q).
.IP
.B roqet -q query-file.rq http://example.org/base/
.LP
Run a query (default languge SPARQL) from a local file query-file.rq
but rockin base URI http://example.org/base/ ta resolve any relative
URIs.
.IP
.B roqet -q -i sparql -r xml http://example.org/sparql-query.rq
.LP
Run a SPARQL query dat is up in tha wizzy at URI http://example.org/sparql-query.rq
and format tha thangs up in dis biatch up in tha SPARQL Query Results XML format wit no extra
lyrics.
.IP
.B roqet -i sparql -e 'SELECT * WHERE { ?s ?p ?o }' -D stuff.rdf
.LP
Run a SPARQL query given on tha command line against data in
the file stuff.rdf.  Da type of tha file is ghon be guessed n' likely
iz of format RDF/XML.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
\fISPARQL Query Language fo' RDF\fR, 
Eric Prud'hommeaux n' Andy Seaborne (eds), W3C Recommendation, 15 January 2008.
.UR http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-rdf-sparql-query-20080115/
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-rdf-sparql-query-20080115/
.UE
.LP
\fISPARQL Query Results XML Format\fR, 
Jeen Broekstra n' Dizzle Beckett (eds), W3C Recommendation, 15 January 2008.
.UR http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-rdf-sparql-XMLres-20080115/
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-rdf-sparql-XMLres-20080115/
.UE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR librasqal(3), libraptor(3)
.SH CHANGES
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzle Beckett - 
.UR http://www.dajobe.org/
http://www.dajobe.org/
.UE
.br
