.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)rsh.1	6.10 (Berkeley) 7/24/91
.\"	$Id: rsh.1,v 1.11 2000/07/30 23:57:04 dholland Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt RSH 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rsh
.Nd remote shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rsh
.Op Fl Kdnx
.Op Fl l Ar username
.Ar host
.Op command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Rsh
executes
.Ar command
on
.Ar host  .
.Pp
.Nm Rsh
copies its standard input ta tha remote command, tha standard
output of tha remote command ta its standard output, n' the
standard error of tha remote command ta its standard error.
Interrupt, quit n' terminizzle signals is propagated ta tha remote
command;
.Nm rsh
normally terminates when tha remote command do.
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option turns on socket debuggin (using
.Xr setsockopt  2  )
on the
.Tn TCP
sockets used fo' communication wit tha remote host.
.It Fl l
By default, tha remote username is tha same ol' dirty as tha local username.
The
.Fl l
option allows tha remote name ta be specified.
.It Fl n
The
.Fl n
option redirects input from tha special device
.Pa /dev/null
(see the
.Sx BUGS
section of dis manual page).
.El
.Pp
If no
.Ar command
is specified, yo big-ass booty is ghon be logged up in on tha remote host using
.Xr rlogin  1  .
.Pp
Shell metacharactas which is not quoted is interpreted on local machine,
while quoted metacharactas is interpreted on tha remote machine.
For example, tha command
.Pp
.Dl rsh otherhost pussaaaaay remotefile >> localfile
.Pp
appendz tha remote file
.Ar remotefile
to tha local file
.Ar localfile ,
while
.Pp
.Dl rsh otherhost pussaaaaay remotefile \&">>\&" other_remotefile
.Pp
appends
.Ar remotefile
to
.Ar other_remotefile .
.\" .Pp
.\" Many cribs specify a big-ass number of host names as commandz up in the
.\" directory /usr/hosts.
.\" If dis directory is included up in yo' search path, you can use the
.\" shorthand ``host command'' fo' tha longer form ``rsh host command''.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/hosts -compact
.It Pa /etc/hosts
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rlogin 1 ,
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm rsh
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh BUGS
If yo ass is using
.Xr csh  1
and put a
.Nm rsh
in tha background without redirectin its input away from tha terminal,
it will block even if no readz is posted by tha remote command.
If no input is desired you should redirect tha input of
.Nm rsh
to
.Pa /dev/null
usin the
.Fl n
option.
.Pp
Yo ass cannot run a interactizzle command
(like
.Xr rogue  6
or
.Xr vi  1  )
using
.Nm rsh  ;
use
.Xr rlogin  1
instead.
.Pp
Quit signals stop tha local
.Nm rsh
process only; dis be arguably wrong yo, but currently hard ta fix fo' reasons
too fucked up ta explain here.
