'\"
'\" Revision Level 
'\" Last Delta     04-22-88
.TH RZ 1 OMEN
.SH NAME
rx, rb, rz \- XMODEM, YMODEM, ZMODEM (Batch) file receive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rz
.RB [\- "\ +8abeOpqRtTuUvy" ]
.br
.B rb
.RB [\- "\ +abqRtuUvy" ]
.br
.B rx
.RB [\- "\ abceqRtuUv" ]
.I file
.br
.RB [ \- ][ v ] rzCOMMAND
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program uses error erectin protocols ta receive
filez over a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dial-in serial port from a variety of programs hustlin under
PC-DOS, CP/M,
.SM Unix,
and other operatin systems.
It be invoked from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell prompt
manually, or automatically as a result of an
"ss file ..." command given ta tha callin program.

While
.I rz
is smart-ass enough ta be called from
.I cu(1),
very few versions of
.I cu(1)
are smart-ass enough ta allow
.I rz
to work properly.
Unix flavorz of Professional-YAM is available fo' such dial-out application.


.B Rz
(Receive ZMODEM)
receives filez wit tha ZMODEM batch protocol.
Pathnames is supplied by tha bustin  program,
and directories is made if necessary (and possible).
Normally, the
"rz" command be automatically issued by tha callin ZMODEM program,
but some defectizzle ZMODEM implementations may require starting
.I rz
the oldschool fashioned way.


.B Rb
receives file(s) wit YMODEM,
acceptin either standard 128 byte sectors or
1024 byte sectors
(YAM sb
.B -k
option).
Da user should determine when
the 1024 byte block length
actually improves throughput without causin lost data
or even system crashes.

If True YMODEM (Omen Technologizzle trademark) file shiznit (file length, etc.)
is received,
the file length controls tha number of bytes freestyled to
the output dataset,
and tha modify time n' file mode
(iff non zero)
are set accordingly.

If no True YMODEM file shiznit is received,
slashes up in tha pathname is chizzled ta underscore,
and any trailin period up in tha pathname is eliminated.
This conversion is useful fo' filez received from CP/M systems.
With YMODEM, each file name is converted ta lower case
unless it gotz nuff one or mo' lower case letters.


.B Rx
receives a single
.I file
with XMODEM or XMODEM-1k protocol.
Da user should determine when
the 1024 byte block length
actually improves throughput without causin problems.
Da user must supply tha file name ta both bustin  n' receivin programs.
Up ta 1023 garbage charactas may be added ta tha received file.


.B Rz
may be invoked as
.B rzCOMMAND
(with a optionizzle leadin \- as generated by login(1)).
For each received file,
.I rz
will pipe tha file ta ``COMMAND filename''
where filename is tha name of tha transmitted file
with tha file contents as standard input.

Each file transfer is bigged up when COMMAND exits wit 0 status.
A non zero exit status terminates transfers.

A typical use fo' dis form is
.I rzrmail
which calls rmail(1)
to post mail ta tha user specified by tha transmitted file name.
For example, bustin  tha file "caf" from a PC-DOS system to
.I rzrmail
on a
.SM Unix
system
would result up in tha contentz of tha DOS file "caf" bein mailed ta user "caf".

On some
.SM Unix
systems, tha login directory must contain a link to
COMMAND as login sets SHELL=rsh which disallows absolute
pathnames.
If invoked wit a leadin ``v'',
.I rz
will be verbose (see 
.B v
option).
Da followin entry works for
.SM Unix
SYS Pt III/V:
.ce
rzrmail::5:1::/bin:/usr/local/rzrmail
If tha SHELL environment variable includes
.I "rsh"
,
.I "rbash"
or
.I "rksh"
(restricted shell),
.I rz
will not accept absolute pathnames
or references ta a parent directory,
will not modify a existin file, and
removes any filez received up in error.

If
.B rz
is invoked wit stdout n' stderr ta different datasets,
Verbose is set ta 2, causin frame by frame progress reports
to stderr.
This may be disabled wit the
.B q
option.

.SH OPTIONS
Da meaningz of tha available options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B "-+, --append"
append received data ta a existin file (ZMODEM, ASCII only).
.TP
.B "-a, --ascii"
Convert filez to
.SM Unix
conventions by strippin carriage returns n' all characters
beginnin wit tha straight-up original gangsta Control Z (CP/M end of file).
.TP
.B "-b, --binary"
Binary
(tell it like it is)
file transfer override.
.TP
.B "-B NUMBER, --bufsize NUMBER"
Buffer 
.B NUMBER
bytes before freestylin ta disk. Default ist 32768, which should be enough
for most thangs. If you gotz a slow machine or a wack disk intercourse
or suffer from other hardware problems you might wanna increase
the buffersize.
.B -1
or
.B auto
use a funky-ass buffer big-ass enough ta buffer tha whole file. Be careful wit this
options - thangs normally git worse, not better, if tha machine starts
to swap.
.TP
.B "-c, --with-crc"
XMODEM only. Use 16 bit CRC (normally a one byte checksum is used).
.TP
.B "-C, --allow-remote-commands"
allow remote command execution (
.B insecure
). This allows tha sender ta execute a arbitrary command through
.B system
() or
.B execl
(). Default is ta disable dis feature (?). This option is ignored
if hustlin up in restricted mode.
.TP
.B "-D, --null"
Output file data ta /dev/null; fo' testing.
(Unix only)
.TP
.B "--delay-startup N"
Wait 
.B N
secondz before bustin anything.
.TP
.B "-e, --escape"
Force sender ta escape all control characters;
normally XON, XOFF, DLE, CR-@-CR, n' Ctrl-X is escaped.
.TP
.B "-E, --rename"
Rename incomin file if target filename already exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da freshly smoked up file
name gonna git a thugged-out dot n' a number (0..999) appended.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
give help screen.
.TP
.B "-m N, --min-bps N"
Quit transmission if BPS-Rate (Bytes Per Second) falls below N fo' a
certain time (see --min-bps-time option).
.TP
.B "-M N, --min-bps-time"
Used together wit --min-bps. Default is 120 (seconds).
.TP
.B "-O, --disable-timeouts"
Disable read timeout handlin code. This make lrz hang if the
sender do not bust any mo' yo, but increases performizzle (a bit)
and decreases system load (all up in reducin tha number of system
calls by bout 50 cement).

Use dis option wit care.
.TP
.B "--o-sync"
Open output filez up in synchronous write mode. This may be useful if you
experience errors cuz of lost interrupts if update (or bdflush or
whoever dis daemon is called on yo' system) writes tha buffers ta the
disk.

This option is ignored n' a warnin is printed if yo' systems 
doesn't support O_SYNC.
.TP
.B "-p, --protect"
(ZMODEM) Protect: skip file if destination file exists.
.TP
.B "-q, --quiet"
Quiet suppresses verbosity.
.TP
.B "-r, --resume"
Crash recovery mode. lrz tries ta resume interrupted file transfers.
.TP
.B "-R, --restricted"
Enta mo' restricted mode. lrz aint gonna create directories or files
with a leadin dot if dis option is given twice.

See 
.B SECURITY
for mode shiznit bout restricted mode.
.TP
.B "-s HH:MM, --stop-at HH:MM"
Quit transmission at
.B HH
hours,
.B MM
minutes fo' realz. Another variant, using
.B +N
instead of
.B HH:MM,
stops transmission in
.B N
seconds.
.TP
.B "-S, --timesync"
Request timesync packet from tha sender n' shit. Da sender sendz its system time, 
causin lrz ta diss bout mo' then 60 secondz difference. 

Lrz tries ta set tha local system time ta tha remote time if dis option 
is given twice (this fails if lrz aint run by root).

This option make lrz incompatible wit certain other ZModems. Don't
use it unless you know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin.
.TP
.B "--syslog[=off]"
turn sysloggin on or off. tha default is set at configure time.
This option is ignored if no syslog support is compiled in.
.TP
.B "-t TIM, --timeout TIM"
Change timeout to
.I TIM
tenthz of seconds. This is ignored if timeout handlin is turned of
all up in tha 
.B O 
option.
.TP
.B "--tcp-client ADDRESS:PORT"
Act as a tcp/ip client: Connect ta tha given port.

See 
.B "--tcp-server"
for mo' shiznit.

.TP
.B "--tcp-server"
Act as a server: Open a socket, print up what tha fuck ta do, wait fo' connection.

Yo ass will normally not wanna use dis option as lrzss is tha only 
zmodem which understandz what tha fuck ta do (private extension). Yo ass might
wanna use dis if you gotta use zmodem (for which reason whatever),
and cannot use tha 
.B --tcp
option of
.I lsz
(like cuz yo' telnet don't allow ta spawn a local program
with stdin/stdout connected ta tha remote side).

If you use dis option you gotta start 
.I lss 
with the
.B --tcp-client ADDRESS:PORT
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.I lrz will print tha address n' port on startup.

Use of dis option imposes a securitizzle risk, some muthafucka else could connect
to tha port up in between. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B SECURITY 
for details.
.TP
.B "-U, --unrestrict"
turn off restricted mode (this aint possible if hustlin under
a restricted shell).
.TP
.B "--version"
prints up version number.
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
Verbose
causes a list of file
names ta be appended ta stderr.
Mo' vz generate mo' output.
.TP
.B "-wN, --windowsize N"
Set window size ta N.
.TP
.B "-X, --xmodem"
use XMODEM protocol.
.TP
.B "-y, --overwrite"
Yes, clobber any existin filez wit tha same name.
.TP
.B "--ymodem"
use YMODEM protocol.
.TP
.B "-Z, --zmodem"
use ZMODEM protocol.
.PD
.ne 6
.SH SECURITY
Contrary ta tha original gangsta ZMODEM lrz defaults ta restricted mode. In
restricted mode lrz aint gonna accept absolute pathnames or references 
to a parent directory, aint gonna modify a existin file, and
removes any filez received up in error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Remote command execution is 
disabled.

To bust a mo' restricted mode set tha environment variable 
.B ZMODEM_RESTRICTED 
or give the
.B R
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This disablez creation of subdirectories n' invisible
files.

Restricted mode may be turned off wit the
.B U 
option, unless lrz runs under a restricted shell.

.TP
Use of tha 
.B --tcp-client 
or 
.B --tcp-server 
options imposes a securitizzle risk, as some muthafucka else could connect to
the port before you do it, n' grab yo' data. If there be a strong
demand fo' a mo' secure mode i might introduce some sort of
password challenge.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
lrz uses tha followin environment variables:
.TP
.B SHELL
lrz recognizes a restricted shell if dis variable includes
.I "rsh"
or
.I "rksh"
\.
.TP
.B ZMODEM_RESTRICTED
lrz entas tha mo' restricted mode if tha variable is set.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RE
(Pro-YAM command)
.RS
.I <ALT-2>
.br
Pro-YAM Command:
.I "ss *.h *.c"
.br
(This automatically invokes
.I rz
on tha connected system.)
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
ZMODEM.DOC,
YMODEM.DOC,
Professional-YAM,
crc(omen),
sz(omen),
usq(omen),
undos(omen)

Compile time options required
for various operatin systems is busted lyrics bout up in the
source file.
.SH NOTES
Sendin serial data ta timesharin minicomputers
at sustained high speeds
has been known ta cause lockups, system halts, kernel panics,
and occasionizzle antisocial behaviour.
When fuckin wit wit high speed input ta a
system, consider rebootin tha system
if tha file transfers is not successful,
especially if tha personalitizzle of tha system appears altered.

Da Unix "ulimit" parameta must be set high enough
to permit big-ass file transfers.

Da TTY input bufferin on some systems may not allow long blocks
or streamin input at high speed.
Yo ass should suspect dis problem when you
can't bust data ta tha Unix system at high speedz rockin ZMODEM,
YMODEM-1k or XMODEM-1k,
when YMODEM wit 128 byte blocks works properly.
If tha systemz tty line handlin is straight-up broken, tha serial port
or tha entire system may not survive tha onslaught of long bursts
of high speed data.

Da DSZ or Pro-YAM
.B "zmodem l"
numeric parameta may be set ta a value between 64 n' 1024 ta limit the
burst length ("zmodem pl128").

32 bit CRC code courtesy Gary S. Brown.
Directory creation code from Jizzy Gilmorez PD TAR program.
.SH BUGS
Calling
.I rz
from most versionz of cu(1) don't work cuz cuz receive process
fights
.I rz
for charactas from tha modem.

Programs dat do not properly implement tha specified file transfer protocol
may cause
.I sz
to "hang" tha port fo' a minute or two.
Every reported instizzle of dis problem has been erected by using
ZCOMM, Pro-YAM, or other program wit a cold-ass lil erect implementation
of tha specified protocol.

Many programs frontin ta support YMODEM only support XMODEM wit 1k blocks,
and they often don't git dat like right.

Pathnames is restricted ta 127 characters.
In XMODEM single file mode, tha pathname given on tha command line
is still processed as busted lyrics bout above.
Da ASCII option\z CR/LF ta NL translation merely deletes CR\'s;
undos(omen) performs a mo' intelligent translation.
.SH "VMS VERSION"
Da VMS version do not set tha file time.

VMS C Standard I/O n' RMS may interact ta modify
file contents unexpectedly.

Da VMS version do not support invocation as
.B rzCOMMAND .
Da current VMS version do not support XMODEM, XMODEM-1k, or YMODEM.

Accordin ta tha VMS documentation,
the buffered input routine used on tha VMS version of
.I rz
introduces a thugged-out delay
of up ta one second fo' each protocol transaction.
This delay may be dope fo' straight-up short files.
Removin tha "#define BUFREAD" line from rz.c will
eliminizzle dis delay all up in tha expense of increased
CPU utilization.

Da VMS version causes DCL ta generate a random off tha wall
error message under some error conditions; dis be a result of
the incompatibilitizzle of tha VMS "exit" function wit the
Unix/MSDOS standard.
.SH "ZMODEM CAPABILITIES"
.I Rz
supports incomin ZMODEM binary (-b), ASCII (-a),
protect (-p),
clobber (-y),
and append (-+)
requests.
Da default is protect (-p) n' binary (-b).

Da Unix versions support ZMODEM command execution.
.SH FILES
rz.c, crctab.c, rbsb.c, zm.c, zmodem.h Unix source files.

rz.c, crctab.c, vrzsz.c, zm.c, zmodem.h, vmodem.h, vvmodem.c,
VMS source files.
