.TH sane\-find\-scanner 1 "13 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-find\-scanner
.SH NAME
sane\-find\-scanner \- find SCSI n' STD scanners n' they thang files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sane\-find\-scanner
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-F 
.IR filename ]
.RI [ devname ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sane\-find\-scanner
is a cold-ass lil command-line tool ta find SCSI n' STD scanners n' determine they Unix
device files. Its primary aim is ta make shizzle dat scanners can be detected by
SANE backends.
.PP
For 
.B SCSI
scanners, it checks tha default generic SCSI thang filez (e.g., 
.IR /dev/sg0 )
and 
.IR /dev/scanner .
Da test is done by bustin  a SCSI inquiry command n' lookin fo' a thugged-out device
type of "scanner" or "processor" (some oldschool HP scanners seem ta send
"processor"). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So 
.B sane\-find\-scanner
will find any SCSI scanner connected ta dem default thang filez even if it
aint supported by any SANE backend.
.PP
For
.B STD
scanners, first tha STD kernel scanner thang filez (e.g.
.IR /dev/usb/scanner0 ),
.IR /dev/usb/scanner ,
and
.IR /dev/usbscanner )
are tested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da filez is opened n' tha vendor n' thang idz is determined,
if tha operatin system supports dis feature. Currently STD scanners is only
found dis way if they is supported by tha Linux scanner module or the
FreeBSD or OpenBSD uscanner driver n' shiznit fo' realz. Afta dat test, 
.B sane\-find\-scanner
tries ta scan fo' STD devices found by tha STD library libusb (if
available). There is no special STD class fo' scanners, so tha heuristics used
to distinguish scanners from other STD devices is not
perfect. 
.B sane\-find\-scanner
also tries ta smoke up tha type of STD chip used up in tha scanner n' shit. If detected,
it is ghon be printed afta tha vendor n' thang ids.
.B sane\-find\-scanner
will even find STD scanners, dat is not supported by any SANE backend.
.PP
.B sane\-find\-scanner
won't find most 
parallel port scanners, or scanners connected ta proprietary ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some
.B parallel port
scanners may be detected by
.B sane\-find\-scanner -p. 
At tha time of freestylin dis will only detect Mustek parallel port scanners.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-h, \-?
Prints a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Verbose output. If used once, 
.B sane\-find\-scanner
shows every last muthafuckin thang name n' tha test result.  If used twice, SCSI inquiry
information n' tha STD thang descriptors is also printed.
.TP 8
.B \-q
Be on tha fuckin' down-low. Print only tha devices, no comments.
.TP 8
.B \-p
Probe parallel port scanners.
.TP 8
.B \-f
Force openin all explicitly given devices as SCSI n' STD devices. That's
useful if 
.B sane\-find\-scanner
is wack up in determinin tha thang type.
.TP 8
.B \-F filename
filename be a gangbangin' file dat gotz nuff STD descriptors up in tha format of
/proc/bus/usb/devices as used by Linux.
.B sane\-find\-scanner
tries ta identify tha chipset(s) of all STD scanners found up in such a gangbangin' file. This
option is useful fo' pimpers when tha output of "cat /proc/bus/usb/devices"
is available but tha scanner itself aint.
.TP 8
.B devname
Test thang file "devname". No other devices is checked if devname is given.
.SH EXAMPLE
.B sane\-find\-scanner \-v
.br
Peep all SCSI n' STD devices fo' available scanners n' print a line for
every thang file.
.PP
.B sane\-find\-scanner /dev/scanner
.br
Look fo' a (SCSI) scanner only at /dev/scanner n' print tha result.
.PP
.B sane\-find\-scanner \-p
.br
Probe fo' parallel port scanners.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-scsi (5),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR scanimage (1),
.BR xscanimage (1),
.BR xsane (1),
.BR sane\-"backendname" (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Oliver Rauch, Hennin Meier-Geinitz n' others
.SH SUPPORTED PLATFORMS
STD support is limited ta Linux (kernel, libusb), FreeBSD (kernel,
libusb), NetBSD (libusb), OpenBSD (kernel, libusb). Detectin tha vendor and
device idz only works wit Linux or libusb.
.PP
SCSI support be available on Irix, EMX, Linux, Next, AIX, Solaris, FreeBSD,
NetBSD, OpenBSD, n' HP-UX.

.SH BUGS
No support fo' most parallel port scanners yet. 
.br
Detection of STD chipsets is limited ta all dem chipsets.

