.\" This file is distributed under tha Universitizzle of Illinois Open Source
.\" License. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See LICENSE.TXT fo' details.
.\" $Id: scan-build.1 167537 2012-11-07 17:12:37Z jrose $
.Dd May 25, 2012
.Dt SCAN-BUILD 1
.Os "clang" "3.1"
.Sh NAME
.Nm scan-build
.Nd Clang static analyzer
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ohkvV
.Op Fl analyze-headers
.Op Fl enable-checker Op Ar checker_name
.Op Fl disable-checker Op Ar checker_name
.Op Fl Fl help
.Op Fl Fl help-checkers
.Op Fl Fl html-title Op Ar =title
.Op Fl Fl keep-going
.Op Fl plist
.Op Fl plist-html
.Op Fl Fl status-bugs
.Op Fl Fl use-c++ Op Ar =compiler_path
.Op Fl Fl use-cc Op Ar =compiler_path
.Op Fl Fl view
.Op Fl constraints Op Ar model
.Op Fl maxloop Ar N
.Op Fl no-failure-reports
.Op Fl stats
.Op Fl store Op Ar model
.Ar build_command
.Op build_options
.\"
.\" Sh DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a Perl script dat invokes tha Clang static analyzer n' shit.  Options used by
.Nm
or by tha analyzer step tha fuck up first, followed by the
.Ar build_command
and any
.Ar build_options
normally used ta build tha target system.
.Pp
Da static analyzer employs a long-ass list of checkin algorithms, see
.Sx CHECKERS .
Output can be freestyled up in standard
.Li .plist
and/or HTML format.
.Pp
Da followin options is supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl analyze-headers
Also analyze functions up in #included files.
.It Fl enable-checker Ar checker_name , Fl disable-checker Ar checker_name
Enable/disable
.Ar checker_name .
See
.Sx CHECKERS .
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Display dis message.
.It Fl Fl help-checkers
List default checkers, see
.Sx CHECKERS .
.It Fl Fl html-title Ns Op = Ns Ar title
Specify tha title used on generated HTML pages.
A default title is generated if
.Ar title
is not specified.
.It Fl k , Fl Fl keep-going
Add a
.Dq keep on going
option to
.Ar build_command .
Currently supports make n' xcodebuild. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This be a cold-ass lil convenience option;
one can specify dis behavior directly rockin build options.
.It Fl o
Target directory fo' HTML report files.  Subdirectories will be
created as needed ta represent separate invocations
of tha analyzer n' shit.  If dis option aint specified, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is
created up in /tmp (TMPDIR on Mac OS X) ta store tha reports.
.It Fl plist
Output tha thangs up in dis biatch as a set of
.Li .plist
files. (By default tha output of
.Nm
is a set of HTML files.)
.It Fl plist-html
Output tha thangs up in dis biatch as a set of HTML n' .plist files
.It Fl Fl status-bugs
Set exit status ta 1 if it found potential bugs n' 0 otherwise. By
default tha exit status of
.Nm
is dat returned by
.Ar build_command .
.It Fl Fl use-c++ Ns Op = Ns Ar compiler_path
Guess tha default compila fo' yo' C++ n' Objective-C++ code. Use this
option ta specify a alternate compiler.
.It Fl Fl use-cc Ns Op = Ns Ar compiler_path
Guess tha default compila fo' yo' C n' Objective-C code. Use this
option ta specify a alternate compiler.
.It Fl v
Verbose output from
.Nm
and tha analyzer n' shiznit fo' realz. A second and
third
.Ar v
increases verbosity.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl view
View analysis thangs up in dis biatch up in a wizzy browser when tha build completes.
.It Fl constraints Op Ar model
Specify tha contraint engine used by tha analyzer n' shit.  By default the
.Ql range
model is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Specifying
.Ql basic
uses a simpler, less bangin constraint model used by checker-0.160
and earlier.
.It Fl maxloop Ar N
Specifiy tha number of times a funky-ass block can be hit up before giving
up. Default is 4. Increase fo' mo' comprehensive coverage at a
cost of speed.
.It Fl no-failure-reports
Do not create a
.Ql failures
subdirectory dat includes analyzer crash reports n' preprocessed
source files.
.It Fl stats
Generates visitation statistics fo' tha project bein analyzed.
.It Fl store Op Ar model
Specify tha store model used by tha analyzer n' shit. By default, the
.Ql region
store model is used.
.Ql region
specifies a gangbangin' field-
sensitizzle store model. Users can also specify
.Ql basic
which is far less precise but can mo' quickly analyze code.
.Ql basic
was tha default store model fo' checker-0.221 n' earlier.
.\"
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
returns tha value returned by
.Ar build_command
unless
.Fl Fl status-bugs
or
.Fl Fl keep-going
is used.
.\"
.\" Other sections not yet used ...
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .Sh COMPATIBILITY
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\"
.Sh CHECKERS
Da checkers listed below may be enabled/disabled rockin the
.Fl enable-checker
and
.Fl disable-checker
options.
A default crew of checkers is run unless explicitly disabled.
Exactly which checkers constitute tha default crew be a gangbangin' function
of tha operatin system up in use; they is listed with
.Fl Fl help-checkers .
.Bl -tag -width indent.
.It core.AdjustedReturnValue
Peep ta peep if tha return value of a gangbangin' function call is different than
the calla expects (e.g., from calls all up in function pointers).
.It core.AttributeNonNull
Peep fo' null pointas passed as arguments ta a gangbangin' function whose arguments is marked wit the
.Ql nonnull
attribute.
.It core.CallAndMessage
Peep fo' logical errors fo' function calls n' Objective-C message expressions (e.g., uninitialized arguments, null function pointers).
.It core.DivideZero
Peep fo' division by zero.
.It core.NullDereference
Peep fo' dereferencez of null pointers.
.It core.StackAddressEscape
Peep dat addresses ta stack memory do not escape tha function.
.It core.UndefinedBinaryOperatorResult
Peep fo' undefined thangs up in dis biatch of binary operators.
.It core.VLASize
Peep fo' declarationz of VLA of undefined or zero size.
.It core.builtin.BuiltinFunctions
Evaluate compila builtin functions, e.g.
.Fn alloca .
.It core.builtin.NoReturnFunctions
Evaluate
.Ql panic
functions dat is known ta not return ta tha caller.
.It core.uninitialized.ArraySubscript
Peep fo' uninitialized joints used as array subscripts.
.It core.uninitialized.Assign
Peep fo' assignin uninitialized joints.
.It core.uninitialized.Branch
Peep fo' uninitialized joints used as branch conditions.
.It core.uninitialized.CapturedBlockVariable
Peep fo' blocks dat capture uninitialized joints.
.It core.uninitialized.UndefReturn
Peep fo' uninitialized joints bein moonwalked back ta tha caller.
.It deadcode.DeadStores
Peep fo' joints stored ta variablez dat is never read afterwards.
.It debug.DumpCFG
Display Control-Flow Graphs.
.It debug.DumpCallGraph
Display Call Graph.
.It debug.DumpDominators
Print tha dominizzle tree fo' a given Control-Flow Graph.
.It debug.DumpLiveVars
Print thangs up in dis biatch of live variable analysis.
.It debug.Stats
Emit warnings wit analyzer statistics.
.It debug.TaintTest
Mark tainted symbols as such.
.It debug.ViewCFG
View Control-Flow Graphs using
.Ic GraphViz .
.It debug.ViewCallGraph
View Call Graph using
.Ic GraphViz .
.It llvm.Conventions
Peep code fo' LLVM codebase conventions.
.It osx.API
Peep fo' proper usez of various Mac OS X APIs.
.It osx.AtomicCAS
Evaluate calls to
.Vt OSAtomic
functions.
.It osx.SecKeychainAPI
Peep fo' proper usez of Secure Keychain APIs.
.It osx.cocoa.AtSync
Peep fo' null pointas used as mutexes fo' @synchronized.
.It osx.cocoa.ClassRelease
Peep fo' sending
.Ql retain ,
.Ql release,
or
.Ql autorelease
directly ta a Class.
.It osx.cocoa.IncompatibleMethodTypes
Warn bout Objective-C method signatures wit type incompatibilities.
.It osx.cocoa.NSAutoreleasePool
Warn fo' suboptimal uses of
.Vt NSAutoreleasePool
in Objective-C GC mode.
.It osx.cocoa.NSError
Peep usage of NSError** parameters.
.It osx.cocoa.NilArg
Peep fo' prohibited nil arguments ta Objective-C method calls.
.It osx.cocoa.RetainCount
Peep fo' leaks n' improper reference count pimpment.
.It osx.cocoa.SelfInit
Peep that
.Ql self
is properly initialized inside a initializer method.
.It osx.cocoa.UnusedIvars
Warn bout private ivars dat is never used.
.It osx.cocoa.VariadicMethodTypes
Peep fo' passin non-Objective-C types ta variadic methodz dat expect only Objective-C types.
.It osx.coreFoundation.CFError
Peep usage of CFErrorRef* parameters.
.It osx.coreFoundation.CFNumber
Peep fo' proper uses of
.Fn CFNumberSmoke .
.It osx.coreFoundation.CFRetainRelease
Peep fo' null arguments to
.Fn CFRetain ,
.Fn CFRelease ,
and
.Fn CFMakeCollectable .
.It osx.coreFoundation.containers.OutOfBounds
Checks fo' index out-of-boundz when rockin the
.Vt CFArray
API.
.It osx.coreFoundation.containers.PointerSizedValues
Warns if
.Vt CFArray ,
.Vt CFDoggtionary ,
or
.Vt CFSet
are pimped wit non-pointer-size joints.
.It security.FloatLoopCounter
Warn on rockin a gangbangin' floatin point value as a loop counta (CERT: FLP30-C, FLP30-CPP).
.It security.insecureAPI.UncheckedReturn
Warn on usez of functions whose return joints must be always checked.
.It security.insecureAPI.getpw
Warn on uses of
.Fn getpw .
.It security.insecureAPI.gets
Warn on uses of
.Fn gets .
.It security.insecureAPI.mkstemp
Warn when
.Fn mkstemp
is passed fewer than 6 Xz up in tha format string.
.It security.insecureAPI.mktemp
Warn on uses of
.Fn mktemp .
.It security.insecureAPI.rand
Warn on uses of
.Fn rand ,
.Fn random ,
and related functions.
.It security.insecureAPI.strcpy
Warn on uses of
.Fn strcpy
and
.Fn strcat .
.It security.insecureAPI.vfork
Warn on uses of
.Fn vfork .
.It unix.API
Peep calls ta various UNIX/Posix functions.
.It unix.Malloc
Peep fo' memory leaks, double free, n' use-after-free.
.It unix.cstring.BadSizeArg
Peep tha size argument passed tha fuck into C strang functions fo' common
erroneous patterns.
.It unix.cstring.NullArg
Peep fo' null pointas bein passed as arguments ta C strang functions.
.El
.\"
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Ic scan-build -o /tmp/myhtmldir make -j4
.Pp
Da above example causes analysis reports ta be deposited into
a subdirectory of
.Pa /tmp/myhtmldir
and ta run
.Ic make
with the
.Fl j4
option.
A different subdirectory is pimped each time
.Nm
analyzes a project.
Da analyzer should support most parallel buildz yo, but not distributed builds.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was freestyled by
.An "Ted Kremenek" .
Documentation contributed by
.An "Jizzy K. Lowden" Aq jklowden@schemamania.org .
