.TH scanimage 1 "10 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX scanimage
.SH NAME
scanimage \- scan a image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scanimage
.RB [ \-d | \-\-device\-name
.IR dev ]
.RB [ \-\-format
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-i | \-\-icc\-profile
.IR flava ]
.RB [ \-L | \-\-list\-devices ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-formatted\-device\-list 
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-b | \-\-batch
.RI [= format ]]
.RB [ \-\-batch\-start
.IR start ]
.RB [ \-\-batch\-count
.IR count ]
.RB [ \-\-batch\-increment
.IR increment ]
.RB [ \-\-batch\-double ]
.RB [ \-\-accept\-md5\-only ]
.RB [ \-p | \-\-progress ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-dont\-scan ]
.RB [ \-T | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-A | \-\-all-options ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-B | \-\-buffer-size
.RI [= size ]]
.RB [ \-V | \-\-version ]
.RI [ device\-specific\-options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scanimage
is a cold-ass lil command-line intercourse ta control image acquisizzle devices such
as flatbed scanners or cameras.  Da thang is controlled via
command-line options.  Afta command-line processing,
.B scanimage
normally proceedz ta acquire a image.  Da image data is freestyled to
standard output up in one of tha PNM (portable aNyMaP) formats (PBM for
black-and-white images, PGM fo' grayscale images, n' PPM fo' color
images) or up in TIFF (black-and-white, grayscale or color).
.B scanimage
accesses image acquisizzle devices all up in the
.B SANE
(Scanner Access Now Easy) intercourse n' can thus support any thang fo' which
there exists a
.B SANE
backend (try
.B apropos
.I sane\-
to git a list of available backends).

.SH EXAMPLES
To git a list of devices:

  scanimage \-L

To scan wit default settings ta tha file image.pnm:

  scanimage >image.pnm

To scan 100x100 mm ta tha file image.tiff (\-x n' \-y may not be available with
all devices):

  scanimage \-x 100 \-y 100 \-\-format=tiff >image.tiff

To print all available options:

  scanimage \-h

.SH OPTIONS
Parametas is separated by a funky-ass blank from single-characta options (e.g.
\-d epson) n' by a "=" from multi-characta options (e.g. \-\-device\-name=epson).

.PP
The
.B \-d
or
.B \-\-device\-name
options must be followed by a
.B SANE
device-name like 
.RI ` epson:/dev/sg0 '
or 
.RI ` hp:/dev/usbscanner0 '.
A (partial) list of available devices can be obtained wit the
.B \-\-list\-devices
option (see below).  If no device-name is specified explicitly,
.B scanimage
readz a thugged-out device-name from tha environment variable
.BR SANE_DEFAULT_DEVICE .
If dis variable aint set, 
.B scanimage
will attempt ta open tha straight-up original gangsta available device.
.PP
The
.B \-\-format 
.I format
option selects how tha fuck image data is freestyled ta standard output.
.I format
can be
.B pnm
or
.BR tiff.
If
.B \-\-format
is not used, PNM is written.
.PP
The
.B \-i
or
.B \-\-icc\-profile
option is used ta include a ICC flava tha fuck into a TIFF file.
.PP
The
.B \-L
or
.B \-\-list\-devices
option requests a (partial) list of devices dat is available.  The
list aint complete since some devices may be available yo, but is not
listed up in any of tha configuration filez (which is typically stored
in directory 
.IR /etc/sane.d ).
This is particularly tha case when accessin scanners all up in tha network.  If
a thang aint listed up in a cold-ass lil configuration file, tha only way ta access it is
by its full thang name.  Yo ass may need ta consult yo' system administrator to
smoke up tha namez of such devices.
.PP
The
.B \-f
or
.B \-\-formatted\-device\-list
option works similar to
.BR \-\-list\-devices ,
but requires a gangbangin' format string.
.B scanimage
replaces tha placeholders
.B %d %v %m %t %i %n
with tha thang name, vendor name, model name, scanner type, a index
number n' newline respectively. Da command
.PP
.RS
.B scanimage \-f
.I \*(lq scanner number %i thang %d be a %t, model %m, produced by %v \*(rq
.PP
.RE
will produce suttin' like:
.PP
.RS
scanner number 0  thang sharp:/dev/sg1 is  a  flatbed scanner, model JX250
SCSI, produced by SHARP
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-\-batch*
options provide tha features fo' scannin documents rockin document
feeders.  
.BR \-\-batch
.RI [ format ]
is used ta specify tha format of tha filename dat each page is ghon be written
to.  Each page is freestyled up ta a single file.  If
.I format
is not specified, tha default of out%d.pnm (or out%d.tif fo' \-\-format tiff)
will be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  
.I format
is given as a printf steez strang wit one integer parameter.
.B \-\-batch\-start
.I start
selects tha page number ta start namin filez with. If dis option is not
given, tha counta will start at 1.
.B \-\-batch\-count
.I count
specifies tha number of pages ta attempt ta scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If not given, 
scanimage will continue scannin until tha scanner returns a state
other than OK.  Not all scanners wit document feedaz signal when the
ADF is empty, use dis command ta work round em.
With 
.B \-\-batch\-increment
.I increment
you can chizzle tha amount dat tha number up in tha filename is incremented
by.  Generally dis is used when yo ass is scannin double-sided documents
on a single-sided document feeder n' shit.  A specific command is provided to
aid this:
.B \-\-batch\-double
will automatically set tha increment ta 2.
.B \-\-batch\-prompt
will ask fo' pressin RETURN before scannin a page. This can be used for
scannin multiple pages without a automatic document feeder.
.PP
The
.B \-\-accept\-md5\-only
option only accepts user authorization requests dat support MD5 security. The
.B SANE
network daemon
.RB ( saned )
is capable of bustin such requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR saned (8).
.PP
The
.B \-p
or
.B \-\-progress
option requests that
.B scanimage
prints a progress counter n' shit. Well shiiiit, it shows how tha fuck much image data of tha current image has
already been received by
.B scanimage 
(in cement).
.PP
The
.B \-n
or
.B \-\-dont\-scan
option requests that
.B scanimage
only sets tha options provided by tha user but don't straight-up big-ass up a
scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option can be used ta e.g. turn off tha scannerz lamp (if
supported by tha backend).
.PP
The
.B \-T
or
.B \-\-test
option requests that
.B scanimage
performs all dem simple sanitizzle tests ta make shizzle tha backend works as
defined by the
.B SANE
API (in particular the
.B sane_read
function is exercised by dis test).
.PP
The
.B \-A
or
.B \-\-all-options
option requests that
.B scanimage
lists all available options exposed tha backend, includin button options.
Da shiznit is printed on standard output n' no scan is ghon be done.
.PP
The
.B \-h
or
.B \-\-help
options request help shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da shiznit is printed on
standard output n' up in dis case, no attempt is ghon be made ta acquire
an image.
.PP
The
.B \-v
or
.B \-\-verbose
options increase tha verbositizzle of tha operation of
.B scanimage.
Da option may be specified repeatedly, each time increasin tha verbosity
level.
.PP
The
.B \-B
or
.B \-\-buffer-size
changes tha input buffer size from 32KB ta tha number kB specified or 1M.
.PP
The
.B \-V
or
.B \-\-version
option requests that
.B scanimage
prints tha program n' package name, tha version number of
the
.B SANE
distribution dat it came wit n' tha version of tha backend dat it
loads. Usually thatz tha dll backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. If mo' shiznit bout tha version
numberz of tha backendz is necessary, the
.B DEBUG
variable fo' tha dll backend can be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Example: SANE_DEBUG_DLL=3 scanimage
\-L.
.PP
As you might imagine, much of tha juice of
.B scanimage
be reppin tha fact dat it can control any
.B SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Thus, tha exact set of command-line options dependz on the
capabilitizzlez of tha selected device.  To peep tha options fo' a thang named
.IR dev ,
invoke
.B scanimage
via a cold-ass lil command-line of tha form:
.PP
.RS
.B scanimage \-\-help \-\-device\-name
.I dev
.RE
.PP
Da documentation fo' tha device-specific options printed by
.B \-\-help
is dopest explained wit all dem examples:

 \-l 0..218mm [0]
.br
    Top-left x posizzle of scan area.
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-l
expects a option value up in tha range from 0 ta 218 mm.  The
value up in square brackets indicates dat tha current option value is 0
mm. Most backendz provide similar geometry options fo' top-left y posizzle (\-t),
width (\-x) n' height of scan-area (\-y).
.RE


 \-\-brightnizz \-100..100% [0]
.br
    Controls tha brightnizz of tha acquired image.
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-\-brightness
expects a option value up in tha range from \-100 ta 100 cement.  The
value up in square brackets indicates dat tha current option value is 0
percent.
.RE

 \-\-default\-enhancements
.br
    Set default joints fo' enhancement controls.
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-\-default\-enhancements
has no option value.  It should be thought of as havin a immediate
effect all up in tha deal wit tha command-line at which it appears.  For
example, since dis option resets the
.B \-\-brightness
option, tha option-pair
.B \-\-brightnizz 50 \-\-default\-enhancements
would effectively be a no-op.
.RE

 \-\-mode Lineart|Gray|Color [Gray]
.br
    Selects tha scan mode (e.g., lineart or color).
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-\-mode
accepts a argument dat must be one of tha strings
.BR Lineart ,
.BR Gray ,
or
.BR Color .
Da value up in tha square bracket indicates dat tha option is currently
set to
.BR Gray .
For convenience, it is legal ta abbreviate tha strang joints as long as
they remain unique.  Also, tha case of tha spellin don't matter n' shit.  For
example, option setting
.B \-\-mode col
is identical to
.BR "\-\-mode Color" .
.RE

 \-\-custom\-gamma[=(yes|no)] [inactive]
.br
    Determines whether a funky-ass builtin or a cold-ass lil custom gamma-table
.br
    should be used.
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-\-custom\-gamma
expects either no option value, a "yes" string, or a "no" string.
Specifyin tha option wit no value is equivalent ta specifyin "yes".
Da value up in square-brackets indicates dat tha option is not
currently active.  That is, attemptin ta set tha option would result
in a error message.  Da set of available options typically depends
on tha settingz of other options.  For example, the
.B \-\-custom\-gamma
table might be actizzle only when a grayscale or color scan-mode has
been requested.

Note dat the
.B \-\-help
option is processed only afta all other options done been processed.
This make it possible ta peep tha option settings fo' a particular
mode by specifyin tha appropriate mode-options along
with the
.B \-\-help
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example, tha command-line:
.PP
.B  scanimage \-\-help \-\-mode
.I color
.PP
would print tha option settings dat is up in effect when tha color-mode
is selected.
.RE

 \-\-gamma\-table 0..255,...
.br
    Gamma-correction table.  In color mode dis option
.br
    equally affects tha red, green, n' blue channels
.br
    simultaneously (i.e., it be a intensitizzle gamma table).
.PP
.RS
Da description above shows dat option
.B \-\-gamma\-table
expects zero or mo' joints up in tha range 0 ta 255.  For example, a
legal value fo' dis option would be "3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12".  Since
itz cumbersome ta specify long vectors up in dis form, tha same can be
expressed by tha abbreviated form "[0]3-[9]12".  What dis means is
that tha straight-up original gangsta vector element is set ta 3, tha 9-th element is set to
12 n' tha joints up in between is interpolated linearly.  Of course, it
is possible ta specify multiple such linear segments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  For example,
"[0]3-[2]3-[6]7,[7]10-[9]6" is equivalent ta "3,3,3,4,5,6,7,10,8,6".
Da program
.B gamma4scanimage
can be used ta generate such gamma tablez (see 
.BR gamma4scanimage (1)
for details).
.RE

.br
 \-\-filename <string> [/tmp/input.ppm]
.br
    Da filename of tha image ta be loaded.
.PP
.RS
Da description above be a example of a option dat takes an
arbitrary strang value (which happens ta be a gangbangin' filename).  Again,
the value up in brackets show dat tha option is current set ta the
filename 
.BR /tmp/input.ppm .
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEFAULT_DEVICE
Da default device-name.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d
This directory holdz various configuration files.  For details, please
refer ta tha manual pages listed below.
.TP
.I ~/.sane/pass
This file gotz nuff linez of tha form
.PP
.RS
user:password:resource
.PP
scanimage uses dis shiznit ta answer user authorization requests
automatically. Da file must have 0600 permissions or stricter n' shit. Yo ass should
use dis file up in conjunction wit tha \-\-accept\-md5\-only option ta avoid
server-side attacks. Da resource may contain any characta but is limited
to 127 characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR gamma4scanimage (1),
.BR xscanimage (1),
.BR xcam(1) ,
.BR xsane(1) ,
.BR scanadf (1),
.BR sane\-dll (5),
.BR sane\-net (5),
.BR sane\-"backendname" (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger, Andreas Beck, Gordon Matzigkeit, Caskey Dickson, n' many
others.  For thangs n' comments contact tha sane\-devel mailinglist (see
http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html).

.SH BUGS
For vector options, tha help output currently has no indication as to
how nuff elements a vector-value should have.
