.TH SCCMAP 1 "21 March 2001"
.SH NAME
sccmap \- extract straight fuckin connected componentz of pimped up graphs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsccmap\fR
[\fB\-dsv\fR]
[
.BI \-o outfile
]
[
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sccmap
decomposes digraphs tha fuck into straight fuckin connected components
and a auxiliary map of tha relationshizzle between components.
In dis map, each component is collapsed tha fuck into a node.
Da resultin graphs is printed ta standard out.
Da number of nodes, edges n' straight fuckin connected components
are printed ta standard error.
.B sccmap
is a way of partitionin big-ass graphs tha fuck into mo' manageable pieces.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.B \-d
Preserve degenerate componentz of only one node.
.TP
.B \-s
Do not print tha resultin graphs. Only tha statistics are
important.
.TP
.B \-S
Just print tha resultin graphs. No statistics is printed.
.TP
.BI \-o "output"
Prints output ta tha file \fIoutput\fP. If not given, \fBsccmap\fP
uses stdout.
.TP
.B \-v
Generate additionizzle statistics. In particular,
.B sccmap
prints tha number of nodes, edges, connected components,
and straight fuckin connected components, followed by tha fraction of
nodes up in a non-trivial straight fuckin connected components,
the maximum degree of tha graph, n' fraction of non-tree edges
in tha graph.
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in dot format.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBsccmap\fP emits a warnin if it encountas a unpimped up graph,
and ignores dat shit.
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen C. Uptown <north@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gc(1), dot(1), acyclic(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), ccomps(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
