." Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH schemagen 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
schemagen \- Java(TM) Architecture fo' XML Bindin Schema Generator
.LP
.LP
\f3Specification Version:\fP 2.1
.br
\f3Implementation Version:\fP 2.1.3
.LP
.SH "Launchin schemagen"
.LP
.LP
Da schema generator can be launched rockin tha appropriate \f2schemagen\fP shell script up in tha \f2bin\fP directory fo' yo' platform.
.LP
.LP
Da current schema generator can process either Java source filez or class files.
.LP
.LP
We also provide a Ant task ta run tha schema generator \- peep tha instructions fo' 
.na
\f2usin schemagen wit Ant\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html.
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
% schemagen.sh Foo.java Bar.java ...
.fl
Note: Freestylin schema1.xsd
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
If yo' java sources/classes reference other classes, they must be accessable on yo' system CLASSPATH environment variable, or they need ta be given ta tha tool by rockin tha \f2\-classpath\fP/\f2\-cp\fP options. Otherwise yo big-ass booty is ghon peep errors when generatin yo' schema.
.LP
.SS 
Command Line Options
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
Usage: schemagen [\-options ...] <java files> 
.fl

.fl
Options:
.fl
    \-d <path>             : specify where ta place processor n' javac generated class files
.fl
    \-cp <path>            : specify where ta find user specified files
.fl
    \-classpath <path>     : specify where ta find user specified files
.fl
    \-encodin <encoding>  : specify encodin ta be used fo' apt/javac invocation
.fl

.fl
    \-episode <file>       : generate episode file fo' separate compilation
.fl
    \-version              : display version shiznit
.fl
    \-help                 : display dis usage message
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "Generated Resource Files"
.LP
.LP
Da current schema generator simply creates a schema file fo' each namespace referenced up in yo' Java classes. There is no way ta control tha name of tha generated schema filez at dis time. For dat purpose, use 
.na
\f2the schema generator ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html.
.LP
.SH "Name"
See Also
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
Hustlin tha schema generator (schemagen): [
.na
\f2command\-line instructions\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagen.html, 
.na
\f2usin tha SchemaGen Ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html] 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Java Architecture fo' XML Bindin (JAXB)\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/xml/jaxb/index.html 
.RE

.LP
 
