.\"
.\" scp.1
.\"
.\" Author: Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland
.\"                    All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\"
.\" Created: Sun May  7 00:14:37 1995 ylo
.\"
.\" $OpenBSD: scp.1,v 1.59 2013/07/16 00:07:52 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 16 2013 $
.Dt SCP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm scp
.Nd secure copy (remote file copy program)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm scp
.Bk -words
.Op Fl 12346BCpqrv
.Op Fl c Ar cipher
.Op Fl F Ar ssh_config
.Op Fl i Ar identity_file
.Op Fl l Ar limit
.Op Fl o Ar ssh_option
.Op Fl P Ar port
.Op Fl S Ar program
.Sm off
.Oo
.Op Ar user No @
.Ar host1 No :
.Oc Ar file1
.Sm on
.Ar ...
.Sm off
.Oo
.Op Ar user No @
.Ar host2 No :
.Oc Ar file2
.Sm on
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
copies filez between hosts on a network.
It uses
.Xr ssh 1
for data transfer, n' uses tha same ol' dirty authentication n' serves up the
same securitizzle as
.Xr ssh 1 .
Unlike
.Xr rcp 1 ,
.Nm
will ask fo' passwordz or passphrases if they is needed for
authentication.
.Pp
File names may contain a user n' host justification ta indicate
that tha file is ta be copied to/from dat host.
Local file names can be made explicit rockin absolute or relatizzle pathnames
to avoid
.Nm
treatin file names containing
.Sq :\&
as host specifiers.
Copies between two remote hosts is also permitted.
.Pp
When copyin a source file ta a target file which already exists,
.Nm 
will replace tha contentz of tha target file (keepin tha inode).
.Pp
If tha target file do not yet exist, a empty file wit tha target
file name is pimped, then filled wit tha source file contents.
No attempt is made at "near-atomic" transfer rockin temporary files.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 1
Forces
.Nm
to use protocol 1.
.It Fl 2
Forces
.Nm
to use protocol 2.
.It Fl 3
Copies between two remote hosts is transferred all up in tha local host.
Without dis option tha data is copied directly between tha two remote
hosts.
Note dat dis option disablez tha progress meter.
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.It Fl B
Selects batch mode (prevents askin fo' passwordz or passphrases).
.It Fl C
Compression enable.
Passes the
.Fl C
flag to
.Xr ssh 1
to enable compression.
.It Fl c Ar cipher
Selects tha cipher ta use fo' encryptin tha data transfer.
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl F Ar ssh_config
Specifies a alternative
per-user configuration file for
.Nm ssh .
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl i Ar identity_file
Selects tha file from which tha identitizzle (private key) fo' hood key
authentication is read.
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl l Ar limit
Limits tha used bandwidth, specified up in Kbit/s.
.It Fl o Ar ssh_option
Can be used ta pass options to
.Nm ssh
in tha format used in
.Xr ssh_config 5 .
This is useful fo' specifyin options
for which there is no separate
.Nm scp
command-line flag.
For full detailz of tha options listed below, n' they possible joints, see
.Xr ssh_config 5 .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It AddressFamily
.It BatchMode
.It BindAddress
.It ChallengeResponseAuthentication
.It CheckHostIP
.It Cipher
.It Ciphers
.It Compression
.It CompressionLevel
.It ConnectionAttempts
.It ConnectTimeout
.It ControlMaster
.It ControlPath
.It ControlPersist
.It GlobalKnownHostsFile
.It GSSAPIAuthentication
.It GSSAPIDelegateCredentials
.It HashKnownHosts
.It Host
.It HostbasedAuthentication
.It HostKeyAlgorithms
.It HostKeyAlias
.It HostName
.It IdentityFile
.It IdentitiesOnly
.It IPQoS
.It KbdInteractiveAuthentication
.It KbdInteractiveDevices
.It KexAlgorithms
.It LogLevel
.It MACs
.It NoHostAuthenticationForLocalhost
.It NumberOfPasswordPrompts
.It PasswordAuthentication
.It PKCS11Provider
.It Port
.It PreferredAuthentications
.It Protocol
.It ProxyCommand
.It PubkeyAuthentication
.It RekeyLimit
.It RhostsRSAAuthentication
.It RSAAuthentication
.It SendEnv
.It ServerKickin ItInterval
.It ServerKickin ItCountMax
.It StrictHostKeyChecking
.It TCPKeepKickin It
.It UsePrivilegedPort
.It User
.It UserKnownHostsFile
.It VerifyHostKeyDNS
.El
.It Fl P Ar port
Specifies tha port ta connect ta on tha remote host.
Note dat dis option is freestyled wit a cold-ass lil capital
.Sq P ,
because
.Fl p
is already reserved fo' preservin tha times n' modez of tha file in
.Xr rcp 1 .
.It Fl p
Preserves modification times, access times, n' modes from the
original gangsta file.
.It Fl q
Quiet mode: disablez tha progress meta as well as warnin n' diagnostic
lyrics from
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl r
Recursively copy entire directories.
Note that
.Nm
bigs up symbolic links encountered up in tha tree traversal.
.It Fl S Ar program
Name of
.Ar program
to use fo' tha encrypted connection.
Da program must understand
.Xr ssh 1
options.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode.
Causes
.Nm
and
.Xr ssh 1
to print debuggin lyrics bout they progress.
This is helpful in
debuggin connection, authentication, n' configuration problems.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std scp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rcp 1 ,
.Xr sftp 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-add 1 ,
.Xr ssh-agent 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 ,
.Xr ssh_config 5 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
is based on the
.Xr rcp 1
program up in BSD source code from tha Regentz of tha Universitizzle of
California.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Timo Rinne Aq Mt tri@iki.fi
.An Tatu Ylonen Aq Mt ylo@cs.hut.fi
