.TH SCRIPTREPLAY 1 "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
scriptreplay \- play back typescripts, rockin timin shiznit
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B scriptreplay
.RI [ options ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.I timingfile
.RI [ typescript
.RI [ divisor ]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program replays a typescript, rockin timin shiznit ta ensure that
output happens all up in tha same speed as it originally rocked up when tha script
was recorded.
.PP
Da replay simply displays tha shiznit again; tha programs
that was run when tha typescript was bein recorded is not run again.
Since tha same shiznit is simply bein displayed,
.B scriptreplay
is only guaranteed ta work properly if run on tha same type of
terminal tha typescript was recorded on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Otherwise, any escape characters
in tha typescript may be interpreted differently by tha terminal to
which
.B scriptreplay
is bustin  its output.
.PP
Da timin shiznit is what
.BR script (1)
outputs ta standard error if it is
run wit the
.B \-t
parameter.
.PP
By default, tha typescript ta display be assumed ta be named
.BR typescript ,
but other filenames may be specified, as tha second parameta or wit option
.BR \-s .
.PP
If tha third parameta is specified, it is used as a speed-up multiplier.
For example, a speed-up of 2 makes
.B scriptreplay
go twice as fast, n' a speed-up of 0.1 make it go ten times slower
than tha original gangsta session.
.SH OPTIONS
Da first three options will overide old-style arguments.
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-timin " \fIfile\fR
File containin script timin output.
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-typescript " \fIfile\fR
File containin tha script terminal output.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-divisor " \fInumber\fR
Speed up tha replay displayin this
.I number
of times.  Da argument be a gangbangin' floatin point number n' shit.  It aint nuthin but called divisor
because it divides tha timings by dis factor.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
% script --timing=file.tm script.out
Script started, file is script.out
% ls
<etc, etc>
% exit
Script done, file is script.out
% scriptreplay --timin file.tm --typescript script.out
.nf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR script (1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2008 Jizzy Youngman
.br
Copyright \(co 2008 Karel Zak
.PP
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
.PP
Released under tha GNU General Public License version 2 or later.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Da original
.B scriptreplay
program was freestyled by
.MT joey@\:kitenet.net
Joey Hess
.ME .
Da program was re-written up in C by
.MT jay@\:gnu.org
Jizzy Youngman
.ME
and
.MT kzak@\:redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME .
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da scriptreplay command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
