.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)script.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.TH SCRIPT "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
script \- make typescript of terminal session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B script
[options] [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B script
makes a typescript of every last muthafuckin thang printed on yo' terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  It be useful for
students whoz ass need a hardcopy record of a interactizzle session as proof of an
assignment, as tha typescript file can be printed up lata with
.BR lpr (1).
.PP
If tha argument
.I file
is given,
.B script
saves all dialogue in
.IR file .
If no file name is given, tha typescript is saved up in tha file
.IR typescript .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-append\fR
Append tha output to
.I file
or
.IR typescript ,
retainin tha prior contents.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-command\fR \fIcommand\fR
Run the
.I command
rather than a interactizzle shell.  This make it easy as fuck  fo' a script ta capture
the output of a program dat behaves differently when its stdout aint a
tty.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-return\fR
Return tha exit code of tha lil pimp process.  Uses tha same ol' dirty format as bash
termination on signal termination exit code is 128+n.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-flush\fR
Flush output afta each write.  This is sick fo' telecooperation: one person
does `mkfifo foo; script -f foo', n' another can supervise real-time what tha fuck is
bein done rockin `cat foo'.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Allow tha default output destination, i.e. tha typescript file, ta be a hard
or symbolic link.  Da command will follow a symbolic link.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be on tha fuckin' down-low.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timing\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
Output timin data ta standard error, or to
.I file
when given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This data gotz nuff two fields, separated by a space.  Da first
field indicates how tha fuck much time elapsed since tha previous output.  Da second
field indicates how tha fuck nuff charactas was output dis time.  This shiznit
can be used ta replay typescripts wit realistic typin n' output delays.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH NOTES
Da script endz when tha forked shell exits (a
.I control-D
to exit
the Bourne shell
.RB ( sh (1)),
and
.IR exit ,
.I logout
or
.I control-d
(if
.I ignoreeof
is not set) fo' the
C-shell,
.BR csh (1)).
.PP
Certain interactizzle commands, such as
.BR vi (1),
create garbage up in tha typescript file.
.B Script
works dopest wit commandz dat do not manipulate tha screen, tha thangs up in dis biatch are
meant ta emulate a hardcopy terminal.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variable is utilized by
.BR script :
.TP
.B SHELL
If tha variable
.I SHELL
exists, tha shell forked by
.B script
will be dat shell. If
.I SHELL
is not set, tha Bourne shell be assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (Most shells set dis variable
automatically).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1)
(for the
.I history
mechanism),
.BR scriptreplay (1).
.SH HISTORY
The
.B script
command rocked up in 3.0BSD.
.SH BUGS
.B Script
places
.B every last muthafuckin thang
in tha log file, includin linefeedz n' backspaces.  This aint what tha fuck the
naive user expects.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da script command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
