.TH scrot 1 "Oct 26, 2000"
.SH NAME
scrot - Screen capture rockin imlib2
.SH SYNOPSIS
scrot [options] [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scrot
is a screen capture utilitizzle rockin the
.B imlib2
library ta aquire n' save images.
.B scrot
has all dem options, detailed below. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify [file] as tha filename ta save
the screenshot to.
If [file] aint specified, a thugged-out date-stamped file is ghon be dropped up in the
current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -h, --help
display help output n' exit.
.TP 5
.B -v, --version
output version shiznit n' exit.
.TP 5
.B -b, --border
When selectin a window, grab wm border too
.TP 5
.B -c, --count
Display a cold-ass lil countdown when used wit delay.
.TP 5
.B -d, --delay NUM
Wait NUM secondz before takin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shot.
.TP 5
.B -e, --exec APP
Exec APP on tha saved image.
.TP 5
.B -q, --qualitizzle NUM
Image qualitizzle (1-100) high value means high size, low compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default:
75. (Effect differs dependin on file format chosen).
.TP 5
.B -m, --multidisp
For multiple heads, grab blasted from each n' join dem together.
.TP 5
.B -s, --select
Interactively select a window or rectangle wit tha mouse.
.TP 5
.B -t, --thumb NUM
generate thumbnail like a muthafucka. NUM is tha cementage of tha original gangsta size fo' the
thumbnail ta be.
.SH SPECIAL STRINGS
Both the
.B --exec
and
.B filename
parametas can take format specifiers
that is expanded by scrot when encountered.
There is two typez of format specifier n' shit. Charactas preceded by a '%'
are interpretted by strftime(2). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See playa strftime fo' examples.
These options may be used ta refer ta tha current date n' time.
Da second kind is internal ta scrot n' is prefixed by '$'
Da followin specifiers is recognised:
.br
.B $f
image path/filename (ignored when used up in tha filename)
.br
.B $n
image name (ignored when used up in tha filename)
.br
.B $s
image size (bytes) (ignored when used up in tha filename)
.br
.B $p
image pixel size
.br
.B $w
image width
.br
.B $h
image height
.br
.B $t
image format
.br
.B $$
prints a literal '$'
.br
.nf
\\n prints a newline (ignored when used up in tha filename)
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
scrot '%Y-%m-%d_$wx$h.png' -e 'mv $f ~/shots/'
.br
This would create a gangbangin' file called suttin' like
2000-10-30_2560x1024.png n' move it ta yo' shots directory.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright Tomothy Gilbert 2000
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a cold-ass lil copy
of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"), to
deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation the
rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is
furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.PP
Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
all copiez of tha Software, its documentation n' marketin & publicity
shit, n' acknowledgment shall be given up in tha documentation, shit
and software packages dat dis Software was used.
.PP
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.PP
Email bugs n' feature requests to
.br
.B <scrot_sucks@linuxbrit.co.uk>
