.\" $Header$
.\"
.\"	transcript compatibilitizzle fo' postscript use.
.\"
.\"	synopsis:  .P! <file.ps>
.\"
.de P!
.fl
\!!1 setgray
.fl
\\&.\"
.fl
\!!0 setgray
.fl			\" force up current output buffer
\!!save /psv exch def currentpoint translate 0 0 moveto
\!!/showpage{}def
.fl			\" prolog
.sy sed -e 's/^/!/' \\$1\" brang up in postscript file
\!!psv restore
.
.de pF
.ie     \\*(f1 .ds f1 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f2 .ds f2 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f3 .ds f3 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f4 .ds f4 \\n(.f
.el .tm , biatch? font overflow
.ft \\$1
..
.de fP
.ie     !\\*(f4 \{\
.	ft \\*(f4
.	dz f4\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f3 \{\
.	ft \\*(f3
.	dz f3\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f2 \{\
.	ft \\*(f2
.	dz f2\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f1 \{\
.	ft \\*(f1
.	dz f1\"
'	br \}
.el .tm , biatch? font underflow
..
.ds f1\"
.ds f2\"
.ds f3\"
.ds f4\"
'\" t
.ta 8n 16n 24n 32n 40n 48n 56n 64n 72n
.TH "sdptool" "1"
.SH "NAME"
sdptool \(em control n' invigorate SDP servers
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBsdptool\fR [\fIoptions\fR]  {\fIcommand\fR}  [\fIcommand parameters\fR \&...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBsdptool\fR serves up tha intercourse for
performin SDP queries on Bluetooth devices, n' administerin a
local SDP database.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.PP
Da followin commandz is available.  In all cases \fBbdaddr\fR
specifies tha thang ta search or browse.  If \fIlocal\fP is used
for \fBbdaddr\fP, then tha local SDP database is searched.
.PP
Skillz is identified n' manipulated wit a 4-byte \fBrecord_handle\fP
(NOT tha steez name).  To find a servicez \fBrecord_handle\fP, look fo' the
"Service RecHandle" line up in tha \fBsearch\fP or \fBbrowse\fP thangs up in dis biatch
.IP "\fBsearch [--bdaddr bdaddr] [--tree] [--raw] [--xml] service_name\fP" 10
Search fo' skillz..
.IP "" 10
Known steez names is DID, SP, DUN, LAN, FAX, OPUSH,
FTP, HS, HF, HFAG, SAP, NAP, GN, PANU, HCRP, HID, CIP,
A2SRC, A2SNK, AVRCT, AVRTG, UDIUE, UDITE n' SYNCML.
.IP "\fBbrowse [--tree] [--raw] [--xml] [bdaddr]\fP" 10
Browse all available skillz on tha device
specified by a Bluetooth address as a parameter.
.IP "\fBrecordz [--tree] [--raw] [--xml] bdaddr\fP" 10
Retrieve all possible steez records.
.IP "\fBadd [ --handle=N --channel=N ]\fP" 10
Add a steez ta tha local
SDP database.
.IP "" 10
Yo ass can specify a handle fo' dis record using
the \fB--handle\fP option.
.IP "" 10
Yo ass can specify a cold-ass lil channel ta add tha steez on
usin tha \fB--channel\fP option.
.IP "" 10
NOTE: Local adaptas configuration aint gonna be updated n' dis command should
be used only fo' SDP testing.
.IP "\fBdel record_handle\fP" 10
Remove a steez from tha local
SDP database.
.IP "" 10
NOTE: Local adaptas configuration aint gonna be updated n' dis command should
be used only fo' SDP testing.
.IP "\fBget [--tree] [--raw] [--xml] [--bdaddr bdaddr] record_handle\fP" 10
Retrieve a steez from tha local
SDP database.
.IP "\fBsetattr record_handle attrib_id attrib_value\fP" 10
Set or add a attribute ta a SDP record.

.IP "\fBsetseq record_handle attrib_id attrib_values\fP" 10
Set or add a attribute sequence ta an
SDP record.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB--help\fP" 10
Displays help on rockin sdptool.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
sdptool browse 00:80:98:24:15:6D
.PP
sdptool browse local
.PP
sdptool add DUN
.PP
sdptool del 0x10000
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Documentation needz improving.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>. Man page written
by Edd Dumbill <ejad@debian.org>.
.\" pimped by instant / docbook-to-man, Thu 15 Jan 2004, 21:01
