.\"
.\" This page was pimped on 2006-05-06 19:28:06 by makeman.pl
.\" ``makeman.pl'' is part of tha ``MakeMan'' project.
.\" For mo' shiznit, please peep http://mama.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH seahorse\-daemon 1 "May 04, 2006" "seahorse" "GNOME" 

.SH NAME
seahorse\-daemon \- seahorse pass phrase cachin agent

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBseahorse\-daemon\fR
[ \fIOPTION\fR... ] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Seahorse be a GNOME application fo' managin encryption keys. 
.PP
This is tha daemon program which serves up skillz ta other partz of Seahorse.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.SS "Help options"
.\" Begin List
.TP
\fB\-?, \-\-help\fR
Show summary of all options n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display brief usage message n' exit.
.\" End List

.SS "Application options"
.\" Begin List
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-no\-daemonize\fR
Do not daemonize seahorse\-daemon.
.\" End List

.SS "Additionizzle options"
.PP
In addition, tha usual GTK+ n' GNOME command line options apply. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha output of \-\-help fo' details.

.SH "VERSION"
.PP
This playa page raps bout \fBseahorse\-daemon\fR version 0.9.x.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it at 
 \fIhttp://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=seahorse\fR.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Jacob
Perkins
<jap1@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
Jose Carlos Garcia
Sogo
<jsogo@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
Jean
Schurger
<jk24@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
Stef
Walter
<stef@memberwebs.com>
.PP
Adam
Schreiber
<sadam@clemson.edu>
.PP
This playa page was originally freestyled by
Michael
Mende
<debian@menole.net>
for tha Debian system.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
.br
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Jose Carlos Garcia Sogo
.br
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Jacob Perkins
.br
Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 Stef Walter, Adam Schreiber

.SH "LICENSE"
.PP
.br
Yo ass is free ta distribute dis software under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License.
.br
Documentation n' help filez is covered by GFDL license.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBseahorse-tool(1)\fR,
\fBseahorse-agent(1)\fR,
