.TH SECON "1" "April 2006" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" NSA
.SH NAME
secon \- See a SELinux context, from a gangbangin' file, program or user input.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secon
[\fB-hVurtscmPRfLp\fR]
[\fICONTEXT\fR]
.br
[\fB--file\fR]
\fIFILE\fR
.br
[\fB--link\fR]
\fIFILE\fR
.br
[\fB--pid\fR]
\fIPID\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
See a part of a cold-ass lil context. Da context is taken from a gangbangin' file, pid, user input or
the context up in which
.B secon
is originally executed.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
shows tha current version of secon
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
shows tha usage shiznit fo' secon
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-prompt\fR
outputs data up in a gangbangin' format suitable fo' a prompt
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR
outputs data wit tha associated ANSI color codes (requires -P)
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR
show tha user of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-role\fR
show tha role of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR
show tha type of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sensitivity\fR
show tha sensitivitizzle level of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clearance\fR
show tha clearizzle level of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mls-range\fR
show tha sensitivitizzle level n' clearance, as a range, of tha securitizzle context
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
outputs  tha sensitivitizzle level n' clearizzle up in a untranslated format.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR
gets tha context from tha specified file FILE
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-link\fR
gets tha context from tha specified file FILE (doesn't follow symlinks)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR
gets tha context from tha specified process PID
.TP
\fB\-\-pid\-exec\fR
gets tha exec context from tha specified process PID
.TP
\fB\-\-pid\-fs\fR
gets tha fscreate context from tha specified process PID
.TP
\fB\-\-current\fR, \fB\-\-self\fR
gets tha context from tha current process
.TP
\fB\-\-current\-exec\fR, \fB\-\-self\-exec\fR
gets tha exec context from tha current process
.TP
\fB\-\-current\-fs\fR, \fB\-\-self\-fs\fR
gets tha fscreate context from tha current process
.TP
\fB\-\-parent\fR
gets tha context from tha parent of tha current process
.TP
\fB\-\-parent\-exec\fR
gets tha exec context from tha parent of tha current process
.TP
\fB\-\-parent\-fs\fR
gets tha fscreate context from tha parent of tha current process
.PP
Additionizzle argument
.I CONTEXT
may be provided n' is ghon be used if no options done been specified ta make
.B secon
get its context from another source.
If dat argument is
.I -
then tha context is ghon be read from stdin.
.br
If there is no argument,
.B secon
will try readin a cold-ass lil context from stdin, if dat aint a tty, otherwise 
.B secon
will act as though \fB\-\-self\fR had been passed.
.PP
If none of \fB\-\-user\fR, \fB\-\-role\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR, \fB\-\-level\fR or
\fB\-\-mls\-range\fR is passed.
Then all of dem is ghon be output.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.B chcon
(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Jizzy Antill (james.antill@redhat.com) 
