.TH SENDMAIL 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
sendmail
\-
Postfix ta Sendmail compatibilitizzle intercourse
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBsendmail\fR [\fIoption ...\fR] [\fIrecipient ...\fR]

\fBmailq\fR
\fBsendmail -bp\fR

\fBnewaliases\fR
\fBsendmail -I\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command implements tha Postfix
to Sendmail compatibilitizzle intercourse.
For tha sake of compatibilitizzle wit existin applications, some
Sendmail command-line options is recognized but silently ignored.

By default, Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) readz a message from
standard input
until EOF or until it readz a line wit only a \fB.\fR character,
and arranges fo' delivery.  Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) relies on the
\fBpostdrop\fR(1) command ta create a queue file up in tha \fBmaildrop\fR
directory.

Specific command aliases is provided fo' other common modes of
operation:
.IP \fBmailq\fR
List tha mail queue. Each entry shows tha queue file ID, message
size, arrival time, sender, n' tha recipients dat still need to
be delivered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If mail could not be served up upon tha last attempt,
the reason fo' failure is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da queue ID strang is
followed by a optionizzle status character:
.RS
.IP \fB*\fR
Da message is up in tha \fBactive\fR queue, i.e. tha message is
selected fo' delivery.
.IP \fB!\fR
Da message is up in tha \fBhold\fR queue, i.e. no further delivery
attempt is ghon be made until tha mail is taken off hold.
.RE
.IP
This mode of operation is implemented by executin the
\fBpostqueue\fR(1) command.
.IP \fBnewaliases\fR
Initialize tha alias database.  If no input file is specified (with
the \fB-oA\fR option, peep below), tha program processes tha file(s)
specified wit tha \fBalias_database\fR configuration parameter.
If no alias database type is specified, tha program uses tha type
specified wit tha \fBdefault_database_type\fR configuration parameter.
This mode of operation is implemented by hustlin tha \fBpostalias\fR(1)
command.
.sp
Note: it may take a minute or so before a alias database update
becomes visible. Use tha "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command ta eliminate
this delay.
.PP
These n' other features can be selected by specifyin the
appropriate combination of command-line options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some features are
controlled by parametas up in tha \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file.

Da followin options is recognized:
.IP "\fB-Am\fR (ignored)"
.IP "\fB-Ac\fR (ignored)"
Postfix sendmail uses tha same ol' dirty configuration file regardless of
whether or not a message be a initial submission.
.IP "\fB-B \fIbody_type\fR"
Da message body MIME type: \fB7BIT\fR or \fB8BITMIME\fR.
.IP \fB-bd\fR
Go tha fuck into daemon mode. This mode of operation is implemented by
executin tha "\fBpostfix start\fR" command.
.IP "\fB-bh\fR (ignored)"
.IP "\fB-bH\fR (ignored)"
Postfix has no persistent host status database.
.IP \fB-bi\fR
Initialize alias database. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBnewaliases\fR
command above.
.IP \fB-bl\fR
Go tha fuck into daemon mode. To accept only local connections as
with Sendmail\z \fB-bl\fR option, specify "\fBinet_interfaces
= loopback\fR" up in tha Postfix \fBmain.cf\fR configuration
file.
.IP \fB-bm\fR
Read mail from standard input n' arrange fo' delivery.
This is tha default mode of operation.
.IP \fB-bp\fR
List tha mail queue. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBmailq\fR command above.
.IP \fB-bs\fR
Stand-alone SMTP server mode. Read SMTP commandz from
standard input, n' write responses ta standard output.
In stand-alone SMTP server mode, mail relayin n' other
access controls is disabled by default. To enable them,
run tha process as tha \fBmail_baller\fR user.
.sp
This mode of operation is implemented by hustlin the
\fBsmtpd\fR(8) daemon.
.IP \fB-bv\fR
Do not collect or serve up a message. Instead, bust a email
report afta verifyin each recipient address.  This is useful
for testin address rewritin n' routin configurations.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later.
.IP "\fB-C \fIconfig_file\fR"
.IP "\fB-C \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Da path name of tha Postfix \fBmain.cf\fR file, or of its
parent directory. This shiznit is ignored wit Postfix
versions before 2.3.

With all Postfix versions, you can specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory pathname
with tha MAIL_CONFIG environment variable ta override the
location of configuration files.
.IP "\fB-F \fIfull_name\fR
Set tha sender full name. This overrides tha NAME environment
variable, n' is used only wit lyrics that
have no \fBFrom:\fR message header.
.IP "\fB-f \fIsender\fR"
Set tha envelope sender address. This is tha address where
delivery problems is busted to. With Postfix versions before 2.1, the
\fBErrors-To:\fR message header overrides tha error return address.
.IP \fB-G\fR
Gateway (relay) submission, as opposed ta initial user
submission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Either do not rewrite addresses at all, or
update incomplete addresses wit tha domain shiznit
specified wit \fBremote_header_rewrite_domain\fR.

This option is ignored before Postfix version 2.3.
.IP "\fB-h \fIhop_count\fR (ignored)"
Hop count limit. Use tha \fBhopcount_limit\fR configuration
parameta instead.
.IP \fB-I\fR
Initialize alias database. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBnewaliases\fR
command above.
.IP "\fB-i\fR"
When readin a message from standard input, don\'t treat a line
with only a \fB.\fR characta as tha end of input.
.IP "\fB-L \fIlabel\fR (ignored)"
Da loggin label. Use tha \fBsyslog_name\fR configuration
parameta instead.
.IP "\fB-m\fR (ignored)"
Backwardz compatibility.
.IP "\fB-N \fIdsn\fR (default: 'delay, failure')"
Delivery status notification control. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify either a
comma-separated list wit one or mo' of \fBfailure\fR (send
notification when delivery fails), \fBdelay\fR (send
notification when delivery is delayed), or \fBsuccess\fR
(send notification when tha message is delivered); or specify
\fBnever\fR (don't bust any notifications at all).

This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP "\fB-n\fR (ignored)"
Backwardz compatibility.
.IP "\fB-oA\fIalias_database\fR"
Non-default alias database. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify \fIpathname\fR or
\fItype\fR:\fIpathname\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBpostalias\fR(1) for
details.
.IP "\fB-O \fIoption=value\fR (ignored)"
Set tha named \fIoption\fR ta \fIvalue\fR. Use tha equivalent
configuration parameta up in \fBmain.cf\fR instead.
.IP "\fB-o7\fR (ignored)"
.IP "\fB-o8\fR (ignored)"
To bust 8-bit or binary content, use a appropriate MIME encapsulation
and specify tha appropriate \fB-B\fR command-line option.
.IP "\fB-oi\fR"
When readin a message from standard input, don\'t treat a line
with only a \fB.\fR characta as tha end of input.
.IP "\fB-om\fR (ignored)"
Da sender is never eliminated from alias etc. expansions.
.IP "\fB-o \fIx value\fR (ignored)"
Set option \fIx\fR ta \fIvalue\fR. Use tha equivalent
configuration parameta up in \fBmain.cf\fR instead.
.IP "\fB-r \fIsender\fR"
Set tha envelope sender address. This is tha address where
delivery problems is busted to. With Postfix versions before 2.1, the
\fBErrors-To:\fR message header overrides tha error return address.
.IP "\fB-R \fIreturn\fR"
Delivery status notification control.  Specify "hdrs" to
return only tha header when a message bounces, "full" to
return a gangbangin' full copy (the default behavior).

Da \fB-R\fR option specifies a upper bound; Postfix will
return only tha header, when a gangbangin' full copy would exceed the
bounce_size_limit setting.

This option is ignored before Postfix version 2.10.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Attempt ta serve up all queued mail. This is implemented by
executin tha \fBpostqueue\fR(1) command.

Warning: flushin undeliverable mail frequently will result in
poor delivery performizzle of all other mail.
.IP "\fB-q\fIinterval\fR (ignored)"
Da interval between queue runs. Use tha \fBqueue_run_delay\fR
configuration parameta instead.
.IP \fB-qI\fIqueueid\fR
Schedule immediate delivery of mail wit tha specified queue
ID.  This option is implemented by executin the
\fBpostqueue\fR(1) command, n' be available wit Postfix
version 2.4 n' later.
.IP \fB-qR\fIsite\fR
Schedule immediate delivery of all mail dat is queued fo' tha named
\fIsite\fR. This option accepts only \fIsite\fR names dat are
eligible fo' tha "fast flush" service, n' is implemented by
executin tha \fBpostqueue\fR(1) command.
See \fBflush\fR(8) fo' mo' shiznit bout tha "fast flush"
service.
.IP \fB-qS\fIsite\fR
This command aint implemented. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use tha slower "\fBsendmail -q\fR"
command instead.
.IP \fB-t\fR
Extract recipients from message headers. These is added ta any
recipients specified on tha command line.

With Postfix versions prior ta 2.1, dis option requires that
no recipient addresses is specified on tha command line.
.IP "\fB-U\fR (ignored)"
Initial user submission.
.IP "\fB-V \fIenvid\fR"
Specify tha envelope ID fo' notification by servers that
support DSN.

This feature be available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later.
.IP "\fB-XV\fR (Postfix 2.2 n' earlier: \fB-V\fR)"
Variable Envelope Return Path. Given a envelope sender address
of tha form \fIballer-listname\fR@\fIorigin\fR, each recipient
\fIuser\fR@\fIdomain\fR receives mail wit a personalized envelope
sender address.
.sp
By default, tha personalized envelope sender address is
\fIballer-listname\fB+\fIuser\fB=\fIdomain\fR@\fIorigin\fR. Da default
\fB+\fR n' \fB=\fR charactas is configurable wit the
\fBdefault_verp_delimiters\fR configuration parameter.
.IP "\fB-XV\fIxy\fR (Postfix 2.2 n' earlier: \fB-V\fIxy\fR)"
As \fB-XV\fR yo, but uses \fIx\fR n' \fIy\fR as tha VERP delimiter
characters, instead of tha charactas specified wit the
\fBdefault_verp_delimiters\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Send a email report of tha straight-up original gangsta delivery attempt (Postfix
versions 2.1 n' later). Mail delivery
always happens up in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When multiple \fB-v\fR
options is given, enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes.
.IP "\fB-X \fIlog_file\fR (ignored)"
Log maila traffic. Use tha \fBdebug_peer_list\fR and
\fBdebug_peer_level\fR configuration parametas instead.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
By design, dis program aint set-user (or group) id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! However,
it must handle data from untrusted, possibly remote, users.
Thus, tha usual precautions need ta be taken against malicious
inputs.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8) n' ta tha standard error
stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.IP "\fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR (value do not matter)"
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes.
.IP "\fBMAIL_DEBUG\fR (value do not matter)"
Enable debuggin wit a external command, as specified wit the
\fBdebugger_command\fR configuration parameter.
.IP \fBNAME\fR
Da sender full name. This is used only wit lyrics that
have no \fBFrom:\fR message header n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha \fB-F\fR
option above.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin \fBmain.cf\fR parametas is especially relevant to
this program.
Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available wit Postfix 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsendmail_fix_line_endings (always)\fR"
Controls how tha fuck tha Postfix sendmail command converts email message
line endings from <CR><LF> tha fuck into UNIX format (<LF>).
.SH "TROUBLE SHOOTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da DEBUG_README file gives examplez of how tha fuck ta shiznit blast a
Postfix system.
.IP "\fBdebugger_command (empty)\fR"
Da external command ta execute when a Postfix daemon program is
invoked wit tha -D option.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_level (2)\fR"
Da increment up in verbose loggin level when a remote client or
server matches a pattern up in tha debug_peer_list parameter.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_list (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of remote client or server hostname or network
address patterns dat cause tha verbose loggin level ta increase
by tha amount specified up in $debug_peer_level.
.SH "ACCESS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBauthorized_flush_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta flush tha queue.
.IP "\fBauthorized_mailq_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta view tha queue.
.IP "\fBauthorized_submit_users (static:mah playas)\fR"
List of playas whoz ass is authorized ta submit mail wit tha \fBsendmail\fR(1)
command (and wit tha privileged \fBpostdrop\fR(1) helper command).
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBbounce_size_limit (50000)\fR"
Da maximal amount of original gangsta message text dat is busted up in a
non-delivery notification.
.IP "\fBfork_attempts (5)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.IP "\fBfork_delay (1s)\fR"
Da delay between attempts ta fork() a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.IP "\fBhopcount_limit (50)\fR"
Da maximal number of Received:  message headaz dat be allowed
in tha primary message headers.
.IP "\fBqueue_run_delay (300s)\fR"
Da time between deferred queue scans by tha queue manager;
prior ta Postfix 2.4 tha default value was 1000s.
.SH "FAST FLUSH CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da ETRN_README file raps bout configuration n' operation
details fo' tha Postfix "fast flush" service.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_domains ($relay_domains)\fR"
Optionizzle list of destinations dat is eligible fo' per-destination
logfilez wit mail dat is queued ta dem destinations.
.SH "VERP CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da VERP_README file raps bout configuration n' operation
detailz of Postfix support fo' variable envelope return
path addresses.
.IP "\fBdefault_verp_delimitas (+=)\fR"
Da two default VERP delimita characters.
.IP "\fBverp_delimiter_filta (-=+)\fR"
Da charactas Postfix accepts as VERP delimita charactas on the
Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command line n' up in SMTP commands.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBalias_database (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da alias databases fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery dat is updated with
"\fBnewaliases\fR" or wit "\fBsendmail -bi\fR".
.IP "\fBcommand_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of all postfix administratizzle commands.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix support programs n' daemon programs.
.IP "\fBdefault_database_type (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default database type fo' use up in \fBnewaliases\fR(1), \fBpostalias\fR(1)
and \fBpostmap\fR(1) commands.
.IP "\fBdelay_warning_time (0h)\fR"
Da time afta which tha sender receives a cold-ass lil copy of tha message
headaz of mail dat is still queued.
.IP "\fBenable_errors_to (no)\fR"
Report mail delivery errors ta tha address specified wit the
non-standard Errors-To: message header, instead of tha envelope
sender address (this feature is removed wit Postfix version 2.2, is
turned off by default wit Postfix version 2.1, n' be always turned on
with olda Postfix versions).
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBremote_header_rewrite_domain (empty)\fR"
Don't rewrite message headaz from remote clients at all when
this parameta is empty; otherwise, rewrite message headaz and
append tha specified domain name ta incomplete addresses.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, mail queue
/etc/postfix, configuration files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
pickup(8), mail pickup daemon
qmgr(8), queue manager
smtpd(8), SMTP server
flush(8), fast flush service
postsuper(1), queue maintenance
postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
postdrop(1), mail postin utility
postfix(1), mail system control
postqueue(1), mail queue control
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README_FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
DEBUG_README, Postfix debuggin howto
ETRN_README, Postfix ETRN howto
VERP_README, Postfix VERP howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
