." Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH serialver 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
serialver \- Da Serial Version Command
.LP
.LP
Da \f3serialver\fP command returns tha \f2serialVersionUID\fP.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3serialver\fP [ options ] [ classnames ]
.fl
.fi

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
Command\-line options, as specified up in dis document. 
.TP 3
classnames 
One or mo' class names 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3serialver\fP returns tha \f2serialVersionUID\fP fo' one or mo' classes up in a gangbangin' form suitable fo' copyin tha fuck into a evolvin class. When invoked wit no arguments it prints a usage line.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-classpath <directories n' zip/jar filez separated by :> 
Set search path fo' application classes n' resources. 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-show 
Displays a simple user intercourse. Enta tha full class name n' press either tha Enta key or tha Show button ta display tha serialVersionUID. 
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP ta tha Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of tha options busted lyrics bout on tha reference page fo' tha java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets tha startup memory ta 48 megabytes. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
.LP
Da \f3serialver\fP command loadz n' initializes tha specified classes up in its virtual machine, n' by default, it do not set a securitizzle manager n' shit. If \f3serialver\fP is ta be run wit untrusted classes, a securitizzle manager can be set wit tha followin option:
.LP
.LP
\f2\-J\-Djava.security.manager\fP
.LP
.LP
and, if necessary, a securitizzle policy can be specified wit tha followin option:
.LP
.LP
\f2\-J\-Djava.security.policy=<policy file>\fP
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.LP
.na
\f2java.io.ObjectStreamClass\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/io/ObjectStreamClass.html
.LP
 
