." Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH servertool 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
servertool \- Da Java(TM) IDL Server Tool
.LP
\f3servertool\fP serves up a cold-ass lil command\-line intercourse fo' application programmers ta register, unregister, startup, n' shutdown a persistent server n' shit. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
servertool \-ORBInitialPort \fP\f4nameserverport\fP\f3 \fP\f3options\fP\f3 [ \fP\f3commands\fP\f3 ]
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
If you did not enta a cold-ass lil command when startin \f2servertool\fP, tha command\-line tool displays wit a \f2servertool >\fP prompt. Enta commandz all up in tha \f2servertool >\fP prompt.
.LP
.LP
If you enta a cold-ass lil command when startin \f2servertool\fP, tha Java IDL Server Tool starts, runs tha command, n' exits.
.LP
.LP
Da \f2\-ORBInitialPort\fP \f2nameserverport\fP option is \f3required\fP. Da value fo' \f2nameserverport\fP must specify tha port on which \f2orbd\fP is hustlin n' listenin fo' incomin requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When rockin Solaris software, you must become root ta start a process on a port under 1024. For dis reason, we recommend dat you bust a port number pimped outa than or equal ta 1024 fo' tha \f2nameserverport\fP.
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
Da \f2servertool\fP serves up tha command\-line intercourse fo' tha application programmers ta register, unregister, startup, n' shutdown a persistent server n' shit. Other commandz is provided ta obtain various statistical shiznit bout tha server.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-ORBInitialHost nameserverhost 
Specifies tha host machine on which tha name server is hustlin n' listenin fo' incomin requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da \f2nameserverhost\fP defaults ta \f2localhost\fP if dis option aint specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \f2orbd\fP n' \f2servertool\fP is hustlin on different machines, you must specify tha name or IP address of tha host on which \f2orbd\fP is hustlin. 
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP ta tha Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of tha options busted lyrics bout on tha reference page fo' java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets tha startup memory ta 48 megabytes. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a cold-ass lil common convention fo' \f3\-J\fP ta pass options ta tha underlyin virtual machine. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
regista \-server\ <server\ class\ name> \ \-classpath\ <classpath\ to\ server> [\ \-applicationName\ <application\ name> \-args\ <args\ to\ server> \-vmargs\ <flags\ to\ be\ passed\ to\ Java\ VM> \ ] 
Regista a freshly smoked up persistent server wit tha Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). If tha server aint already registered, it is registered n' activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This command causes a install method ta be invoked up in tha main class of tha server identified by tha \f2\-server\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da install method must be \f2hood static void install(org.omg.CORBA.ORB)\fP. Da install method is optionizzle n' enablez tha pimper ta provide they own server installation behavior (for example, bustin database schema). 
.TP 3
unregista \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> 
Unregista a server from tha ORBD by rockin either its server id or its application name. This command causes a uninstall method ta be invoked up in tha main class of tha server identified by tha \f2\-server\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da uninstall method must be \f2hood static void uninstall(org.omg.CORBA.ORB)\fP. Da uninstall method is optionizzle n' enablez tha pimper ta provide they own server uninstall behavior (for example, unfuckin wit tha behavior of tha install method). 
.TP 3
getserverid \-applicationName\ <application\ name> 
Return tha server id dat correspondz wit a application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
list 
List shiznit bout all persistent servers registered wit tha ORBD. 
.TP 3
listappnames 
List tha application names fo' all servers currently registered wit tha ORBD. 
.TP 3
listactizzle 
List shiznit bout all persistent servers dat done been launched by tha ORBD n' is currently hustlin. 
.TP 3
locate \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> [\-endpointType\ <endpointType>\ ] 
Locate tha endpoints (ports) of a specific type fo' all ORBs pimped by a registered server n' shit. If a server aint already hustlin, it be activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If a endpoint type aint specified, then tha plain/non\-protected endpoint associated wit each ORB up in a server is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
locateperorb \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> [\-orbid\ <ORB\ name>\ ] 
Locate all tha endpoints (ports) registered by a specific ORB of registered server n' shit. If a server aint already hustlin, then it be activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If a \f2orbid\fP aint specified, tha default value of "" be assigned ta tha \f2orbid\fP. If any ORBs is pimped wit a \f2orbid\fP of empty string, all ports registered by it is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
orblist \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> 
Lists tha ORBId of tha ORBs defined on a server n' shiznit fo' realz. An ORBId is tha strang name fo' tha ORB pimped by tha server n' shit. If tha server aint already hustlin, it be activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.TP 3
shutdown \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> 
Shutdown a actizzle server dat is registered wit ORBD. Durin execution of dis command, tha \f2shutdown()\fP method defined up in tha class specified by either tha \f2\-serverid\fP or \f2\-applicationName\fP parameta be also invoked ta shutdown tha server process appropriately. 
.TP 3
startup \-serverid\ <server\ id\ >\ | \-applicationName\ <application\ name> 
Startup or activate a server dat is registered wit ORBD. If tha server aint hustlin, dis command launches tha server n' shit. If tha server be already hustlin, a error message is moonwalked back ta tha user n' shit. 
.TP 3
help 
List all tha commandz available ta tha server all up in tha server tool. 
.TP 3
quit 
Exit tha server tool. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
orbd(1)  
