.\" $Xorg: sessreg.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:40 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xdm/sessreg.man,v 1.7 2001/04/23 20:31:09 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH SESSREG 1 "sessreg 1.0.8" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
sessreg \- manage utmp/wtmp entries fo' non-init clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sessreg
[-w \fIwtmp-file\fP]
[-u \fIutmp-file\fP]
[-L \fIlastlog-file\fP]
[-l \fIline-name\fP]
[-h \fIhost-name\fP]
[-s \fIslot-number\fP]
[-x \fIXservers-file\fP]
[-t \fIttys-file\fP]
[-V]
[-a]
[-d]
\fIuser-name\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISessreg\fP be a simple program fo' managin utmp/wtmp n' lastlog
entries fo' xdm sessions.
.PP
System V has a funky-ass betta intercourse ta utmp than BSD; it
dynamically allocates entries up in tha file, instead of freestylin dem at fixed
positions indexed by posizzle in
.BR "/etc/ttys" .
.PP
To manage BSD-style utmp files, \fIsessreg\fP has two strategies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  In
conjunction wit xdm, tha -x option counts tha number of lines in
.B "/etc/ttys"
and then addz ta dat tha number of tha line up in tha Xservers file which
specifies tha display.  Da display name must be specified as the
"line-name" rockin tha -l option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This sum is used as tha "slot-number" in
the utmp file dat dis entry is ghon be freestyled at.  In tha mo' general case,
the -s option specifies tha slot-number directly.  If fo' some strange reason
your system uses a gangbangin' file other than
.B "/etc/ttys"
to manage init, tha -t option can direct
\fIsessreg\fP ta look elsewhere fo' a cold-ass lil count of terminal sessions.
.PP
Conversely, System V managers aint gonna eva need ta use these options (-x,
-s n' -t).  To make tha program easier ta document n' explain,
\fIsessreg\fP accepts tha BSD-specific flags up in tha System V
environment n' ignores em.
.PP
BSD n' Linux also gotz a host-name field up in tha utmp file which don't
exist up in System V.  This option be also ignored by tha System V version of
\fIsessreg\fP.
.SH USAGE
.PP
In Xstartup, place a cold-ass lil call like:
.nf

       sessreg -a -l $DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER

.fi
and up in Xreset:
.nf

       sessreg -d -l $DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-w\fP \fIwtmp-file\fP"
This specifies a alternate wtmp file, instead of
.BR "/var/log/wtmp" .
Da special name "none" disablez freestylin recordz ta tha wtmp file.
.IP "\fB-u\fP \fIutmp-file\fP"
This specifies a alternate utmp file, instead of
.BR "/var/run/utmp" .
Da special name "none" disablez freestylin recordz ta tha utmp file.
.IP "\fB-L\fP \fIlastlog-file\fP"
This specifies a alternate lastlog file, instead of
.BR "/var/log/lastlog" ,
if tha platform supports lastlog files.
Da special name "none" disablez freestylin recordz ta tha lastlog file.
.IP "\fB-l\fP \fIline-name\fP"
This raps bout tha "line" name of tha entry.  For terminal sessions,
this is tha final pathname segment of tha terminal thang filename
(e.g. ttyd0).  For X sessions, it should probably be tha local display name
given ta tha playas session (e.g. :0).  If none is specified, the
terminal name is ghon be determined wit ttyname(3) n' stripped of leading
components.
.IP "\fB-h\fP \fIhost-name\fP"
This is set fo' BSD hosts ta indicate dat tha session was initiated from
a remote host.  In typical xdm usage, dis options aint used.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIslot-number\fP"
Each potential session has a unique slot number up in BSD systems, most are
identified by tha posizzle of tha \fIline-name\fP up in the
.BR "/etc/ttys" file.
This option overrides tha default posizzle determined wit ttyslot(3).
This option is inappropriate fo' use wit xdm, tha -x option is mo' useful.
.IP "\fB-x\fP \fIXservers-file\fP"
As X sessions is one-per-display, n' each display is entered up in dis file,
this options sets tha \fIslot-number\fP ta be tha number of lines in
the \fIttys-file\fP plus tha index tha fuck into dis file dat tha \fIline-name\fP
is found.
.IP "\fB-t\fP \fIttys-file\fP"
This specifies a alternate file which tha \fI-x\fP option will use ta count
the number of terminal sessions on a host.
.IP "\fB-V\fP"
This option causes tha command ta print its version n' exit.
.IP "\fB-a\fP"
This session should be added ta utmp/wtmp.
.IP "\fB-d\fP"
This session should be deleted from utmp/wtmp.  One of -a/-d must
be specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xdm (1),
.BR utmpx (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
