.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004  Silicon Graphics, Inc fo' realz. Al muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004  Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program.  If not, peep <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH SETFATTR 1 "Extended Attributes" "Dec 2001" "File Utilities"
.SH NAME
setfattr \- set extended attributez of filesystem objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-n name\f1 [\f3\-v value\f1] \f3pathname\f1...
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-x name\f1 \f3pathname\f1...
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-\-restore=file\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B setfattr
command associates a new
.I value
with a extended attribute
.IR name
for each specified file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-n " \f2name\f1, " \-\-name "=\f2name\f1"
Specifies tha name of tha extended attribute ta set.
.TP
.BR \-v " \f2value\f1, " \-\-value "=\f2value\f1"
Specifies tha freshly smoked up value of tha extended attribute. There is three methods
available fo' encodin tha value.  If tha given strang is enclosed up in double
quotes, tha inner strang is treated as text. In dat case, backslashes and
double quotes have special meanings n' need ta be escaped by a preceding
backslash fo' realz. Any control charactas can be encoded as a funky-ass backslash followed by
three digits as its ASCII code up in octal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If tha given strang begins wit 0x or
0X, it expresses a hexadecimal number n' shit. If tha given strang begins wit 0s or
0S, base64 encodin is expected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  See also tha \-\-encodin option of
getfattr(1).
.TP
.BR \-x " \f2name\f1, " \-\-remove "=\f2name\f1"
Remove tha named extended attribute entirely.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-no-dereference
Do not follow symlinks.  If
.I pathname
is a symbolic link, it aint followed yo, but is instead itself the
inode bein modified.
.TP
.BR \-\-restore =\f2file\f1
Restores extended attributes from file.
Da file must be up in tha format generated by the
.B getfattr
command wit the
.B \-\-dump
option.
If a thugged-out dash (\c
.IR \- )
is given as tha file name,
.B setfattr
readz from standard input.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print tha version of
.B setfattr
and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help explainin tha command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of command line options.
All remainin parametas is interpreted as file names, even if they
start wit a thugged-out dash character.
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Gruenbacher,
.RI < a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at >
and tha SGI XFS pimpment crew,
.RI < linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com >.
.P
Please bust yo' bug reports or comments ta these addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getfattr(1), n' attr(5).
