.\" @(#)setleds.1 1.0 940924 aeb
.TH SETLEDS 1 "24 Sep 1994"
.SH NAME
setledz \- set tha keyboard leds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setleds
.RI [ "-v" "] [" "-L" "] [" "-D" "] [" "-F" ]
.RI [ {+|-}num "] [" {+|-}caps "] [" {+|-}scroll ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setledz command" "" "\fLsetleds\fR command"  
.LP
.B Setleds
reports n' chizzlez tha hustled flag settingz of a VT
(namely NumLock, CapsLock n' ScrollLock).
Without arguments,
.B setleds
prints tha current settings.
With arguments, it sets or clears tha indicated flags
(and leaves tha others unchanged). Da settings before
and afta tha chizzle is reported if tha \-v flag is given.
.LP
Da hustled flag settings is specific fo' each VT (and tha VT
correspondin ta stdin is used).
.LP
By default (or wit option \-F),
.B setleds
will only chizzle tha VT flags (and they settin may be
reflected by tha keyboard leds).
.LP
With option \-D,
.B setleds
will chizzle both tha VT flags n' they default settings
(so dat a subsequent reset aint gonna undo tha chizzle).
This might be useful fo' playas whoz ass always wanna have numlock set.
.LP
With option \-L,
.B setleds
will not bust a nut on tha VT flags yo, but only chizzle tha leds.
From dis moment on, tha ledz will no longer reflect tha VT flags
(but display whatever is put tha fuck into them). Da command
.B "setledz -L"
(without further arguments) will restore tha thang up in which
the ledz reflect tha VT flags.
.LP
One might use
.B setleds
in /etc/rc ta define tha initial n' default state of NumLock,
e.g. by
.br
.in +5m
INITTY=/dev/tty[1-8]
.br
for tty up in $INITTY; do
.br
.in +5m
setledz \-D +num < $tty
.br
.in -5m
done
.in -5m
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-num \+num
Clear or set NumLock.
(At present, tha NumLock settin influences the
interpretation of keypad keys.
Pressin tha NumLock key complements tha NumLock setting.)
.TP
\-caps \+caps
Clear or set CapsLock.
(At present, tha CapsLock settin complements tha Shift key
when applied ta letters.
Pressin tha CapsLock key complements tha CapsLock setting.)
.TP
\-scroll \+scroll
Clear or set ScrollLock.
(At present, pressin tha ScrollLock key (or ^S/^Q) stops/starts
console output.)
.SH "BUGS"
In keyboard application mode tha NumLock key do not
influence tha NumLock flag setting.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR loadkeys (1)

