.TH SETPRIV 1 "January 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
setpriv \- run a program wit different Linux privilege settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setpriv
.RI [ options ]
program
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets or queries various Linux privilege settings dat is inherited across
.BR execve (2).
.SH OPTION
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dump\fR
Dumps current privilege state.  Specify mo' than once ta show extra, mostly
useless, shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Incompatible wit all other options.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-new\-privs\fR
Sets the
.I no_\:new_\:privs
bit.  With dis bit set,
.BR execve (2)
will not grant freshly smoked up privileges.  For example, tha setuid n' setgid bits as well
as file capabilitizzles is ghon be disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (Executin binaries wit these bits set
will still work yo, but they aint gonna bust privilege.  Certain LSMs, especially
AppArmor, may result up in failures ta execute certain programs.) This bit is
inherited by lil pimp processes n' cannot be unset.  See
.BR prctl (2)
and
.IR Documentation/\:prctl/\:no_\:new_\:privs.txt
in tha Linux kernel source.
.IP
Da no_\:new_\:privs bit is supported since Linux 3.5.
.TP
\fB\-\-inh\-caps\fR \fI(+|\-)cap\fR,\fI...\fR or \fB\-\-bounding\-set\fR \fI(+|\-)cap\fR,\fI...\fR
Sets inheritable capabilitizzles or capabilitizzle boundin set.  See
.BR capabilitizzles (7).
Da argument be a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of
.I +cap
and
.I \-cap
entries, which add or remove a entry respectively.
.I +all
and
.I \-all
can be used ta add or remove all caps.  Da set of capabilitizzles starts up as
the current inheritable set for
.B \-\-\:inh\-\:caps
and tha current boundin set for
.BR \-\-\:bounding\-\:set .
If you drop suttin' from tha boundin set without also droppin it from the
inheritable set, yo ass is likely ta become confused. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Do not do dis shit.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-caps
Lists all known capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Must be specified ridin' solo.
.TP
\fB\-\-ruid\fR \fIuid\fR, \fB\-\-euid\fR \fIuid\fR, \fB\-\-reuid\fR \fIuid\fR
Sets tha real, effective, or both \fIuid\fRs.  Da uid argument can be
given as textual login name.
.IP
Setting
.I uid
or
.I gid
does not chizzle capabilities, although tha exec call all up in tha end might chizzle
capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  This means that, if yo ass is root, you probably wanna do
suttin' like:
.IP
\-\-reuid=1000 \-\-\:regid=1000 \-\-\:caps=\-\:all
.TP
\fB\-\-rgid\fR \fIgid\fR, \fB\-\-egid\fR \fIgid\fR, \fB\-\-regid\fR \fIgid\fR
Sets tha real, effective, or both \fIgid\fRs.  Da gid argument can be
given as textual crew name.
.IP
For safety, you must specify one of \-\-\:keep\-\:groups,
\-\-\:clear\-\:groups, or \-\-\:groups if you set any primary
.IR gid .
.TP
.BR \-\-clear\-groups
Clears supplementary groups.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-groups\fR
Preserves supplementary groups.  Only useful up in conjunction wit \-\-rgid,
\-\-egid, or \-\-regid.
.TP
\fB\-\-groups\fR \fIgroup\fR,\fI...\fR
Sets supplementary groups.
.TP
\fB\-\-securebits\fR \fI(+|\-)securebit\fR,\fI...\fR
Sets or clears securebits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da valid securebits are
.IR noroot ,
.IR noroot_\:locked ,
.IR no_\:setuid_\:fixup ,
.IR no_\:setuid_\:fixup_\:locked ,
and
.IR keep_\:caps_\:locked .
.I keep_\:caps
is cleared by
.BR execve (2)
and is therefore not allowed.
.TP
\fB\-\-selinux\-label\fR \fIlabel\fR
Requests a particular SELinux transizzle (usin a transizzle on exec, not
dyntrans).  This will fail n' cause
.BR setpriv (1)
to abort if SELinux aint up in use, n' tha transizzle may be ignored or cause
.BR execve (2)
to fail at SELinuxz whim.  (In particular, dis is unlikely ta work in
conjunction with
.IR no_\:new_\:privs .)
This is similar to
.BR runcon (1).
.TP
\fB\-\-apparmor\-profile\fR \fIprofile\fR
Requests a particular AppArmor flava (usin a transizzle on exec).  This will
fail n' cause
.BR setpriv (1)
to abort if AppArmor aint up in use, n' tha transizzle may be ignored or cause
.BR execve (2)
to fail at AppArmorz whim.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH NOTES
If applyin any specified option fails,
.I program
will not be run and
.B setpriv
will return wit exit code 127.
.PP
Be careful wit dis tool \-\- it may have unexpected securitizzle consequences.
For example, settin no_\:new_\:privs n' then execin a program dat is
SELinux\-\:confined (as dis tool would do) may prevent tha SELinux
restrictions from takin effect.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prctl (2),
.BR capabilitizzle (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.MT luto@amacapital.net
Andy Lutomirski
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B setpriv
command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
