\" Copyright 1990 Gordon Irlam (gordoni@cs.ua.oz.au)
.\" Copyright 1992 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Most of dis was copied from tha source code.
.\" Do not restrict distribution.
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Most options documented by Colin Watson (cjw44@cam.ac.uk)
.\" Undocumented: -snow, -softscroll, -standout; these are
.\" commented up in tha source
.\"
.TH SETTERM 1 "January 2000" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
setterm \- set terminal attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setterm
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B setterm
writes ta standard output a cold-ass lil characta strang dat will invoke the
specified terminal capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Where possible
.I terminfo
is consulted ta find tha strang ta use.  Some options however (marked
"virtual consolez only" below) do not correspond ta a
.BR terminfo (5)
capability.  In dis case, if tha terminal type is "con" or "linux" the
strin dat invokes tha specified capabilitizzles on tha PC Minix virtual
console driver is output.  Options dat is not implemented by tha terminal
are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
For boolean options (\fBon\fP or \fBoff\fP), tha default is \fBon\fP.
.P
For conciseness, a \fI8-color\fP below is \fBblack\fP, \fBred\fP,
\fBgreen\fP, \fByellow\fP, \fBblue\fP, \fBmagenta\fP, \fBcyan\fP, or
\fBwhite\fP.
.P
A \fI16-color\fP be a \fI8-color\fP, \fBgrey\fP, or \fBbright\fP followed
by \fBred\fP, \fBgreen\fP, \fByellow\fP, \fBblue\fP, \fBmagenta\fP,
\fBcyan\fP, or \fBwhite\fP.
.P
Da various color options may be set independently, at least at virtual
consoles, though tha thangs up in dis biatch of settin multiple modes (for example,
.BR \-underline " n' " \-half-bright )
are hardware-dependent.
.TP
.BR \-appcursorkeys " [" on | off "] (virtual consolez only)"
Sets Cursor Key Application Mode on or off. When on, ESC O A, ESC O B, etc.
will be busted fo' tha cursor keys instead of ESC [ A, ESC [ B, etc.  See the
"vi n' Cursor-Keys" section of tha Text-Terminal-HOWTO fo' how tha fuck dis can
cause problems fo' vi users.
.TP
.BR \-append " [\fI1-NR_CONS\fP]"
Like \fB\-dump\fP yo, but appendz ta tha snapshot file instead of overwriting
it.  Only works if no \fB\-dump\fP options is given.
.TP
\fB\-background\fP \fI8-color\fP|\fBdefault\fP (virtual consolez only)
Sets tha background text color.
.TP
.BR \-blank " [\fI0-60\fP|\fBforce\fP|\fBpoke\fP] (virtual consolez only)"
Sets tha interval of inactivity, up in minutes, afta which tha screen will be
automatically blanked (usin APM if available).  Without a argument, gets the
blank status (returns which vt was blanked or zero fo' unblanked vt).

The
.B force
option keeps screen blank even if a key is pressed.

The
.B poke
option unblank tha screen.
.TP
.BR \-bfreq " [\fIfreqnumber\fP]"
Sets tha bell frequency up in Hz.  Without a argument, defaults ta 0.
.TP
.BR \-blength " [\fI0-2000\fP]"
Sets tha bell duration up in milliseconds.  Without a argument, defaults ta 0.
.TP
.BR \-blink " [" on | off ]
Turns blink mode on or off.  Except at a virtual console, \fB\-blink off\fP
turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).
.TP
.BR \-bold " [" on | off ]
Turns bold (extra bright) mode on or off.  Except at a virtual console,
\fB\-bold off\fP turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink,
reverse).
.TP
.BR \-clear " [" all ]
Clears tha screen n' "homes" tha cursor, as
.BR clear (1).
.TP
.B \-clear rest
Clears from tha current cursor posizzle ta tha end of tha screen.
.TP
.BR \-clrtabs " [\fItab1 tab2 tab3\fP ...] (virtual consolez only)"
Clears tab stops from tha given horizontal cursor positions, up in tha range
1-160.  Without arguments, clears all tab stops.
.TP
.BR \-cursor " [" on | off ]
Turns tha terminalz cursor on or off.
.TP
.B \-default
Sets tha terminalz renderin options ta tha default joints.
.TP
.BR \-dump " [\fI1-NR_CONS\fP]"
Writes a snapshot of tha given virtual console ta tha file
specified up in tha \fB\-file\fP option, overwritin its contents; tha default
is screen.dump.  Without a argument, dumps tha current virtual console.
Overrides \fB\-append\fP.
.TP
.BR \-append " [\fI1-NR_CONS\fP]"
Like \fB\-dump\fP yo, but appendz ta tha snapshot file instead of overwriting
it.  Only works if no \fB\-dump\fP options is given.
.TP
.BI \-file " dumpfilename"
Sets tha snapshot file name fo' any \fB\-dump\fP or \fB\-append\fP options
on tha same command line.  If dis option aint present, tha default is
screen.dump up in tha current directory.  A path name dat exceedz system
maximum is ghon be truncated, peep PATH_MAX from linux/limits.h fo' tha value.
.TP
.BR \-msg " [" on | off "] (virtual consolez only)"
Enablez or disablez tha bustin  of kernel \fBprintk()\fP lyrics ta the
console.
.TP
.BR \-msglevel " \fI1-8\fP (virtual consolez only)"
Sets tha console loggin level fo' kernel \fBprintk()\fP lyrics.  All
lyrics strictly mo' blingin than dis is ghon be printed, so a logging
level of 0 has tha same ol' dirty effect as \fB\-msg on\fP n' a loggin level of 8
will print all kernel lyrics.
.BR klogd (8)
may be a mo' convenient intercourse ta tha loggin of kernel lyrics.
.TP
.BR \-powerdown " [\fI0-60\fP]"
Sets tha VESA powerdown interval up in minutes.  Without a argument, defaults
to 0 (disable powerdown).  If tha console is blanked or tha monitor is in
suspend mode, then tha monitor will go tha fuck into vsync suspend mode or powerdown
mode respectively afta dis period of time has elapsed.
.TP
.BR \-underline " [" on | off ]
Turns underline mode on or off (see \fB\-ulcolor\fP).
.TP
.BR \-powersave " [" off "]"
Turns off monitor VESA powersavin features.
.TP
.BR "\-powersave on" | vsync
Puts tha monitor tha fuck into VESA vsync suspend mode.
.TP
.B \-powersave powerdown
Puts tha monitor tha fuck into VESA powerdown mode.
.TP
.B \-powersave hsync
Puts tha monitor tha fuck into VESA hsync suspend mode.
.TP
.BR \-regtabs " [\fI1-160\fP] (virtual consolez only)"
Clears all tab stops, then sets a regular tab stop pattern, wit one tab
every specified number of positions.  Without a argument, defaults ta 8.
.TP
.BR \-repeat " [" on | off "] (virtual consolez only)"
Turns keyboard repeat on or off.
.TP
.B \-reset
Displays tha terminal reset string, which typically resets tha terminal to
its juice on state.
.TP
.BR \-reverse " [" on | off ]
Turns reverse vizzle mode on or off.  Except at a virtual console,
\fB\-reverse off\fP turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink,
reverse).
.TP
.BR \-store " (virtual consolez only)"
Stores tha terminalz current renderin options (foreground and
background colors) as tha joints ta be used at reset-to-default.
.TP
.BR \-tabs " [\fItab1 tab2 tab3\fP ...] (virtual consolez only)"
Sets tab stops all up in tha given horizontal cursor positions, up in tha range 1-160.
Without arguments, shows tha current tab stop settings.
.TP
.BR \-term " terminal_name"
Overrides tha TERM environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-ulcolor\fP \fI16-color\fP (virtual consolez only)
Sets tha color fo' underlined characters.
.TP
.BR \-version
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-help
Display help text n' exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tput (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR terminfo (5),
.BR tty (4)
.SH BUGS
Differences between tha Minix n' Linux versions is not documented.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da setterm command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
