.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Man page author: Michal Hlavinka <mhlavink@redhat.com>
.TH setup 1 2009-10-07 "Linux" "setuptool"
.SH NAME
setup \- A text mode system configuration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsetup\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da setuptool program (\fBsetup\fP) be a gangbangin' front-end menu program fo' a crew of other
tools, mostly \fBsystem\-config\-*\-tui\fP tools. Da list of options which it presents be assembled by scanning
/etc/setuptool.d n' /usr/share/setuptool/setuptool.d fo' files.

Each file up in tha directory should contain one or mo' linez of text.  Each line
gotz nuff from one ta four fieldz which is separated by "|" characters.  In
order, they are:
  - tha path ta tha binary ta invoke (mandatory)
  - tha untranslated name of tha application which should be displayed
    (If unset, defaults ta tha path of tha binary yo, but don't depend on dis shit.)
  - tha gettext textdomain up in which a translation of tha name of tha application can be found
    (If unset, defaults ta "setup".)
  - tha directory up in which translations fo' tha textdomain can be found
    (If unset, defaults ta "/usr/share/locale".)

If multiple entries wit tha same untranslated name exist, tha one which was
read FIRST takes precedence. Filez is read up in name collation order.
.SH EXAMPLE
A contrived example would create /etc/setuptool.d/00bogus wit these contents:

.nf
  /bin/ls --color; /bin/sleep 5|Example "ls" invocation.
.fi

or

.nf
  /bin/ls --color; /bin/sleep 5|Give dis help list|libc
.fi

to use one of libcs (not meaningful here yo, but) translatable lyrics.
