.\"
.TH SETXKBMAP 1 "setxkbmap 1.3.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
setxkbmap
\- set tha keyboard rockin tha X Keyboard Extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setxkbmap [
.I args
.B ] [
.I layout
.B [
.I variant
.B [
.I option  ...
.B ] ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B setxkbmap
command maps tha keyboard ta use tha layout determined by tha options
specified on tha command line.
.P
An XKB keymap is constructed from a fuckin shitload of components which is compiled
only as needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da source fo' all of tha components can be found in
.IR "/usr/share/X11/xkb" .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-help
Prints a message describin tha valid input ta \fIsetxkbmap\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-compat \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha compatibilitizzle map component used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-config \fIfile\fP
Specifies tha name of a XKB configuration file which raps bout the
keyboard ta be used.
.TP 8
.B \-device \fIdevice\fP
Specifies tha numeric thang id of tha input thang ta be updated with
the freshly smoked up keyboard layout. If not specified, tha core keyboard thang of
the X server is updated.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
Specifies tha display ta be updated wit tha freshly smoked up keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha geometry component used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-I \fIdirectory\fP
Addz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta tha list of directories ta be used ta search for
specified layout or rulez files.
.TP 8
.B \-keycodes \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha keycodes component used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-keymap \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha keymap description used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-layout \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha layout used ta determine tha components which
make up tha keyboard description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da \fI-layout\fP option may only be used
once. Multiple layouts can be specified as a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.
.TP 8
.B \-model \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha keyboard model used ta determine tha components
which make up tha keyboard description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Only one model may be specified
on tha command line.
.TP 8
.B \-option \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of a option ta determine tha components which make up
the keyboard description;  multiple options may be specified, one per
\fI-option\fP flag. Note that
.B setxkbmap
addz options specified up in tha command line ta tha options dat was set
before (as saved up in root window properties). If you wanna replace all
previously specified options, use tha \fI-option\fP flag wit a empty
argument first.
.TP 8
.B \-print
With dis option \fBsetxkbmap\fP just prints component names up in a gangbangin' format
acceptable by \fBxkbcomp\fP (an XKB keymap compiler) n' exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da option
can be used fo' tests instead of a verbose option n' up in cases when one needs
to run both tha \fBsetxkbmap\fP n' tha \fBxkbcomp\fP up in chain (see below).
.TP 8
.B \-query
With dis option \fBsetxkbmap\fP just prints tha current rules, model,
layout, variant, n' options, then exits.
.TP 8
.B \-rulez \fIfile\fP
Specifies tha name of tha rulez file used ta resolve tha axed layout
and model ta a set of component names.
.TP 8
.B \-symbols \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha symbols component used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-synch
Force synchronization fo' X requests.
.TP 8
.B \-types \fIname\fP
Specifies tha name of tha types component used ta construct
a keyboard layout.
.TP 8
.B \-variant \fIname\fP
Specifies which variant of tha keyboard layout should be used ta determine
the components which make up tha keyboard description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da \fI-variant\fP
option may only be used once. Multiple variants can be specified as a
comma-separated list n' is ghon be matched wit tha layouts specified with
\fI-layout\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose|\-v [\fIlevel\fP]
Specifies level of verbositizzle up in output lyrics.  Valid levels range from
0 (least verbose) ta 10 (most verbose).  Da default verbositizzle level is 5.
If no level is specified, each \fI-v\fP or \fI-verbose\fP flag raises the
level by 1.
.SH USING WITH xkbcomp
If you have a Xserver n' a cold-ass lil client shell hustlin on different computas and
XKB configuration filez on dem machines is different you can get
problems specifyin a keyboard map by model, layout, options names.
This is cuz \fBsetxkbcomp\fP converts these names ta namez of XKB
configuration filez accordin ta filez dat is on tha client side computer,
then it sendz tha file names ta tha server where tha \fBxkbcomp\fP has to
compose a cold-ass lil complete keyboard map rockin filez which tha server has.
Thus if tha setz of filez differ hella tha names dat the
\fBsetxkbmap\fP generates can be unacceptable on tha server side.  Yo ass can
solve dis problem by hustlin tha \fBxkbcomp\fP on tha client side like a muthafucka.
With tha \fI-print\fP option \fBsetxkbmap\fP just prints tha file names
in a appropriate format ta its stdout n' dis output can be piped
directly ta tha \fBxkbcomp\fP input. For example, tha command

\fBsetxkbmap our asses -print | xkbcomp - $DISPLAY\fP

makes both steps run on tha same (client) machine n' loadz a keyboard map into
the server.
.SH SEE ALSO
xkbcomp(1), xkeyboard-config(7)
.SH FILES
.I "/usr/share/X11/xkb"
