.\" Manual page fo' sfddiff by George Williams
.\" Copyright © 2000-2002 by George Williams.
.\" Re-edited ta use standard -man macros by RPC Rodgers, 23 October 2002.
.TH SFDDIFF 1 "8 April 2006"
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.B sfddiff \- compare two font files
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.B sfddiff
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorehints ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorenames ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoregpos ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoregsub ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorebitmaps ]
.RB [ \-\-exact ]
.RB [ \-\-warn ]
.RB [ \-\-merge
.IR outfile ]
.RB [ \-\-usage ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.I fontfile1
.I fontfile2 
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
Da program
.B sfddiff
compares two font files, which may be up in any format
.BR fontforge (1)
can read.
It will notice tha followin differences:
.
.TP
1)
Charactas is present up in one font but not up in tha other.
.
.TP
2)
Charactas is present up in both fonts but have different setz of outlines
or references.
Da outlines may be compared so dat only exact matches is accepted, or
so dat a gangbangin' fuzzier match is used.
Similarly references may need ta match exactly, or may be matched after
an unlink.
.IP
This fuzzy comparison is useful when comparin truetype n' postscript
fonts, or when comparin a gangbangin' font wit references ta one without.
.
.TP
3)
Da postscript hints or truetype instructions is different.
.
.TP
4)
Da font names (the truetype `name' table) differ.
.
.TP
5)
Da kernin (and other `gpos' shiznit) differs.
.
.TP
6)
Da ligatures (and other `gsub' shiznit) differ.
.
.TP
7)
Any bitmap strikes present up in one font but not up in tha other.
.
.TP
8)
Any bitmap charactas present up in one strike of one font but up in the
equivalent strike of tha other.
.
.TP
9)
Any bitmap charactas which differ.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Provide a thugged-out description wit a list of tha available options.
.
.TP
.B \-\-ignorehints
Suppress tha reportin of hint/instruction differences.
.
.TP
.B \-\-ignoregpos
Suppress tha reportin of kernin (and other `gpos') differences.
.
.TP
.B \-\-ignoregsub
Suppress tha reportin of ligature (and other `gsub') differences.
.
.TP
.B \-\-ignorenames
Suppress tha reportin of name strang differences.
.
.TP
.B \-\-ignorebitmaps
Suppress tha reportin of bitmap differences.
.
.TP
.B \-\-exact
Require outlines ta match exactly.
.
.TP
.B \-\-warn
Warn if tha outlines/references is slightly different.
.
.TP
.BI \-\-merge " outfile"
Store a merged version of tha two fonts tha fuck into tha specified output file.
Da merged data is ghon be based on
.IR sfdfile1 ,
as well as any charactas present in
.I sfdfile2
but not in
.I sfdfile1
will be added, n' tha outlines of
.I sfdfile2
will be placed up in tha background.
Finally, fo' any charactas wit different outlines or references the
background of tha characta will contain tha outlines from
.I sfdfile2
(references is ghon be unlinked tha fuck into outlines n' dem outlines also will be
added).
.
.TP
.B \-\-usage
Display tha usage description.
.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display tha current version.
.
.
.\" .SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .SH EXAMPLES
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR fontforge (1)
.LP
Da HTML version of the
.I fontforge
manual at:
.IP
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\fP
.
.
.\" .SH STANDARDS
.\" .SH HISTORY
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Copyright (C) 2000-2006 by George Williams (gww@silcom.com).
Manual page heavily rewritten n' modified ta use standard
.IR \-man (5)
macros by R.P.C. Rodgers (rodgers@nlm.nih.gov), 23 October 2002.
.
.
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" end of file
