.TH sgpio 1  "December 2007" "version 0.3" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sgpio \- captizzle backplane LED control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgpio
[\-h] [\-V] [[\-d|\-\-disk <device>[,<device>...]] | [\-p|\-\-port <port>[,<port>...]]] [\-s|\-\-status <status>] [\-f|\-\-freq <frequency>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Serial General Purpose Input Output (SGPIO) be a cold-ass lil communication method used
between a main board n' a variety of internal n' external hard disk drive
bay enclosures.  This utilitizzle can be used ta control LEDs up in a enclosure.
For mo' shiznit bout SGPIO, please consult tha SFF-8485 Justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.   
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
displays a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help text
.TP
\-V, \-\-version
displays tha utilitizzle n' AHCI SGPIO justification
.TP
\-d, \-\-disk
disk name of LED location. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Names is sda,sdb,sdc,... Multiple names can be provided up in a cold-ass lil comma-delimited list.
.TP
\-p, \-\-port
SATA port number of LED location, can be used if a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk name is no 
longer valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 0,1,2,3,... Multiple ports can be provided up in a cold-ass lil comma-delimited list.
.TP
\-s, \-\-status
statuz of tha LED ta set.  LED status is: locate, fault, rebuild, off 
.TP
\-f, \-\-freq
Set tha frequency at which tha LED should blink (in Hz). Frequency should be a integer between 1 n' 10. 

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Set tha locate LED on SDA wit a Intel Intelligent backplane:
.B sgpio
\-d sda \-s locate
.PP
.TP
Set tha locate LED on SDA ta flash at 3 Hz fo' non-intelligent backplanes:
.B sgpio
\-d sda \-s locate \-f 3
.PP
.TP
Set SATA port 2 wit fault at a 3 Hz flash rate:
.B sgpio
\-p 2 \-s fault \-f 3
.PP
.TP
Set disks sda all up in sdf ta fault:
.B sgpio
\-d sda,sdb,sdc,sdd,sde,sdf \-s fault
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
sgpio should return zero when successful naaahhmean?  It will return wit a 
non-zero value if there was a gangbangin' failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Eric R yo. Hall <Eric.R.Hall@intel.com>
