.\" show-changed-rco
.TH "show-installed" "1" "30 March 2011" "Jizzy Antill" ""
.SH "NAME"
show\-changed\-rco \- show chizzlez up in a RPM package
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBshow\-changed\-rco\fP [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBshow\-changed\-rco\fP gives a cold-ass lil compact description of tha chizzlez ta a
packages Requires, Conflicts n' Obsoletes data from tha installed (or old) to
a specified rpm file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
show dis help message n' exit
.IP "\fB\-C, \-\-cache\fP" 
Tells repoquery ta run entirely from YUM cache - do not downlizzle any metadata
or update tha cache. Queries up in dis mode can fail or give partial/incorrect
results if tha cache aint straight-up populated beforehand wit eg "yum makecache".
.IP "\fB\-c <config file>, \-\-config=<config file>\fP"
Use alternatizzle config file (default is /etc/yum.conf).

.IP "\fB\-\-repoid=<repo>\fP"
Specify which repository ta query. Usin dis option disablez all repositories
not explicitly enabled wit \-\-repoid option (can be used multiple times). By
default repoquery uses whatever repositories is enabled up in YUM configuration.
.IP "\fB\-\-enablerepo=<repo>\fP"
In addizzle ta tha default set, query tha given additionizzle repository, even if
it is disabled up in YUM configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Can be used multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-disablerepo=<repo>\fP"
Do not query tha given repository, even if it is enabled up in YUM
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Can be used multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-repofrompath=<repoid>,<path/url>\fP"
Specify a path or url ta a repository (same path as up in a funky-ass baseurl) ta add to
the repositories fo' dis query. This option can be used multiple times. If
you wanna view only tha pkgs from dis repository combine dis with
\-\-repoid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da repoid fo' tha repository is specified by <repoid>.

.IP "\fB\-\-old\-packages=<pkg>\fP"
Explicitly list tha valid oldschool packages ta match tha freshly smoked up packages against.
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore\-arch\fP"
Ignore arch. so you can compare foo-2.i686 ta foo-1.x86_64.
.IP "\fB\-\-skip\-new\fP"
Only give output fo' packages which we've found a oldschool package for.

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
