.\" show-installed
.TH "show-installed" "1" "21 October 2010" "Florian Festi" ""
.SH "NAME"
show\-installed \- show installed RPM packages n' descriptions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBshow\-installed\fP [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBshow\-installed\fP gives a cold-ass lil compact description of tha packages installed (or given) makin use of tha comps crews found up in tha repositories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show dis help message n' exit
.TP
.B \-f FORMAT, \-\-format=FORMAT
yum, kickstart or human; yum gives tha result as a yum command line; kickstart tha content of a %packages section; "human" readable is default.
.TP
.B \-i INPUT, \-\-input=INPUT
File ta read tha package list from instead of rockin tha rpmdb. \- fo' stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da file must contain package names only separated by white space (includin newlines). rpm \-qa \-\-qf=\(aq%{name}\\n\(aq produces proper output.
.TP
.B \-o OUTPUT, \-\-output=OUTPUT
File ta write tha result to. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Stdout is used if option is omitted.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Do not show warnings.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-no\-excludes
Only show crews dat is installed straight-up. Do not use exclude lines.
.TP
.B \-\-global\-excludes
Print exclude lines all up in tha end n' not afta tha crews requirin em.
.TP
.B \-\-global\-addons
Print package names all up in tha end n' not afta tha crews offerin dem as addon.
.TP
.B \-\-addons\-by\-group
Also show crews not selected ta sort packages contained by em. Those crews is commented up wit a "# " all up in tha begin of tha line.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-allow\-mandatories
Peep if just installin tha mandatory packages gives betta thangs up in dis biatch. Uses "." ta mark dem groups.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-allow\-all
Peep if installin all packages up in tha crews gives betta thangs up in dis biatch. Uses "*" ta mark dem groups.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-missing
Ignore packages missin up in tha repos.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-missing\-excludes
Do not produce exclude lines fo' packages not up in tha repository.

.fi
