.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH SIMPLE-SCAN 1 "December 21, 2009"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
simple-scan \- Scannin utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "simple-scan [" DEVICE "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B simple-scan
command.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invode bold grill n' italics,
.\" respectively.
.B Simple Scan
is a easy as fuck -to-use application, designed ta let playas connect their
scanner n' quickly have tha image/document up in a appropriate format.
.PP
.B Simple Scan
has been freestyled wit GTK+ libraries, n' afta installin the
application you can run it from the
.B Applications
menu.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
For a cold-ass lil complete description, peep tha Info files.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Print debuggin lyrics.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show release version.
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show help options.
.TP
.B \-\-help-all
Show all help options.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-help-gtk
Show GTK+ options.
.SH AUTHOR
simple-scan was freestyled by Robert Ancell <robert.ancell@canonical.com>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Alessio Treglia <quadrispro@ubuntu.com>,
for tha Debian project (and may be used by others).
