'\" t
.\" (Da precedin line be a note ta fucked up versionz of playa ta tell
.\" dem ta pre-process dis playa page wit tbl)
.\" Man page fo' skill n' snice.
.\" Licensed under version 2 of tha GNU General Public License.
.\" Written by Albert Cahalan, converted ta a playa page by
.\" Mike K. Johnson
.\"
.TH SKILL 1 "October 2011" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
skill, snice \- bust a signal or report process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B skill
.RI [ signal ]
.RI [ options ]
.I expression
.br
.B snice
.RI [ "new priority" ]
.RI [ options ]
.I expression
.SH DESCRIPTION
These tools is obsolete n' unportable.  Da command syntax is
poorly defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Consider rockin tha killall, pkill, n' pgrep
commandz instead.
.PP
Da default signal fo' skill is TERM.  Use \-l or \-L ta list
available signals.  Particularly useful signals include HUP, INT,
KILL, STOP, CONT, n' 0.  Alternate signals may be specified up in three
ways: \-9 \-SIGKILL \-KILL.
.PP
Da default prioritizzle fo' snice is +4.  Prioritizzle numbers range from
+20 (slowest) ta \-20 (fastest).  Negatizzle prioritizzle numbers are
restricted ta administratizzle users.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f , \ \-\-fast
Fast mode.  This option has not been implemented.
.TP
.BR \-i , \ \-\-interactive
Interactizzle use.  Yo ass is ghon be axed ta approve each action.
.TP
.BR \-l , \ \-\-list
List all signal names.
.TP
.BR \-L , \ \-\-table
List all signal names up in a sick table.
.TP
.BR \-n , \ \-\-no\-action
No action; big-ass up a simulation of events dat would occur but do not
actually chizzle tha system.
.TP
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
Verbose; explain what tha fuck is bein done.
.TP
.BR \-w , \ \-\-warnings
Enable warnings.  This option has not been implemented.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit.
.PD
.SH "PROCESS SELECTION OPTIONS"
Selection criteria can be: terminal, user, pid, command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da options
below may be used ta ensure erect interpretation.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tty\fR \fItty\fR
Da next expression be a terminal (tty or pty).
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR \fIuser\fR
Da next expression be a username.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR \fIpid\fR
Da next expression be a process ID number.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-command\fR \fIcommand\fR
Da next expression be a cold-ass lil command name.
.PD
.SH SIGNALS
Da behavior of signals is explained in
.BR signal (7)
manual page.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B snice -c seti -c crack +7
Slow down seti n' crack commands.
.TP
.B skill \-KILL \-t /dev/pts/*
Bust a cap up in playas on PTY devices.
.TP
.B skill \-STOP \-u viro \-u lm \-u davem
Quit three users.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bust a cap up in (1),
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR killall (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR pkill (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR signal (7)
.SH STANDARDS
No standardz apply.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR albert@users.sf.net
Albert Cahalan
.UE
wrote skill n' snice up in 1999 as a replacement fo' a non-free
version.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
