.\" slabtop.1 - manpage fo' tha slabtop(1) utility, part of procps-ng
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Chris Rivera
.\" Licensed under tha termz of tha GNU Library General Public License, v2
.TH SLABTOP "1" "June 2011" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
slabtop \- display kernel slab cache shiznit up in real time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slabtop
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slabtop
displays detailed kernel slab cache shiznit up in real time.  It displays a
listin of tha top caches sorted by one of tha listed sort criteria.  It also
displays a statistics header filled wit slab layer shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
Normal invocation of
.B slabtop
does not require any options.  Da behavior, however, can be fine-tuned by
specifyin one or mo' of tha followin flags:
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delay\fR=\fIN\fR
Refresh tha display every
.I n
in seconds.  By default,
.B slabtop
refreshes tha display every last muthafuckin three seconds.  To exit tha program, hit
.BR q.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR=\fIS\fR
Sort by \fIS\fR, where \fIS\fR is one of tha sort criteria.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-once\fR
Display tha output once n' then exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage shiznit n' exit.
.SH SORT CRITERIA
Da followin is valid sort criteria used ta sort tha individual slab caches
and thereby determine what tha fuck is tha "top" slab caches ta display.  Da default
sort criteria is ta sort by tha number of objects ("o").
.PP
Da sort criteria can also be chizzled while slabtop is hustlin by pressing
the associated character.
.TS
l l l.
\fBcharacter	description	header\fR
a	number of actizzle objects	ACTIVE
b	objects per slab	OBJ/SLAB
c	cache size	CACHE SIZE
l	number of slabs	SLABS
v	number of actizzle slabs	N/A
n	name	NAME
o	number of objects	OBJS
p	pages per slab	N/A
s	object size	OBJ SIZE
u	cache utilization	USE
.TE
.SH COMMANDS
.B slabtop
accepts keyboard commandz from tha user durin use.  Da followin are
supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  In tha case of letters, both cases is accepted.
.PP
Each of tha valid sort charactas is also accepted, ta chizzle tha sort
routine. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha section
.BR "SORT CRITERIA" .
.TP
.BR <SPACEBAR>
Refresh tha screen.
.TP
.BR Q
Quit tha program.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /proc/slabinfo
slab shiznit
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR free (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR vmstat (8)
.SH NOTES
Currently,
.B slabtop
requires a 2.4 or lata kernel (specifically, a version 1.1 or later
.IR /proc/slabinfo ).
Kernel 2.2 should be supported up in tha future.
.PP
Da slabtop statistic header is trackin how tha fuck nuff bytez of slabs is being
used n' it not a measure of physical memory.  Da 'Slab' field up in the
/proc/meminfo file is trackin shiznit bout used slab physical memory.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Chris Rivera n' Robert Love.
.PP
.B slabtop
was inspired by Martin Blighz perl script,
.BR vmtop .
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
