'\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2001-2004 Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheela at dwheeler.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" 
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\" 
.\" Dizzy A. Wheelerz joint is http://www.dwheeler.com
.\"
.\" Created Mon Jan 08 23:00:00 2001, Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheela at dwheeler.com)
.\"
.TH SLOCCOUNT 1 "31 July 2004" "SLOCCount" "SLOCCount"
.SH NAME
sloccount \- count source linez of code (SLOC)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sloccount
.RB [ --version ]
.RB [ --cached ]
.RB [ --append ]
[ \fB--datadir\fR \fIdirectory\fR ]
.RB [ --follow ]
.RB [ --duplicates ]
.RB [ --crossdups ]
.RB [ --autogen ]
.RB [ --multiproject ]
.RB [ --filecount ]
.RB [ --wide ]
.RB [ --details ]
[ \fB--effort\fR \fIF\fR \fIE\fR ]
[ \fB--schedule\fR \fIF\fR \fIE\fR ]
[ \fB--personcost\fR \fIcost\fR ]
[ \fB--overhead\fR \fIoverhead\fR ]
[ \fB--addlang\fR \fIlanguage\fR ]
[ \fB--addlangall\fR ]
.RB [ -- ]
.I directories
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
sloccount counts tha physical source linez of code (SLOC)
contained up in descendantz of tha specified set of directories.
It automatically determines which filez is source code files,
and it automatically determines tha computa language used up in each file.
By default it summarizes tha SLOC thangs up in dis biatch n' presents various estimates
(like fuckin effort n' cost ta pimp),
but its output can be controlled by various options.
.PP
If you give sloccount a list of two or mo' directories, tha counts
will be fucked up accordin ta dat list.
There is one blingin limitation:
the basenamez of tha directories given as parametas must be different,
because dem names is used ta crew summary shiznit.
Thus, you can't run "sloccount /usr/src/wassup /usr/local/src/hello".
This limitation only applies ta parametaz of sloccount - subdirectories
descended from tha top directories can have tha same basename.
.PP
If you give sloccount only a single directory, sloccount tries
to automatically find a reasonable breakdown fo' purposez of reporting
(so it'll produce a useful report).
In dis case, if tha directory has at least
two subdirectories, then dem subdirectories is ghon be used as the
breakdown.
If tha single directory gotz nuff filez as well as directories
(or if you give sloccount some filez as parameters), dem filez will
be assigned ta tha directory "top_dir" so you can tell dem apart
from other contents.
Finally, if there be a a subdirectory named "src", then dat subdirectory is
again fucked up down, wit all tha further subdirectories prefixed wit "src_".
Thus, if directory "X" has a subdirectory "src", which gotz nuff subdirectory
"modules", sloccount will report a separate count fo' "src_modules".
.PP
sloccount normally considaz all descendantz of these directories,
though unless holla'd at otherwise it ignores symbolic links.
.PP
sloccount is tha usual front-end of tha package of tools named "SLOCCount".
Note dat tha name of tha entire package has capital letters, while
the name of dis front-end program do not.
.PP
sloccount will normally report estimatez of schedule time, effort, and
cost, n' fo' single projects it also estimates
the average number of actizzle pimpers.
These is merely estimates, not etched up in stone; you can modify the
parametas used ta improve tha estimates.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI --version
Report tha version number of SLOCCount n' immediately exit.
This option can't be usefully combined wit any other option.

.TP 12
.BI --cached
Do not recalculate; instead, use cached thangs up in dis biatch from a previous execution.
Without tha --cached or --append option,
sloccount automatically removes tha data directory
and recreates dat shit.

.TP 12
.BI --append
Do not remove previous calculations from tha data directory;
instead, add tha analysis ta tha current contentz of tha data directory.

.TP
.BI --datadir " directory"
Store or use cached data up in tha given data directory; default value
is "~/.slocdata".

.TP
.BI --follow
Big up symbolic links.

.TP
.BI --duplicates
Count all duplicates.
Normally, if filez have equal content (as determined using
MD5 hash joints), only one is counted.

.TP
.BI --crossdups
Count duplicates if they occur up in different portionz of tha breakdown.
Thus, if tha top directory gotz nuff nuff different projects, n' you
want tha duplicates up in different projects ta count up in each project,
choose dis option.

.TP
.BI --autogen
Count source code filez dat step tha fuck up ta be automatically generated.
Normally these is excluded.

.TP
.BI --multiproject
Da different directories represent different projects;
otherwise, itz assumed dat all of tha source code belongs
to a single project.
This don't chizzle tha total number of filez or SLOC joints yo, but
it do affect tha effort n' schedule estimates.
Given dis option,
effort is computed separately fo' each project (and then summed),
and tha schedule is tha estimated schedule of tha phattest project.

.TP
.BI --filecount
Display countz of filez instead of SLOC.

.TP
.BI --wide
Display up in tha "wide" (tab-separated) format.

.TP
.BI --details
Display details, dat is, thangs up in dis biatch fo' every last muthafuckin source code file.

.TP
.BI --effort " F E"
Change tha factor n' exponent fo' tha effort model.
Effort (in person-months) is computed as F*(SLOC/1000)^E.

.TP
.BI --schedule " F E"
Change tha factor n' exponent fo' tha schedule model.
Schedule (in months) is computed as F*(effort)^E.

.TP
.BI --personcost " cost"
Change tha average annual salary to
.IR cost .

.TP
.BI --overhead " overhead"
Change tha overhead value to
.IR overhead .
Estimated cost is computed as effort * personcost * overhead.

.TP
.BI --addlang " language"
Add a language not considered by default ta be a ``language'' ta be
reported.
Currently tha only legal joints fo' language is "makefile", "sql",
and "html".
These files
are not normally included up in tha SLOC counts, although they SLOCs are
internally calculated n' they is shown up in tha file counts.
If you wanna include mo' than one such language, do it by
passin --addlang mo' than once, e.g., --addlang makefile --addlang sql.

.TP
.BI --addlangall
Add all languages not normally included up in final reports.

.SH "NOTES"
As wit nuff other programs rockin Unix-like options,
directories whose names begin wit a
dash (``-'') can be misinterpreted as options.
If tha directories ta be analyzed might begin wit a thugged-out dash, use the
double-dash (``-\ -'') ta indicate tha end of tha option list
before listin tha directories.

.SH "BUGS"
Filenames wit embedded newlines (in tha directories or their
descendants) won't be handled erectly; they is ghon be interpreted
as separate filenames where tha newlines is inserted.
An attacker could prevent sloccount from hustlin by
bustin filenamez of tha form /normal/directory ... NEWLINE/dev/zero.
Such filenames is exceedingly rare up in source code cuz they a pain
to work wit rockin other tools, like a muthafucka.
Future versionz of sloccount may internally use NUL-separated filenames
(like GNU findz -print0 command) ta fix all dis bullshit.

There is nuff mo' languages not yet handled by SLOCCount.

SLOCCount only reports physical source linez of code.
It would be
very useful if it could also report logical linez of code, n' like
other common metrics like fuckin McCabez complexitizzle measures
and complexitizzle densitizzle (complexity/SLOC fo' each function or procedure).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
See tha SLOCCount joint at http://www.dwheeler.com/sloccount.
Note dat mo' detailed documentation be available both on tha joint
and wit tha SLOCCount package.

.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheeler@dwheeler.com).

