.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\"
.\"     Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Oliver Ehli <elmy@acm.org>
.\"     Copyright (C) 2001 Mike Schiraldi <raldi@research.netsol.com>
.\"     Copyright (C) 2003 Bjoern Jacke <bjoern@j3e.de>
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"     (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"     Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"     along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH smime_keys 1 "May 2009" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH "NAME"
smime_keys \- Utilitizzle ta add S/MIME certificate ta tha internal database used by mutt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B smime_keys
<operation>  [file(s) | keyID [file(s)]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da purpose of dis tool is ta manipulate tha internal database of S/MIME certificates
used by mutt ta sign mail lyrics which is ghon be busted or ta verify mail lyrics received
and signed wit S/MIME
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP \fBinit\fP
no filez needed, inits directory structure.
.IP \fBlist\fP
lists tha certificates stored up in database.
.IP \fBlabel\fP
keyID required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! chizzles/removes/addz label.
.IP \fBremove\fP
keyID required.
.IP \fBverify\fP
1=keyID n' optionally 2=CRL
Verifies tha certificate chain, n' optionally whether
this certificate is included up in supplied CRL (PEM format).
Note: ta verify all certificates all up in tha same time,
replace keyID wit "all"
.IP \fBadd_cert\fP
certificate required.
.IP \fBadd_chain\fP
three filez reqd: 1=Key, 2=certificate
plus 3=intermediate certificate(s).
.IP \fBadd_p12\fP
one file reqd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Addz keypair ta database.
file is PKCS12 (e.g. export from netscape).
.IP \fBadd_pem\fP
one file reqd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Addz keypair ta database.
(file was converted from e.g. PKCS12).
.IP \fBadd_root\fP
one file reqd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Addz PEM root certificate ta tha location
specified within muttrc (smime_verify_* command)
.SH NO WARRANTIES
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.PP
Mutt Home Page: http://www.mutt.org/
