.TH SMTP-SOURCE 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
smtp-source
\-
multi-threaded SMTP/LMTP test generator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBsmtp-source\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fBinet:\fR]\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]

\fBsmtp-source\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fBunix:\fIpathname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBsmtp-source\fR connects ta tha named \fIhost\fR n' TCP \fIport\fR
(default: port 25)
and sendz one or mo' lyrics ta it, either sequentially
or up in parallel. Da program speaks either SMTP (default) or
LMTP.
Connections can be made ta UNIX-domain n' IPv4 or IPv6 servers.
IPv4 n' IPv6 is tha default.

Note: dis be a unsupported test program. No attempt is made
to maintain compatibilitizzle between successive versions.

Arguments:
.IP \fB-4\fR
Connect ta tha server wit IPv4. This option has no effect when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP \fB-6\fR
Connect ta tha server wit IPv6. This option aint available when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP "\fB-A\fR"
Don't abort when tha server sendz suttin' other than the
expected positizzle reply code.
.IP \fB-c\fR
Display a hustlin counta dat is incremented each time
an SMTP DATA command completes.
.IP "\fB-C \fIcount\fR"
When a host sendz RESET instead of SYN|ACK, try \fIcount\fR times
before givin up. Da default count is 1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a larger count in
order ta work round a problem wit TCP/IP stacks dat bust RESET
when tha listen queue is full.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Don't disconnect afta bustin  a message; bust tha next
message over tha same connection.
.IP "\fB-f \fIfrom\fR"
Use tha specified sender address (default: <foo@myhostname>).
.IP "\fB-F \fIfile\fR"
Send tha pre-formatted message header n' body up in the
specified \fIfile\fR, while prependin '.' before lines that
begin wit '.', n' while appendin CRLF afta each line.
.IP "\fB-l \fIlength\fR"
Send \fIlength\fR bytes as message payload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da length do not
include message headers.
.IP \fB-L\fR
Speak LMTP rather than SMTP.
.IP "\fB-m \fImessage_count\fR"
Send tha specified number of lyrics (default: 1).
.IP "\fB-M \fImyhostname\fR"
Use tha specified hostname or [address] up in tha HELO command
and up in tha default sender n' recipient addresses, instead
of tha machine hostname.
.IP "\fB-N\fR"
Prepend a non-repeatin sequence number ta each recipient
address. This avoidz tha artificial 100% hit rate up in the
resolve n' rewrite client caches n' exercises the
trivial-rewrite daemon, betta approximatin Postfix
performizzle under real-life work-loads.
.IP \fB-o\fR
Oldskool mode: don't bust HELO, n' don't bust message headers.
.IP "\fB-r \fIrecipient_count\fR"
Send tha specified number of recipients per transaction (default: 1).
Recipient names is generated by prependin a number ta the
recipient address.
.IP "\fB-R \fIinterval\fR"
Wait fo' a random period of time 0 <= n <= interval between lyrics.
Suspendin one thread do not affect other delivery threads.
.IP "\fB-s \fIsession_count\fR"
Run tha specified number of SMTP sessions up in parallel (default: 1).
.IP "\fB-S \fIsubject\fR"
Send mail wit tha named subject line (default: none).
.IP "\fB-t \fIto\fR"
Use tha specified recipient address (default: <foo@myhostname>).
.IP "\fB-T \fIwindowsize\fR"
Override tha default TCP window size. To work around
broken TCP window scalin implementations, specify a
value > 0 n' < 65536.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Make tha program mo' verbose, fo' debuggin purposes.
.IP "\fB-w \fIinterval\fR"
Wait a gangbangin' fixed time between lyrics.
Suspendin one thread do not affect other delivery threads.
.IP [\fBinet:\fR]\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]
Connect via TCP ta host \fIhost\fR, port \fIport\fR. Da default
port is \fBsmtp\fR.
.IP \fBunix:\fIpathname\fR
Connect ta tha UNIX-domain socket at \fIpathname\fR.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
No SMTP command pipelinin support.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtp-sink(1), SMTP/LMTP message dump
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
