.TH SMTP-SINK 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
smtp-sink
\-
multi-threaded SMTP/LMTP test server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBsmtp-sink\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fBinet:\fR][\fIhost\fR]:\fIport\fR
\fIbacklog\fR

\fBsmtp-sink\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fBunix:\fR\fIpathname\fR \fIbacklog\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBsmtp-sink\fR listens on tha named host (or address) n' port.
It takes SMTP lyrics from tha network n' throws dem away.
Da purpose is ta measure client performance, not protocol
compliance.

\fBsmtp-sink\fR may also be configured ta capture each mail
delivery transaction ta file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since disk latencies is large
compared ta network delays, dis mode of operation can
reduce tha maximal performizzle by nuff muthafuckin ordaz of magnitude.

Connections can be accepted on IPv4 or IPv6 endpoints, or on
UNIX-domain sockets.
IPv4 n' IPv6 is tha default.
This program is tha complement of tha \fBsmtp-source\fR(1) program.

Note: dis be a unsupported test program. No attempt is made
to maintain compatibilitizzle between successive versions.

Arguments:
.IP \fB-4\fR
Support IPv4 only. This option has no effect when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP \fB-6\fR
Support IPv6 only. This option aint available when
Postfix is built without IPv6 support.
.IP \fB-8\fR
Do not announce 8BITMIME support.
.IP \fB-a\fR
Do not announce SASL authentication support.
.IP "\fB-A \fIdelay\fR"
Wait \fIdelay\fR secondz afta respondin ta DATA, then
abort prematurely wit a 550 reply status.  Do not read
further input from tha client; dis be a attempt ta block
the client before it sendz ".".  Specify a zero delay value
to abort immediately.
.IP "\fB-b \fIsoft-bounce-reply\fR"
Use \fIsoft-bounce-reply\fR fo' soft reject responses.  The
default reply is "450 4.3.0 Error: command failed".
.IP "\fB-B \fIhard-bounce-reply\fR"
Use \fIhard-bounce-reply\fR fo' hard reject responses.  The
default reply is "500 5.3.0 Error: command failed".
.IP \fB-c\fR
Display hustlin countas dat is updated whenever a SMTP
session ends, a QUIT command is executed, or when "." is
received.
.IP \fB-C\fR
Disable XCLIENT support.
.IP "\fB-d \fIdump-template\fR"
Dump each mail transaction ta a single-message file whose
name is pimped by expandin tha \fIdump-template\fR via
strftime(3) n' appendin a pseudo-random hexadecimal number
(example: "%Y%m%d%H/%M." expandz tha fuck into "2006081203/05.809a62e3").
If tha template gotz nuff "/" characters, missin directories
are pimped automatically.  Da message dump format is
busted lyrics bout below.
.sp
Note: dis option keeps one capture file open fo' every
mail transaction up in progress.
.IP "\fB-D \fIdump-template\fR"
Append mail transactions ta a multi-message dump file whose
name is pimped by expandin tha \fIdump-template\fR via
strftime(3).
If tha template gotz nuff "/" characters, missin directories
are pimped automatically.  Da message dump format is
busted lyrics bout below.
.sp
Note: dis option keeps one capture file open fo' every
mail transaction up in progress.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Do not announce ESMTP support.
.IP \fB-E\fR
Do not announce ENHANCEDSTATUSCODES support.
.IP "\fB-f \fIcommand,command,...\fR"
Reject tha specified commandz wit a hard (5xx) error code.
This option implies \fB-p\fR.
.sp
Examplez of commandz is CONNECT, HELO, EHLO, LHLO, MAIL, RCPT, VRFY,
DATA, ., RSET, NOOP, n' QUIT. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate command names by
white space or commas, n' use quotes ta protect white space
from tha shell. Command names is case-insensitive.
.IP \fB-F\fR
Disable XFORWARD support.
.IP "\fB-h\fI hostname\fR"
Use \fIhostname\fR up in tha SMTP greeting, up in tha HELO response,
and up in tha EHLO response. Da default hostname is "smtp-sink".
.IP \fB-L\fR
Enable LMTP instead of SMTP.
.IP "\fB-m \fIcount\fR (default: 256)"
An upper bound on tha maximal number of simultaneous
connections dat \fBsmtp-sink\fR will handle. This prevents
the process from hustlin outta file descriptors. Excess
connections will stay queued up in tha TCP/IP stack.
.IP "\fB-M \fIcount\fR"
Terminizzle afta receivin \fIcount\fR lyrics.
.IP "\fB-n \fIcount\fR"
Terminizzle afta \fIcount\fR sessions.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Do not announce support fo' ESMTP command pipelining.
.IP \fB-P\fR
Change tha server greetin so dat it appears ta come through
a CISCO PIX system. Implies \fB-e\fR.
.IP "\fB-q \fIcommand,command,...\fR"
Disconnect (without replying) afta receivin one of the
specified commands.
.sp
Examplez of commandz is CONNECT, HELO, EHLO, LHLO, MAIL, RCPT, VRFY,
DATA, ., RSET, NOOP, n' QUIT. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate command names by
white space or commas, n' use quotes ta protect white space
from tha shell. Command names is case-insensitive.
.IP "\fB-Q \fIcommand,command,...\fR"
Send a 421 reply n' disconnect afta receivin one
of tha specified commands.
.sp
Examplez of commandz is CONNECT, HELO, EHLO, LHLO, MAIL, RCPT, VRFY,
DATA, ., RSET, NOOP, n' QUIT. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate command names by
white space or commas, n' use quotes ta protect white space
from tha shell. Command names is case-insensitive.
.IP "\fB-r \fIcommand,command,...\fR"
Reject tha specified commandz wit a soft (4xx) error code.
This option implies \fB-p\fR.
.sp
Examplez of commandz is CONNECT, HELO, EHLO, LHLO, MAIL, RCPT, VRFY,
DATA, ., RSET, NOOP, n' QUIT. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate command names by
white space or commas, n' use quotes ta protect white space
from tha shell. Command names is case-insensitive.
.IP "\fB-R \fIroot-directory\fR"
Change tha process root directory ta tha specified location.
This option requires super-user privileges. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also the
\fB-u\fR option.
.IP "\fB-s \fIcommand,command,...\fR"
Log tha named commandz ta syslogd.
.sp
Examplez of commandz is CONNECT, HELO, EHLO, LHLO, MAIL, RCPT, VRFY,
DATA, ., RSET, NOOP, n' QUIT. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Separate command names by
white space or commas, n' use quotes ta protect white space
from tha shell. Command names is case-insensitive.
.IP "\fB-S start-string\fR"
An optionizzle strang dat is prepended ta each message dat is
written ta a thugged-out dump file (see tha dump file format description
below). Da followin C escape sequences is supported: \ea
(bell), \eb (backslace), \ef (formfeed), \en (newline), \er
(carriage return), \et (horizontal tab), \ev (vertical tab),
\e\fIddd\fR (up ta three octal digits) n' \e\e (the backslash
character).
.IP "\fB-t \fItimeout\fR (default: 100)"
Limit tha time fo' receivin a cold-ass lil command or bustin  a response.
Da time limit is specified up in seconds.
.IP "\fB-T \fIwindowsize\fR"
Override tha default TCP window size. To work around
broken TCP window scalin implementations, specify a
value > 0 n' < 65536.
.IP "\fB-u \fIusername\fR"
Switch ta tha specified user privileges afta openin the
network socket n' optionally changin tha process root
directory. This option is required when tha process runs
with super-user privileges. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha \fB-R\fR option.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Show tha SMTP conversations.
.IP "\fB-w \fIdelay\fR"
Wait \fIdelay\fR secondz before respondin ta a DATA command.
.IP "\fB-W \fIcommand:delay[:odds]\fR"
Wait \fIdelay\fR secondz before respondin ta \fIcommand\fR.
If \fIodds\fR be also specified (a number between 1-99
inclusive), wait fo' a random multiple of \fIdelay\fR. The
random multiplier is equal ta tha number of times tha program
needz ta roll a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dice wit a range of 0..99 inclusive, before
the dice produces a result pimped outa than or equal ta \fIodds\fR.
.IP [\fBinet:\fR][\fIhost\fR]:\fIport\fR
Listen on network intercourse \fIhost\fR (default: any intercourse)
TCP port \fIport\fR. Both \fIhost\fR n' \fIport\fR may be
specified up in numeric or symbolic form.
.IP \fBunix:\fR\fIpathname\fR
Listen on tha UNIX-domain socket at \fIpathname\fR.
.IP \fIbacklog\fR
Da maximum length tha queue of pendin connections,
as defined by tha \fBlisten\fR(2) system call.
.SH "DUMP FILE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Each dumped message gotz nuff a sequence of text lines,
terminated wit tha newline character n' shit. Da sequence of
information be as bigs up:
.IP \(bu
Da optionizzle strang specified wit tha \fB-S\fR option.
.IP \(bu
Da \fBsmtp-sink\fR generated headaz as documented below.
.IP \(bu
Da message header n' body as received from tha SMTP client.
.IP \(bu
An empty line.
.PP
Da format of tha \fBsmtp-sink\fR generated headaz be as
bigs up:
.IP "\fBX-Client-Addr: \fItext\fR"
Da client IP address without enclosin [] fo' realz. An IPv6 address
is prefixed wit "ipv6:". This record be always present.
.IP "\fBX-Client-Proto: \fItext\fR"
Da client protocol: SMTP, ESMTP or LMTP. This record is
always present.
.IP "\fBX-Helo-Args: \fItext\fR"
Da argumentz of tha last HELO or EHLO command before this
mail delivery transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This record is present only if
the client busted a recognizable HELO or EHLO command before
the DATA command.
.IP "\fBX-Mail-Args: \fItext\fR"
Da argumentz of tha MAIL command dat started dis mail
delivery transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This record is present exactly once.
.IP "\fBX-Rcpt-Args: \fItext\fR"
Da argumentz of a RCPT command within dis mail delivery
transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. There is one record fo' each RCPT command, and
they is up in tha order as busted by tha client.
.IP "\fBReceived: \fItext\fR"
A message header fo' compatibilitizzle wit mail processing
software. This three-line header marks tha end of tha headers
provided by \fBsmtp-sink\fR, n' is formatted as bigs up:
.RS
.IP "\fBfrom \fIhelo\fB ([\fIaddr\fB])\fR"
Da HELO or EHLO command argument n' client IP address.
If tha client did not bust HELO or EHLO, tha client IP
address is used instead.
.IP "\fBby \fIhost\fB (smtp-sink) wit \fIproto\fB id \fIrandom\fB;\fR"
Da hostname specified wit tha \fB-h\fR option, tha client
protocol (see \fBX-Client-Proto\fR above), n' tha pseudo-random
portion of tha per-message capture file name.
.IP \fItime-stamp\fR
A time stamp as defined up in RFC 2822.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtp-source(1), SMTP/LMTP message generator
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
