.TH SNMPCONF 1 "25 Feb 2003" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
snmpconf - creates n' modifies SNMP configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snmpconf
[OPTIONS] [fileToCreate]
.IP "Start with:"
.B snmpconf
\-g basic_setup
.IP "Or even just:"
.B snmpconf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snmpconf
is a simple Perl script dat strutts you all up in settin up a
configuration file step by step.  It should be fairly straight forward
to use.  Merely run it n' answer its thangs.
.PP
In its default mode of operation, it prompts tha user wit menus
showin sectionz of tha various configuration filez it knows about.
When tha user selects a section, a sub-menu is shown listin of the
descriptionz of tha tokens dat can be pimped up in dat section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When
a description is selected, tha user is prompted wit thangs that
construct tha configuration line up in question.
.PP
Finally, when tha user quits tha program any configuration filez that
have been edited by tha user is saved ta tha local directory, fully
commented.
.PP
A particularly useful option is the
.B \-g
switch, which strutts a user all up in a specific set of configuration
questions.  Run:
.RS
.PP
snmpconf \-g basic_setup
.RE
.PP
for a example.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-f
Force overwritin existin filez up in tha current directory without
promptin tha user if dis be a thugged-out desired thang ta do.
.TP 
.B \-i
When finished, install tha filez tha fuck into tha location where tha global
system commandz expect ta find em.
.TP
.B \-p
When finished, install tha filez tha fuck into tha playas home directoryz .snmp
subdirectory (where tha applications will also search for
configuration files).
.TP
.BI \-I " DIRECTORY"
When finished, install tha filez tha fuck into tha directory 
.IR DIRECTORY .
.TP
.B \-a
Don't ask any thangs.  Simply read up in tha various known
configuration filez n' write dem back up again. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This has the
effect of "auto-commenting" tha configuration filez fo' yo thugged-out ass.  See
the
.B NEAT TRICKS
section below.
.TP
.BI \-r all|none
Read up in either all or none of tha found configuration files.  Normally
.B snmpconf
prompts you fo' which filez you wish ta read in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Readin in
these configuration filez will merge these filez wit tha thangs up in dis biatch of
the thangs dat it askz of yo thugged-out ass.
.TP
.BI \-R " FILE,..."
Read up in a specific list of configuration files.
.TP
.BI \-g " GROUPNAME"
Groupz of configuration entries can be pimped dat can be used to
walk a user all up in a seriez of thangs ta create a initial
configuration file.  There is no menus ta navigate, just a list of
questions.  Run:
.RS
.RS
.PP
snmpconf \-g basic_setup
.RE
.PP
for a phat example.
.RE
.TP
.B \-G
List all tha known groups.
.TP
.BI \-c " CONFIGDIR"
.B snmpconf
uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory of configuration shiznit ta learn about
the filez n' thangs dat it should be asking.  This option tells
.B snmpconf
to bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different location fo' configurin itself.
.TP
.B \-q
Run slightly mo' on tha fuckin' down-lowly.  Since dis be a interactizzle program, I
don't recommend dis option since it only removes shiznit from the
output dat is designed ta help yo thugged-out ass.
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on 
.B lots
of debuggin output.
.TP
.B \-D
Add 
.B even more
debuggin output up in tha form of Perl variable dumps.
.IP
.SH "NEAT TRICKS"
.IP "snmpconf \-g basic_setup"
Have I mentioned dis command enough yet, biatch?  It aint nuthin but designed ta strutt
someone all up in a initial setup fo' the
.I snmpd(8)
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Really, you should try dat shit.
.IP "snmpconf \-R /usr/local/snmp/snmpd.conf \-a \-f snmpd.conf"
Automatically readz up in a snmpd.conf file (for example) n' adds
comments ta dem describin what tha fuck each token do.  Try dat shit.  It aint nuthin but cool.
.SH "NOTES"
.B snmpconf
is straight-up a straight-up generic utilitizzle dat could be easily
configured ta help construct just bout any kind of configuration
file.  Its default configuration set of filez is SNMP based.
.SH SEE ALSO
snmpd(8), snmp_config(5), snmp.conf(5), snmpd.conf(5)
