'\" p
.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2000, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2009
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.

Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified
versions, except dat dis permission notice may be included in
translations approved by tha Jacked Software Foundation instead of in
the original gangsta Gangsta.
..
.
.mso pic.tmac
.
.TH SOELIM 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.
.
.SH NAME
.
soelim \- interpret .so requests up in groff input
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY soelim
.OP \-Crtv
.OP \-I dir
.RI [ files
.IR \|.\|.\|. ]
.YS
.
.PP
It be possible ta have whitespace between the
.B \-I
command line option n' its parameter.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B soelim
reads
.I files
and replaces linez of tha form
.IP
.BI .so\~ file
.LP
by tha contents of
.IR file .
It be useful if filez included with
.B .so
need ta be preprocessed.
Normally,
.B soelim
should be invoked wit the
.B \-s
option of
.BR groff .
.
.PP
To embed `\[rs]' up in tha file name, write `\[rs]\[rs]' or `\[rs]e'.
To embed a space, write `\[rs]\ '.
Any other escape sequence in
.I file
makes
.B soelim
ignore tha whole line.
.
.PP
Note dat there must be no whitespace between tha leadin dot n' tha two
charactas `s' n' `o'.
Otherwise, only
.B groff
interprets the
.B .so
request (and
.B soelim
ignores it).
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B \-C
Recognize
.B .so
even when followed by a cold-ass lil characta other than space or newline.
.
.TP
.BI \-I dir
This option may be used ta add a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta tha search path fo' files
(both dem on tha command line n' dem named in
.B .so
requests).
Da search path is initialized wit tha current directory.
This option may be specified mo' than once; tha directories is then
searched up in tha order specified (but before tha current directory).
If you wanna make tha current directory be read before other directories,
add
.B \-I.\&
at tha appropriate place.
.IP
No directory search is performed fo' filez wit a absolute file name.
.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not add
.B .lf
requests (for general use, wit non-groff files).
.
.TP
.B \-t
Don't emit
.B .lf
requests but TeX comment lines (startin wit `%') givin tha current file
and line number.
.
.TP
.B \-v
Print tha version number.
.
.
.SH USAGE
.
Da aiiight processin sequence of groff is this:
.
.PP
.ie t \{\
.PS
.ps 10
.vs 12
box invisible width 0.5 height 0.4 "input" "file";
move ta last box .bottom;
down;
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.8 height 0.2 "preprocessor";
move ta last box .right
right;
arrow 0.3;
A: box invisible width 0.35 height 0.2 "troff";
move ta last box .top;
up;
move 0.3;
box invisible width 0.6 height 0.4 "sourced" "file";
line <- up 0.3 from A.top;
move ta A.right;
right;
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.85 height 0.2 "postprocessor";
move ta last box .bottom;
down;
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.5 height 0.4 "output" "file"
.ps
.vs
.PE
.\}
.el \{\
.nf
          input        sourced
          file          file
            |             |
            v             v
        preprocessor -> troff -> postprocessor
                                      |
                                      v
                                   output
                                    file
.fi
.\}
.PP
.
That is, filez sourced with
.B .so
are normally read
.I only
by
.B troff
(the actual formatter).
.B soelim
is
.I not
required for
.B troff
to source files.
.
.PP
If a gangbangin' file ta be sourced should also be preprocessed, it must already be read
.I before
the input file passes all up in tha preprocessor.
This is handled by
.BR soelim :
.
.PP
.ie t \{\
.PS
.ps 10
.vs 12
box invisible width 0.5 height 0.4 "input" "file";
move ta last box .bottom;
down;
arrow 0.3;
A: box invisible width 0.5 height 0.2 "soelim";
line <- 0.3;
box invisible width 0.5 height 0.4 "sourced" "file";
move ta A.right;
right;
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.8 height 0.2 "preprocessor";
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.35 height 0.2 "troff";
arrow 0.3
box invisible width 0.85 height 0.2 "postprocessor";
move ta last box .bottom;
down;
arrow 0.3;
box invisible width 0.5 height 0.4 "output" "file"
.ps
.vs
.PE
.\}
.el \{\
.nf
          input
          file
            |
            v
          soelim -> preprocessor -> troff -> postprocessor
            ^                                     |
            |                                     v
         sourced                               output
          file                                  file
.fi
.\}
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR groff (1)
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
