.TH SOSREPORT 1 "Mon Mar 25 2013"
.SH NAME
sosreport \- Collect n' package diagnostic n' support data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sosreport
          [-l|--list-plugins]\fR
          [-n|--skip-plugins plugin-names]\fR
          [-e|--enable-plugins plugin-names]\fR
          [-o|--only-plugins plugin-names]\fR
          [-a|--alloptions] [-v|--verbose]\fR
          [--report] [--config-file conf] [--batch]\fR
          [--build] [--name name] [--ticket-number number]
          [--debug] [--tmp-dir directory]\fR
          [--help]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsosreport\fR generates a cold-ass lil compressed tar archive of diagnostic
information from tha hustlin system. Da archive may be stored
locally or centrally fo' recordin or trackin purposes or may
be busted ta technical support representatives, pimpers or
system administrators ta assist wit technical fault-findin and
debugging.
.LP
Sos is modular up in design n' be able ta collect data from a wide
range of subsystems n' packages dat may be installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! An
XML or HTML report summarizin tha collected shiznit is
optionally generated n' stored within tha archive.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l, \--list-plugins
List all available plugins n' they options. Plug-ins dat would
not be enabled by tha current configuration is listed separately.
.TP
.B \-n, --skip-plugins PLUGNAME[,PLUGNAME]
Disable tha specified plugin(s). Multiple plug-ins may be specified
by repeatin tha option or as a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.
.TP
.B \-e, --enable-plugins PLUGNAME[,PLUGNAME]
Enable tha specified plugin(s). Multiple plug-ins may be specified
by repeatin tha option or as a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.
.TP
.B \-o, --only-plugins PLUGNAME[,PLUGNAME]
Enable tha specified plugin(s) only (all other plugins should be
disabled). Multiple plugins may be specified by repeatin tha option
or as a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.
.TP
.B \-k PLUGNAME.PLUGOPT[=VALUE]
Specify plug-in options. Da option PLUGOPT is enabled, or set ta the
specified value up in tha plug-in PLUGNAME.
.TP
.B \-a, \--alloptions
Set all boolean options ta True fo' all enabled plug-ins.
.TP
.B \-v, \--verbose
Increase loggin verbosity. May be specified multiple times ta enable
additionizzle debuggin lyrics.
.TP
.B \-q, \--quiet
Only log fatal errors ta stderr.
.TP
.B \--report
Enable HTML/XML report writing.
.TP
.B \--config-file CONFIG
Specify alternate configuration file.
.TP
.B \--tmp-dir DIRECTORY
Specify alternate temporary directory ta copy data as well as the
compressed report.
.TP
.B \--batch
Generate archive without promptin fo' interactizzle input.
.TP
.B \--name NAME
Specify a name ta be used fo' tha archive.
.TP
.B \--ticket-number NUMBER
Specify a ticket number ta be used fo' archive
.TP
.B \--build
Do not archive copied data. Causes sosreport ta leave a uncompressed
archive as a temporary file or directory tree.
.TP
.B \--debug
Enable interactizzle debuggin rockin tha python debugger n' shit. Exceptions in
sos or plug-in code will cause a trap ta tha pdb shell.
.TP
.B \--help
Display usage message.
.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Bryn M. Reeves <bmr@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH AUTHORS & CONTRIBUTORS
See \fBAUTHORS\fR file up in /usr/share/doc/sosreport.
.nf
.SH TRANSLATIONS
.nf
Translations is handled by transifex (https://fedorahosted.org/transifex/)
.fi
.fi
