.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" macros
.de EX \" Begin Example
.  IP
.  ft CW
.  nf
.  ne \\$1
..
.de EE \" End Example
.  ft P
.  fi
.  PP
..
.TH SPEAKER\-TEST 1 "April 2nd, 2011" speaker\-test
.SH NAME
speaker\-test \- command\-line speaker test tone generator fo' ALSA 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B speaker\-test [\-options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBspeaker\-test\fP generates a tone dat can be used ta test tha speakerz of a cold-ass lil computer.

\fBspeaker\-test\fP by default will test tha \fIdefault\fP device. If you
wanna test another sound thang you gonna git first ta git a list of
all of tha sound cardz up in yo' system n' tha devices associated with
those cards. Notice dat there might be fo' example, one thang for
analog sound, one fo' digital sound n' one fo' HDMI sound.
To git tha list of available cardz n' devices you can run \fBaplay \-L\fR.

.P \fBaplay\fRz output is ghon be similar ta dis one:

.nf
$ aplay \-L
null
    Discard all samplez (playback) or generate zero samplez (capture)
default:CARD=ICH5
    Intel ICH5, Intel ICH5
    Default Audio Device
front:CARD=ICH5,DEV=0
    Intel ICH5, Intel ICH5
    Front speakers
surround40:CARD=ICH5,DEV=0
    Intel ICH5, Intel ICH5
    4.0 Surround output ta Front n' Rear speakers
(...)
.fi

.P Each of tha devices is listed up in tha beginnin of tha definizzle so,
in tha above example, there be four devices listed: null, default, front
and surround40. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So, if you wanna test tha last thang you can 
run \fBspeaker\-test \-Dsurround40:ICH5 \-c 6\fR. Da \fB\-c\fR option will
indicate dat tha six audio channels up in tha thang gotta be tested.





.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-c\fP | \fB\-\-channels\fP \fINUM\fP
\fINUM\fP channels up in stream

.TP
\fB\-D\fP | \fB\-\-device\fP \fINAME\fP
PCM thang name \fINAME\fP

.TP
\fB\-f\fP | \fB\-\-frequency\fP \fIFREQ\fP
sine wave of \fIFREQ\fP Hz

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
Print usage help

.TP
\fB\-b\fP | \fB\-\-buffer\fP \fITIME\fP
Use buffer size of \fITIME\fP microseconds.
When 0 is given, use tha maximal buffer size.
Da default value is 0.

.TP
\fB\-p\fP | \fB\-\-period\fP \fITIME\fP
Use period size of \fITIME\fP microseconds.
When 0 is given, tha periodz given by \fB\-P\fP option is used.
Da default value is 0.

.TP
\fB\-P\fP | \fB\-\-nperiods\fP \fPPERIODS\fP
Use number of periods.  Da default value is 4.

.TP
\fB\-r\fP | \fB\-\-rate\fP \fIRATE\fP
stream of \fIRATE\fP Hz

.TP
\fB\-t\fP | \fB\-\-test\fP \fBpink\fP|\fBsine\fP|\fBwav\fP
\fB\-t pink\fP means use pink noise (default).

Pink noise is perceptually uniform noise -- dat is, it soundz like every last muthafuckin frequency at once.  If you can hear any tone it may indicate resonances up in yo' speaker system or room.

\fB\-t sine\fP means ta use sine wave.

\fB\-t wav\fP means ta play WAV files, either pre-defined filez or given via \fB\-w\fP option.

Yo ass can pass tha number from 1 ta 3 as a funky-ass backward compatibility.

.TP
\fB\-l\fP | \fB\-\-nloops\fP \fBCOUNT\fP

Specifies tha number of loops.  Zero means ta run infinitely.

When \fB\-s\fP option below wit a valid channel is given, \fBspeaker\-test\fP will perform
always a single-shot without looping.

.TP
\fB\-s\fP | \fB\-\-speaker\fP \fBCHANNEL\fP
Do a single-shot speaker test fo' tha given channel.  Da channel number starts from 1.
Da channel number correspondz ta left, right, rear-left, rear-right, center, LFE,
side-left, side-right, n' so on.

For example, when 1 is passed, it tests tha left channel only once rather than both channels
with looping.

.TP
\fB\-w\fP | \fB\-\-wavfile\fP
Use tha given WAV file fo' tha playback instead of pre-defined WAV files.

.TP
\fB\-W\fP | \fB\-\-wavdir\fP
Specify tha directory containin WAV filez fo' playback.
Da default path is \fI/usr/share/sounds/alsa\fP.

.TP
\fB\-m\fP | \fB\-\-chmap\fP
Pass tha channel map ta override.
If tha playback up in a specific channel order or channel positions is
required, pass tha channel posizzle strings ta dis option.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLES

Produce stereo sound from one stereo jack:
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:front \-c2
.EE

Produce 4 speaker sound from two stereo jacks:
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:surround40 \-c4
.EE

Produce 5.1 speaker sound from three stereo jacks:
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:surround51 \-c6
.EE

To bust a sick low 75Hz tone ta tha Woofer n' then exit without touchin any other speakers:
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:surround51 \-c6 \-s1 \-f75
.EE

To do a 2\-speaker test rockin tha spdif (coax or optical) output:
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:spdif \-c2
.EE

Play up in tha order of front\-right n' front-left from tha front PCM
.EX
  speaker\-test \-Dplug:front \-c2 \-mFR,FL
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aplay(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Da speaker\-test program was freestyled by Jizzy Courtier-Dutton.
Pink noise support was added by Nathan Hurst.
Further extensions by Takashi Iwai.
