.TH spice-vdagent "1" "April 2013" "spice-vdagent 0.15.0"
.SH NAME
spice-vdagent \- Spice hommie agent X11 session agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBspice-vdagent\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da spice hommie agent fo' Linux consistz of 2 parts, a system wide daemon
\fBspice-vdagentd\fR n' a X11 session agent \fBspice-vdagent\fR of which
there is one per X11 session.
.br
\fBspice-vdagent\fR gets automatically started up in desktop environments which
honor /etc/xdg/autostart, n' under gdm.
.SH FEATURES
Da spice hommie agent addz tha followin features ta spice Linux guests:
.P
Client mouse mode (no need ta grab mouse by client, no mouse lag)
.P
Automatic adjustment of tha X11 sessionz number of virtual monitors, n' their
resolution, ta tha number of client windows n' they resolution
.P
Support of copy n' paste (text n' images) between tha actizzle X11 session
and tha client, dis supports both tha primary selection n' tha clipboard
.P
Support fo' transferin filez from tha client ta tha agent
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of all command line options
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Log debug lyrics
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIport\fR
Set virtio serial \fIport\fR (default: /dev/virtio-ports/com.redhat.spice.0)
.TP
\fB-x\fP
Don't daemonize
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIdir|xdg-desktop|xdg-download\fR
Set directory where ta save filez bust from tha client, dis can be either
an arbitrary \fIdir\fR or one of tha special jointz of \fIxdg-desktop\fR or
\fIxdg-download\fR ta select tha default xdg Desktop resp. xdg Download
directory. If no value is specified tha default is \fIxdg-desktop\fR when
runnin under a Desktop Environment which has icons on tha desktop and
\fIxdg-download\fR under other Desktop Environments
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fI0|1\fR
Disable/enable openin tha file save directory wit xdg-open (showin the
directory up in tha file manager) when a gangbangin' file transfer from tha client
completes. If no value is specified tha default is \fI0\fR when hustlin under
a Desktop Environment which has icons on tha desktop n' \fI1\fR under other
Desktop Environments
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBspice-vdagentd\fR(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2010-2013 Red Hat, Inc. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: yo ass is free ta chizzle n' redistribute dat shit.
There is NO WARRANTY, ta tha extent permitted by law.
