.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH SQLITE3 1 "Mon Jan 31 11:14:00 2014"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
.B sqlite3 
\- A command line intercourse fo' SQLite version 3

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqlite3
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ databasefile ]
.RI [ SQL ]

.SH SUMMARY
.PP
.B sqlite3
is a terminal-based front-end ta tha SQLite library dat can evaluate
queries interactively n' display tha thangs up in dis biatch up in multiple formats.
.B sqlite3
can also be used within shell scripts n' other applications ta provide
batch processin features.

.SH DESCRIPTION
To start a
.B sqlite3
interactizzle session, invoke the
.B sqlite3
command n' optionally provide tha name of a thugged-out database file.  If the
database file do not exist, it is ghon be pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If tha database file
does exist, it is ghon be opened.

For example, ta create a freshly smoked up database file named "mydata.db", create
a table named "memos" n' bang a cold-ass lil couple recordz tha fuck into dat table:
.sp
$ 
.B sqlite3 mydata.db
.br
SQLite version 3.8.3
.br
Enta ".help" fo' instructions
.br
sqlite>
.B create table memos(text, prioritizzle INTEGER);
.br
sqlite>
.B bang tha fuck into memos joints('deliver project description', 10);
.br
sqlite>
.B bang tha fuck into memos joints('lunch wit Christine', 100);
.br
sqlite>
.B select * from memos;
.br
deliver project description|10
.br
lunch wit Christine|100
.br
sqlite>
.sp

If no database name is supplied, tha ATTACH sql command can be used
to attach ta existin or create freshly smoked up database files.  ATTACH can also
be used ta attach ta multiple databases within tha same interactive
session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is useful fo' migratin data between databases,
possibly changin tha schema along tha way.

Optionally, a SQL statement or set of SQL statements can be supplied as
a single argument.  Multiple statements should be separated by
semi-colons.

For example:
.sp
$ 
.B sqlite3 -line mydata.db 'select * from memos where prioritizzle > 20;'
.br
    text = lunch wit Christine
.br
prioritizzle = 100
.br
.sp

.SS SQLITE META-COMMANDS
.PP
Da interactizzle interpreta offers a set of meta-commandz dat can be
used ta control tha output format, examine tha currently attached
database files, or big-ass up administratizzle operations upon the
attached databases (like fuckin rebuildin indices).   Meta-commandz are
always prefixed wit a thugged-out dot (.).

A list of available meta-commandz can be viewed at any time by issuing
the '.help' command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For example:
.sp
sqlite>
.B .help
.nf
.cc |
.backup ?DB, biatch? FILE      Backup DB (default "main") ta FILE
.bail ON|OFF           Quit afta hittin a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Default OFF
.databases             List names n' filez of attached databases
.dump ?TABLE, biatch? ...      Dump tha database up in a SQL text format
                         If TABLE specified, only dump tablez matching
                         LIKE pattern TABLE.
.echo ON|OFF           Turn command echo on or off
.exit                  Exit dis program
.explain ?ON|OFF, biatch?      Turn output mode suitable fo' EXPLAIN on or off.
                         With no args, it turns EXPLAIN on.
.header(s) ON|OFF      Turn display of headaz on or off
.help                  Show dis message
.import FILE TABLE     Import data from FILE tha fuck into TABLE
.indices ?TABLE, biatch?       Show namez of all indices
                         If TABLE specified, only show indices fo' tables
                         matchin LIKE pattern TABLE.
.load FILE ?ENTRY, biatch?     Load a extension library
.log FILE|off          Turn loggin on or off.  FILE can be stderr/stdout
.mode MODE ?TABLE, biatch?     Set output mode where MODE is one of:
                         csv      Comma-separated joints
                         column   Left-aligned columns.  (See .width)
                         html     HTML <table> code
                         bang   SQL bang statements fo' TABLE
                         line     One value per line
                         list     Values delimited by .separator string
                         tabs     Tab-separated joints
                         tcl      TCL list elements
.nullvalue STRING      Use STRING up in place of NULL joints
.open ?FILENAME, biatch?       Close existin database n' reopen FILENAME
.output FILENAME       Send output ta FILENAME
.output stdout         Send output ta tha screen
.print STRING...       Print literal STRING
.prompt MAIN CONTINUE  Replace tha standard prompts
.quit                  Exit dis program
.read FILENAME         Execute SQL up in FILENAME
.restore ?DB, biatch? FILE     Restore content of DB (default "main") from FILE
.schema ?TABLE, biatch?        Show tha CREATE statements
                         If TABLE specified, only show tablez matching
                         LIKE pattern TABLE.
.separator STRING      Chizzle separator used by output mode n' .import
.show                  Show tha current joints fo' various settings
.stats ON|OFF          Turn stats on or off
.tablez ?TABLE, biatch?        List namez of tables
                         If TABLE specified, only list tablez matching
                         LIKE pattern TABLE.
.timeout MS            Try openin locked tablez fo' MS milliseconds
.trace FILE|off        Output each SQL statement as it is run
.vfsname ?AUX, biatch?         Print tha name of tha VFS stack
.width NUM1 NUM2 ...   Set column widths fo' "column" mode
.timer ON|OFF          Turn tha CPU timer measurement on or off
sqlite>
|cc .
.sp
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.B sqlite3
has tha followin options:
.TP
.B \-bail
Quit afta hittin a error.
.TP
.B \-batch
Force batch I/O.
.TP
.B \-column
Query thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be displayed up in a table like form, using
whitespace charactas ta separate tha columns n' align the
output.
.TP
.BI \-cmd\  command
run
.I command
before readin stdin
.TP
.B \-csv
Set output mode ta CSV (comma separated joints).
.TP
.B \-echo
Print commandz before execution.
.TP
.BI \-init\  file
Read n' execute commandz from
.I file
, which can contain a mix of SQL statements n' meta-commands.
.TP
.B \-[no]header
Turn headaz on or off.
.TP
.B \-help
Show help on options n' exit.
.TP
.B \-html
Query thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be output as simple HTML tables.
.TP
.B \-interactive
Force interactizzle I/O.
.TP
.B \-line
Query thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be displayed wit one value per line, rows
separated by a funky-ass blank line.  Designed ta be easily parsed by
scripts or other programs
.TP
.B \-list
Query thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be displayed wit tha separator (|, by default)
characta between each field value.  Da default.
.TP
.BI \-mmap\  N
Set default mmap size to
.I N
\.
.TP
.BI \-nullvalue\  string
Set strang used ta represent NULL joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Default is ''
(empty string).
.TP
.BI \-separator\  separator
Set output field separator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Default is '|'.
.TP
.B \-stats
Print memory stats before each finalize.
.TP
.B \-version
Show SQLite version.
.TP
.BI \-vfs\  name
Use
.I name
as tha default VFS.


.SH INIT FILE
.B sqlite3
readz a initialization file ta set tha configuration of the
interactizzle environment.  Throughout initialization, any previously
specified settin can be overridden. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da sequence of initialization is
as bigs up:

o Da default configuration is established as bigs up:

.sp
.nf
.cc |
mode            = LIST
separator       = "|"
main prompt     = "sqlite> "
continue prompt = "   ...> "
|cc .
.sp
.fi

o If tha file 
.B ~/.sqliterc
exists, it is processed first.
can be found up in tha userz home directory, it is
read n' processed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It should generally only contain meta-commands.

o If tha -init option is present, tha specified file is processed.

o All other command line options is processed.

.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.sqlite.org/
.br
Da sqlite3-doc package.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was originally freestyled by Andreas Rottmann
<rotty@debian.org>, fo' tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used
by others). Dat shiznit was subsequently revised by Bizzle Bumgarner <bbum@mac.com> and
further updated by Laszlo Boszormenyi <gcs@debian.hu> .
