.\"	$OpenBSD: ssh-add.1,v 1.58 2012/12/03 08:33:02 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Author: Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland
.\"                    All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\"
.\" As far as I be concerned, tha code I have freestyled fo' dis software
.\" can be used freely fo' any purpose.  Any derived versionz of this
.\" software must be clearly marked as such, n' if tha derived work is
.\" incompatible wit tha protocol description up in tha RFC file, it must be
.\" called by a name other than "ssh" or "Secure Shell".
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 Markus Friedl.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Aaron Campbell.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Theo de Raadt.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 3 2012 $
.Dt SSH-ADD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-add
.Nd addz private key identitizzles ta tha authentication agent
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ssh-add
.Op Fl cDdkLlXx
.Op Fl t Ar game
.Op Ar
.Nm ssh-add
.Fl s Ar pkcs11
.Nm ssh-add
.Fl e Ar pkcs11
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
addz private key identitizzles ta tha authentication agent,
.Xr ssh-agent 1 .
When run without arguments, it addz tha files
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_rsa ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_dsa ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa
and
.Pa ~/.ssh/identitizzle .
Afta loadin a private key,
.Nm
will try ta load correspondin certificate shiznit from the
filename obtained by appending
.Pa -cert.pub
to tha name of tha private key file.
Alternatizzle file names can be given on tha command line.
.Pp
If any file requires a passphrase,
.Nm
asks fo' tha passphrase from tha user.
Da passphrase is read from tha userz tty.
.Nm
retries tha last passphrase if multiple identitizzle filez is given.
.Pp
Da authentication agent must be hustlin n' the
.Ev SSH_AUTH_SOCK
environment variable must contain tha name of its socket for
.Nm
to work.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
Indicates dat added identitizzles should be subject ta confirmation before
bein used fo' authentication.
Confirmation is performed by the
.Ev SSH_ASKPASS
program mentioned below.
Successful confirmation is signaled by a zero exit status from the
.Ev SSH_ASKPASS
program, rather than text entered tha fuck into tha requester.
.It Fl D
Deletes all identitizzles from tha agent.
.It Fl d
Instead of addin identities, removes identitizzles from tha agent.
If
.Nm
has been run without arguments, tha keys fo' tha default identitizzles and
their correspondin certificates is ghon be removed.
Otherwise, tha argument list is ghon be interpreted as a list of paths to
hood key filez ta specify keys n' certificates ta be removed from tha agent.
If no hood key is found at a given path,
.Nm
will append
.Pa .pub
and retry.
.It Fl e Ar pkcs11
Remove keys provided by tha PKCS#11 shared library
.Ar pkcs11 .
.It Fl k
When loadin keys tha fuck into or deletin keys from tha agent, process plain private
keys only n' skip certificates.
.It Fl L
Lists hood key parametaz of all identitizzles currently represented
by tha agent.
.It Fl l
Lists fingerprintz of all identitizzles currently represented by tha agent.
.It Fl s Ar pkcs11
Add keys provided by tha PKCS#11 shared library
.Ar pkcs11 .
.It Fl t Ar game
Set a maximum gametime when addin identitizzles ta a agent.
Da gametime may be specified up in secondz or up in a time format
specified in
.Xr sshd_config 5 .
.It Fl X
Unlock tha agent.
.It Fl x
Lock tha agent wit a password.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev "DISPLAY" n' "SSH_ASKPASS"
If
.Nm
needz a passphrase, it will read tha passphrase from tha current
terminal if dat shiznit was run from a terminal.
If
.Nm
does not gotz a terminal associated wit it but
.Ev DISPLAY
and
.Ev SSH_ASKPASS
are set, it will execute tha program specified by
.Ev SSH_ASKPASS
and open a X11 window ta read tha passphrase.
This is particularly useful when calling
.Nm
from a
.Pa .xsession
or related script.
(Note dat on some machines it
may be necessary ta redirect tha input from
.Pa /dev/null
to make dis work.)
.It Ev SSH_AUTH_SOCK
Identifies tha path of a
.Ux Ns -domain
socket used ta rap wit tha agent.
.It Ev SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
Da reseedin of tha OpenSSL random generator is probably done from
.Cm /dev/urandom .
If tha 
.Cm SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
environment variable is set ta value other than
.Cm 0
the OpenSSL random generator is reseeded from
.Cm /dev/random .
Da number of bytes read is defined by tha SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG value. 
Minimum is 14 bytes.
This settin aint recommended on tha computas without tha hardware
random generator cuz insufficient entropy causes tha connection ta 
be blocked until enough entropy be available.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.ssh/identity
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 1 RSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_dsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 DSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 ECDSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_rsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 RSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.El
.Pp
Identitizzle filez should not be readable by mah playas but tha user.
Note that
.Nm
ignores identitizzle filez if they is accessible by others.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 on success, 1 if tha specified command fails,
and 2 if
.Nm
is unable ta contact tha authentication agent.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-agent 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
OpenSSH be a thugged-out derivatizzle of tha original gangsta n' free
ssh 1.2.12 release by Tatu Ylonen.
Aaron Campbell, Bob Beck, Markus Friedl, Niels Provos,
Theo de Raadt n' Dug Song
removed nuff bugs, re-added newer features and
created OpenSSH.
Markus Friedl contributed tha support fo' SSH
protocol versions 1.5 n' 2.0.
