.\"	$OpenBSD: ssh-keyscan.1,v 1.31 2013/07/16 00:07:52 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995, 1996 by Dizzy Mazieres <dm@lcs.mit.edu>.
.\"
.\" Modification n' redistribution up in source n' binary forms is
.\" permitted provided dat due credit is given ta tha lyricist n' the
.\" OpenBSD project by leavin dis copyright notice intact.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 16 2013 $
.Dt SSH-KEYSCAN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-keyscan
.Nd gather ssh hood keys
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ssh-keyscan
.Bk -words
.Op Fl 46Hv
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl T Ar timeout
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Op Ar host | addrlist namelist
.Ar ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a utilitizzle fo' gatherin tha hood ssh host keyz of a number of
hosts.
Dat shiznit was designed ta aid up in buildin n' verifying
.Pa ssh_known_hosts
files.
.Nm
provides a minimal intercourse suitable fo' use by shell n' perl
scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
uses non-blockin socket I/O ta contact as nuff hosts as possible in
parallel, so it is straight-up efficient.
Da keys from a thugged-out domain of 1,000
hosts can be collected up in tenz of seconds, even when a shitload of them
hosts is down or do not run ssh.
For scanning, one do not need
login access ta tha machines dat is bein scanned, nor do the
scannin process involve any encryption.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.It Fl f Ar file
Read hosts or
.Pa addrlist namelist
pairs from dis file, one per line.
If
.Pa -
is supplied instead of a gangbangin' filename,
.Nm
will read hosts or
.Pa addrlist namelist
pairs from tha standard input.
.It Fl H
Hash all hostnames n' addresses up in tha output.
Hashed names may be used normally by
.Nm ssh
and
.Nm sshd ,
but they do not reveal identifyin shiznit should tha filez contents
be disclosed.
.It Fl p Ar port
Port ta connect ta on tha remote host.
.It Fl T Ar timeout
Set tha timeout fo' connection attempts.
If
.Pa timeout
secondz have elapsed since a cold-ass lil connection was initiated ta a host or since the
last time anythang was read from dat host, then tha connection is
closed n' tha host up in question considered unavailable.
Default is 5 seconds.
.It Fl t Ar type
Specifies tha type of tha key ta fetch from tha scanned hosts.
Da possible joints are
.Dq rsa1
for protocol version 1 and
.Dq dsa ,
.Dq ecdsa
or
.Dq rsa
for protocol version 2.
Multiple joints may be specified by separatin dem wit commas.
Da default is ta fetch
.Dq rsa
and
.Dq ecdsa
keys.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode.
Causes
.Nm
to print debuggin lyrics bout its progress.
.El
.Sh SECURITY
If a ssh_known_hosts file is constructed using
.Nm
without verifyin tha keys, playas is ghon be vulnerable to
.Em playa up in tha middle
attacks.
On tha other hand, if tha securitizzle model allows such a risk,
.Nm
can help up in tha detection of tampered keyfilez or playa up in tha middle
attacks which have begun afta tha ssh_known_hosts file was pimped.
.Sh FILES
.Pa Input format:
.Bd -literal
1.2.3.4,1.2.4.4 name.my.domain,name,n.my.domain,n,1.2.3.4,1.2.4.4
.Ed
.Pp
.Pa Output format fo' rsa1 keys:
.Bd -literal
host-or-namelist bits exponent modulus
.Ed
.Pp
.Pa Output format fo' rsa, dsa n' ecdsa keys:
.Bd -literal
host-or-namelist keytype base64-encoded-key
.Ed
.Pp
Where
.Pa keytype
is either
.Dq ecdsa-sha2-nistp256 ,
.Dq ecdsa-sha2-nistp384 ,
.Dq ecdsa-sha2-nistp521 ,
.Dq ssh-dss
or
.Dq ssh-rsa .
.Pp
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print the
.Pa rsa
host key fo' machine
.Pa hostname :
.Bd -literal
$ ssh-keyscan hostname
.Ed
.Pp
Find all hosts from tha file
.Pa ssh_hosts
which have freshly smoked up or different keys from dem up in tha sorted file
.Pa ssh_known_hosts :
.Bd -literal
$ ssh-keyscan -t rsa,dsa,ecdsa -f ssh_hosts | \e
	sort -u - ssh_known_hosts | diff ssh_known_hosts -
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Dizzy Mazieres Aq Mt dm@lcs.mit.edu
wrote tha initial version, and
.An Weezy Davison Aq Mt wayned@users.sourceforge.net
added support fo' protocol version 2.
.Sh BUGS
It generates "Connection closed by remote host" lyrics on tha consoles
of all tha machines it scans if tha server is olda than version 2.9.
This is cuz it opens a cold-ass lil connection ta tha ssh port, readz tha public
key, n' drops tha connection as soon as it gets tha key.
