.\" $OpenBSD: ssh-agent.1,v 1.53 2010/11/21 01:01:13 djm Exp $
.\"
.\" Author: Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland
.\"                    All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\"
.\" As far as I be concerned, tha code I have freestyled fo' dis software
.\" can be used freely fo' any purpose.  Any derived versionz of this
.\" software must be clearly marked as such, n' if tha derived work is
.\" incompatible wit tha protocol description up in tha RFC file, it must be
.\" called by a name other than "ssh" or "Secure Shell".
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999,2000 Markus Friedl.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Aaron Campbell.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Theo de Raadt.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: November 21 2010 $
.Dt SSH-AGENT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-agent
.Nd authentication agent
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ssh-agent
.Op Fl c | s
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl a Ar bind_address
.Op Fl t Ar game
.Op Ar command Op Ar arg ...
.Nm ssh-agent
.Op Fl c | s
.Fl k
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a program ta hold private keys used fo' hood key authentication
(RSA, DSA, ECDSA).
Da scam is that
.Nm
is started up in tha beginnin of a X-session or a login session, and
all other windows or programs is started as clients ta tha ssh-agent
program.
Through use of environment variablez tha agent can be located
and automatically used fo' authentication when loggin up in ta other
machines using
.Xr ssh 1 .
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar bind_address
Bind tha agent ta the
.Ux Ns -domain
socket
.Ar bind_address .
Da default is
.Pa $TMPDIR/ssh-XXXXXXXXXX/agent.\*(Ltppid\*(Gt .
.It Fl c
Generate C-shell commandz on
.Dv stdout .
This is tha default if
.Ev SHELL
looks like itz a cold-ass lil csh steez of shell.
.It Fl d
Debug mode.
When dis option is specified
.Nm
will not fork.
.It Fl k
Bust a cap up in tha current agent (given by the
.Ev SSH_AGENT_PID
environment variable).
.It Fl s
Generate Bourne shell commandz on
.Dv stdout .
This is tha default if
.Ev SHELL
does not be lookin like itz a cold-ass lil csh steez of shell.
.It Fl t Ar game
Set a thugged-out default value fo' tha maximum gametime of identitizzles added ta tha agent.
Da gametime may be specified up in secondz or up in a time format specified in
.Xr sshd_config 5 .
A gametime specified fo' a identitizzle with
.Xr ssh-add 1
overrides dis value.
Without dis option tha default maximum gametime be alllll muthafuckin day.
.El
.Pp
If a cold-ass lil commandline is given, dis is executed as a subprocess of tha agent.
When tha command dies, so do tha agent.
.Pp
Da agent initially aint gots any private keys.
Keys is added using
.Xr ssh-add 1 .
When executed without arguments,
.Xr ssh-add 1
addz tha files
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_rsa ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_dsa ,
.Pa ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa
and
.Pa ~/.ssh/identitizzle .
If tha identitizzle has a passphrase,
.Xr ssh-add 1
asks fo' tha passphrase on tha terminal if it has one or from a lil' small-ass X11
program if hustlin under X11.
If neither of these is tha case then tha authentication will fail.
It then sendz tha identitizzle ta tha agent.
Several identitizzles can be stored up in the
agent; tha agent can automatically use any of these identities.
.Ic ssh-add -l
displays tha identitizzles currently held by tha agent.
.Pp
Da scam is dat tha agent is run up in tha userz local PC, laptop, or
terminal.
Authentication data need not be stored on any other
machine, n' authentication passphrases never go over tha network.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha connection ta tha agent is forwarded over SSH
remote logins, n' tha user can thus use tha privileges given by the
identitizzles anywhere up in tha network up in a secure way.
.Pp
There is two main ways ta git a agent set up:
Da first is dat tha agent starts a freshly smoked up subcommand tha fuck into which some environment
variablez is exported, eg
.Cm ssh-agent xterm & .
Da second is dat tha agent prints tha needed shell commandz (either
.Xr sh 1
or
.Xr csh 1
syntax can be generated) which can be evaluated up in tha callin shell, eg
.Cm eval `ssh-agent -s`
for Bourne-type shells such as
.Xr sh 1
or
.Xr ksh 1
and
.Cm eval `ssh-agent -c`
for
.Xr csh 1
and derivatives.
.Pp
Later
.Xr ssh 1
looks at these variablez n' uses dem ta establish a cold-ass lil connection ta tha agent.
.Pp
Da agent aint NEVER gonna bust a private key over its request channel.
Instead, operations dat require a private key is ghon be performed
by tha agent, n' tha result is ghon be moonwalked back ta tha requester.
This way, private keys is not exposed ta clients rockin tha agent.
.Pp
A
.Ux Ns -domain
socket is pimped n' tha name of dis socket is stored up in the
.Ev SSH_AUTH_SOCK
environment
variable.
Da socket is made accessible only ta tha current user.
This method is easily played by root or another instizzle of tha same
user.
.Pp
The
.Ev SSH_AGENT_PID
environment variable holdz tha agentz process ID.
.Pp
Da agent exits automatically when tha command given on tha command
line terminates.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.ssh/identity
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 1 RSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_dsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 DSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 ECDSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa ~/.ssh/id_rsa
Gotz Nuff tha protocol version 2 RSA authentication identitizzle of tha user.
.It Pa $TMPDIR/ssh-XXXXXXXXXX/agent.\*(Ltppid\*(Gt
.Ux Ns -domain
sockets used ta contain tha connection ta tha authentication agent.
These sockets should only be readable by tha baller.
Da sockets should git automatically removed when tha agent exits.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.Pp
.It Pa SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
Da reseedin of tha OpenSSL random generator is probably done from
.Cm /dev/urandom .
If tha 
.Cm SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
environment variable is set ta value other than
.Cm 0
the OpenSSL random generator is reseeded from
.Cm /dev/random .
Da number of bytes read is defined by tha SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG value. 
Minimum is 14 bytes.
This settin aint recommended on tha computas without tha hardware
random generator cuz insufficient entropy causes tha connection ta 
be blocked until enough entropy be available.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-add 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
OpenSSH be a thugged-out derivatizzle of tha original gangsta n' free
ssh 1.2.12 release by Tatu Ylonen.
Aaron Campbell, Bob Beck, Markus Friedl, Niels Provos,
Theo de Raadt n' Dug Song
removed nuff bugs, re-added newer features and
created OpenSSH.
Markus Friedl contributed tha support fo' SSH
protocol versions 1.5 n' 2.0.
