.\"
.\" Copyright 1993, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH STARTX 1 "xinit 1.3.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
startx \- initialize a X session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B startx
[ [
.I client
]
.I options
\&\.\|.\|. ] [
.B \-\^\-
[
.I server
] [
.I display
] [
.I -listen
]
.I options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBstartx\fP script be a gangbangin' front end to
.BR xinit (1)
that serves up a
somewhat sickr user intercourse fo' hustlin a single session of tha X
Window System.  It be often run wit no arguments.
.PP
Arguments immediately followin the
.I startx
command is used ta start a cold-ass lil client up in tha same manner as
.BR xinit (1).
Da special argument
.RB '--'
marks tha end of client arguments n' tha beginnin of server options.
By default startx passes
.RB '-nolisten\ tcp'
to tha server, tha special server option
.RB '-listen'
can be used ta stop startx from bustin all dis bullshit.
It may be convenient ta specify server options wit startx ta chizzle on a
per-session basis the
default color depth, tha serverz notion of tha number of dots-per-inch the
display thang presents, or take advantage of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different server layout, as
permitted by the
.BR Xorg (1)
server n' specified up in the
.BR xorg.conf (5)
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Some examplez of specifyin server arguments follow; consult
the manual page fo' yo' X server ta determine which arguments is legal.
.RS
.PP
startx -- -depth 16
.PP
startx -- -dpi 100
.PP
startx -- -layout Multihead
.RE
.if ''' .ig
.PP
To determine tha client ta run,
.B startx
looks fo' tha followin files, up in order:
.RS
.PP
.I $(HOME)/.startxrc
.PP
.I /usr/lib64/sys.startxrc
.PP
.I $(HOME)/.xinitrc
.PP
.I /etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
.RE
.PP
..
.if !'x.'x.' .ig
.PP
To determine tha client ta run,
.B startx
first looks fo' a gangbangin' file called
.I .xinitrc
in tha userz home directory.  If dat aint found, it uses
the file
.I xinitrc
in the
.I xinit
library directory.
..
If command line client options is given, they override this
behavior n' revert ta the
.BR xinit (1)
behavior.
To determine tha server ta run,
.B startx
first looks fo' a gangbangin' file called
.I .xserverrc
in tha userz home directory.  If dat aint found, it uses
the file
.I xserverrc
in the
.I xinit
library directory.
If command line server options is given, they override this
behavior n' revert ta the
.BR xinit (1)
behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Users rarely need ta provide a
.I .xserverrc
file.
See the
.BR xinit (1)
manual page fo' mo' details on tha arguments.
.PP
Da system-wide
.I xinitrc
and
.I xserverrc
filez is found up in the
.I /etc/X11/xinit
directory.
.PP
The
.I .xinitrc
is typically a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script which starts nuff clients accordin ta the
userz preference.  When dis shell script exits,
.B startx
kills tha server n' performs any other session shutdown needed.
Most of tha clients started by
.I .xinitrc
should be run up in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da last client should run up in the
foreground; when it exits, tha session will exit.  Muthafuckas often chizzle
a session manager, window manager, or \fIxterm\fP as tha ''magic'' client.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Below be a sample \fI\.xinitrc\fP dat starts nuff muthafuckin applications and
leaves tha window manager hustlin as tha ''last'' application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Assumin that
the window manager has been configured properly, tha user
then chizzlez tha ''Exit'' menu item ta shut down X.
.sp
.in +4
.nf
xrdb \-load $HOME/.Xresources
xsetroot \-solid gray &
xbiff \-geometry \-430+5 &
oclock \-geometry 75x75\-0\-0 &
xload \-geometry \-80\-0 &
xterm \-geometry +0+60 \-ls &
xterm \-geometry +0\-100 &
xconsole \-geometry \-0+0 \-fn 5x7 &
exec twm
.fi
.in -4
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP 25
DISPLAY
This variable gets set ta tha name of tha display ta which clients should
connect.  Note dat dis gets
.IR set ,
not read.
.TP 25
XAUTHORITY
This variable, if not already defined, gets set to
.IR $(HOME)/.Xauthoritizzle .
This is ta prevent tha X server, if not given the
.I \-auth
argument, from automatically settin up insecure host-based authentication
for tha local host.  See the
.BR Xserver (1)
and
.IR Xsecuritizzle (7)
manual pages fo' mo' shiznit on X client/server authentication.
.SH FILES
.if ''' .ig
.TP 25
.I $(HOME)/.startxrc
Client ta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Typically a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script which runs nuff programs in
the background.
.TP 25
.I /usr/lib64/sys.startxrc
Client ta use if tha user has no
.I .startxrc
file.
..
.TP 25
.I $(HOME)/.xinitrc
Client ta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Typically a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script which runs nuff programs in
the background.
.TP 25
.I $(HOME)/.xserverrc
Server ta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is
.IR X .
.TP 25
.I /etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
Client ta run if tha user has no
.I .xinitrc
file.
.TP 25
.I /etc/X11/xinit/xserverrc
Server ta run if tha user has no
.I .xserverrc
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xinit (1),
.BR X (7),
.BR Xserver (1),
.BR Xorg (1),
.BR xorg.conf (5)
