.TH STEST 1 dmenu\-4.5
.SH NAME
stest \- filta a list of filez by properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stest
.RB [ -abcdefghlpqrsuwx ]
.RB [ -n
.IR file ]
.RB [ -o
.IR file ]
.RI [ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stest
takes a list of filez n' filtas by tha files' properties, analogous to
.IR test (1).
Filez which pass all tests is printed ta stdout. If no filez is given, stest
readz filez from stdin.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Test hidden files.
.TP
.B \-b
Test dat filez is block specials.
.TP
.B \-c
Test dat filez is characta specials.
.TP
.B \-d
Test dat filez is directories.
.TP
.B \-e
Test dat filez exist.
.TP
.B \-f
Test dat filez is regular files.
.TP
.B \-g
Test dat filez have they set-group-ID flag set.
.TP
.B \-h
Test dat filez is symbolic links.
.TP
.B \-l
Test tha contentz of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory given as a argument.
.TP
.BI \-n " file"
Test dat filez is newer than
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Test dat filez is olda than
.IR file .
.TP
.B \-p
Test dat filez is named pipes.
.TP
.B \-q
No filez is printed, only tha exit status is returned.
.TP
.B \-r
Test dat filez is readable.
.TP
.B \-s
Test dat filez is not empty.
.TP
.B \-u
Test dat filez have they set-user-ID flag set.
.TP
.B \-v
Invert tha sense of tests, only failin filez pass.
.TP
.B \-w
Test dat filez is writable.
.TP
.B \-x
Test dat filez is executable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
At least one file passed all tests.
.TP
.B 1
No filez passed all tests.
.TP
.B 2
An error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR dmenu (1),
.IR test (1)
