.TH SURF 1 surf\-0.6
.SH NAME
surf \- simple webkit-based browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B surf
.RB [-ipnsvx]
.RB [-c\ cookiefile]
.RB [-e\ xid]
.RB [-r\ scriptfile]
.RB [-t\ stylefile]
.RB [-u\ useragent]
.RB "URI"
.SH DESCRIPTION
surf be a simple Web browser based on WebKit/GTK+. Well shiiiit, it be able
to display joints n' follow links. Well shiiiit, it supports tha XEmbed protocol
which make it possible ta embed it up in another application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Furthermore,
one can point surf ta another URI by settin its XProperties.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c cookiefile 
Specify tha cookiefile ta use.
.TP
.B \-e xid
Reparents ta window specified by xid.
.TP
.B \-i
Disable Images
.TP
.B \-n
Disable tha Web Inspector (Developer Tools).
.TP
.B \-p
Disable Plugins
.TP
.B \-r scriptfile 
Specify tha user scriptfile.
.TP
.B \-s
Disable Javascript
.TP
.B \-t stylefile
Specify tha user stylefile.
.TP
.B \-u useragent 
Specify tha useragent which surf should use.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version shiznit ta standard output, then exits.
.TP
.B \-x
Prints xid ta standard output. This can be used ta script tha browser by using
.BR xprop(1).
.SH USAGE
.B Escape
Stops loadin current page or stops download.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-h
Walks back tha history.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-l
Walks forward tha history.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-k
Scrolls page upwards.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-j
Scrolls page downwards.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-b
Scroll up one whole page view.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Space
Scroll down one whole page view.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-i
Scroll horizontally ta tha right.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-u
Scroll horizontally ta tha left.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-k or Ctrl\-+
Zooms page in.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-j or Ctrl\--
Zooms page out
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-q
Resets Zoom
.TP
.B Ctrl\-h
Navigate back one step since back up in tha day.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-l
Navigate forward one step since back up in tha day.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-f n' Ctrl\-\\
Opens tha search-bar.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-n
Go ta next search result.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-n
Go ta previous search result.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-g
Opens tha URL-bar.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-p
Loadz URI from primary selection.
.TP
.B Esc
Quit loadin tha page.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-p
Calls Printpage Dialog.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-r
Reloadz tha joint.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-r
Reloadz tha joint without rockin cache.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-y
Copies current URI ta primary selection.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-o
Show tha sourcecode of tha current page.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-o
Open tha Web Inspector (Developer Tools) window fo' tha current page.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-c
Toggle caret browsing.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-i
Toggle auto-loadin of images.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-s
Toggle script execution.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-v
Toggle tha enablin of plugins on dat surf instance.
.TP
.B F11
Toggle fullscreen mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B SURF_USERAGENT
If dis variable is set upon startup, surf will use it as tha useragent string
.TP
.B http_proxy
If dis variable is set n' not empty upon startup, surf will use it as tha http proxy
.SH PLUGINS
For rockin plugins up in surf, first determine yo' hustlin architecture. Then get
the appropriate plugin fo' dat architecture n' copy it to
.BR /usr/lib/browser-plugins
or
.BR /usr/lib64/browser-plugins.
Surf should load dem automatically.
.BR
If you wanna bust a 32bit plugin on a 64bit system,
.BR nspluginwrapper(1)
will help yo thugged-out ass.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dmenu(1),
.BR xprop(1),
.BR tabbed(1),
.BR nspluginwrapper(1)
.SH BUGS
Please report them!
