.\"
.\"
.\"     Licensed ta tha Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.\"     or mo' contributor license agreements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See tha NOTICE file
.\"     distributed wit dis work fo' additionizzle shiznit
.\"     regardin copyright ballership.  Da ASF licenses dis file
.\"     ta you under tha Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.\"     "License"); you may not use dis file except up in compliance
.\"     wit tha License.  Yo ass may obtain a cold-ass lil copy of tha License at
.\"    
.\"       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"    
.\"     Unless required by applicable law or agreed ta up in writing,
.\"     software distributed under tha License is distributed on an
.\"     "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.\"     KIND, either express or implied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See tha License fo' the
.\"     specific language governin permissions n' limitations
.\"     under tha License.
.\"
.\"
.\" Yo ass can view dis file with:
.\" nroff -man [filename]
.\"
.TH svnadmin 1
.SH NAME
svnadmin \- Subversion repository administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBsvnadmin\fP \fIcommand\fP \fI/path/to/repos\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIargs\fP]
.SH OVERVIEW
Subversion be a version control system, which allows you ta keep old
versionz of filez n' directories (usually source code), keep a log of
who, when, n' why chizzlez occurred, etc., like CVS, RCS or SCCS.
\fBSubversion\fP keeps a single copy of tha masta sources.  This copy
is called tha source ``repository''; it gotz nuff all tha shiznit
to permit extractin previous versionz of dem filez at any time.

For mo' shiznit bout tha Subversion project, visit 
http://subversion.apache.org.

Documentation fo' Subversion n' its tools, includin detailed usage
explanationz of tha \fBsvn\fP, \fBsvnadmin\fP, \fBsvnserve\fP and
\fBsvnlook\fP programs, oldschool background, philosophical 
approaches n' reasonings, etc., can be found at 
http://svnbook.red-bean.com/.

Run `svnadmin help' ta access tha built-in tool documentation.
