.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH SYMCRYPTRUN 1 2014-08-05 "GnuPG 2.0.25" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B symcryptrun
\- Call a simple symmetric encryption tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  symcryptrun
.B \-\-class
.I class
.B \-\-program
.I program
.B \-\-keyfile
.I keyfile
.RB [ --decrypt | --encrypt ]
.RI [ inputfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sometimes simple encryption tools is already up in use fo' a long-ass time and
there might be a thugged-out desire ta integrate dem tha fuck into tha GnuPG framework.  The
protocols n' encryption methodz might be non-standard or not even
properly documented, so dat a gangbangin' full-fledged encryption tool wit an
interface like gpg aint doable.  \fBsymcryptrun\fR serves up a
solution: It operates by callin tha external encryption/decryption
module n' serves up a passphrase fo' a key rockin tha standard
\fBpinentry\fR based mechanizzle all up in \fBgpg-agent\fR.

Note, dat \fBsymcryptrun\fR is only available if GnuPG has been
configured wit \(aq--enable-symcryptrun\(aq at build time.



For encryption, tha plain text must be provided on STDIN or as the
argument \fIinputfile\fR, n' tha ciphertext is ghon be output ta STDOUT.
For decryption vice versa.

\fICLASS\fR raps bout tha callin conventionz of tha external tool.
Currently it must be given as \(aqconfucius\(aq.  \fIPROGRAM\fR is
the full filename of dat external tool.

For tha class \(aqconfucius\(aq tha option \fB--keyfile\fR is
required; \fIkeyfile\fR is tha name of a gangbangin' file containin tha secret key,
which may be protected by a passphrase.  For detailed calling
conventions, peep tha source code.


Note, dat \fBgpg-agent\fR must be hustlin before starting
\fBsymcryptrun\fR.


Da followin additionizzle options may be used:

.TP
.B  -v
.TP
.B  --verbose
Output additionizzle shiznit while hustlin.

.TP
.B  -q
.TP
.B  --quiet
Try ta be as on tha down-low as possible.

.TP
.B  --homedir \fIdir\fR
Set tha name of tha home directory ta \fIdir\fR. If dis option is not
used, tha home directory defaults ta \(oq\fI~/.gnupg\fR\(cq.  It be only
recognized when given on tha command line.  It also overrides any home
directory stated all up in tha environment variable \(oq\fIGNUPGHOME\fR\(cq or
(on W32 systems) by meanz of tha Registry entry
\fIHKCU\\Software\\GNU\\GnuPG:HomeDir\fR.



.TP
.B  --log-file \fIfile\fR
Append all loggin output ta \fIfile\fR.  Default is ta write logging
information ta STDERR.



Da possible exit status codez of \fBsymcryptrun\fR are:

.TP
.B  0
        Success.
.TP
.B  1
        Some error occured.
.TP
.B  2
        No valid passphrase was provided.
.TP
.B  3
        Da operation was canceled by tha user.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fR(1),
\fBgpgsm\fR(1),
\fBgpg-agent\fR(1),

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.



