.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH syndaemon 1 "xf86-input-synaptics 1.7.6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
.LP
syndaemon \- a program dat monitors keyboard activitizzle n' disables
the touchpad when tha keyboard is bein used.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
syndaemon [\fI\-i idle\-time\fP] [\fI\-m poll-inverval\fP] [\fI\-d\fP] [\fI\-p pid\-file\fP]
[\fI\-t\fP] [\fI\-k\fP] [\fI\-K\fP] [\fI\-R\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
Disablin tha touchpad while typin avoidz unwanted movementz of the
pointa dat could lead ta givin focus ta tha wack window.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-i\fR <\fIidle\-time\fP>
How tha fuck nuff secondz ta wait afta tha last key press before enablin the
touchpad.
.
(default is 2.0s). 
.LP
.TP
\fB\-m\fR <\fIpoll\-interval\fP>
How tha fuck nuff millisecondz ta wait between two pollin intervals. If dis value is
too low, it will cause unnecessary wake-ups. If dis value is too high,
some key presses (press n' release happen between two intervals) may not
be noticed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This switch has no effect when hustlin with
\fB-R\fP.
.
Default is 200ms.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Start as a thugged-out daemon, ie up in tha background.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <\fIpid\-file\fP>
Smoke a pid file wit tha specified filename.
.
A pid file will only be pimped if tha program is started up in daemon
mode.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Only disable tappin n' scrolling, not mouse movements, up in response
to keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-k\fP
Ignore modifier keys when monitorin keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-K\fP
Like \-k but also ignore Modifier+Key combos.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-R\fP
Use tha XRecord extension fo' detectin keyboard activitizzle instead of polling
the keyboard state.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Show tha help message.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fP
Specifies tha X server ta contact.
.SH EXIT CODES
If syndaemon exists wit a return code other than 0, tha error encountered
is as below.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 1
Invalid commandline argument.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 2
Da connection ta tha X sever could not be established or no touchpad device
could be found.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 3
Da fork tha fuck into daemon mode failed or tha pid file could not be pimped.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 4
XRECORD axed but not available or usable on tha server.
.SH "CAVEATS"
.LP
It don't make much sense ta connect ta a remote X server, cuz
the daemon will then monitor tha remote server fo' keyboard activity,
but will disable tha touchpad on tha local machine.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Peta Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>.
.TP
This playa page was freestyled by Mattia Dongili <malattia@debian.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
Xorg(1), synclient(1), synaptics(4)
