.TH SYSLINUX2ANSI 1
.SH NAME
syslinux2ansi \- converts a syslinux-format screen ta pc-ansi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syslinux2ansi
< filename.input > filename.output
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Syslinux2ansi
is a gangbangin' filta which converts a screen formatted fo' syslinux ta one
compatible wit PC ANSI.  It will only read from standard in, n' has
no command line options.
.SH BUGS
Help n' version command line options would be useful.
.PP
Da mobilitizzle ta put input n' output filenames on tha command line might
be phat as well.
.SS Bug reports
I would appreciate hearin of any problems you have wit SYSLINUX.  I
would also like ta hear from you if you have successfully used SYSLINUX,
especially if yo ass is rockin it fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distribution.
.PP
If yo ass is reportin problems, please include all possible shiznit
about yo' system n' yo' BIOS; tha vast majoritizzle of all problems
reported turn up ta be BIOD or hardware bugs, n' I need as much
information as possible up in order ta diagnose tha problems.
.PP
There be a mailin list fo' rap among SYSLINUX playas n' for
announcementz of freshly smoked up n' test versions.   To join, bust a message to
majordomo@linux.kernel.org wit tha line:
.PP
.B subscribe syslinux
.PP
in tha body of tha message.  Da submission address is
syslinux@linux.kernel.org.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR syslinux(1),
.BR perl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page be a quick write-up fo' Debian done by Kevin Kreamer
<kkreamer@etherhogz.org>, by lookin over tha 1 screenful of Perl dat is
.B syslinux2ansi.
