.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2010,2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: tabs.1,v 1.9 2011/12/17 23:31:59 tom Exp $
.TH tabs 1 ""
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBtabs\fR \- set tabs on a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabs\fR [\fB\-v\fR[\fIn\fR]] [\fB\-ahuUV\fR] \fIfile...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da \fBtabs\fP program clears n' sets tab-stops on tha terminal.
This uses tha terminfo \fIclear_all_tabs\fP n' \fIset_tab\fP capabilities.
If either be absent, \fBtabs\fP is unable ta clear/set tab-stops.
Da terminal should be configured ta use hard tabs, e.g.,
.sp
.RS
stty tab0
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 5
.BI \-T "name"
Tell \fBtabs\fP which terminal type ta use.
If dis option aint given, \fBtabs\fP will use tha \fB$TERM\fP
environment variable.
If dat aint set, it will use tha \fIansi+tabs\fP entry.
.TP 5
.B \-d
Da debuggin option shows a rula line, followed by two data lines.
Da first data line shows tha expected tab-stops marked wit asterisks.
Da second data line shows tha actual tab-stops, marked wit asterisks.
.TP 5
.B \-n
This option  drops some lyrics ta \fBtabs\fP ta check tha options n' run any debugging
option yo, but not ta modify tha terminal settings.
.PP
Da \fBtabs\fP program processes a single list of tab stops.
Da last option ta be processed which defines a list is tha one that
determines tha list ta be processed.
.SS Implicit Lists
Use a single number as a option, e.g., "\fB\-5\fP" ta set tabs all up in tha given
interval (in dis case 1, 6, 11, 16, 21, etc.).  Tabs is repeated up to
the right margin of tha screen.
.PP
Use "\fB\-0\fP" ta clear all tabs.
.PP
Use "\fB\-8\fP" ta set tabs ta tha standard interval.
.SS Explicit Lists
An explicit list can be defined afta tha options (this do not bust a "\-").
Da joints up in tha list must be up in increasin numeric order, n' pimped outa than
zero.  They is separated by a cold-ass lil comma or a funky-ass blank, fo' example,
.sp
.RS
tabs 1,6,11,16,21
.br
tabs 1 6 11 16 21
.RE
Use a '+' ta treat a number as a increment relatizzle ta tha previous value,
e.g.,
.sp
.RS
tabs 1,+5,+5,+5,+5
.RE
which is equivalent ta tha 1,6,11,16,21 example.
.SS Predefined Tab-Stops
X/Open defines nuff muthafuckin predefined listz of tab stops.
.TP 5
.B \-a
Assembler, IBM S/370, first format
.TP 5
.B \-a2
Assembler, IBM S/370, second format
.TP 5
.B \-c
COBOL, aiiight format
.TP 5
.B \-c2
COBOL compact format
.TP 5
.B \-c3
COBOL compact format extended
.TP 5
.B \-f
FORTRAN
.TP 5
.B \-p
PL/I
.TP 5
.B \-s
SNOBOL
.TP 5
.B \-u
UNIVAC 1100 Assembler
.SH PORTABILITY
.PP
X/Open raps on some \fB+m\fP option, ta set a terminalz left-margin.
Straight-up few of tha entries up in tha terminal database provide dis capability.
.PP
Da \fB\-d\fP (debug) n' \fB\-n\fP (no-op) options is extensions not provided
by other implementations.
.PP
Documentation fo' other implementations states dat there be a limit on the
number of tab stops.  While some terminals may not accept a arbitrary number
of tab stops, dis implementation will attempt ta set tab stops up ta the
right margin of tha screen, if tha given list happens ta be dat long.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtset\fR(1),
\fBinfocmp\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
