.\" tailf.1 -- 
.\" Created: Thu Jan 11 16:43:10 1996 by faith@acm.org
.\" Copyright 1996, 2003 Rickard E. Faith (faith@acm.org)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\" 
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" 
.TH TAILF 1 "February 2003" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tailf \- follow tha growth of a log file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tailf
[\fIOPTION\fR] \fIfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tailf
will print up tha last 10 linez of a gangbangin' file n' then wait fo' tha file to
grow.  It be similar to
.B tail -f
but do not access tha file when it aint growing.  This has tha side
effect of not uppimpin tha access time fo' tha file, so a gangbangin' filesystem flush
does not occur periodically when no log activitizzle is happening.
.PP
.B tailf
is mad useful fo' monitorin log filez on a laptop when loggin is
infrequent n' tha user desires dat tha hard disk spin down ta conserve
battery game.
.PP
Mandatory arguments ta long options is mandatory fo' short options like a muthafucka.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-lines\fR=\fIN\fR, \fB\-N\fR
output tha last
.I N
lines, instead of tha last 10.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Display help text n' exit.

.SH AUTHOR
This program was originally freestyled by Rik Faith (faith@acm.org) n' may be freely
distributed under tha termz of tha X11/MIT License.  There is ABSOLUTELY
NO WARRANTY fo' dis program.

Da sickest fuckin inotify based implementation was freestyled by Karel Zak (kzak@redhat.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tail (1),
.BR less (1)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da tailf command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
