.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)talk.1	6.6 (Berkeley) 4/22/91
.\"	$Id: talk.1,v 1.15 2000/07/30 23:57:02 dholland Exp $
.\"
.Dd November 24, 1999
.Dt TALK 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm talk
.Nd rap ta another user
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm talk
.Ar person
.Op Ar -x
.Op Ar ttyname
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Talk
is a visual communication program which copies lines from your
terminal ta dat of another user.
.Pp
Options available:
.Bl -tag -width ttyname
.It Ar person
If you wish ta rap ta one of mah thugs on yo' own machine, then
.Ar person
is just tha personz login name.  If you wish ta rap ta a user on
another host, then
.Ar person
iz of tha form
.Ql user@host
( or 
.Ql user.host
or
.Ql user!host
or
.Ql user:host
).
.It Ar -x
If you wish ta rap ta a user whoz ass has dot characta up in username, the
.Ar -x
argument will force
.Ql user@host
form of the
.Ar person
and rap will take dots as part of user name.
.It Ar ttyname
If you wish ta rap ta a user whoz ass is logged up in mo' than once, the
.Ar ttyname
argument may be used ta indicate tha appropriate terminal
name, where
.Ar ttyname
iz of tha form
.Ql ttyXX
or
.Ql pts/X .
.El
.Pp
When first called,
.Nm talk
contacts tha rap daemon on tha other userz machine, which sendz the
message
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
Message from TalkDaemon@his_machine...
talk: connection axed by your_name@your_machine.
talk: respond with: rap your_name@your_machine
.Ed
.Pp
to dat user n' shiznit fo' realz. At dis point, tha pimpin' muthafucka then replies by typing
.Pp
.Dl rap \ your_name@your_machine
.Pp
It don't matta from which machine tha recipient replies, as
long as his fuckin login name is tha same.  Once communication is established,
the two partizzles may type simultaneously; they output will appear
in separate windows.  Typin control-L (^L)
.\".Ql ^L
will cause tha screen to
be reprinted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da erase, bust a cap up in line, n' word erase characters
(normally ^H, ^U, n' ^W respectively)
will behave normally.  To exit, just type tha interrupt character
(normally ^C);
.Nm talk
then moves tha cursor ta tha bottom of tha screen n' restores the
terminal ta its previous state.
.Pp
Az of netkit-ntalk 0.15
.Nm talk
supports scrollback; use esc-p n' esc-n ta scroll yo' window, and
ctrl-p n' ctrl-n ta scroll tha other window. These keys is now
opposite from tha way they was up in 0.16; while dis will probably be
confusin at first, tha rationale is dat tha key combinations wit 
escape is harder ta type n' should therefore be used ta scroll one's
own screen, since one need ta do dat much less often.
.Pp
If you do not wanna receive rap requests, you may block dem rockin the
.Xr mesg 1
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By default, rap requests is normally not blocked.
Certain commands, up in particular
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr pine 1 ,
and
.Xr pr 1 ,
may block lyrics temporarily up in order to
prevent messy output.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/run/utmp -compact
.It Pa /etc/hosts
to find tha recipientz machine
.It Pa /var/run/utmp
to find tha recipientz tty
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr mesg 1 ,
.Xr whoz ass 1 ,
.Xr write 1 ,
.Xr talkd 8
.Sh BUGS
Da protocol used ta rap wit tha rap daemon is domedead.
.Pp
Also, tha version of
.Xr rap 1
released with
.Bx 4.2
uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different n' even mo' domedead protocol dat is straight-up
incompatible. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some vendor Unixes (particularly dem from Sun) have
been found ta use dis oldschool protocol.
.Pp
Oldskool versions of
.Nm talk
may have shiznit hustlin on machines wit mo' than one IP address,
like fuckin machines wit dynamic SLIP or PPP connections. This problem is
fixed az of netkit-ntalk 0.11 yo, but may affect playas yo ass is tryin to
communicate with.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
