.TH TAP2DEB "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
tap2deb \- create Debian packages which wrap .tap files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tap2deb
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Smoke a locked n loaded ta upload Debian package up in ".build"
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--unsigned\fR 
do not sign tha Debian package
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--tapfile\fR \fI<tapfile>\fR
Build tha application round tha given .tap (default twistd.tap)
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
Da configuration has tha given type  fo' realz. Allowable types are
\fBtap\fR, \fBsource\fR, \fBxml\fR n' \fBpython\fR.
Da first three types is \fBmktap\fR output formats,
while tha last one be a manual buildin of application 
(see \fBtwistd(1)\fR, tha \fB\-y\fR option).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--protocol\fR \fI<protocol>\fR
Da name of tha protocol dis is ghon be used ta serve. This is intended
as a part of tha description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is tha name of tha tapfile, minus
any extensions.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--debfile\fR \fI<debfile>\fR
Da name of tha debian package. Default is 'twisted-'+protocol.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\--set-version\fR \fI<version>\fR
Da version of tha Debian package. Da default is 1.0
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\--description\fR \fI<description>\fR
Da one-line description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is uninteresting.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\--long_description\fR \fI<long_description>\fR
A multi-line description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is explanation about
this bein a automatic package pimped from tap2deb.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--maintainer\fR \fI<maintainer>\fR
Da maintainer, as "Name Lastname <email address>". This will
go up in tha meta-files, as well as be used as tha id ta sign tha package.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka, based on twistdz help lyrics
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a funky-ass bug, visit \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
