.TH TAP2RPM "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
tap2rpm \- create RPM packages which wrap .tap files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tap2rpm
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Smoke a set of RPM/SRPM packages up in tha current directory
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--tapfile\fR \fI<tapfile>\fR
Build tha application round tha given .tap (default twistd.tap)
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
Da configuration has tha given type  fo' realz. Allowable types are
\fBtap\fR, \fBsource\fR, \fBxml\fR n' \fBpython\fR.
Da first three types is \fBmktap\fR output formats,
while tha last one be a manual buildin of application 
(see \fBtwistd(1)\fR, tha \fB\-y\fR option).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--protocol\fR \fI<protocol>\fR
Da name of tha protocol dis is ghon be used ta serve. This is intended
as a part of tha description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is tha name of tha tapfile, minus
any extensions.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--rpmfile\fR \fI<rpmfile>\fR
Da name of tha RPM package. Default is 'twisted-'+protocol.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\--set-version\fR \fI<version>\fR
Da version of tha RPM package. Da default is 1.0
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\--description\fR \fI<description>\fR
Da one-line description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is uninteresting.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\--long_description\fR \fI<long_description>\fR
A multi-line description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default is explanation about
this bein a automatic package pimped from tap2rpm.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--maintainer\fR \fI<maintainer>\fR
Da maintainer, as "Name Lastname <email address>". This will
go up in tha meta-files.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.SH AUTHOR
tap2rpm was freestyled by Shizzle Reifschneider based on tap2deb by Moshe Zadka.
This playa page is heavily based on tha tap2deb playa page by Moshe Zadka.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a funky-ass bug, visit
\fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/TwistedDevelopment#FilingTickets\fR fo' more
information.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2009 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
