.\" taskset(1) manpage
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Robert Love
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" 2002-05-11 Robert Ludd <rml@tech9.net>
.\" 	Initial version
.\"
.TH TASKSET 1 "April 2003" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
taskset \- retrieve or set a processs CPU affinity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B taskset
.RI [ options ]\  mask
.IR command\  [ arg ]...
.br
.B taskset
.RI [ options ]
.B \-p
.RI [ mask ]\  pid
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B taskset
is used ta set or retrieve tha CPU affinitizzle of a hustlin process given its PID
or ta launch a freshly smoked up COMMAND wit a given CPU affinity.  CPU affinitizzle be a
schedula property dat "bonds" a process ta a given set of CPUs on tha system.
Da Linux schedula will honor tha given CPU affinitizzle n' tha process will not
run on any other CPUs.  Note dat tha Linux schedula also supports natural
CPU affinity: tha schedula attempts ta keep processes on tha same CPU as long
as practical fo' performizzle reasons.  Therefore, forcin a specific CPU
affinitizzle is useful only up in certain applications.
.sp
Da CPU affinitizzle is represented as a funky-ass bitmask, wit tha lowest order bit
correspondin ta tha straight-up original gangsta logical CPU n' tha highest order bit corresponding
to tha last logical CPU.  Not all CPUs may exist on a given system but a mask
may specify mo' CPUs than is present.  A retrieved mask will reflect only the
bits dat correspond ta CPUs physically on tha system.  If a invalid mask is
given (i.e., one dat correspondz ta no valid CPUs on tha current system) an
error is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da masks is typically given up in hexadecimal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  For example,
.TP
.BR 0x00000001
is processor #0
.TP
.BR 0x00000003
is processors #0 n' #1
.TP
.BR 0xFFFFFFFF
is all processors (#0 all up in #31).
.PP
When
.BR taskset
returns, it is guaranteed dat tha given program has been scheduled ta a legal
CPU.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ,\  \-\-all-tasks
Set or retrieve tha CPU affinitizzle of all tha tasks (threads) fo' a given PID.
.TP
.BR \-p ,\  \-\-pid
Operate on a existin PID n' do not launch a freshly smoked up task.
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-cpu-list
Specify a numerical list of processors instead of a funky-ass bitmask.  Da numbers
are separated by commas n' may include ranges.  For example:
.BR 0,5,7,9-11 .
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH USAGE
.TP
Da default behavior is ta run a freshly smoked up command wit a given affinitizzle mask:
.B taskset
.I mask
.IR command\  [ arguments ]
.TP
Yo ass can also retrieve tha CPU affinitizzle of a existin task:
.B taskset \-p
.I pid
.TP
Or set it:
.B taskset \-p
.I mask pid
.SH PERMISSIONS
A user can chizzle tha CPU affinitizzle of a process belongin ta tha same user.
A user must possess
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
to chizzle tha CPU affinitizzle of a process belongin ta another user.
A user can retrieve tha affinitizzle mask of any process.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Robert M. Love.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Robert M. Love
.br
This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chrt (1),
.BR sick (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR sched_setaffinitizzle (2),
.BR sched_getaffinitizzle (2)
.sp
See
.BR sched_setschedula (2)
for a thugged-out description of tha Linux schedulin scheme.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da taskset command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
