.TH "TCATEST" 3 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcamgr \- tha command line utilitizzle of tha abstract database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcamgr\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' test n' debuggin of tha abstract database API n' its applications.  `\fIname\fR' specifies tha name of a thugged-out database.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies tha key of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies tha value of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIparams\fR' specifies tha tunin parameters.  `\fIfunc\fR' specifies tha name of a gangbangin' function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  `\fIarg\fR' specifies tha argumentz of tha function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  `\fIdest\fR' specifies tha path of tha destination file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcamgr create \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Smoke a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr inform \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous shiznit ta tha standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr put \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr up \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr git \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr list \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print keyz of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr optimize \fIname\fB \fIparams\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr misc \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIfunc\fB \fR[\fB\fIarg\fB...\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Call a versatile function fo' miscellaneous operations.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr map \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIdest\fB\fR
.RS
Map recordz tha fuck into another B+ tree database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr version\fR
.RS
Print tha version shiznit of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-sx\fR : tha input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-sep \fIchr\fR\fR : specify tha separator of tha input data.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tcadbputkeep' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tcadbputcat' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tcadbaddint' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tcadbadddouble' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : tha output data is converted tha fuck into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed all up in tha end of tha output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha maximum number of tha output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print jointz of recordz also.
.br
\fB\-fm \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha prefix of keys.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcatest (1),
.BR tcamttest (1),
.BR tcadb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
