.TH "TCBMTTEST" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcbmttest \- test casez of tha B+ tree database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcbmttest\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' facilitizzle test n' performizzle test.  This command is used up in tha followin format.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fItnum\fR' specifies tha number of hustlin threads.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies tha number of iterations.  `\fIlmemb\fR' specifies tha number of thugz up in each leaf page.  `\fInmemb\fR' specifies tha number of thugz up in each non\-leaf page.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcbmttest write \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIlmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fInmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz wit keyz of 8 bytes.  They chizzle as `00000001', `00000002'...
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmttest read \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-wb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB\fR
.RS
Retrieve all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmttest remove \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB\fR
.RS
Remove all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmttest wicked \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform uppimpin operations selected at random.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmttest typical \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rr \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIlmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fInmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform typical operations selected at random.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmttest race \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fItnum\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIlmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fInmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform race condizzle test.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `BDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `BDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `BDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `BDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `BDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-xm \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha size of tha extra mapped memory.
.br
\fB\-df \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha unit step number of auto defragmentation.
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `BDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `BDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-wb\fR : use tha function `tchdbget3' instead of `tchdbget'.
.br
\fB\-nc\fR : omit tha comparison test.
.br
\fB\-rr \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha ratio of readin operation by cementage.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcbtest (1),
.BR tcbmgr (1),
.BR tcbdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
