.TH "TCBMGR" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcbmgr \- tha command line utilitizzle of tha B+ tree database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da command `\fBtcbmgr\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' test n' debuggin of tha B+ tree database API n' its applications.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIlmemb\fR' specifies tha number of thugz up in each leaf page.  `\fInmemb\fR' specifies tha number of thugz up in each non\-leaf page.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies tha key of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies tha value of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIfile\fR' specifies tha input file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcbmgr create \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIlmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fInmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Smoke a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr inform \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous shiznit ta tha standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr put \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dd\fR|\fB\-db\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr up \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr git \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr list \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-bk\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-j \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rb \fIbkey\fB \fIekey\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print keyz of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr optimize \fR[\fB\-cd\fR|\fB\-ci\fR|\fB\-cj\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tz\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIlmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fInmemb\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr importtsv \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sc\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz of TSV up in each line of a gangbangin' file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcbmgr version\fR
.RS
Print tha version shiznit of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-cd\fR : use tha comparison function `tccmpdecimal'.
.br
\fB\-ci\fR : use tha comparison function  `tccmpint32'.
.br
\fB\-cj\fR : use tha comparison function  `tccmpint64'.
.br
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `BDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `BDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `BDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `BDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `BDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `BDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `BDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-sx\fR : tha input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tcbdbputkeep' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tcbdbputcat' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dd\fR : use tha function `tcbdbputdup' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-db\fR : use tha function `tcbdbputdupback' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tcbdbaddint' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tcbdbadddouble' instead of `tcbdbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : tha output data is converted tha fuck into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed all up in tha end of tha output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha maximum number of tha output.
.br
\fB\-bk\fR : big-ass up backword scanning.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print jointz of recordz also.
.br
\fB\-j \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha key where tha cursor jump to.
.br
\fB\-rb \fIbkey\fR \fIekey\fR\fR : specify tha range of keys.
.br
\fB\-fm \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha prefix of keys.
.br
\fB\-tz\fR : enable tha option `UINT8_MAX'.
.br
\fB\-df\fR : big-ass up defragmentation only.
.br
\fB\-sc\fR : normalize keys as lower cases.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcbtest (1),
.BR tcbmttest (1),
.BR tcbdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
