.TH "TCFMGR" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcfmgr \- tha command line utilitizzle of tha fixed-length database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcfmgr\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' test n' debuggin of tha fixed\-length database API n' its applications.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIwidth\fR' specifies tha width of tha value of each record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIlimsiz\fR' specifies tha limit size of tha database file.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies tha key of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies tha value of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIfile\fR' specifies tha input file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcfmgr create \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIwidth\fB \fR[\fB\fIlimsiz\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Smoke a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr inform \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous shiznit ta tha standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr put \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr up \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr git \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr list \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rb \fIlkey\fB \fIukey\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ri \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print keyz of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr optimize \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIwidth\fB \fR[\fB\fIlimsiz\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr importtsv \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sc\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz of TSV up in each line of a gangbangin' file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcfmgr version\fR
.RS
Print tha version shiznit of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `FDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `FDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-sx\fR : tha input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tcfdbputkeep' instead of `tcfdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tcfdbputcat' instead of `tcfdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tcfdbaddint' instead of `tcfdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tcfdbadddouble' instead of `tcfdbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : tha output data is converted tha fuck into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed all up in tha end of tha output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha maximum number of tha output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print jointz of recordz also.
.br
\fB\-rb \fIlkey\fR \fIukey\fR\fR : specify tha range of keys.
.br
\fB\-ri \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha interval notation of keys.
.br
\fB\-sc\fR : normalize keys as lower cases.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcftest (1),
.BR tcfmttest (1),
.BR tcfdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
