.TH "TCHMGR" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tchmgr \- tha command line utilitizzle of tha hash database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtchmgr\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' test n' debuggin of tha hash database API n' its applications.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies tha key of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies tha value of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIfile\fR' specifies tha input file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtchmgr create \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Smoke a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr inform \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous shiznit ta tha standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr put \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr up \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr git \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr list \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print keyz of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr optimize \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tz\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr importtsv \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sc\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz of TSV up in each line of a gangbangin' file.
.RE
.br
\fBtchmgr version\fR
.RS
Print tha version shiznit of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `HDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `HDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `HDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `HDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `HDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `HDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `HDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-sx\fR : tha input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tchdbputkeep' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tchdbputcat' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tchdbaddint' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tchdbadddouble' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : tha output data is converted tha fuck into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed all up in tha end of tha output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha maximum number of tha output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print jointz of recordz also.
.br
\fB\-fm \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha prefix of keys.
.br
\fB\-tz\fR : enable tha option `UINT8_MAX'.
.br
\fB\-df\fR : big-ass up defragmentation only.
.br
\fB\-sc\fR : normalize keys as lower cases.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tchtest (1),
.BR tchmttest (1),
.BR tchdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
