.TH "TCHTEST" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tchtest \- test casez of tha hash database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
To use tha hash database API easily, tha commandz `\fBtchtest\fR', `\fBtchmttest\fR', n' `\fBtchmgr\fR' is provided.
.PP
Da command `\fBtchtest\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' facilitizzle test n' performizzle test.  This command is used up in tha followin format.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies tha number of iterations.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtchtest write \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-as\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz wit keyz of 8 bytes.  They chizzle as `00000001', `00000002'...
.RE
.br
\fBtchtest read \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-wb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Retrieve all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtchtest remove \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Remove all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtchtest rcat \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pn \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-rl\fR|\fB\-ru\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz wit partway duplicated keys rockin concatenate mode.
.RE
.br
\fBtchtest misc \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform miscellaneous test of various operations.
.RE
.br
\fBtchtest wicked \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform uppimpin operations selected at random.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-mt\fR : call tha function `tchdbsetmutex'.
.br
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `HDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `HDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `HDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `HDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `HDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-rc \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of cached records.
.br
\fB\-xm \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha size of tha extra mapped memory.
.br
\fB\-df \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha unit step number of auto defragmentation.
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `HDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `HDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-as\fR : use tha function `tchdbputasync' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-wb\fR : use tha function `tchdbget3' instead of `tchdbget'.
.br
\fB\-pn \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of patterns.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tchdbaddint' instead of `tchdbputcat'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tchdbadddouble' instead of `tchdbputcat'.
.br
\fB\-rl\fR : set tha length of joints at random.
.br
\fB\-ru\fR : select update operations at random.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tchmttest (1),
.BR tchmgr (1),
.BR tchdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
