.TH "TCTMGR" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tctmgr \- tha command line utilitizzle of tha table database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtctmgr\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' test n' debuggin of tha table database API n' its applications.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.  `\fIpkey\fR' specifies tha primary key of a record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  `\fIcols\fR' specifies tha names n' tha jointz of a record alternately.  `\fIname\fR' specifies tha name of a cold-ass lil column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  `\fIop\fR' specifies a operator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  `\fIexpr\fR' specifies tha condizzle expression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  `\fIfile\fR' specifies tha input file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtctmgr create \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Smoke a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr inform \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous shiznit ta tha standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr put \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIpkey\fB \fR[\fB\fIcols\fB ...\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr up \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIpkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr git \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIpkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr list \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Print tha primary keyz of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr search \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ord \fIname\fB \fItype\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sk \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-kw\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ph\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-bt \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rm\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ms \fItype\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIname\fB \fIop\fB \fIexpr\fB ...\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Print recordz matchin conditions, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr optimize \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tz\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a thugged-out database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr setindex \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-it \fItype\fB\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Set tha index of a cold-ass lil column.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr importtsv \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sc\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz of TSV up in each line of a gangbangin' file.
.RE
.br
\fBtctmgr version\fR
.RS
Print tha version shiznit of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `TDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `TDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `TDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `TDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `TDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `TDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `TDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-sx\fR : tha input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tctdbputkeep' instead of `tctdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tctdbputcat' instead of `tctdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tctdbaddint' instead of `tctdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tctdbadddouble' instead of `tctdbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : tha output data is converted tha fuck into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed all up in tha end of tha output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha maximum number of tha output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print jointz of recordz also.
.br
\fB\-fm \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha prefix of keys.
.br
\fB\-ord \fIname\fR \fItype\fR\fR : specify tha order of tha result.
.br
\fB\-sk \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of skipped records.
.br
\fB\-kw\fR : print KWIC string.
.br
\fB\-ph\fR : print hint shiznit also.
.br
\fB\-bt\fR : specify tha number of benchmark tests.
.br
\fB\-rm\fR : remove every last muthafuckin record up in tha result.
.br
\fB\-ms \fItype\fR\fR : specify tha set operation of meta search.
.br
\fB\-tz\fR : enable tha option `UINT8_MAX'.
.br
\fB\-df\fR : big-ass up defragmentation only.
.br
\fB\-it \fItype\fR\fR : specify tha index type among "lexical", "decimal", "token", "qgram", n' "void".
.br
\fB\-sc\fR : normalize keys as lower cases.
.br
.RE
.PP
Da operator of tha `search' subcommand is one of "STREQ", "STRINC", "STRBW", "STREW", "STRAND", "STROR", "STROREQ", "STRRX", "NUMEQ", "NUMGT", "NUMGE", "NUMLT", "NUMLE", "NUMBT", "NUMOREQ", "FTSPH", "FTSAND", "FTSOR", n' "FTSEX".  If "~" preposes each operator, tha logical meanin is reversed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If "+" preposes each operator, no index is used fo' tha operator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da type of tha `\-ord' option is one of "STRASC", "STRDESC", "NUMASC", n' "NUMDESC".  Da type of tha `\-ms' option is one of "UNION", "ISECT", n' "DIFF".  This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcttest (1),
.BR tctmttest (1),
.BR tctdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
