.TH "TCTTEST" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcttest \- test casez of tha table database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcttest\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' facilitizzle test n' performizzle test.  This command is used up in tha followin format.  `\fIpath\fR' specifies tha path of a thugged-out database file.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies tha number of iterations.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `\fIapow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha alignment.  `\fIfpow\fR' specifies tha juice of tha free block pool.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcttest write \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-lc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ip\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-is\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-in\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-it\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-if\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ix\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz wit columns "str", "num", "type", n' "flag".
.RE
.br
\fBtcttest read \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-lc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Retrieve all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtcttest remove \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-lc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB\fR
.RS
Remove all recordz of tha database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtcttest rcat \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-lc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nc \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-xm \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-df \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ip\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-is\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-in\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-it\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-if\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ix\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pn \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-rl\fR|\fB\-ru\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIapow\fB \fR[\fB\fIfpow\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Store recordz wit partway duplicated keys rockin concatenate mode.
.RE
.br
\fBtcttest misc \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform miscellaneous test of various operations.
.RE
.br
\fBtcttest wicked \fR[\fB\-mt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tl\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-td\fR|\fB\-tb\fR|\fB\-tt\fR|\fB\-tx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nl\fR|\fB\-nb\fR]\fB \fIpath\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform uppimpin operations selected at random.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-mt\fR : call tha function `tctdbsetmutex'.
.br
\fB\-tl\fR : enable tha option `TDBTLARGE'.
.br
\fB\-td\fR : enable tha option `TDBTDEFLATE'.
.br
\fB\-tb\fR : enable tha option `TDBTBZIP'.
.br
\fB\-tt\fR : enable tha option `TDBTTCBS'.
.br
\fB\-tx\fR : enable tha option `TDBTEXCODEC'.
.br
\fB\-rc \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of cached records.
.br
\fB\-lc \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of cached leaf pages.
.br
\fB\-nc \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of cached non\-leaf pages.
.br
\fB\-xm \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha size of tha extra mapped memory.
.br
\fB\-df \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha unit step number of auto defragmentation.
.br
\fB\-ip\fR : create tha number index fo' tha primary key.
.br
\fB\-is\fR : create tha strang index fo' tha column "str".
.br
\fB\-in\fR : create tha number index fo' tha column "num".
.br
\fB\-it\fR : create tha strang index fo' tha column "type".
.br
\fB\-if\fR : create tha token inverted index fo' tha column "flag".
.br
\fB\-ix\fR : create tha q\-gram inverted index fo' tha column "text".
.br
\fB\-nl\fR : enable tha option `TDBNOLCK'.
.br
\fB\-nb\fR : enable tha option `TDBLCKNB'.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-pn \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha number of patterns.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tctdbaddint' instead of `tctdbputcat'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tctdbadddouble' instead of `tctdbputcat'.
.br
\fB\-rl\fR : set tha length of joints at random.
.br
\fB\-ru\fR : select update operations at random.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tctmttest (1),
.BR tctmgr (1),
.BR tctdb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
