.TH "TCUCODEC" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcucodec \- ghettofab encodaz n' decoders

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcucodec\fR' be a tool ta use encodin n' decodin features.  This command is used up in tha followin format.  `\fIfile\fR' specifies a input file.  If it is omitted, tha standard input is read.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcucodec url \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-br\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rs \fIbase\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform URL encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec base \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform Base64 encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec quote \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform quoted\-printable encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec mime \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-en \fIname\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-q\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-on\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-hd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-bd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-part \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform MIME encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec hex \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform hexadecimal encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec pack \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-bwt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform Packbits encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec tcbs \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform TCBS encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec zlib \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-gz\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform ZLIB encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec bzip \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform BZIP2 encodin n' its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec xml \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-br\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Process XML.  By default, escape meta characters.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec cstr \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-js\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform C\-strin escapin n' its unescaping.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec ucs \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-un\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-kw \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Convert UTF\-8 strang tha fuck into UCS\-2 array.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec hash \fR[\fB\-crc\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ch \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Calculate tha hash value.  By default, use MD5 function.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec cipher \fR[\fB\-key \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform stream cipher n' its decipher.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec date \fR[\fB\-dz \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-jl \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-wf\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rf\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Process date string.  By default, print tha current UNIX time.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec tmpl \fR[\fB\-var \fIname\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform template serialization.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec conf \fR[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-p\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Print some configurations.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-d\fR : big-ass up decodin (unescaping), not encodin (escaping).
.br
\fB\-br\fR : break up URL or XML tha fuck into elements.
.br
\fB\-rs \fIbase\fR\fR : specify tha base URL n' resolve tha relatizzle URL.
.br
\fB\-en \fIname\fR\fR : specify tha input encoding, which is UTF\-8 by default.
.br
\fB\-q\fR : use quoted\-printable encoding, which is Base64 by default.
.br
\fB\-on\fR : output tha charset name when decoding.
.br
\fB\-bd\fR : big-ass up MIME parsin n' output tha body.
.br
\fB\-hd\fR : big-ass up MIME parsin n' output tha headers.
.br
\fB\-part \fInum\fR\fR : big-ass up MIME parsin n' output tha specified part.
.br
\fB\-bwt\fR : convert by BWT as preprocessing.
.br
\fB\-gz\fR : use GZIP format.
.br
\fB\-crc\fR : use CRC32 function.
.br
\fB\-js\fR : use JSON compatible format.
.br
\fB\-un\fR : big-ass up UCS normalization.
.br
\fB\-kw \fIstr\fR\fR : generate KWIC string.
.br
\fB\-ch \fInum\fR\fR : use consistent hashin function.
.br
\fB\-key \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha cipher key.
.br
\fB\-dz \fIstr\fR\fR : specify tha time.
.br
\fB\-jl \fInum\fR\fR : specify tha jet lag.
.br
\fB\-wf\fR : format tha output up in W3CDTF.
.br
\fB\-rf\fR : format tha output up in RFC 1123 format.
.br
\fB\-var \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR : specify a template variable.
.br
\fB\-v\fR : show tha version number of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-i\fR : show options ta include tha headaz of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-l\fR : show options ta link tha library of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-p\fR : show tha directory path of tha commandz of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcutest (1),
.BR tcumttest (1),
.BR tcutil (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
