.TH "TCUTEST" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcutest \- test casez of tha utilitizzle API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da command `\fBtcutest\fR' be a utilitizzle fo' facilitizzle test n' performizzle test.  This command is used up in tha followin format.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies tha number of iterations.  `\fIanum\fR' specifies tha initial number of elementz of array.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies tha number of buckets.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcutest xstr \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of extensible string.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest list \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIanum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of array list.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest map \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of hash map.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest tree \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of ordered tree.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest mdb \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of on\-memory hash database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest ndb \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of on\-memory tree database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest misc \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of miscellaneous routines.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest wicked \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform uppimpin operationz of list n' map selected at random.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature tha following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-rd\fR : big-ass up tha readin test also.
.br
\fB\-tr\fR : big-ass up tha iterator test also.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use tha function `tcxxxputkeep' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use tha function `tcxxxputcat' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use tha function `tcxxxaddint' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use tha function `tcxxxadddouble' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dpr\fR : use tha function `tcxxxputproc' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcumttest (1),
.BR tcucodec (1),
.BR tcutil (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
