.\"	$OpenBSD: telnet.1,v 1.27 2000/11/09 17:52:41 aaron Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: telnet.1,v 1.5 1996/02/28 21:04:12 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)telnet.1	8.4 (Berkeley) 2/3/94
.\"
.Dd February 3, 1994
.Dt TELNET 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm telnet
.Nd user intercourse ta the
.Tn TELNET
protocol
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm telnet
.Op Fl 8EFKLacdfrx
.Op Fl X Ar authtype
.Op Fl b Ar hostalias
.Op Fl e Ar escapechar
.Op Fl k Ar realm
.Op Fl l Ar user
.Op Fl n Ar tracefile
.Oo
.Ar host
.Op Ar port
.Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command
is used ta rap wit another host rockin the
.Tn TELNET
protocol.
If
.Nm
is invoked without the
.Ar host
argument, it entas command mode,
indicated by its prompt
.Pq Nm telnet\&> .
In dis mode, it accepts n' executes tha commandz listed below.
If it is invoked wit arguments, it performs an
.Ic open
command wit dem arguments.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 7
Strip 8th bit on input n' output. Telnet is 8-bit clean by default but don't bust tha TELNET BINARY option unless forced.
.It Fl 8
Specifies a 8-bit data path.
This causes a attempt ta negotiate the
.Dv TELNET BINARY
option on both input n' output.
.It Fl E
Stops any characta from bein recognized as a escape character.
.It Fl F
If Kerberos V5 authentication is bein used, the
.Fl F
option allows tha local credentials ta be forwarded
to tha remote system, includin any credentials that
have already been forwarded tha fuck into tha local environment.
.It Fl K
Specifies no automatic login ta tha remote system.
.It Fl L
Specifies a 8-bit data path on output.
This causes tha BINARY option ta be negotiated on output.
.It Fl X Ar atype
Disablez the
.Ar atype
type of authentication.
.It Fl a
Attempt automatic login.
Currently, dis sendz tha user name via the
.Ev USER
variable
of the
.Ev ENVIRON
option if supported by tha remote system.
Da name used is dat of tha current user as returned by
.Xr getlogin 2
if it agrees wit tha current user ID,
otherwise it is tha name associated wit tha user ID.
.It Fl b Ar hostalias
Uses
.Xr bind 2
on tha local socket ta bind it ta a aliased address (see
.Xr ifconfig 8
and tha ``alias'' specifier) or ta tha address of
another intercourse than tha one naturally chosen by
.Xr connect 2 .
This can be useful when connectin ta skillz which use IP addresses
for authentication n' reconfiguration of tha server is undesirable (or
impossible).
.It Fl c
Disablez tha readin of tha user's
.Pa \&.telnetrc
file.
(See the
.Ic toggle skiprc
command on dis playa page.)
.It Fl d
Sets tha initial value of the
.Ic debug
toggle to
.Dv TRUE .
.It Fl e Ar escapechar
Sets tha initial
.Nm
escape characta to
.Ar escapechar Ns .
If
.Ar escapechar
is omitted, then
there is ghon be no escape character.
.It Fl f
If Kerberos V5 authentication is bein used, the
.Fl f
option allows tha local credentials ta be forwarded ta tha remote system.
.It Fl k Ar realm
If Kerberos authentication is bein used, the
.Fl k
option requests that
.Nm
obtain tickets fo' tha remote host in
realm
.Ar realm
instead of tha remote hostz realm, as determined
by
.Xr krb_realmofhost 3 .
.It Fl l Ar user
When connectin ta tha remote system, if tha remote system
understandz the
.Ev ENVIRON
option, then
.Ar user
will be busted ta tha remote system as tha value fo' tha variable USER.
This option implies the
.Fl a
option.
This option may also be used wit the
.Ic open
command.
.It Fl n Ar tracefile
Opens
.Ar tracefile
for recordin trace shiznit.
See the
.Ic set tracefile
command below.
.It Fl r
Specifies a user intercourse similar to
.Xr rlogin 1 .
In this
mode, tha escape characta is set ta tha tilde (~) character,
unless modified by the
.Fl e
option.
.It Fl x
Turns on encryption of tha data stream if possible.
.It Ar host
Indicates tha straight-up legit name, a alias, or tha Internizzle address
of a remote host.
.It Ar port
Indicates a port number (address of a application).
If a number aint specified, tha default
.Nm
port is used.
.El
.Pp
When up in rlogin mode, a line of tha form ~.
disconnects from the
remote host; ~ is tha telnet escape character.
Similarly, tha line ~^Z suspendz tha telnet session.
Da line ~^] escapes ta tha aiiight telnet escape prompt.
.Pp
Once a cold-ass lil connection has been opened,
.Nm
will attempt ta enable the
.Dv TELNET LINEMODE
option.
If dis fails,
.Nm
will revert ta one of two input modes:
either ``characta at a time''
or ``old line by line''
dependin on what tha fuck tha remote system supports.
.Pp
When
.Dv LINEMODE
is enabled, characta processin is done on the
local system, under tha control of tha remote system.
When input
editin or characta echoin is ta be disabled, tha remote system
will relay dat shiznit.
Da remote system will also relay
changes ta any special charactas dat happen on tha remote
system, so dat they can take effect on tha local system.
.Pp
In ``characta at a time'' mode, most
text typed is immediately busted ta tha remote host fo' processing.
.Pp
In ``old line by line'' mode, all text is echoed locally,
and (normally) only completed lines is busted ta tha remote host.
Da ``local echo character'' (initially ``^E'') may be used
to turn off n' on tha local echo
(this would mostly be used ta enta passwords
without tha password bein echoed).
.Pp
If the
.Dv LINEMODE
option is enabled, or if the
.Ic localchars
toggle is
.Dv TRUE
(the default fo' ``old line by line''; peep below),
the user's
.Ic quit ,
.Ic intr ,
and
.Ic flush
charactas is trapped locally, n' busted as
.Tn TELNET
protocol sequences ta tha remote side.
If
.Dv LINEMODE
has eva been enabled, then tha user's
.Ic susp
and
.Ic eof
are also busted as
.Tn TELNET
protocol sequences,
and
.Ic quit
is busted as a
.Dv TELNET ABORT
instead of
.Dv BREAK .
There is options (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic autoflush
and
.Ic toggle
.Ic autosynch
below)
which cause dis action ta flush subsequent output ta tha terminal
(until tha remote host acknowledges the
.Tn TELNET
sequence) n' flush previous terminal input
(in tha case of
.Ic quit
and
.Ic intr ) .
.Pp
While connected ta a remote host,
.Nm
command mode may be entered by typin the
.Nm
``escape character'' (initially ``^]'').
When up in command mode, tha aiiight terminal editin conventions is available.
Note dat tha escape characta will return ta tha command mode of tha initial
invocation of
.Nm
that has tha controllin terminal.
Use the
.Cm bust escape
command ta switch ta command mode up in subsequent
.Nm
processes on remote hosts.
.Pp
Da following
.Nm
commandz is available.
Only enough of each command ta uniquely identify it need be typed
(this be also legit fo' arguments ta the
.Ic mode ,
.Ic set ,
.Ic toggle ,
.Ic unset ,
.Ic slc ,
.Ic environ ,
and
.Ic display
commands).
.Bl -tag -width "mode type"
.It Ic auth Ar argument Op Ar ...
The
.Ic auth
command manipulates tha shiznit busted all up in the
.Dv TELNET AUTHENTICATE
option.
Valid arguments fo' the
.Ic auth
command is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width "disable type"
.It Ic disable Ar type
Disablez tha specified
.Ar type
of authentication.
To obtain a list of available types, use the
.Ic auth disable \&?
command.
.It Ic enable Ar type
Enablez tha specified
.Ar type
of authentication.
To obtain a list of available types, use the
.Ic auth enable \&?
command.
.It Ic status
Lists tha current statuz of tha various types of
authentication.
.El
.It Ic close
Close a
.Tn TELNET
session n' return ta command mode.
.It Ic display Ar argument Op Ar ...
Displays all, or some, of the
.Ic set
and
.Ic toggle
values (see below).
.It Ic encrypt Ar argument Op Ar ...
The
.Ic encrypt
command manipulates tha shiznit busted all up in the
.Dv TELNET ENCRYPT
option.
.Pp
Valid arguments fo' tha encrypt command is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ic disable Ar type Ic [input|output]
Disablez tha specified
.Ar type
of encryption.
If you omit
.Ic input
and
.Ic output ,
both input n' output
are disabled.
To obtain a list of available types, use the
.Ic encrypt disable \&?
command.
.It Ic enable Ar type Ic [input|output]
Enablez tha specified
.Ar type
of encryption.
If you omit
.Ic input
and
.Ic output ,
both input n' output are
enabled.
To obtain a list of available types, use the
.Ic encrypt enable \&?
command.
.It Ic input
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.Ic encrypt start input
command.
.It Ic -input
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.Ic encrypt stop input
command.
.It Ic output
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.Ic encrypt start output
command.
.It Ic -output
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.Ic encrypt stop output
command.
.It Ic start Ic [input|output]
Attempts ta start encryption.
If you omit
.Ic input
and
.Ic output ,
both input n' output is enabled.
To obtain a list of available types, use the
.Ic encrypt enable \&?
command.
.It Ic status
Lists tha current statuz of encryption.
.It Ic stop Ic [input|output]
Stops encryption.
If you omit
.Ic input
and
.Ic output ,
encryption is on both input n' output.
.It Ic type Ar type
Sets tha default type of encryption ta be used
with later
.Ic encrypt start
or
.Ic encrypt stop
commands.
.El
.It Ic environ Ar arguments Op Ar ...
The
.Ic environ
command is used ta manipulate the
variablez dat may be busted all up in the
.Dv TELNET ENVIRON
option.
Da initial set of variablez is taken from tha users
environment, wit only the
.Ev DISPLAY
and
.Ev PRINTER
variablez bein exported by default.
The
.Ev USER
variable be also exported if the
.Fl a
or
.Fl l
options is used.
.br
Valid arguments fo' the
.Ic environ
command are:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ic define Ar variable value
Define tha variable
.Ar variable
to gotz a value of
.Ar value .
Any variablez defined by dis command is automatically exported.
The
.Ar value
may be enclosed up in single or double quotes so
that tabs n' spaces may be included.
.It Ic undefine Ar variable
Remove
.Ar variable
from tha list of environment variables.
.It Ic export Ar variable
Mark tha variable
.Ar variable
to be exported ta tha remote side.
.It Ic unexport Ar variable
Mark tha variable
.Ar variable
to not be exported unless
explicitly axed fo' by tha remote side.
.It Ic list
List tha current set of environment variables.
Those marked wit a
.Cm *
will be busted automatically,
other variablez will only be busted if explicitly requested.
.It Ic \&?
Prints up help shiznit fo' the
.Ic environ
command.
.El
.It Ic logout
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET LOGOUT
option ta tha remote side.
This command is similar ta a
.Ic close
command; however, if tha remote side do not support the
.Dv LOGOUT
option, not a god damn thang happens.
If, however, tha remote side do support the
.Dv LOGOUT
option, dis command should cause tha remote side ta close the
.Tn TELNET
connection.
If tha remote side also supports tha concept of
suspendin a userz session fo' lata reattachment,
the logout argument indicates dat you
should terminizzle tha session immediately.
.It Ic mode Ar type
.Ar type
is one of nuff muthafuckin options, dependin on tha state of the
.Tn TELNET
session.
Da remote host be axed fo' permission ta go tha fuck into tha axed mode.
If tha remote host is capable of enterin dat mode, tha requested
mode is ghon be entered.
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ic character
Disable the
.Dv TELNET LINEMODE
option, or, if tha remote side do not KNOW the
.Dv LINEMODE
option, then enta ``characta at a time'' mode.
.It Ic line
Enable the
.Dv TELNET LINEMODE
option, or, if tha remote side do not KNOW the
.Dv LINEMODE
option, then attempt ta enta ``old-line-by-line'' mode.
.It Ic isig Pq Ic \-isig
Attempt ta enable (disable) the
.Dv TRAPSIG
mode of the
.Dv LINEMODE
option.
This requires dat the
.Dv LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.It Ic edit Pq Ic \-edit
Attempt ta enable (disable) the
.Dv EDIT
mode of the
.Dv LINEMODE
option.
This requires dat the
.Dv LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.It Ic softtabs Pq Ic \-softtabs
Attempt ta enable (disable) the
.Dv SOFT_TAB
mode of the
.Dv LINEMODE
option.
This requires dat the
.Dv LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.It Ic litecho Pq Ic \-litecho
Attempt ta enable (disable) the
.Dv LIT_ECHO
mode of the
.Dv LINEMODE
option.
This requires dat the
.Dv LINEMODE
option be enabled.
.It Ic \&?
Prints up help shiznit fo' the
.Ic mode
command.
.El
.It Xo
.Ic open Ar host
.Op Fl l Ar user
.Oo Op Fl
.Ar port Oc
.Xc
Open a cold-ass lil connection ta tha named host.
If no port number
is specified,
.Nm
will attempt ta contact a
.Tn TELNET
server all up in tha default port.
Da host justification may be either a host name (see
.Xr hosts 5 )
or a Internizzle address specified up in tha ``dot notation'' (see
.Xr inet 3 ) .
The
.Fl l
option may be used ta specify tha user name
to be passed ta tha remote system via the
.Ev ENVIRON
option.
When connectin ta a non-standard port,
.Nm
omits any automatic initiation of
.Tn TELNET
options.
When tha port number is preceded by a minus sign,
the initial option negotiation is done.
Afta establishin a cold-ass lil connection, tha file
.Pa \&.telnetrc
in the
userz home directory is opened.
Lines beginnin wit a ``#'' are
comment lines.
Blank lines is ignored.
Lines dat begin
without whitespace is tha start of a machine entry.
Da first thang on tha line is tha name of tha machine dat is
bein connected to.
Da rest of tha line, n' successive
lines dat begin wit whitespace is assumed ta be
.Nm
commandz n' is processed as if they had been typed
in manually ta the
.Nm
command prompt.
.It Ic quit
Close any open
.Tn TELNET
session n' exit
.Nm telnet .
An end-of-file (in command mode) will also close a session n' exit.
.It Ic bust Ar arguments
Sendz one or mo' special characta sequences ta tha remote host.
Da followin is tha arguments which may be specified
(more than one argument may be specified at a time):
.Bl -tag -width escape
.It Ic abort
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET ABORT
(Abort
processes)
sequence.
.It Ic ao
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET AO
(Abort Output) sequence, which should cause tha remote system ta flush
all output
.Em from
the remote system
.Em to
the userz terminal.
.It Ic ayt
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET AYT
(Is Yo ass There)
sequence, ta which tha remote system may or may not chizzle ta respond.
.It Ic brk
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET BRK
(Break) sequence, which may have significizzle ta tha remote
system.
.It Ic ec
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET EC
(Erase Character)
sequence, which should cause tha remote system ta erase tha last character
entered.
.It Ic el
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET EL
(Erase Line)
sequence, which should cause tha remote system ta erase tha line currently
bein entered.
.It Ic eof
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET EOF
(End Of File)
sequence.
.It Ic eor
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET EOR
(End of Record)
sequence.
.It Ic escape
Sendz tha current
.Nm
escape characta (initially ``^]'').
.It Ic ga
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET GA
(Go Ahead)
sequence, which likely has no significizzle ta tha remote system.
.It Ic getstatus
If tha remote side supports the
.Dv TELNET STATUS
command,
.Ic getstatus
will bust tha subnegotiation ta request dat tha server send
its current option status.
.It Ic ip
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET IP
(Interrupt Process) sequence, which should cause tha remote
system ta abort tha currently hustlin process.
.It Ic nop
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET NOP
(No OPeration)
sequence.
.It Ic susp
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET SUSP
(SUSPend process)
sequence.
.It Ic synch
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET SYNCH
sequence.
This sequence causes tha remote system ta discard all previously typed
(but not yet read) input.
This sequence is busted as
.Tn TCP
urgent
data (and may not work if tha remote system be a
.Bx 4.2
system -- if
it don't work, a lower case ``r'' may be echoed on tha terminal).
.It Ic do Ar cmd
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET DO
.Ar cmd
sequence.
.Ar cmd
can be either a thugged-out decimal number between 0 n' 255,
or a symbolic name fo' a specific
.Dv TELNET
command.
.Ar cmd
can also be either
.Ic help
or
.Ic \&?
to print up help shiznit, including
a list of known symbolic names.
.It Ic dont Ar cmd
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET DONT
.Ar cmd
sequence.
.Ar cmd
can be either a thugged-out decimal number between 0 n' 255,
or a symbolic name fo' a specific
.Dv TELNET
command.
.Ar cmd
can also be either
.Ic help
or
.Ic \&?
to print up help shiznit, including
a list of known symbolic names.
.It Ic will Ar cmd
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET WILL
.Ar cmd
sequence.
.Ar cmd
can be either a thugged-out decimal number between 0 n' 255,
or a symbolic name fo' a specific
.Dv TELNET
command.
.Ar cmd
can also be either
.Ic help
or
.Ic \&?
to print up help shiznit, including
a list of known symbolic names.
.It Ic aint gonna Ar cmd
Sendz the
.Dv TELNET WONT
.Ar cmd
sequence.
.Ar cmd
can be either a thugged-out decimal number between 0 n' 255,
or a symbolic name fo' a specific
.Dv TELNET
command.
.Ar cmd
can also be either
.Ic help
or
.Ic \&?
to print up help shiznit, including
a list of known symbolic names.
.It Ic \&?
Prints up help shiznit fo' the
.Ic send
command.
.El
.It Ic set Ar argument value
.It Ic unset Ar argument value
The
.Ic set
command will set any one of a number of
.Nm
variablez ta a specific value or to
.Dv TRUE .
Da special value
.Ic off
turns off tha function associated with
the variable; dis is equivalent ta rockin the
.Ic unset
command.
The
.Ic unset
command will disable or set to
.Dv FALSE
any of tha specified functions.
Da jointz of variablez may be invigorated wit the
.Ic display
command.
Da variablez which may be set or unset yo, but not toggled, are
listed here.
In addition, any of tha variablez fo' the
.Ic toggle
command may be explicitly set or unset using
the
.Ic set
and
.Ic unset
commands.
.Bl -tag -width escape
.It Ic ayt
If
.Tn TELNET
is in
.Ic localchars
mode, or
.Dv LINEMODE
is enabled, n' tha status characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET AYT
sequence (see
.Ic bust ayt
preceding) is busted ta the
remote host.
Da initial value fo' tha "Is Yo ass There"
characta is tha terminalz status character.
.It Ic echo
This is tha value (initially ``^E'') which, when in
``line by line'' mode, togglez between bustin local echoing
of entered charactas (for aiiight processing), n' suppressing
echoin of entered charactas (for entering, say, a password).
.It Ic eof
If
.Nm
is operatin in
.Dv LINEMODE
or ``old line by line'' mode, enterin dis character
as tha straight-up original gangsta characta on a line will cause dis characta ta be
sent ta tha remote system.
Da initial value of the
.Ic eof
characta is taken ta be tha terminal's
.Ic eof
character.
.It Ic erase
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic localchars
below),
and if
.Nm
is operatin up in ``characta at a time'' mode, then when this
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET EC
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic ec
above)
is busted ta tha remote system.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic erase
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic erase
character.
.It Ic escape
This is the
.Nm
escape characta (initially ``^['') which causes entry
into
.Nm
command mode (when connected ta a remote system).
.It Ic flushoutput
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic localchars
below)
and the
.Ic flushoutput
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET AO
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic ao
above)
is busted ta tha remote host.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic flush
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic flush
character.
.It Ic forw1
.It Ic forw2
If
.Tn TELNET
is operatin in
.Dv LINEMODE ,
these is the
charactas that, when typed, cause partial lines ta be
forwarded ta tha remote system.
Da initial value for
the forwardin charactas is taken from tha terminal's
eol n' eol2 characters.
.It Ic interrupt
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic localchars
below)
and the
.Ic interrupt
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET IP
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic ip
above)
is busted ta tha remote host.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic interrupt
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic intr
character.
.It Ic kill
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic localchars
below),
and if
.Nm
is operatin up in ``characta at a time'' mode, then when this
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET EL
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic el
above)
is busted ta tha remote system.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic kill
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic kill
character.
.It Ic lnext
If
.Nm
is operatin in
.Dv LINEMODE
or ``old line by line'' mode, then dis characta is taken to
be tha terminal's
.Ic lnext
character.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic lnext
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic lnext
character.
.It Ic quit
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode (see
.Ic toggle
.Ic localchars
below)
and the
.Ic quit
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET BRK
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic brk
above)
is busted ta tha remote host.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic quit
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic quit
character.
.It Ic reprint
If
.Nm
is operatin in
.Dv LINEMODE
or oldschool line by line'' mode, then dis characta is taken to
be tha terminal's
.Ic reprint
character.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic reprint
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic reprint
character.
.It Ic rlogin
This is tha rlogin escape character.
If set, tha normal
.Tn TELNET
escape characta is ignored unless it is
preceded by dis characta all up in tha beginnin of a line.
This character, all up in tha beginnin of a line, followed by
a "." closes tha connection; when followed by a ^Z it
suspendz the
.Nm
command.
Da initial state is to
disable the
.Ic rlogin
escape character.
.It Ic start
If the
.Dv TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL
option has been enabled,
then dis characta is taken to
be tha terminal's
.Ic start
character.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic start
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic start
character.
.It Ic stop
If the
.Dv TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL
option has been enabled,
then dis characta is taken to
be tha terminal's
.Ic stop
character.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic stop
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic stop
character.
.It Ic susp
If
.Nm
is in
.Ic localchars
mode, or
.Dv LINEMODE
is enabled, n' the
.Ic suspend
characta is typed, a
.Dv TELNET SUSP
sequence (see
.Ic send
.Ic susp
above)
is busted ta tha remote host.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic suspend
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic suspend
character.
.It Ic tracefile
This is tha file ta which tha output, caused by
.Ic netdata
or
.Ic option
tracin being
.Dv TRUE ,
will be written.
If it is set to
.Dq Fl ,
then tracin shiznit is ghon be freestyled ta standard output (the default).
.It Ic worderase
If
.Nm
is operatin in
.Dv LINEMODE
or ``old line by line'' mode, then dis characta is taken to
be tha terminal's
.Ic worderase
character.
Da initial value fo' the
.Ic worderase
characta is taken ta be
the terminal's
.Ic worderase
character.
.It Ic \&?
Displays tha legal
.Ic set
.Pq Ic unset
commands.
.El
.It Ic skey Ar sequence challenge
The
.Ic skey
command computes a response ta tha S/Key challenge.
See
.Xr skey 1
for mo' shiznit on tha S/Key system.
.It Ic slc Ar state
The
.Ic slc
command (Set Local Characters) is used ta set
or chizzle tha state of tha special
charactas when the
.Dv TELNET LINEMODE
option has
been enabled.
Special charactas is charactas dat git mapped to
.Tn TELNET
commandz sequences (like
.Ic ip
or
.Ic quit )
or line editin charactas (like
.Ic erase
and
.Ic bust a cap up in ) .
By default, tha local special charactas is exported.
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ic check
Verify tha current settings fo' tha current special characters.
Da remote side be axed ta bust all tha current special
characta settings, n' if there be any discrepancies with
the local side, tha local side will switch ta tha remote value.
.It Ic export
Switch ta tha local defaults fo' tha special characters.
Da local default charactas is dem of tha local terminal at
the time when
.Nm
was started.
.It Ic import
Switch ta tha remote defaults fo' tha special characters.
Da remote default charactas is dem of tha remote system
at tha time when the
.Tn TELNET
connection was established.
.It Ic \&?
Prints up help shiznit fo' the
.Ic slc
command.
.El
.It Ic status
Show tha current status of
.Nm telnet .
This includes tha peer one is connected to, as well
as tha current mode.
.It Ic toggle Ar arguments Op Ar ...
Toggle (between
.Dv TRUE
and
.Dv FALSE )
various flags dat control how
.Nm
respondz ta events.
These flags may be set explicitly to
.Dv TRUE
or
.Dv FALSE
usin the
.Ic set
and
.Ic unset
commandz listed above.
Mo' than one argument may be specified.
Da state of these flags may be invigorated wit the
.Ic display
command.
Valid arguments are:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ic authdebug
Turns on debuggin shiznit fo' tha authentication code.
.It Ic autoflush
If
.Ic autoflush
and
.Ic localchars
are both
.Dv TRUE ,
then when the
.Ic ao
or
.Ic quit
charactas is recognized (and transformed into
.Tn TELNET
sequences; see
.Ic set
above fo' details),
.Nm
refuses ta display any data on tha userz terminal
until tha remote system acknowledges (via a
.Dv TELNET TIMING MARK
option)
that it has processed them
.Tn TELNET
sequences.
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv TRUE
if tha terminal user had not
done a "stty noflsh", otherwise
.Dv FALSE
(see
.Xr stty 1 ) .
.It Ic autodecrypt
When the
.Dv TELNET ENCRYPT
option is negotiated, by
default tha actual encryption (decryption) of tha data
stream do not start automatically.
The
.Ic autoencrypt
.Pq Ic autodecrypt
command states dat encryption of the
output (input) stream should be enabled as soon as
possible.
.Pp
.It Ic autologin
If tha remote side supports the
.Dv TELNET AUTHENTICATION
option
.Tn TELNET
attempts ta use it ta big-ass up automatic authentication.
If the
.Dv AUTHENTICATION
option aint supported, tha userz login
name is propagated all up in the
.Dv TELNET ENVIRON
option.
This command is tha same ol' dirty as specifying
.Ar a
option on the
.Ic open
command.
.It Ic autosynch
If
.Ic autosynch
and
.Ic localchars
are both
.Dv TRUE ,
then when either the
.Ic intr
or
.Ic quit
characta is typed (see
.Ic set
above fo' descriptionz of the
.Ic intr
and
.Ic quit
characters), tha resulting
.Tn TELNET
sequence busted is followed by the
.Dv TELNET SYNCH
sequence.
This procedure
.Em should
cause tha remote system ta begin throwin away all previously
typed input until both of the
.Tn TELNET
sequences done been read n' acted upon.
Da initial value of dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic binary
Enable or disable the
.Dv TELNET BINARY
option on both input n' output.
.It Ic inbinary
Enable or disable the
.Dv TELNET BINARY
option on input.
.It Ic outbinary
Enable or disable the
.Dv TELNET BINARY
option on output.
.It Ic crlf
If dis is
.Dv TRUE ,
then carriage returns is ghon be busted as
.Li <CR><LF> .
If dis is
.Dv FALSE ,
then carriage returns is ghon be bust as
.Li <CR><NUL> .
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic crmod
Toggle carriage return mode.
When dis mode is enabled, most carriage return charactas received from
the remote host is ghon be mapped tha fuck into a cold-ass lil carriage return followed by
a line feed.
This mode do not affect dem charactas typed by tha user, only
those received from tha remote host.
This mode aint straight-up useful unless tha remote host
only sendz carriage return yo, but never line feeds.
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic debug
Togglez socket level debuggin (useful only ta tha superuser).
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic encdebug
Turns on debuggin shiznit fo' tha encryption code.
.It Ic localchars
If dis is
.Dv TRUE ,
then the
.Ic flush ,
.Ic interrupt ,
.Ic quit ,
.Ic erase ,
and
.Ic kill
charactas (see
.Ic set
above) is recognized locally, n' transformed tha fuck into (hopefully) appropriate
.Tn TELNET
control sequences
(respectively
.Ic ao ,
.Ic ip ,
.Ic brk ,
.Ic ec ,
and
.Ic el ;
see
.Ic send
above).
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv TRUE
in ``old line by line'' mode,
and
.Dv FALSE
in ``characta at a time'' mode.
When the
.Dv LINEMODE
option is enabled, tha value of
.Ic localchars
is ignored, n' assumed ta always be
.Dv TRUE .
If
.Dv LINEMODE
has eva been enabled, then
.Ic quit
is busted as
.Ic abort ,
and
.Ic eof
and
.Ic suspend
are busted as
.Ic eof
and
.Ic susp
(see
.Ic send
above).
.It Ic netdata
Togglez tha display of all network data (in hexadecimal format).
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic options
Togglez tha display of some internal
.Nm
protocol processin (havin ta do with
.Tn TELNET
options).
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic prettydump
When the
.Ic netdata
toggle is enabled, if
.Ic prettydump
is enabled tha output from the
.Ic netdata
command is ghon be formatted up in a mo' user readable format.
Spaces is put between each characta up in tha output, n' the
beginnin of any
.Tn TELNET
escape sequence is preceded by a '*' ta aid up in locatin em.
.It Ic skiprc
When tha skiprc toggle is
.Dv TRUE ,
.Tn TELNET
skips tha readin of the
.Pa \&.telnetrc
file up in tha userz home
directory when connections is opened.
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic termdata
Togglez tha display of all terminal data (in hexadecimal format).
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic verbose_encrypt
When the
.Ic verbose_encrypt
toggle is
.Dv TRUE ,
.Nm
prints up a message each time encryption is enabled or
disabled.
Da initial value fo' dis toggle is
.Dv FALSE .
.It Ic \&?
Displays tha legal
.Ic toggle
commands.
.El
.It Ic z
Suspend
.Nm telnet .
This command only works when tha user is rockin the
.Xr csh 1 .
.It Ic \&! Op Ar command
Execute a single command up in a subshell on tha local
system.
If
.Ar command
is omitted, then a interactive
subshell is invoked.
.It Ic \&? Op Ar command
Git help.
With no arguments,
.Nm
prints a help summary.
If a cold-ass lil command is specified,
.Nm
will print tha help shiznit fo' just dat command.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm
uses at least the
.Ev HOME ,
.Ev SHELL ,
.Ev DISPLAY ,
and
.Ev TERM
environment variables.
Other environment variablez may be propagated
to tha other side via the
.Dv TELNET ENVIRON
option.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ~/.telnetrc -compact
.It Pa ~/.telnetrc
user customized telnet startup joints
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command rocked up in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh NOTES
On some remote systems, echo has ta be turned off manually when in
``old line by line'' mode.
.Pp
In ``old line by line'' mode or
.Dv LINEMODE
the terminal's
.Ic eof
characta is only recognized (and busted ta tha remote system)
when it is tha straight-up original gangsta characta on a line.
.Pp
Source routin aint supported yet fo' IPv6.
