.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2012,2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: tic.1m,v 1.57 2013/02/02 22:09:02 tom Exp $
.TH tic 1M ""
.ds n 5
.ds d /usr/share/terminfo
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.SH NAME
\fBtic\fR \- tha \fIterminfo\fR entry-description compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtic\fR
[\fB\-\
0\
1\
C\
D\
G\
I\
K\
L\
N\
T\
U\
V\
a\
c\
f\
g\
r\
s\
t\
x\
\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fInames\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIdir\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIsubset\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR[\fIn\fR]]
[\fB\-w\fR[\fIn\fR]]
\fIfile\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBtic\fR command translates a \fBterminfo\fR file from source
format tha fuck into compiled format.
Da compiled format is necessary fo' use with
the library routines up in \fBncurses\fR(3X).
.PP
As busted lyrics bout up in \fBterm\fR(\*n), tha database may be either a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
tree (one file per terminal entry) or a hashed database (one record per entry).
Da \fBtic\fR command writes only one type of entry,
dependin on how tha fuck dat shiznit was built:
.bP
For directory trees, tha top-level directory, e.g., /usr/share/terminfo,
specifies tha location of tha database.
.bP
For hashed databases, a gangbangin' filename is needed.
If tha given file aint found by dat name,
but can be found by addin tha suffix ".db",
then dat is used.
.IP
Da default name fo' tha hashed database is tha same ol' dirty as the
default directory name (only addin a ".db" suffix).
.PP
In either case (directory or hashed database),
\fBtic\fP will create tha container if it do not exist.
For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, dis would be tha "terminfo" leaf,
versus a "terminfo.db" file.
.PP
Da thangs up in dis biatch is normally placed up in tha system terminfo database \fB\*d\fR.
Da compiled terminal description can be placed
in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different terminfo database.
There is two ways ta bust dis:
.bP
First, you may override tha system default either by
usin tha \fB\-o\fP option,
or by settin tha variable \fBTERMINFO\fR
in yo' shell environment ta a valid database location.
.bP
Secondly, if \fBtic\fR cannot write up in \fI\*d\fR
or tha location specified rockin yo' TERMINFO variable,
it looks fo' tha directory \fI$HOME/.terminfo\fR
(or hashed database \fI$HOME/.terminfo.db)\fR;
if dat location exists, tha entry is placed there.
.PP
Libraries dat read terminfo entries is sposed ta fuckin check up in succession
.bP
a location specified wit tha TERMINFO environment variable,
.bP
\fI$HOME/.terminfo\fR,
.bP
directories listed up in tha TERMINFO_DIRS environment variable,
.bP
a compiled-in list of directories (no default value), and
.bP
the system terminfo database (\fI\*d\fR).
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-0\fR
restricts tha output ta a single line
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
restricts tha output ta a single column
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta retain commented-out capabilitizzles rather than discarding
them.
Capabilitizzles is commented by prefixin dem wit a period.
This sets tha \fB\-x\fR option, cuz it treats tha commented-out
entries as user-defined names.
If tha source is termcap, accept tha 2-characta names required by version 6.
Otherwise these is ignored.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Force source translation ta termcap format.
Note: dis differs from tha \fB\-C\fR
option of \fBinfocmp\fR(1M) up in dat it do not merely translate capability
names yo, but also translates terminfo strings ta termcap format.
Capabilities
that is not translatable is left up in tha entry under they terminfo names
but commented up wit two precedin dots.
Da actual format used incorporates some improvements fo' escaped characters
from terminfo format.
For a stricta BSD-compatible translation, add tha \fB\-K\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta only check \fIfile\fR fo' errors, includin syntax problems and
bad use links.
If you specify \fB\-C\fR (\fB\-I\fR) wit dis option, tha code
will print warnings bout entries which, afta use resolution, is mo' than
1023 (4096) bytes long.
Cuz of a gangbangin' fixed buffer length up in olda termcap libraries,
as well as buggy checkin fo' tha buffer length
(and a thugged-out documented limit up in terminfo),
these entries may cause core
dumps wit other implementations.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta print tha database locations dat it knows about, n' exit.
Da first location shown is tha one ta which it would write compiled
terminal descriptions.
If \fBtic\fP aint able ta find a writable database location
accordin ta tha rulez summarized above,
it will print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diagnostic n' exit wit a error rather than
printin a list of database locations.
.TP
\fB\-e \fR\fInames\fR
Limit writes n' translations ta tha followin comma-separated list of
terminals.
If any name or aliaz of a terminal matches one of tha names in
the list, tha entry is ghon be freestyled or translated as normal.
Otherwise no output is ghon be generated fo' dat shit.
Da option value is interpreted as a gangbangin' file containin tha list if it
gotz nuff a '/'.
(Note: dependin on how tha fuck tic was compiled, dis option may require \fB\-I\fR or \fB\-C\fR.)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Display complex terminfo strings which contain if/then/else/endif expressions
indented fo' readability.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR
Display constant literals up in decimal form
rather than they characta equivalents.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Display constant characta literals up in quoted form
rather than they decimal equivalents.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR
Force source translation ta terminfo format.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR
Suppress some longstandin ncurses extensions ta termcap format,
e.g., "\\s" fo' space.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
Force source translation ta terminfo format
usin tha long C variable names listed up in <\fBterm.h\fR>
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
Disable smart-ass defaults.
Normally, when translatin from termcap ta terminfo, tha compila makes
a number of assumptions bout tha defaultz of strang capabilities
\fBreset1_string\fR, \fBcarriage_return\fR, \fBcursor_left\fR,
\fBcursor_down\fR, \fBscroll_forward\fR, \fBtab\fR, \fBnewline\fR,
\fBkey_backspace\fR, \fBkey_left\fR, n' \fBkey_down\fR, then attempts
to use obsolete termcap capabilitizzles ta deduce erect joints.
It also
normally suppresses output of obsolete termcap capabilitizzles like fuckin \fBbs\fR.
This option forces a mo' literal translation dat also preserves the
obsolete capabilities.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR\fIdir\fR
Write compiled entries ta given database location.
Overrides tha TERMINFO environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR\fIsubset\fR
Restrict output ta a given subset.
This option is fo' use wit archaic
versionz of terminfo like dem on SVr1, Ultrix, or HP/UX dat do not support
the full set of SVR4/XSI Curses terminfo; n' outright fucked up ports like AIX 3.x
that have they own extensions incompatible wit SVr4/XSI.
Available subsets
are "SVr1", "Ultrix", "HP", "BSD" n' "AIX"; peep \fBterminfo\fR(\*n) fo' details.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Force entry resolution (so there be no remainin tc capabilities) even
when bustin translation ta termcap format.
This may be needed if yo ass is
preparin a termcap file fo' a termcap library (like fuckin GNU termcap through
version 1.3 or BSD termcap all up in 4.3BSD) dat do not handle multiple
tc capabilitizzles per entry.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Summarize tha compile by showin tha database location tha fuck into which entries
are written, n' tha number of entries which is compiled.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR
eliminates size-restrictions on tha generated text.
This is mainly useful fo' testin n' analysis, since tha compiled
descriptions is limited (e.g., 1023 fo' termcap, 4096 fo' terminfo).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta discard commented-out capabilities.
Normally when translatin from terminfo ta termcap,
untranslatable capabilitizzles is commented-out.
.TP 5
\fB\-U\fR
 drops some lyrics ta \fBtic\fP ta not post-process tha data afta parsin tha source file.
Normally, it infers data which is commonly missin up in olda terminfo data,
or up in termcaps.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
reports tha version of ncurses which was used up in dis program, n' exits.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR\fIn\fR
specifies dat (verbose) output be freestyled ta standard error trace
information showin \fBtic\fRz progress.
Da optionizzle parameta \fIn\fR be a number from 1 ta 10, inclusive,
indicatin tha desired level of detail of shiznit.
If \fIn\fR is omitted, tha default level is 1.
If \fIn\fR is specified n' pimped outa than 1, tha level of
detail is increased.
.RS
.PP
Da debug flag levels is as bigs up:
.TP
1
Namez of filez pimped n' linked
.TP
2
Hype related ta tha ``use'' facility
.TP
3
Statistics from tha hashin algorithm
.TP
5
String-table memory allocations
.TP
7
Entries tha fuck into tha string-table
.TP
8
List of tokens encountered by scanner
.TP
9
All joints computed up in construction of tha hash table
.LP
If tha debug level \fIn\fR aint given, it is taken ta be one.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-w\fR\fIn\fR
specifies tha width of tha output.
Da parameta is optional.
If it is omitted, it defaults ta 60.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Treat unknown capabilitizzles as user-defined.
That is, if you supply a cold-ass lil capabilitizzle name which \fBtic\fP do not recognize,
it will infer its type (boolean, number or string) from tha syntax and
make a extended table entry fo' dis shit.
User-defined capabilitizzle strings
whose name begins wit ``k'' is treated as function keys.
.SS PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIfile\fR
gotz nuff one or mo' \fBterminfo\fR terminal descriptions up in source
format [see \fBterminfo\fR(\*n)].
Each description up in tha file
raps bout tha capabilitizzlez of a particular terminal.
.IP
If \fIfile\fR is ``-'', then tha data is read from tha standard input.
Da \fIfile\fR parameta may also be tha path of a cold-ass lil character-device.
.SS PROCESSING
.PP
All but one of tha capabilitizzles recognized by \fBtic\fR is documented
in \fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
Da exception is tha \fBuse\fR capability.
.PP
When a \fBuse\fR=\fIentry\fR\-\fIname\fR field is discovered up in a
terminal entry currently bein compiled, \fBtic\fR readz up in tha binary
from \fB\*d\fR ta complete tha entry.
(Entries pimped from
\fIfile\fR is ghon be used first.
\fBtic\fR duplicates tha capabilitizzles in
\fIentry\fR\-\fIname\fR fo' tha current entry, wit tha exception of
those capabilitizzles dat explicitly is defined up in tha current entry.
.PP
When a entry, e.g., \fBentry_name_1\fR, gotz nuff a
\fBuse=\fR\fIentry\fR_\fIname\fR_\fI2\fR field, any canceled
capabilitizzles up in \fIentry\fR_\fIname\fR_\fI2\fR must also step tha fuck up in
\fBentry_name_1\fR before \fBuse=\fR fo' these capabilitizzles ta be
canceled up in \fBentry_name_1\fR.
.PP
Total compiled entries cannot exceed 4096 bytes.
Da name field cannot
exceed 512 bytes.
Terminal names exceedin tha maximum alias length
(32 charactas on systems wit long filenames, 14 charactas otherwise)
will be truncated ta tha maximum alias length n' a warnin message is ghon be printed.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
There is some evidence dat phat \fBtic\fR implementations treated
description fieldz wit no whitespace up in dem as additionizzle aliases or
short names.
This \fBtic\fR do not do dat yo, but it do warn when
description fieldz may be treated dat way n' check dem fo' dangerous
characters.
.SH EXTENSIONS
Unlike tha SVr4 \fBtic\fR command, dis implementation can actually
compile termcap sources.
In fact, entries up in terminfo n' termcap syntax can
be mixed up in a single source file.
See \fBterminfo\fR(\*n) fo' tha list of
termcap names taken ta be equivalent ta terminfo names.
.PP
Da SVr4 manual pages is not clear on tha resolution rulez fo' \fBuse\fR
capabilities.
This implementation of \fBtic\fR will find \fBuse\fR targets anywhere
in tha source file, or anywhere up in tha file tree rooted at \fBTERMINFO\fR (if
\fBTERMINFO\fR is defined),
or up in tha userz \fI$HOME/.terminfo\fR database
(if it exists),
or (finally) anywhere up in tha systemz file tree of
compiled entries.
.PP
Da error lyrics from dis \fBtic\fR have tha same format as GNU C
error lyrics, n' can be parsed by GNU Emacss compile facility.
.PP
The
\fB\-0\fR,
\fB\-1\fR,
\fB\-C\fR,
\fB\-G\fR,
\fB\-I\fR,
\fB\-N\fR,
\fB\-R\fR,
\fB\-T\fR,
\fB\-V\fR,
\fB\-a\fR,
\fB\-e\fR,
\fB\-f\fR,
\fB\-g\fR,
\fB\-o\fR,
\fB\-r\fR,
\fB\-s\fR,
\fB\-t\fR and
\fB\-x\fR
options
are not supported under SVr4.
Da SVr4 \fB\-c\fR mode do not report wack use links.
.PP
System V do not compile entries ta or read entries from your
\fI$HOME/.terminfo\fR database unless TERMINFO is explicitly set ta dat shit.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
\fB\*d/?/*\fR
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinfocmp\fR(1M),
\fBcaptoinfo\fR(1M),
\fBinfotocap\fR(1M),
\fBtoe\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBterm\fR(\*n).
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
.SH AUTHOR
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>
and
.br
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
