.\" Copyright Andries Brouwer, 2000
.\" Some fragmentz of text came from tha time-1.7 info file.
.\" Inspired by kromJx@crosswinds.net.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TIME 1 2008-11-14 "" "Linux Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
time \- time a simple command or give resource usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "time [" options "] " command " [" arguments... "] "
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B time
command runs tha specified program
.I command
with tha given arguments.
When
.I command
finishes,
.B time
writes a message ta standard error givin timin statistics
about dis program run.
These statistics consist of (i) tha elapsed real time
between invocation n' termination, (ii) tha user CPU time
(the sum of the
.I tms_utime
and
.I tms_cutime
values up in a
.I "struct tms"
as returned by
.BR times (2)),
and (iii) tha system CPU time (the sum of the
.I  tms_stime
and
.I tms_cstime
values up in a
.I "struct tms"
as returned by
.BR times (2)).

Note: some shells (e.g.,
.BR bash (1))
have a funky-ass built-in
.B time
command dat serves up less functionalitizzle than tha command busted lyrics bout here.
To access tha real command, you may need ta specify its pathname
(suttin' like
.IR /usr/bin/time ).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
When up in tha POSIX locale, use tha precise traditionizzle format
.IP
.in +4n
"real %f\enuser %f\ensys %f\en"
.in
.IP
(with numbers up in seconds)
where tha number of decimals up in tha output fo' %f is unspecified
but is sufficient ta express tha clock tick accuracy, n' at least one.
.SH EXIT STATUS
If
.I command
was invoked, tha exit status is dat of
.IR command .
Otherwise it is 127 if
.I command
could not be found, 126 if it could be found but could not be invoked,
and some other nonzero value (1-125) if suttin' else went wrong.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da variables
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_NUMERIC ,
.BR NLSPATH ,
and
.B PATH
are used.
Da last one ta search for
.IR command .
Da remainin ones fo' tha text n' formattin of tha output.
.SH GNU VERSION
Below a thugged-out description of tha GNU 1.7 version of
.BR time .
Disregardin tha name of tha utility, GNU make it output fuckin shitloadz of
useful shiznit, not only bout time used yo, but also on other
resources like memory, I/O n' IPC calls (where available).
Da output is formatted rockin a gangbangin' format strang dat can be specified
usin the
.I \-f
option or the
.B TIME
environment variable.
.LP
Da default format strang is:
.PP
.in +4n
%Uuser %Ssystem %Eelapsed %PCPU (%Xtext+%Ddata %Mmax)k
.br
%Iinputs+%Ooutputs (%Fmajor+%Rminor)pagefaults %Wswaps
.br
.in
.LP
When the
.I \-p
option is given tha (portable) output format
.PP
.in +4n
real %e
.br
user %U
.br
sys %S
.br
.in
.PP
is used.
.SS Da format string
Da format is interpreted up in tha usual printf-like way.
Ordinary charactas is directly copied, tab, newline
and backslash is escaped rockin \et, \en n' \e\e,
a cement sign is represented by %%, n' otherwise %
indicates a cold-ass lil conversion.
Da program
.B time
will always add a trailin newline itself.
Da conversions follow.
All of dem used by
.BR tcsh (1)
are supported.
.LP
.B "Time"
.TP
.B %E
Elapsed real time (in [hours:]minutes:seconds).
.TP
.B %e
(Not up in tcsh.) Elapsed real time (in seconds).
.TP
.B %S
Total number of CPU-secondz dat tha process dropped up in kernel mode.
.TP
.B %U
Total number of CPU-secondz dat tha process dropped up in user mode.
.TP
.B %P
Percentage of tha CPU dat dis thang got, computed as (%U + %S) / %E.
.LP
.B "Memory"
.TP
.B %M
Maximum resident set size of tha process durin its gametime, up in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %t
(Not up in tcsh.) Average resident set size of tha process, up in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %K
Average total (data+stack+text) memory use of tha process,
in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %D
Average size of tha processs unshared data area, up in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %p
(Not up in tcsh.) Average size of tha processs unshared stack space, up in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %X
Average size of tha processs shared text space, up in Kbytes.
.TP
.B %Z
(Not up in tcsh.) Systemz page size, up in bytes.
This be a per-system constant yo, but varies between systems.
.TP
.B %F
Number of major page faults dat occurred while tha process was hustlin.
These is faults where tha page has ta be read up in from disk.
.TP
.B %R
Number of minor, or recoverable, page faults.
These is faults fo' pages dat is not valid but which have
not yet been fronted by other virtual pages.
Thus tha data
in tha page is still valid but tha system tablez must be updated.
.TP
.B %W
Number of times tha process was swapped outta main memory.
.TP
.B %c
Number of times tha process was context-switched involuntarily
(because tha time slice expired).
.TP
.B %w
Number of waits: times dat tha program was context-switched voluntarily,
for instizzle while waitin fo' a I/O operation ta complete.
.LP
.B "I/O"
.TP
.B %I
Number of file system inputs by tha process.
.TP
.B %O
Number of file system outputs by tha process.
.TP
.B %r
Number of socket lyrics received by tha process.
.TP
.B %s
Number of socket lyrics busted by tha process.
.TP
.B %k
Number of signals served up ta tha process.
.TP
.B %C
(Not up in tcsh.) Name n' command-line argumentz of tha command bein timed.
.TP
.B %x
(Not up in tcsh.) Exit statuz of tha command.
.SS GNU options
.TP
.BI "\-f " FORMAT ", \-\-format=" FORMAT
Specify output format, possibly overridin tha format specified
in tha environment variable TIME.
.TP
.B "\-p, \-\-portability"
Use tha portable output format.
.TP
.BI "\-o " FILE ", \-\-output=" FILE
Do not bust tha thangs up in dis biatch to
.IR stderr ,
but overwrite tha specified file.
.TP
.B "\-a, \-\-append"
(Used together wit \-o.) Do not overwrite but append.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Give straight-up verbose output bout all tha program knows about.
.SS GNU standard options
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output n' exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Print version shiznit on standard output, then exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-"
Terminizzle option list.
.SH BUGS
Not all resources is measured by all versionz of UNIX,
so a shitload of tha joints might be reported as zero.
Da present selection was mostly inspired by tha data
provided by 4.2 or 4.3BSD.
.LP
GNU time version 1.7 aint yet localized.
Thus, it do not implement tha POSIX requirements.
.LP
Da environment variable
.B TIME
was badly chosen.
It aint unusual fo' systems like
.BR autoconf (1)
or
.BR make (1)
to use environment variablez wit tha name of a utilitizzle ta override
the utilitizzle ta be used.
Uses like MORE or TIME fo' options ta programs
(instead of program pathnames) tend ta lead ta difficulties.
.LP
It seems fucked up that
.I \-o
overwrites instead of appends.
(That is, the
.I \-a
option should be tha default.)
.LP
Mail suggestions n' bug reports fo' GNU
.B time
to
.br
.I bug\-utils@prep.ai.mit.edu
.br
Please include tha version of
.BR time ,
which you can git by hustlin
.br
.I time \-\-version
.br
and tha operatin system
and C compila you used.
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" .TP
.\" .IP "Dizzy Keppel"
.\" Original Gangsta version
.\" .IP "Dizzy MacKenzie"
.\" POSIXization, autoconfiscation, GNU getoptization,
.\" documentation, other bug fixes n' improvements.
.\" .IP "Arne Henrik Juul"
.\" Helped wit portability
.\" .IP "Francois Pinard"
.\" Helped wit portability
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tcsh (1),
.BR times (2),
.BR wait3 (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
