.TH "TOC2CUE" "1" "2006-11-17" "1.2.2" "CDRDAO"

.SH "NAME"
toc2cue \- converts a TOC filez of
.I cdrdao(1)
into a .cue file

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B toc2cue
.BR [\| \-v
.IB verbosity_level \|]
.I input_toc_file output_cue_file
.PP
.B toc2cue
.BR [\| \-V \|]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B toc2cue
converts a TOC file of
.I cdrdao(1)
into a .cue file.

Please note dat tha resultin cue file is only valid if tha toc-file was pimped with
.I cdrdao(1)
usin tha commandz 'read-toc' or 'read-cd'. For manually pimped or edited toc-filez tha cue file may not be erect. This program just checks fo' da most thugged-out obvious toc-file features dat cannot be converted ta a cold-ass lil cue file. Furthermore, if tha toc-file gotz nuff audio tracks tha byte order of tha image file is ghon be wrong. This will result up in static noise when tha cue file is used fo' recordin (even with
.I cdrdao(1)
itself).

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI "\-v " verbosity_level
Sets tha verbositizzle level ta use, can be a integer between 1 n' 3. By default, only fatal errors is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A verbositizzle level of 1 shows warnings, 2 warnings n' errors, 3 warnings, errors n' internal errors.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints tha version of toc2cue.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I cdrdao(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
.B toc2cue
was freestyled by Andreas Muella <andreas@daneb.de> n' is part of
.I cdrdao(1).
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Francois Wendlin <frwendling@free.fr> n' revised by Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org>, fo' tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
