.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2010,2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: toe.1m,v 1.26 2012/01/01 00:40:51 tom Exp $
.TH toe 1M ""
.ds n 5
.ds d /usr/share/terminfo
.SH NAME
\fBtoe\fR \- table of (terminfo) entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtoe\fR [\fB\-v\fR[\fIn\fR]] [\fB\-ahsuUV\fR] \fIfile...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
With no options,
\fBtoe\fR lists all available terminal types by primary name
with descriptions.
File arguments specify tha directories ta be scanned; if no
such arguments is given,
your default terminfo directory is scanned.
If you also specify tha \fB\-h\fR option,
a directory header is ghon be issued as each
directory is entered.
.PP
There is other options intended fo' use by terminfo file maintainers:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
report on all of tha terminal databases which ncurses would search,
rather than only tha straight-up original gangsta one dat it finds.
.IP
If tha \fB\-s\fR be also given, \fBtoe\fR
addz a cold-ass lil column ta tha report,
showin (like \fBconflict\fP(1)) which entries which 
belong ta a given terminal database.
An "*" marks entries which differ, n' "+" marks equivalent entries.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
sort tha output by tha entry names.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIfile\fR
says ta write a report ta tha standard output,
listin dependencies up in tha given terminfo/termcap source file.
Da report condenses tha `use' relation:
each line consistz of tha primary name of a terminal that
has use capabilities,
followed by a cold-ass lil colon,
followed by the
whitespace-separated primary namez of all terminals which occur up in dem use
capabilities,
followed by a newline
.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fIfile\fR
says ta write a report ta tha standard output,
listin reverse dependencies up in tha given terminfo/termcap source file.
Da report reverses tha `use' relation:
each line consistz of tha primary name of a
terminal dat occurs up in use capabilities,
followed by a cold-ass lil colon,
followed by the
whitespace-separated primary namez of all terminals which depend on it,
followed by a newline.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR\fIn\fR
specifies dat (verbose) output be freestyled ta standard error,
showin \fBtoe\fRz progress.
Da optionizzle parameta \fIn\fR be a number from 1 ta 10,
interpreted as fo' \fBtic\fR(1M).
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
reports tha version of ncurses which was used up in dis program,
and exits.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
\fB\*d/?/*\fR
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtic\fR(1M),
\fBinfocmp\fR(1M),
\fBcaptoinfo\fR(1M),
\fBinfotocap\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
.PP
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
