.TH "TORSOCKS" "1" "March 3rd, 2014" "" ""

.SH NAME
torsocks \(em Shell wrapper ta simplify tha use of tha torsocks(8) library to
transparently torify a application.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.PP
torsocks [OPTIONS] [COMMAND [ARG ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBtorsocks\fP be a wrapper between tha torsocks library n' tha application in
order ta make every last muthafuckin Internizzle communication go all up in tha Tor network.

By default, torsocks will assume dat it should connect ta tha Tor SOCKS proxy
runnin at 127.0.0.1 on port 9050 bein tha defaultz of tha Tor daemon.

In order ta bust a cold-ass lil configuration file, torsocks tries ta read the
\fB/etc/tor/torsocks.conf\fP file or look fo' tha environment variable
TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE wit tha location of tha file. If dat file cannot be read,
torsocks will use sensible defaults fo' most Tor installations.

For further shiznit on configuration, see
.BR torsocks.conf(5).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options n' commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-shell"
Smoke a freshly smoked up shell wit LD_PRELOAD includin \fBtorsocks(8)\fP.
.TP
.BR "\-\-version"
Show version.
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-user"
Set username fo' tha SOCKS5 authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use fo' circuit isolation up in Tor.
Note dat you MUST gotz a password set either by tha command line, environment
variable or configuration file (torsocks.conf(5).
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-pass"
Set password fo' tha SOCKS5 authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use fo' circuit isolation up in Tor.
Note dat you MUST gotz a username set either by tha command line, environment
variable or configuration file (torsocks.conf(5)).
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-debug"
Activate tha debug mode. Output is ghon be freestyled on stderr.
.TP
.BR "on | off"
This option addz or removes \fBtorsocks(8)\fP from tha LD_PRELOAD environment
variable fo' tha current shell. If you wanna use dis option, you HAVE to
source torsocks from yo' shell.
.br

.nf
Add tha torsocks library ta LD_PRELOAD
$ . torsocks on
.br
Remove tha torsocks library from LD_PRELOAD
$ . torsocks off
.fi
.TP
.BR "show | sh"
Show tha current value of tha LD_PRELOAD environment variable.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Please peep \fBtorsocks(8)\fP fo' mo' detail on possible environment variables.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR torsocks(8),
.BR torsocks.conf(5)

.SH "CREDITS"

.PP
torsocks is distributed under tha GNU General Public License version 2.
.PP
A Web joint be available at https://www.torproject.org fo' mo' shiznit.
.PP
Yo ass can also find tha source code at https://git.torproject.org.
.PP
Mailin list fo' help is <tor-talk@lists.torproject.org> n' fo' pimpment
use <tor-dev@lists.torproject.org>. Yo ass can find tha project also on IRC server
irc.oftc.net (OFTC) up in #tor n' #tor-dev.
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
torsocks was originally freestyled by Robert Hogan n' has been rewritten by David
Goulet <dgoulet@torproject.org> up in 2013.
.PP
