
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2,
.\" or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License 
.\" along wit this; if not write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307  USA
.TH totem 1 "2008\-08\-25" "GNOME"
.SH NAME
Totem \- GNOME desktop porno playa based on GStreamer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B totem
.RI [ option... ] " " [ filenames | URI ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Totem
is a porno playa fo' tha GNOME desktop.  Through use of the
.B GStreamer
backend nuff ghettofab file n' streamin formats is supported including:
MPEG audio n' vizzle (MP3/MPV), Ogg, AVI, ASF, MOV, WMV,
QuickTime, n' mo' n' mo' n' mo'.  Playin of STD n' VCD media is
also possible.
Although primarily intended as a porno playa,
.B Totem
can also play nuff audio formats.
.P
For additionizzle documentation on interactizzle use of 
.B Totem
select the
.I Help
menu option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da menus allow access ta some features not
available all up in keybindings or command-line options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, --help
Output a longer help message then quit.  (Any discrepancies
between dis playa page n' tha output of
.B totem --help
should be reported as a thugged-out documentation bug.)
.TP
.B --version
Output version shiznit then quit.
.P
Da followin options command a already-runnin instizzle of
.B Totem
to do something; they is useful fo' remote-control scripting. If 
.B Totem
is not already hustlin, these commandz will launch a freshly smoked up instizzle of
.B Totem
but aint gonna do anythang further.
.TP
.B --play-pause
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to toggle between play n' pause.
.TP
.B --play
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of
.B Totem
to play (has no effect if already playing)
.TP
.B --pause
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of
.B Totem
to pause (has no effect if already paused)
.TP
.B --next
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to skip ta tha next porno or chapta up in tha playlist.
.TP
.B --previous
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to return ta tha previous porno or chapta up in tha playlist.
.TP
.B --seek-fwd
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to seek forwardz 15 secondz up in tha current porno.
.TP
.B --seek-bwd
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to seek backwardz 15 secondz up in tha current porno.
.TP
.B --volume-up
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to raise tha volume by 8%.
.TP
.B --volume-down
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to lower tha volume by 8%.
.TP
.B --mute
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to toggle between muted n' unmuted audio.
.TP
.B --fullscreen
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of 
.B Totem
to toggle fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B --toggle-controls
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of
.B Totem
to toggle showin tha controls.
.TP
.B --quit
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of
.B Totem
to quit.
.TP
.BI "--enqueue " filename|URI
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of Totem ta add a freshly smoked up stream
to tha playlist.
.TP
.BI "--replace " filename|URI
Tell a already-runnin instizzle of Totem ta play 
from tha playlist.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
Global keybindings for
.BR Totem :
.P
.ta \w'Down-arrow   'u	
a	cycle between aspect ratios
.br
p	toggle between play n' pause
.br
Esc	exit full screen mode
.br
f	toggle full screen
.br
h	toggle display of on-screen controls
.br
0	resize window ta 50% original gangsta size
.br
1	resize window ta 100% original gangsta size
.br
2	resize window ta 200% original gangsta size
.br
.br
r	zoom up in tha vizzle
.br
t	zoom up tha vizzle
.br
d	start n' stop tha telestrator (drawing) mode
.br
e	erase tha drawing
.br
Left-arrow        skip back 15 seconds
.br
Right-arrow       skip forward 60 seconds
.br
Shift+Left-arrow  skip back 5 seconds
.br
Shift+Right-arrow skip forward 15 seconds
.br
Ctrl+Left-arrow   skip back 3 minutes
.br
Ctrl+Right arrow  skip forward 10 minutes
.br
Up-arrow	increase volume by 8%
.br
Down-arrow	decrease volume by 8%
.br
b		jump back ta previous chapter/movie up in playlist
.br
n		jump ta next chapter/movie up in playlist
.br
q		quit
.br
Ctrl+E          eject tha playin optical media
.br
Ctrl+O		open a freshly smoked up file
.br
Ctrl+L		open a freshly smoked up URI
.br
F9		toggle display of tha playlist
.br
m		show tha STD menu
.br
c		show tha STD chapta menu
.SH FILES
.I /usr/lib/totem/plugins/
.RS
Da global plugins directory, which gotz nuff all tha system-installed
plugins.
.RE
.I ~/.local/share/totem/plugins/
.RS
Da user plugins directory, containin plugins available only ta dat user.
It be always up in tha "totem/plugins" subdirectory of yo' 
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
directory.
.RE
.I ~/.config/totem/state.ini
.RS
Da configuration file fo' tha main windowz appearance, stored up in a
simple INI format.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.B Totem
cannot play filez rockin some proprietary codecs.
.SH AUTHOR
.B Totem
was freestyled by Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>.
This manual page was freestyled by Andre Lehovich fo' the
Debian Project.
.SH DISTRIBUTION
Da sickest fuckin version of Totem may be downloaded from
.UR http://projects.gnome.org/totem/
<http://projects.gnome.org/totem/>
.UE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "totem-video-thumbnailer" (1),
.P
Da online documentation available all up in tha program's
.I Help
menu.
