.TH tracker-control 1 "September 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-control \- Manage Tracker processes n' data

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-control\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-control
manages n' checks statuz of all Tracker processes n' data.

Controls Tracker both at process level, n' at entitizzle level (store, miners).

To start or stop miners, you can use
.B \-\-start.
Da store is started automatically by tha D-Bus calls from tha miners.

It also allows checkin tha statuz of tha Tracker store n' all data miners.
For
.B tracker-store
, tha status be always
.B Idle
unless it is restorin a funky-ass backup and/or replayin a journal (regardless of
load from applications or miners). For a list of common statuses, see
.B \-\-list\-common\-statuses.

Da miners can be paused or resumed rockin dis command n' you can
also list miners hustlin n' available.

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options by group.
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help-all
Show all crews n' options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Returns tha version of dis program.

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-list\-processes
This lists all Tracker processes up in tha system.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kill=[all|store|miners]
This uses SIGKILL ta stop all Tracker processes found matchin the
parameter, if no extra parameta is passed,
.B all
will be assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This aint advised unless yo ass is havin problems
stoppin Tracker up in tha straight-up original gangsta place. This
.B GUARANTEES
death.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-terminate=[all|store|miners]
This uses SIGTERM ta stop all Tracker processes found matchin the
parameter, if no extra parameta is passed,
.B all
will be assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is recommended over \-\-kill cuz it gives
the processes time ta shutdown cleanly.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-hard-reset
This kills all processes up in tha same way that
.B \-\-kill
does but it also removes all databases. Restarting
.B tracker-store
re-creates tha databases.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-soft-reset
A soft reset works exactly tha same way that
.B \-\-hard-reset
does, wit tha exception dat tha backup n' journal is not removed.
These is restored when
.B tracker-store
is restarted.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-remove-config
This removes all config filez up in $HOME/.config/tracker n' shiznit fo' realz. All files
listed is filez which was found n' successfully removed.
Restartin tha respectizzle processes re-creates tha default
configuration files.
.TP
.B \-\-get-log-verbosity
This displays tha log verbositizzle fo' ALL components rockin GSettings for
this configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For possible joints, see
.B \-\-set-log-verbosity.
.TP
.B \-\-set-log-verbosity=[debug|detailed|minimal|errors]
This sets tha log verbositizzle fo' ALL components rockin GSettings using
this configuration option ('verbosity').
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-start
Starts all miners. This indirectly starts tracker-store too cuz it
is needed fo' miners ta operate properly.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-backup=FILE
Begins backin up tha Tracker databases ta the
.B FILE
given.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-restore=FILE
Begins restorin a previous backup (see
.B \-\-backup
) ta tha Tracker databases. The
.B FILE
points ta tha location of tha backup.

.SH STATUS OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-status
Show tha current statuz of all Tracker entitizzles (store n' all available
miners).
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-follow
Big up status chizzlez as they happen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This requires Ctrl+C ta stop and
return ta tha command line. Each freshly smoked up status is put on a freshly smoked up line.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-list-common-statuses
This will list statuses most commonly produced by miners n' the
store. These statuses is not translated when busted over D-Bus and
should be translated by each application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These is not considered
static n' is subject ta chizzle at any point.

Additionally, these statuses is not tha only ones which may be
reported by a miner n' shit. There may be other states pertainin ta the
specific rolez of tha miner up in question.

.SH MINER OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-reindex-mime-type=MIME
Re-index filez which match tha \fIMIME\fR type supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is
usually used when installin freshly smoked up extractors which support \fIMIME\fR
types previously unsupported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This forces Tracker ta re-index them
files. Yo ass can use
.B \-\-reindex-mime-type
more than once per \fIMIME\fR type.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-index-file=FILE
(Re)index a gangbangin' file matchin tha \fIFILE\fR type supplied.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list-miners-running
This will list all miners which have responded ta a D-Bus call.
Sometimes it is helpfult ta use dis command with
.B \-\-list-miners-available.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-list-miners-available
This will list all miners which is available even if they is not
runnin all up in tha moment.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-pause-details
For listin all miners which is paused n' tha reasons fo' being
paused, you can use all dis bullshit. Well shiiiit, it will also display tha application that
axed tha pause like a muthafucka.
.TP
.B \-\-miner=MINER
This argument is used with
.B \-\-pause
or
.B \-\-resume
to say which miner you wanna pause or resume. Yo ass can use tha full
D-Bus name, e.g.
.B org.freedesktop.Tracker1.Miner.Files
OR you can use tha suffix, e.g.
.B Files
.TP
.B \-\-pause=REASON
Da REASON here is useful ta know WHY tha miner should be paused. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A
miner can be paused nuff times by multiple applications. Only when all
pauses done been resumed will it continue. If successful, a cold-ass lil cookie
will be given ta uniquely identify tha request. This cookie is used to
resume tha pause at a lata stage.
.TP
.B \-\-pause-for-process=REASON
This works exactly tha same way as
.B \-\-pause
with tha exception dat it only keeps tha pause actizzle while the
callin process is kickin it fo' realz. As soon as you press Ctrl+C tha pause is
resumed automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-resume=COOKIE
Da COOKIE is given by a successful
.B \-\-pause
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a number which identifies each pause request. When all
pauses done been resumed, tha miner will resume working.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1).
