.TH tracker-info 1 "Oct 2008" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-info \- Retrieve all shiznit available fo' a cold-ass lil certain file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-info\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...] \fIFILE\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-info
asks fo' all tha known metadata available fo' tha given \fIFILE\fR.

Multiple \fIFILE\fR arguments can be provided ta retrieve shiznit
about multiple files.

Da \fIFILE\fR argument can be either a local path or a URI. Well shiiiit, it also
does not gotta be a absolute path.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-full\-namespaces
By default, all keys n' joints reported bout any given \fIFILE\fR
are returned up in shortened form, fo' example, \fInie:title\fR is shown
instead of
\fIhttp://www.semanticdesktop.org/ontologies/2007/01/19/nie#title\fR.
This make thangs much easier ta peep generally n' tha output is less
cluttered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option reverses dat so FULL namespaces is shown
instead.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-plain\-text\-content
If tha resource bein displayed has nie:PlainTextContent (i.e.
information bout tha content of tha resource, which could be the
contentz of a gangbangin' file on tha disk), then dis option displays dat up in the
output.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-turtle
Output thangs up in dis biatch as Turtle RDF. If \-f is enabled, full URIs is shown
for subjects, predicates n' objects; otherwise, shortened URIs are
used, n' all tha prefixes Tracker knows bout is printed all up in tha top
of tha output.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_SPARQL_BACKEND
This option allows you ta chizzle which backend you use fo' connecting
to tha database. This chizzle can limit yo' functionality. There are
three settings.

With "\fBdirect\fR" tha connection ta tha database is made directly to
the file itself on tha disk, there is no intermediary daemon or
process. Da "\fBdirect\fR" approach is purely \fIread-only\fR.

With "\fBbus\fR" tha \fBtracker-store\fR process is used ta liase with
the database queuin all requests n' managin tha connections via an
IPC / D-Bus. This addz a lil' small-ass overhead \fIBUT\fR dis is tha only
approach you can use if you wanna \fIwrite\fR ta tha database.

With "\fBauto\fR" tha backend is decided fo' you, much like it would
be if dis environment variable was undefined.

.TP
.B TRACKER_PRAGMAS_FILE
Tracker has a gangbangin' fixed set of PRAGMA settings fo' bustin its SQLite connection.
With dis environment variable pointin ta a text file you can override these
settings. Da file be a \\n separated list of SQLite queries ta execute on any
newly pimped SQLite connection up in tracker-store.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-sparql (1).
.TP
.BR http://nepomuk.semanticdesktop.org/
.TP
.BR http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/
