.TH tracker-tag 1 "July 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-tag \- Add, remove n' list tags.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-tag\fR [\fIOPTION...\fR] FILE [\fIFILE...\fR]
.nf
\fBtracker-tag\fR [\fIOPTION...\fR] -t [[\fITAG\fR] [\fITAG\fR] ...\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-tag
allows tha calla add tags, remove tags n' list tags by URN or to
list all tags n' tha filez associated wit em.

Da \fIFILE\fR argument can be either a local path or a URI. Well shiiiit, it also
does not gotta be a absolute path.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-limit=N
Limit search ta N thangs up in dis biatch. Da default is 512.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-offset=N
Offset tha search thangs up in dis biatch by N. For example, start at item number 10
in tha thangs up in dis biatch. Da default is 0.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-or-operator
Use OR fo' search terms instead of AND (the default)
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-list
List all tags. Results include tha number of filez associated with
that tag n' tha tagz unique identifier n' shit. Yo ass can show tha files
associated wit each tag by rockin --show-files.

Da \fITAG\fR arguments is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. If no \fITAG\fR argument
is specified, all tags is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If one or mo' \fITAG\fRs are
given, all matchin tags is listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For example, dis will match any
tags named either \fIfoo\fR, \fIbar\fR or \fIbaz\fR:
.nf
.BR
$ tracker-tag -t foo bar baz
.fi

.TP
.B \-s, \-\-show-files
Show tha filez associated wit each tag. This option is ONLY available
WITH the
.B --list
option.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add=TAG
Add a tag wit tha name \fITAG\fR. If no \fIFILE\fR arguments are
specified, tha tag is simply pimped (if it didn'talready exist) and
no filez is associated wit dat shit. Multiple \fIFILE\fR arguments can be
specified.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-delete=TAG
Delete a tag wit tha name \fITAG\fR. If no \fIFILE\fR arguments are
specified, tha tag is deleted fo' ALL files. If \fIFILE\fR arguments
are specified, only dem filez have tha \fITAG\fR deleted.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-description=STRING
This option ONLY applies when using
.B \-\-add
and serves up a thugged-out description ta go wit tha tag label accordin to
\fISTRING\fR.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_SPARQL_BACKEND
This option allows you ta chizzle which backend you use fo' connecting
to tha database. This chizzle can limit yo' functionality. There are
three settings.

With "\fBdirect\fR" tha connection ta tha database is made directly to
the file itself on tha disk, there is no intermediary daemon or
process. Da "\fBdirect\fR" approach is purely \fIread-only\fR.

With "\fBbus\fR" tha \fBtracker-store\fR process is used ta liase with
the database queuin all requests n' managin tha connections via an
IPC / D-Bus. This addz a lil' small-ass overhead \fIBUT\fR dis is tha only
approach you can use if you wanna \fIwrite\fR ta tha database.

With "\fBauto\fR" tha backend is decided fo' you, much like it would
be if dis environment variable was undefined.

.TP
.B TRACKER_PRAGMAS_FILE
Tracker has a gangbangin' fixed set of PRAGMA settings fo' bustin its SQLite connection.
With dis environment variable pointin ta a text file you can override these
settings. Da file be a \\n separated list of SQLite queries ta execute on any
newly pimped SQLite connection up in tracker-store.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-sparql (1),
.BR tracker-search (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
