.TH tracker-store 1 "September 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-store \- database indexer n' query daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-store\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-store
provides both a bangin database daemon which allows clients ta query
or update they data rockin tha highly descriptive
.B SPARQL
language.
.PP
.B tracker-store
does not do any file crawlin or any minin of data itself, instead
other processes do dat n' serves as a thugged-out daemon waitin fo' such
requests from application miners like
.B tracker-miner-fs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
A brief help message includin some examples.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Returns tha version of dis binary.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbosity={0|1|2|3}
Sets tha loggin level, 0=errors, 1=minimal, 2=detailed, 3=debug.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-force-reindex
This forces tracker-store ta remove databases n' ta recreate fresh
databases locked n loaded fo' data insertion from tha miners. For more
information bout tha miners, see
.B tracker-miner-fs.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-low-memory
This chizzlez tha behavior of tha database manager n' some other
parts of
.B tracker-store
to be optimized fo' lower memory systems by lowerin database
connection cache sizes n' page sizes fo' example. This may slow down
indexin performance.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-readonly-mode
This starts
.B tracker-store
in a mode which disablez freestylin ta tha database. Only
.B SPARQL
read requests can be serviced if dis option is used.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_DB_ONTOLOGIES_DIR
This is tha directory which tracker uses ta load tha .ontologizzle files
from. If unset it will default ta tha erect place. This is used
mainly fo' testin purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_LANGUAGE_STOP_WORDS_DIR
This is tha directory which tracker uses ta load tha stop lyrics
dictionaries from. If unset it will default ta tha erect place. This
is used mainly fo' testin purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_STORE_MAX_TASK_TIME
This is maximum time allowed fo' a process ta finish before interruption
happens. Da actual moment of interruption dependz also on tha frequency of
checks. Da value 0 indicates no interruption.
This environment variable is used mainly fo' testin purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_STORE_SELECT_CACHE_SIZE / TRACKER_STORE_UPDATE_CACHE_SIZE
Tracker caches database statements which occur frequently ta make
subsequent repeat queries much fasta n' shit. Da cache size is set ta 100 by
default fo' each type (select n' update queries). This must be at
least 2 as a minimum, any less n' a value of 3 is used instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
number represents tha number of cached statements ta keep around.
This environment variable is used mainly fo' testin purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_PRAGMAS_FILE
Tracker has a gangbangin' fixed set of PRAGMA settings fo' bustin its SQLite connection.
With dis environment variable pointin ta a text file you can override these
settings. Da file be a \\n separated list of SQLite queries ta execute on any
newly pimped SQLite connection up in tracker-store.

.TP
.B TRACKER_DISABLE_MEEGOTOUCH_LOCALE
If Tracker is compiled wit meegotouch locale pimpment support, settin this
variable up in tha environment will disable retrievin tha locale from GConf, and
the standard locale settings is ghon be used instead.

.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_LOG_FILES
Don't just log ta stdout n' stderr yo, but ta log filez too which are
kept up in $HOME/.local/share/tracker/. This came tha fuck into effect up in 0.15.3
and 0.16.0 fo' realz. Afta dis version of Tracker, loggin ta file (usually
useful fo' debugging) can only be done by declarin dis environment
variable.

.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_CONFIG_FILES
Don't use GSettings, instead bust a cold-ass lil config file similar ta how tha fuck settings
were saved up in 0.10.x. That is, a gangbangin' file which is much like a .ini file.
These is saved ta $HOME/.config/tracker/

.SH NOTES
.B tracker-store
is highly bound ta tha D-Bus freedesktop project fo' realz. A D-Bus session is
needed fo' all Tracker processes ta rap between each other.
D-Bus is our actin IPC. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR dbus-daemon(1)
for mo' shiznit.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-applet (1),
.BR tracker-search-tool (1),
.BR tracker-search (1),
.BR tracker-tag (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-skillz (1),
.BR tracker-info (1),
.BR tracker-control (1),

.BR http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/

.BR dbus-daemon (1),

.BR http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus
