.TH tracker-miner-fs 1 "September 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-miner-fs \- Used ta crawl tha file system ta mine data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-miner-fs\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-miner-fs
is not supposed ta be run by tha user since it is started by
its .desktop file when tha user logs in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it can also be started
manually of course fo' debuggin purposes. Yo ass can not run mo' than
one instizzle of dis all up in tha same time.

.B tracker-miner-fs
mines shiznit bout applications n' filez only.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Returns tha version of dis binary.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbosity={0|1|2|3}
Sets tha loggin level, 0=errors, 1=minimal, 2=detailed, 3=debug.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-initial-sleep=SECONDS
Sets tha initial chill time before crawlin tha file system is
started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If the
.B \-\-no-daemon
option is used, dis option is ignored.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-daemon
Tells tha miner ta exit once all indexin has finished n' the
database is up ta date. This aint tha default mode of operation for
the miner, probably it stays round actin like a thugged-out daemon ta monitor
file thugged-out shiznit which may occur over time. This option rendaz the
.B \-\-initial-sleep
option moot.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-eligible=FILE
Checks if 
.B FILE 
is eligible fo' bein mined based on tha current
configuration rules. In addizzle ta this, it will check if 
.B FILE
would be monitored fo' chizzles. This works wit non-existin 
.B FILE
arguments as well as existin 
.B FILE
arguments.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-disable-miner=MINER
Tells tha daemon ta disable tha in-house miners it supports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Depending
on build options, dis can be 'Files', 'Applications'
and 'Userguides'. This option can be provided mo' than once to
diasable multiple miners. Disable up in dis case means tha miner is not
started, though all miners still regista theyselves on D-Bus and
appear there, no actual action is performed otherwise (such as
crawling, settin up monitors, or checkin mtimes against the
file system).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_LOG_FILES
Don't just log ta stdout n' stderr yo, but ta log filez too which are
kept up in $HOME/.local/share/tracker/. This came tha fuck into effect up in 0.15.3
and 0.16.0 fo' realz. Afta dis version of Tracker, loggin ta file (usually
useful fo' debugging) can only be done by declarin dis environment
variable.
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_CONFIG_FILES
Don't use GSettings, instead bust a cold-ass lil config file similar ta how tha fuck settings
were saved up in 0.10.x. That is, a gangbangin' file which is much like a .ini file.
These is saved ta $HOME/.config/tracker/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
