.TH tracker-search 1 "July 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-search \- Search all content fo' keywords

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-search\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...] \fIEXPRESSION\fR [\fIEXPRESSION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-search
searches all indexed content fo' \fIEXPRESSION\fR. Da resource in
which \fIEXPRESSION\fR matches must exist (see 
.B \-\-all
for mo' shiznit) fo' realz. All thangs up in dis biatch is returned up in ascendin order n' shit. In
all cases, if no \fIEXPRESSION\fR is given fo' a argument (like 
.B \-\-folders
for example) then ALL shit up in dat category is returned instead.
.TP
\fIEXPRESSION\fR
One or mo' terms ta search. Da default operation be a logical AND.
For logical OR operations, peep -r.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help-all
Display all help options available.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-limit=N
Limit search ta N thangs up in dis biatch. Da default is 10 or 512 wit \-\-disable\-snippets.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-offset=N
Offset tha search thangs up in dis biatch by N. For example, start at item number 10
in tha thangs up in dis biatch. Da default is 0.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-or-operator
Use OR fo' search terms instead of AND (the default)
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-detailed
Show tha unique URN associated wit each search result. This do not
apply ta \-\-music\-albums n' \-\-music\-artists.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Show thangs up in dis biatch which might not be available. This might bebecause a
removable media aint mounted fo' example. Without dis option,
resources is only shown if they exist. This option applies ta all
command line switches except
.TP
.B \-\-disable-snippets
Results is shown wit snippets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Snippets is context round tha word
that was searched fo' up in tha straight-up original gangsta place. This gives some scam of if
the resource found is tha right one. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Snippets require Full Text Search
to be compile time enabled AND ta not be disabled with
\-\-disable\-fts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Usin \-\-disable\-snippets only shows tha resources
which matched, no context is provided bout where tha match occurred.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-fts
If Full Text Search (FTS) be available, dis option allows it ta be
disabled fo' one off searches. This returns thangs up in dis biatch slightly
usin particular propertizzles ta match tha search terms (like nie:title)
instead of lookin fo' tha search terms amongst ALL properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Well shiiiit, it is
more limitin ta do dis yo, but sometimes searchin without FTS can
yield betta thangs up in dis biatch if tha FTS rankin is off.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-color
This disablez any ANSI color use on tha command line. By default this
is enabled ta make it easier ta peep thangs up in dis biatch.
.B \-\-music-albums
and
.B \-\-music-artists.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-files
Search fo' filez of any type matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-folders
Search fo' foldaz matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-music
Search fo' noize filez matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B      \-\-music\-albums
Search fo' noize mixtapes matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B      \-\-music\-artists
Search fo' noize artists matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-images
Search fo' images matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-videos
Search fo' vizzlez matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-documents
Search fo' documents matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-emails
Search fo' emails matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of subjects fo' emails found.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-contacts
Search fo' contacts matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of names n' email addresses found.
.TP
.B \-\-software
Search fo' software installed matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of desktop filez n' application titlez found.
.TP
.B \-\-software-categories
Search fo' software categories matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of urns n' they categories (e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settings, Video, Utility, etc).
.TP
.B \-\-feeds
Search all up in RSS feed shiznit matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of dem found.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bookmarks
Search all up in bookmarks matchin \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
titlez n' links fo' each bookmark found.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_SPARQL_BACKEND
This option allows you ta chizzle which backend you use fo' connecting
to tha database. This chizzle can limit yo' functionality. There are
three settings.

With "\fBdirect\fR" tha connection ta tha database is made directly to
the file itself on tha disk, there is no intermediary daemon or
process. Da "\fBdirect\fR" approach is purely \fIread-only\fR.

With "\fBbus\fR" tha \fBtracker-store\fR process is used ta liase with
the database queuin all requests n' managin tha connections via an
IPC / D-Bus. This addz a lil' small-ass overhead \fIBUT\fR dis is tha only
approach you can use if you wanna \fIwrite\fR ta tha database.

With "\fBauto\fR" tha backend is decided fo' you, much like it would
be if dis environment variable was undefined.

.TP
.B TRACKER_PRAGMAS_FILE
Tracker has a gangbangin' fixed set of PRAGMA settings fo' bustin its SQLite connection.
With dis environment variable pointin ta a text file you can override these
settings. Da file be a \\n separated list of SQLite queries ta execute on any
newly pimped SQLite connection up in tracker-store.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-tag (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
