.TH tracker-extract 1 "July 2007" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-extract \- Extract metadata from a gangbangin' file.

.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBtracker-extract\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...] \fIFILE\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-extract
readz tha file n' mimetype provided up in stdin n' extract tha metadata from this
file; then it displays tha metadata on tha standard output.

.B NOTE:
If a \fIFILE\fR aint provided then
.B tracker-extract
will run fo' 30 secondz waitin fo' DBus calls before quitting.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbosity=N
Set verbositizzle ta N. This overrides tha config value.
Values include 0=errors, 1=minimal, 2=detailed n' 3=debug.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file=FILE
Da \fIFILE\fR ta extract metadata from. Da \fIFILE\fR argument can
be either a local path or a URI. Well shiiiit, it also do not gotta be a absolute path.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mime=MIME
Da \fIMIME\fR type ta use fo' tha file. If one aint provided, it
will be guessed automatically.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-disable-shutdown
Disable shuttin down afta 30 secondz of inactivity.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-force-internal-extractors
Use dis option ta force internal extractors over 3rd partizzles like
libstreamanalyzer.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-force-module=MODULE
Force a particular module ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is here as a cold-ass lil convenience
for pimpers wantin ta test they \fIMODULE\fR file. Only the
\fIMODULE\fR name has ta be specified, not tha full path. Typically, a
\fIMODULE\fR is installed ta /usr/lib/tracker-0.7/extract-modules/.
This option can be used wit or without tha .so part of tha name too,
for example, you can use
.B --force-module=foo

Modulez is shared objects which is dynamically loaded at run time. These files
must have tha .so suffix ta be loaded n' must contain tha erect
symbols ta be authenticated by
.B tracker-extract.
For mo' shiznit peep tha libtracker-extract reference documentation.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show binary version.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Usin command line ta extract metadata from a gangbangin' file:

.BR 
$ tracker-extract -v 3 -f /path/to/some/file.mp3

.TP
Usin a specific module ta extract metadata from a gangbangin' file:

.BR 
$ tracker-extract -v 3 -f /path/to/some/file.mp3 -m mymodule

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_EXTRACTORS_DIR
This is tha directory which tracker uses ta load tha shared libraries
from (used fo' extractin metadata fo' specific file types). These are
needed on each invocation of tracker-store. If unset it will default
to tha erect place. This is used mainly fo' testin purposes. The
default location is /usr/lib/tracker-0.10/extract-modules/.
.TP
.B TRACKER_EXTRACTOR_RULES_DIR
This is tha directory which tracker uses ta load tha rulez filez from.
Da rulez filez describe extractor modulez n' they supported MIME
types. Da default location is /usr/share/tracker/extract-rules/.
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_CONFIG_FILES
Don't use GSettings, instead bust a cold-ass lil config file similar ta how tha fuck settings
were saved up in 0.10.x. That is, a gangbangin' file which is much like a .ini file.
These is saved ta $HOME/.config/tracker/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-sparql (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
.TP
.BR /usr/lib/tracker-0.10/extract-modules/
.TP
.BR /usr/share/tracker/extract-rules/
