.Dd July 21, 2008
.Dt TRANSMISSION-REMOTE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm transmission-remote
.Nd a remote control utilitizzle for
.Xr transmission-daemon 1
and
.Xr transmission 1
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bk -words
.Nm
.Op Ar host:port | host | port
.Op Fl a Ar filenames-or-URLs
.Op Fl as
.Op Fl AS
.Op Fl asd Ar number
.Op Fl asu Ar number
.Op Fl asc
.Op Fl ASC
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl c Ar path | Fl C
.Op Fl d Ar number | Fl D
.Op Fl e Ar size
.Op Fl er | ep | et
.Op Fl -exit
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl g Ar files
.Op Fl G Ar files
.Op Fl gsr Ar ratio
.Op Fl GSR
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl ic
.Op Fl if
.Op Fl ip
.Op Fl it
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl m | M
.Op Fl n Ar user:pass
.Op Fl ne
.Op Fl N Ar netrc
.Op Fl o | O
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl Bh
.Op Fl Bn
.Op Fl \&Bl
.Op Fl ph Ar files
.Op Fl pl Ar files
.Op Fl pn Ar files
.Op Fl pr Ar peers
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl s | S
.Op Fl sr Ar ratio
.Op Fl SR
.Op Fl srd
.Op Fl si
.Op Fl st
.Op Fl t Ar all | actizzle | Ar id | Ar hash
.Op Fl hl
.Op Fl HL
.Op Fl u Ar number | Fl U
.Op Fl utp | no-utp
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl w Ar download-dir
.Op Fl x | X
.Op Fl y | Y
.Op Fl pi
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a remote control utilitizzle for
.Xr transmission 1 
and
.Xr transmission-daemon 1 .
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
connects ta tha transmission session at localhost:9091.
Other sessions can be controlled by specifyin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different host and/or port.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Fl -add Ar filenames-or-URLs
Add torrents ta transmission.
.It Fl b Fl -debug
Enable debuggin mode.
.It Fl as Fl -alt-speed
Use tha alternate Limits.
.It Fl AS Fl -no-alt-speed
Don't use tha alternate Limits.
.It Fl asd Fl -alt-speed-downlimit Ar limit
Limit tha alternate downlizzle speed to
.Ar limit
kilobytes per second.
.It Fl asu Fl -alt-speed-uplimit Ar limit
Limit tha alternate upload speed to
.Ar limit
kilobytes per second.
.It Fl asc Fl -alt-speed-scheduler
Use tha scheduled on/off times.
.It Fl ASC Fl -no-alt-speed-scheduler
Don't use tha scheduled on/off minutes n' times.
.It Fl -alt-speed-time-begin Ar time
.Ar Time
to start rockin tha alt speed limits (in hhmm).
.It Fl -alt-speed-time-end Ar time
.Ar Time
to stop rockin tha alt speed limits (in hhmm).
.It Fl -alt-speed-days Ar days
Set tha number of
.Ar days
on which ta enable tha speed scheduler, rockin a list like fuckin "2,4-6".
.It Fl -torrent-done-script Ar filename
Specify a
.Ar file
to run each time a torrent finishes
.It Fl -no-torrent-done-script
Don't run any script when a torrent finishes
.It Fl c Fl -incomplete-dir Ar dir
When addin freshly smoked up torrents, store they contents in
.Ar directory
until tha torrent is done.
.It Fl C Fl -no-incomplete-dir
Don't store incomplete torrents up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory.
.It Fl d Fl -downlimit Ar limit
Limit tha maximum downlizzle speed to
.Ar limit
kB/s.
If current torrent(s) is selected dis operates on em. Otherwise, it chizzlez tha global setting.
.It Fl D Fl -no-downlimit
Disable downlizzle speed limits.
If current torrent(s) is selected dis operates on em. Otherwise, it chizzlez tha global setting.
.It Fl e Fl -cache Ar size
Set tha sessionz maximum memory cache size up in MiB. This cache is used ta reduce disk IO.
.It Fl er Fl -encryption-required
Encrypt all peer connections.
.It Fl ep Fl -encryption-preferred
Prefer encrypted peer connections.
.It Fl et Fl -encryption-tolerated
Prefer unencrypted peer connections.
.It Fl -exit
Tell tha Transmission ta initiate a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shutdown.
.It Fl f Fl -files
Git a gangbangin' file list fo' tha current torrent(s)
.It Fl g Fl -get Ar all | file-index | files
Mark file(s) fo' download.
.Ar all
marks all all of tha torrentz filez fo' downloading,
.Ar file-index
addz a single file ta tha downlizzle list, and
.Ar files
addz multiple filez ta tha downlizzle list,
like fuckin "\-g1,3-5" ta add filez #1, #3, #4, n' #5 ta tha downlizzle list.
.It Fl G Fl -no-get Ar all | file-index | files
Mark file(s) fo' not downloading.
.It Fl gsr Fl -global-seedratio Ar ratio
All torrents, unless overridden by a per-torrent setting, should seed until a specific
.Ar ratio
.It Fl GSR Fl -no-global-seedratio
All torrents, unless overridden by a per-torrent setting, should seed regardless of ratio
.It Fl h Fl -help
Print command-line option descriptions.
.It Fl i Fl -info
Show detailz of tha current torrent(s)
.It Fl if Fl -info-files
List tha specified torrentz files
.It Fl ip Fl -info-peers
List tha specified torrentz peers
.It Fl ic Fl -info-pieces
List tha specified torrentz pieces
.It Fl it Fl -info-trackers
List tha specified torrentz trackers
.It Fl si Fl -session-info
List session shiznit from tha server
.It Fl st Fl -session-stats
List statistical shiznit from tha server
.It Fl l Fl -list
List all torrents
.It Fl m Fl -portmap
Enable portmappin via NAT-PMP or UPnP
.It Fl M Fl -no-portmap
Disable portmapping
.It Fl n Fl -auth Ar username:password
Set the
.Ar username
and
.Ar password
for authentication
.It Fl ne Fl -authenv
Set tha authentication shiznit from the
.Ar TR_AUTH
environment variable which must be formatted as
.Ar username:password.
.It Fl N Fl -netrc Ar filename
Set tha authentication shiznit from a
.Ar netrc file.
See netrc(5) fo' mo' shiznit.
.It Fl o Fl -dht
Enable distributed hash table (DHT).
.It Fl O Fl -no-dht
Disable distribued hash table (DHT).
.It Fl p Fl -port Ar port
Set the
.Ar port
for use when listenin fo' incomin peer connections
.It Fl Bh Fl -bandwidth-high
Give dis torrent first chizzle at available bandwidth
.It Fl Bn Fl -bandwidth-normal
Give dis torrent tha bandwidth left over by high prioritizzle torrents
.It Fl \&Bl Fl -bandwidth-low
Give dis torrent tha bandwidth left over by high n' aiiight prioritizzle torrents
.It Fl ph Fl -priority-high Ar all | file-index | files
Try ta downlizzle tha specified file(s) first.
.Ar all
marks all of tha torrentz filez as aiiight priority,
.Ar file-index
sets a single filez prioritizzle as normal, and
.Ar files
sets multiple files' prioritizzles as normal,
like fuckin "\-pn1,3-5" ta normalize filez #1, #3, #4, n' #5.
.It Fl pn Fl -priority-normal Ar all | file-index | files
Try ta downlizzle tha specified filez normally.
.It Fl pl Fl -priority-low Ar all | file-index | files
Try ta downlizzle tha specified filez last
.It Fl pr Fl -peers Ar number
Set tha maximum number of peers.
If current torrent(s) is selected dis operates on em. Otherwise, it chizzlez tha global setting.
.It Fl r Fl -remove
Remove tha current torrent(s). This do not delete tha downloaded data.
.It Fl R Fl -remove-and-delete
Remove tha current torrent(s) n' delete they downloaded data.
.It Fl -reannounce
Reannounce tha current torrent(s). This is tha same ol' dirty as tha GUIz "ask tracker fo' mo' peers" button.
.It Fl -move
Move tha current torrents' data from they current locations ta tha specified directory.
.It Fl -find
Tell Transmission where ta look fo' tha current torrents' data.
.It Fl sr Fl -seedratio Ar ratio
Let tha current torrent(s) seed until a specific
.Ar ratio
.It Fl SR Fl -no-seedratio
Let tha current torrent(s) seed regardless of ratio
.It Fl srd Fl -seedratio-default
Let tha current torrent(s) use tha global seedratio settings
.It Fl td Fl -tracker-add Ar tracker
Add a tracker ta a torrent
.It Fl tr Fl -tracker-remove Ar trackerId
Remove a tracker from a torrent
.It Fl s Fl -start
Start tha current torrent(s)
.It Fl S Fl -stop
Quit tha current torrent(s) from downloadin or seeding
.It Fl -start-paused
Start added torrents paused
.It Fl -no-start-paused
Start added torrents unpaused
.It Fl t Fl -torrent Ar all | actizzle | id | torrent-hash
Set tha current torrent(s) fo' use by subsequent options. Da literal
.Ar all
will apply followin requests ta all torrents; tha literal
.Ar active
will apply followin requests ta recently-actizzle torrents; n' specific torrents can be chosen by
.Ar id
or
.Ar hash .
To set mo' than one current torrent, join they idz together up in a list, such as
"\-t2,4,6-8" ta operate on tha torrents whose IDs is 2, 4, 6, 7, n' 8.
.It Fl -trash-torrent
Delete torrents afta adding
.It Fl -no-trash-torrent
Do not delete torrents afta adding
.It Fl hl Fl -honor-session
Make tha current torrent(s) honor tha session limits.
.It Fl HL Fl -no-honor-session
Make tha current torrent(s) not honor tha session limits.
.It Fl u Fl -uplimit Ar limit
Limit tha maximum upload speed to
.Ar limit
kB/s.
If current torrent(s) is selected dis operates on em. Otherwise, it chizzlez tha global setting.
.It Fl U Fl -no-uplimit
Disable upload speed limits.
.It Fl -utp
Enable uTP fo' peer connections.
.It Fl -no-utp
Disable uTP fo' peer connections.
If current torrent(s) is selected dis operates on em. Otherwise, it chizzlez tha global setting.
.It Fl v Fl -verify
Verify tha current torrent(s)
.It Fl V Fl -version
Show version number n' exit
.It Fl w Fl -download-dir Ar directory
When used up in conjunction wit --add, set tha freshly smoked up torrentz downlizzle folda n' shit. Otherwise, set tha default downlizzle folder.
.It Fl x Fl -pex
Enable peer exchange (PEX).
.It Fl X Fl -no-pex
Disable peer exchange (PEX).
.It Fl y Fl -lds
Enable local peer discovery (LPD).
.It Fl Y Fl -no-lds
Disable local peer discovery (LPD).
.It Fl pi Fl -peer-info
List tha current torrentz connected peers.
In tha `status' section of tha list, tha followin shorthand is used:
.D1 D: Downloadin from dis peer
.D1 d: Us thugs would downlizzle from dis peer if they would let us
.D1 E: Encrypted connection
.D1 H: Peer was found all up in DHT
.D1 I: Peer be a incomin connection
.D1 K: Peer has unchoked our asses yo, but our asses aint interested
.D1 O: Optimistic unchoked
.D1 T: Peer is connected over uTP
.D1 U: Uploadin ta peer
.D1 u: Us thugs would upload ta dis peer if they asked
.D1 X: Peer was discovered all up in Peer Exchange (PEX)
.D1 ?: We unchoked dis peer yo, but they not interested
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all torrents:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-l
.Ed
List all actizzle torrents:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-tactizzle \-l
.Ed
Set downlizzle n' upload limits ta 400 kB/sec n' 60 kB/sec:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-d400 \-u60
$ transmission-remote \-\-downlimit=400 \-\-uplimit=60
.Ed
Set alternate downlizzle n' upload limits ta 100 kB/sec n' 20 kB/sec:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-asd100 \-asu20
$ transmission-remote \-\-alt-speed-downlimit=100 \-\-alt-speed-uplimit=20
.Ed
Set tha schedula ta use tha alternate speed limits on weekdays between 10AM n' 11PM
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-\-alt-speed-time-begin=1000
$ transmission-remote \-\-alt-speed-time-end=2300
$ transmission-remote \-\-alt-speed-days=1-5
$ transmission-remote \-\-alt-speed-scheduler
.Ed
List all torrents' IDs n' states:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-l
.Ed
List all torrents from a remote session dat requires authentication:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote host:9091 \-\-auth=username:password \-l
.Ed
Start all torrents:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-tall \-\-start
.Ed
Add two torrents:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-a one.torrent two.torrent
.Ed
Add all torrents up in ~/Desktop:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-a ~/Desktop/*torrent
.Ed
Git detailed shiznit on tha torrent whose ID is '1':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-t1 \-i
.Ed
Git a list of a torrentz files:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-t1 \-f
.Ed
Downlizzle only its second n' fourth files:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-t1 \-Gall \-g2,4
.Ed
Set all torrents' first two files' prioritizzles ta high:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-tall \-ph1,2
.Ed
Set all torrents' files' prioritizzles ta normal:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ transmission-remote \-tall \-pnall
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ev http_proxy
Sets tha proxy ta use fo' http tracker announces.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Jordan Lee ,
.An Josh Elsasser ,
.An Eric Petit ,
and
.An Mitchell Livingston .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr transmission-create 1 ,
.Xr transmission-daemon 1 ,
.Xr transmission-edit 1 ,
.Xr transmission-gtk 1 ,
.Xr transmission-qt 1 ,
.Xr transmission-remote 1 ,
.Xr transmission-show 1
.Pp
http://www.transmissionbt.com/
