.\" $Id: transmission-gtk.1 11626 2011-01-03 05:58:58Z jordan $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Joshua Elsasser
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd May 20, 2008
.Dt TRANSMISSION-GTK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm transmission-gtk
.Nd a funky-ass bittorrent client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm transmission-gtk
.Fl ?
.Nm
.Op Fl pqm
.Op Ar torrent-file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a gangbangin' fast n' easy as fuck  BitTorrent client.
.Pp
BitTorrent be a peer-to-peer file transfer protocol which uses a
metainfo file (usually wit tha .torrent file extension) n' a cold-ass lil central
tracker ta distribute file data amongst a crew of peers. For more
information on tha BitTorrent protocol peep http://www.bittorrent.org/
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl ? Fl -help
Show help options
.It Fl p Fl -paused
Start wit all torrents paused
.It Fl m Fl -minimized
Start minimized up in notification area
.It Fl g, Fl -config-dir Ar directory
Where ta look fo' configuration files. This can be used ta swap between rockin tha cli, daemon, gtk, n' qt clients.
See http://trac.transmissionbt.com/wiki/ConfigFilez fo' mo' shiznit.
.El
.Pp
Multiple .torrent filez may be added at startup
by appendin dem on tha command line.
If
.Nm
is already hustlin, tha torrents is ghon be added ta tha hustlin instance.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ev TRANSMISSION_HOME
Sets tha default config-dir.
.It Ev http_proxy
libcurl uses dis environment variable when struttin tracker announces. If set, dis overrides tha GNOME proxy preferences.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It ~/.config/transmission
Da config-dir used when neither
.Op Ev TRANSMISSION_HOME
nor
.Op Fl g
is specified.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was freestyled by
.An Jordan Lee ,
.An Josh Elsasser ,
.An Eric Petit ,
and
.An Mitchell Livingston .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr transmission-create 1 ,
.Xr transmission-daemon 1 ,
.Xr transmission-edit 1 ,
.Xr transmission-gtk 1 ,
.Xr transmission-qt 1 ,
.Xr transmission-remote 1 ,
.Xr transmission-show 1
.Pp
http://www.transmissionbt.com/
