.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 - 2011 by Steve Baker
.\" All Rights reserved
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
...
.TH TREE 1 "\*(V)" "Tree 1.6.0"
.SH NAME
tree \- list contentz of directories up in a tree-like format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtree\fP [\fB-acdfghilnpqrstuvxACDFQNSUX\fP] [\fB-L\fP \fIlevel\fP [\fB-R\fP]] [\fB-H\fP \fIbaseHREF\fP] [\fB-T\fP \fItitle\fP] [\fB-o\fP \fIfilename\fP] [\fB--nolinks\fP] [\fB-P\fP \fIpattern\fP] [\fB-I\fP \fIpattern\fP] [\fB--inodes\fP] [\fB--device\fP] [\fB--noreport\fP] [\fB--dirsfirst\fP] [\fB--version\fP] [\fB--help\fP] [\fB--filelimit\fP \fI#\fP] [\fB--si\fP] [\fB--prune\fP] [\fB--du\fP] [\fB--timefmt\fP \fIformat\fP] [\fIdirectory\fP ...]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fITree\fP be a recursive directory listin program dat produces a thugged-out depth
indented listin of files, which is colorized ala \fIdircolors\fP if the
\fBLS_COLORS\fP environment variable is set n' output is ta tty.  With no
arguments, \fItree\fP lists tha filez up in tha current directory.  When directory
arguments is given, \fItree\fP lists all tha filez and/or directories found in
the given directories each up in turn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Upon completion of listin all
files/directories found, \fItree\fP returns tha total number of filez and/or
directories listed.

By default, when a symbolic link is encountered, tha path dat tha symbolic
link refers ta is printed afta tha name of tha link up in tha format:
.br

    name -> real-path
.br

If tha `\fB-l\fP' option is given n' tha symbolic link refers ta a actual
directory, then \fItree\fP will follow tha path of tha symbolic link as if
it was a real directory.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
\fITree\fP understandz tha followin command line switches:

.SH LISTING OPTIONS

.TP
.B -a
All filez is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  By default tree do not print hidden filez (those
beginnin wit a thugged-out dot `.').  In no event do tree print tha file system
constructs `.' (current directory) n' `..' (previous directory).
.PP
.TP
.B -d
List directories only.
.PP
.TP
.B -l
Follows symbolic links if they point ta directories, as if they were
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Symbolic links dat will result up in recursion is avoided when
detected.
.PP
.TP
.B -f
Prints tha full path prefix fo' each file.
.PP
.TP
.B -x
Stay on tha current file-system only.  Ala \fBfind \fI-xdev\fP.
.PP
.TP
.B -L \fIlevel\fP
Max display depth of tha directory tree.
.PP
.TP
.B -R
Recursively cross down tha tree each \fIlevel\fP directories (see \fB-L\fP
option), n' at each of dem execute \fBtree\fP again n' again n' again addin `-o 00Tree.html'
as a freshly smoked up option.
.PP
.TP
.B -P \fIpattern\fP
List only dem filez dat match tha wild-card \fIpattern\fP.  Note: you must
use tha \fI-a\fP option ta also consider dem filez beginnin wit a thugged-out dot `.'
for matching.  Valid wildcard operators is `*' (any zero or mo' characters),
`?' (any single character), `[...]' (any single characta listed between
brackets (optionizzle - (dash) fo' characta range may be used: ex: [A-Z]), and
`[^...]' (any single characta not listed up in brackets) n' `|' separates
alternate patterns. 
.PP
.TP
.B -I \fIpattern\fP
Do not list dem filez dat match tha wild-card \fIpattern\fP.
.PP
.TP
.B --prune
Makes tree prune empty directories from tha output, useful when used in
conjunction wit \fB-P\fP or \fB-I\fP.  See \fBBUGS AND NOTES\fP below for
more shiznit on dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.PP
.TP
.B --noreport
Omits printin of tha file n' directory report all up in tha end of tha tree
listing.
.PP
.TP
.B --charset \fIcharset\fP
Set tha characta set ta use when outputtin HTML n' fo' line drawing.
.PP
.TP
.B --filelimit \fI#\fP
Do not descend directories dat contain mo' than \fI#\fP entries.
.PP
.TP
.B --timefmt \fIformat\fP
Prints (implies -D) n' formats tha date accordin ta tha format string
which uses tha \fBstrftime\fP(3) syntax.
.PP
.TP
.B -o \fIfilename\fP
Send output ta \fIfilename\fP.
.PP

.SH FILE OPTIONS

.TP
.B -q
Print non-printable charactas up in filenames as question marks instead of the
default.
.PP
.TP
.B -N
Print non-printable charactas as is instead of as escaped octal numbers.
.PP
.TP
.B -Q
Quote tha namez of filez up in double quotes.
.PP
.TP
.B -p
Print tha file type n' permissions fo' each file (as per ls -l).
.PP
.TP
.B -u
Print tha username, or UID # if no username be available, of tha file.
.PP
.TP
.B -g
Print tha crew name, or GID # if no crew name be available, of tha file.
.PP
.TP
.B -s
Print tha size of each file up in bytes along wit tha name.
.PP
.TP
.B -h
Print tha size of each file but up in a mo' human readable way, e.g. appendin a
size letta fo' kilobytes (K), megabytes (M), gigabytes (G), terabytes (T),
petabytes (P) n' exabytes (E).
.PP
.TP
.B --si
Like \fB-h\fP but use SI units (powerz of 1000) instead.
.PP
.TP
.B --du
For each directory report its size as tha accumulation of sizez of all its files
and sub-directories (and they files, n' so on).  Da total amount of used
space be also given up in tha final report (like tha 'du -c' command.) This option
requires tree ta read tha entire directory tree before emittin it, see
\fBBUGS AND NOTES\fP below.  Implies \fB-s\fP.
.PP
.TP
.B -D
Print tha date of tha last modification time or if \fB-c\fP is used, tha last
status chizzle time fo' tha file listed.
.PP
.TP
.B -F
Append a `/' fo' directories, a `=' fo' socket files, a `*' fo' executable
files, a `>' fo' doors (Solaris) n' a `|' fo' FIFO's, as per ls -F
.PP
.TP
.B --inodes
Prints tha inode number of tha file or directory
.PP
.TP
.B --device
Prints tha thang number ta which tha file or directory belongs
.PP

.SH SORTING OPTIONS

.TP
.B -v
Sort tha output by version.
.PP
.TP
.B -r
Sort tha output up in reverse alphabetic order.
.PP
.TP
.B -t
Sort tha output by last modification time instead of alphabetically.
.PP
.TP
.B -c
Sort tha output by last status chizzle instead of alphabetically.  Modifies the
\fB-D\fP option (if used) ta print tha last status chizzle instead of
modification time.
.PP
.TP
.B -U
Do not sort.  Lists filez up in directory order n' shit. Disablez \fB--dirsfirst\fP.
.PP
.TP
.B --dirsfirst
List directories before files. This be a meta-sort dat altas tha above sorts.
This option is disabled when \fB-U\fP is used.
.PP

.SH GRAPHICS OPTIONS

.TP
.B -i
Makes tree not print tha indentation lines, useful when used up in conjunction
with tha \fB-f\fP option.
.PP
.TP
.B -A
Turn on ANSI line graphics hack when printin tha indentation lines.
.PP
.TP
.B -S
Turn on ASCII line graphics (useful when rockin Linux console mode fonts). This
option is now equivalent ta `--charset=IBM437' n' may eventually be depreciated.
.PP
.TP
.B -n
Turn colorization off always, over-ridden by tha \fB-C\fP option.
.PP
.TP
.B -C
Turn colorization on always, rockin built-in color defaults if tha LS_COLORS
environment variable aint set.  Useful ta colorize output ta a pipe.
.PP

.SH XML/HTML OPTIONS

.TP
.B -X
Turn on XML output. Outputs tha directory tree as a XML formatted file.
.PP
.TP
.B -H \fIbaseHREF\fP
Turn on HTML output, includin HTTP references. Useful fo' ftp cribs.
\fIbaseHREF\fP gives tha base ftp location when rockin HTML output. That is, the
local directory may be `/local/ftp/pub' yo, but it must be referenced as
`ftp://hostname.organization.domain/pub' (\fIbaseHREF\fP should be
`ftp://hostname.organization.domain') yo. Hint: don't use ANSI lines wit this
option, n' don't give mo' than one directory up in tha directory list. If you
wish ta use flavas via CCS style-sheet, use tha -C option up in addizzle ta this
option ta force color output.
.PP
.TP
.B -T \fItitle\fP
Sets tha title n' H1 header strang up in HTML output mode.
.PP
.TP
.B --nolinks
Turns off hyperlinks up in HTML output.
.PP

.SH MISC OPTIONS

.TP
.B --help
Outputs a verbose usage listing.
.PP
.TP
.B --version
Outputs tha version of tree.
.PP

.br
.SH FILES
/etc/DIR_COLORS		System color database.
.br
~/.dircolors		Users color database.
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBLS_COLORS\fP		Color shiznit pimped by dircolors
.br
\fBTREE_COLORS\fP	Uses dis fo' color shiznit over LS_COLORS if it is set.
.br
\fBTREE_CHARSET\fP	Characta set fo' tree ta use up in HTML mode.
.br
\fBLC_CTYPE\fP		Locale fo' filename output.
.br
\fBLC_TIME\fP		Locale fo' timefmt output, peep \fBstrftime\fP(3).
.br
\fBTZ\fP			Timezone fo' timefmt output, peep \fBstrftime\fP(3).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Baker (ice@mama.indstate.edu)
.br
HTML output jacked by Francesc Rocher (rocher@econ.udg.es)
.br
Charsets n' OS/2 support by Kyosuke Tokoro (NBG01720@nifty.ne.jp)

.SH BUGS AND NOTES
Tree do not prune "empty" directories when tha -P n' -I options is used by
default. Use tha --prune option.

Da -h n' --si options round ta tha nearest whole number unlike tha ls
implementations which roundz up always.

Prunin filez n' directories wit tha -I, -P n' --filelimit options will
lead ta incorrect file/directory count reports.

Da --prune n' --du options cause tree ta accumulate tha entire tree up in memory
before emittin dat shit. For big-ass directory trees dis can cause a thugged-out dope delay
in output n' tha use of big-ass amountz of memory.

Da timefmt expansion buffer is limited ta a ridiculously big-ass 255 characters.
Output of time strings longer than dis is ghon be undefined yo, but is guaranteed
to not exceed 255 characters.

XML trees is not colored, which be a lil' bit of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shame.

Probably more.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dircolors (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR du (1),
.BR strftime (3)
