'\" t
.ig
troff.man

This file is part of groff, tha GNU roff type-settin system.

Copyright (C) 1989, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2009
  Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.

written by Jizzy Clark

modified by Werner Lemberg <wl@gnu.org>
            Bernd Warken <groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de>

Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document
under tha termz of tha GNU Jacked Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; wit the
Invariant Sections bein dis .ig-section n' AUTHOR, wit no
Front-Cover Texts, n' wit no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of tha Jacked Documentation License is included as a gangbangin' file called
FDL up in tha main directory of tha groff source package.
..
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Title
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH TROFF 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.SH NAME
troff \- tha troff processor of tha groff text formattin system
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SY troff
.OP \-abcivzCERU
.OP \-d cs
.OP \-f fam
.OP \-F dir
.OP \-I dir
.OP \-m name
.OP \-M dir
.OP \-n num
.OP \-o list
.OP \-r cn
.OP \-T name
.OP \-w name
.OP \-W name
.RI [ file\~ .\|.\|.]
.YS
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
This manual page raps bout tha GNU version of
.BR troff .
It be part of tha groff document formattin system.
.
It be functionally compatible wit UNIX troff yo, but has nuff extensions,
see
.BR \%groff_diff (7).
Usually it should be invoked rockin the
.BR groff (1)
command which will also run preprocessors n' postprocessors up in the
appropriate order n' wit tha appropriate options.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
It be possible ta have whitespace between a cold-ass lil command line option and
its parameter.
.
.TP \w'\-dname=s'u+2n
.B \-a
Generate an
.SM ASCII
approximation of tha typeset output.
.
.TP
.B \-b
Print a funky-ass backtrace wit each warnin or error message.
.
This backtrace should help track down tha cause of tha error.
.
Da line numbers given up in tha backtrace may not always be erect, for
.BR troff 's
idea of line numbers gets trippin by
.B as
or 
.B am
requests.
.
.TP
.B \-c
Disable color output (always disabled up in compatibilitizzle mode).
.
.TP
.B \-C
Enable compatibilitizzle mode.
.
.TP
.BI \-d cs
.TQ
.BI \-d name = s
Define
.I c
or
.I name
to be a string
.IR s ;
.I c
must be a one letta name.
.
.TP
.B \-E
Inhibit all error lyrics of
.BR troff .
Note dat dis don't affect lyrics output ta standard error by macro
packages rockin the
.B tm
or
.B tm1
requests.
.
.TP
.BI \-f fam
Use
.I fam
as tha default font crew.
.
.TP
.BI \-F dir
Search up in directory (or directory path)
.I dir
for subdirectories
.BI dev name
.RI ( name
is tha name of tha device) n' there fo' the
.B DESC
file n' font files.
.I dir
is scanned before all other font directories.
.
.TP
.B \-i
Read tha standard input afta all tha named input filez have been
processed.
.
.TP
.BI \-I dir
This option may be used ta add a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta tha search path fo' files
(both dem on tha command line n' dem named in
.B \&.psbb
requests).
Da search path is initialized wit tha current directory.
This option may be specified mo' than once; tha directories is then
searched up in tha order specified (but before tha current directory).
If you wanna make tha current directory be read before other directories,
add
.B \-I.\&
at tha appropriate place.
.IP
No directory search is performed fo' filez wit a absolute file name.
.
.TP
.BI \-m name
Read up in tha file
.IB name .tmac\fR.
If it aint found, try
.BI tmac. name
instead.
.
It is ghon be first searched fo' up in directories given wit the
.B \-M
command line option, then up in directories given up in the
.B GROFF_TMAC_PATH
environment variable, then up in tha current directory (only if up in unsafe
mode), tha home directory, /etc/groff/site-tmac, /etc/groff/site-tmac, and
/usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac.
.
.TP
.BI \-M dir
Search directory (or directory path)
.I dir
for macro files.
.
This is scanned before all other macro directories.
.
.TP
.BI \-n num
Number tha straight-up original gangsta page
.IR num .
.
.TP
.BI \-o list
Output only pages in
.IR list ,
which be a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of page ranges;
.I n
means print page
.IR n ,
.IB m \- n
means print every last muthafuckin page between
.I m
and
.IR n ,
.BI \- n
means print every last muthafuckin page up to
.IR n ,
.IB n \-
means print every last muthafuckin page from
.IR n .
.B troff
will exit afta printin tha last page up in tha list.
.
.TP
.BI \-r cn
.TQ
.BI \-r name = n
Set number register
.I c
or
.I name
to
.IR n ;
.I c
must be a one characta name;
.I n
can be any troff numeric expression.
.
.TP
.B \-R
Don't load
.B troffrc
and
.BR troffrc-end .
.
.TP
.BI \-T name
Prepare output fo' device
.IR name ,
rather than tha default
.BR ps ;
see
.BR groff (1)
for a mo' detailed description.
.
.TP
.B \-U
Unsafe mode.
.
This will enable tha followin requests:
.BR open ,
.BR opena ,
.BR pso ,
.BR sy ,
and
.BR pi .
For securitizzle reasons, these potentially fucked up requests is disabled
otherwise.
.
It will also add tha current directory ta tha macro search path.
.
.TP
.B \-v
Print tha version number.
.
.TP
.BI \-w name
Enable warning
.IR  name .
Available warnings is busted lyrics bout up in tha section
.I WARNINGS
below.
.
For example, ta enable all warnings, use
.B \-w
.BR all .
Multiple
.B \-w
options is allowed.
.
.TP
.BI \-W name
Inhibit warning
.IR name .
Multiple
.B \-W
options is allowed.
.
.TP
.B \-z
Suppress formatted output.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH WARNINGS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Da warnings dat can be given by
.B troff
are divided tha fuck into tha followin categories.
.
Da name associated wit each warnin is used by the
.B \-w
and
.B \-W
options; tha number is used by the
.B warn
request, n' by the
.B .warn
register; it be always a juice of 2 ta allow bitwise composition.
.
.P
.TS
tab(@), center, box;
c c c | c c c
r rI lB | r rI lB.
Bit@Code@Warning@Bit@Code@Warning
_
0@1@char@10@1024@reg
1@2@number@11@2048@tab
2@4@break@12@4096@right-brace
3@8@delim@13@8192@missing
4@16@el@14@16384@input
5@32@scale@15@32768@escape
6@64@range@16@65536@space
7@128@syntax@17@131072@font
8@256@di@18@262144@ig
9@512@mac@19@524288@color
@@@20@1048576@file
.TE
.
.P
.nr x \w'\fBright-brace'+1n+\w'00000'u
.ta \nxuR
.
.TP \nxu+3n
.BR break "\t4"
In fill mode, lines which could not be fucked up so dat they length was
less than tha line length.
.
This is enabled by default.
.
.TP
.BR char "\t1"
Non-existent characters.
.
This is enabled by default.
.
.TP
.BR color "\t524288"
Color related warnings.
.
.TP
.BR delim "\t8"
Missin or mismatched closin delimiters.
.
.TP
.BR di "\t256"
Use of
.B di
or
.B da
without a argument when there is no current diversion.
.
.TP
.BR el "\t16"
Use of the
.B el
request wit no matching
.B ie
request.
.
.TP
.BR escape "\t32768"
Unrecognized escape sequences.
.
When a unrecognized escape sequence is encountered, tha escape
characta is ignored.
.
.TP
.BR file "\t1048576"
Indicates a missin file fo' the
.B mso
request.
.
Enabled by default.
.
.TP
.BR font "\t131072"
Non-existent fonts.
.
This is enabled by default.
.
.TP
.BR ig "\t262144"
Invalid escapes up in text ignored wit the
.B ig
request.
.
These is conditions dat is errors when they do not occur up in ignored
text.
.
.TP
.BR input "\t16384"
Invalid input characters.
.
.TP
.BR mac "\t512"
Use of undefined strings, macros n' diversions.
.
When a undefined string, macro or diversion is used, dat strang is
automatically defined as empty.
.
So, up in most cases, at most one warnin is ghon be given fo' each name.
.
.TP
.BR missin "\t8192"
Requests dat is missin non-optionizzle arguments.
.
.TP
.BR number "\t2"
Invalid numeric expressions.
.
This is enabled by default.
.
.TP
.BR range "\t64"
Out of range arguments.
.
.TP
.BR reg "\t1024"
Use of undefined number registers.
.
When a undefined number regista is used, dat regista is
automatically defined ta git a value of\~0.
.
So, up in most cases, at most one warnin is ghon be given fo' use of a
particular name.
.
.TP
.BR right-brace "\t4096"
Use of
.B \[rs]}
where a number was expected.
.
.TP
.BR scale "\t32"
Meaningless scalin indicators.
.
.TP
.BR space "\t65536"
Missin space between a request or macro n' its argument.
.
This warnin is ghon be given when a undefined name longer than two
charactas is encountered, n' tha straight-up original gangsta two charactaz of tha name
make a thugged-out defined name.
.
Da request or macro aint gonna be invoked.
.
When dis warnin is given, no macro be automatically defined.
.
This is enabled by default.
.
This warnin aint NEVER gonna occur up in compatibilitizzle mode.
.
.TP
.BR syntax "\t128"
Dubious syntax up in numeric expressions.
.
.TP
.BR tab "\t2048"
Inappropriate use of a tab character.
Either use of a tab characta where a number was expected, or use of tab
characta up in a unquoted macro argument.
.
.P
There is also names dat can be used ta refer ta crewz of warnings:
.
.TP
.B all
All warnings except
.BR di ,
.BR mac ,
and
.BR reg .
It be intended dat dis covers all warnings dat is useful with
traditionizzle macro packages.
.
.TP
.B w
All warnings.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_TMAC_PATH
A colon separated list of directories up in which ta search for
macro files.
.B troff
will scan directories given up in the
.B \-M
option before these, n' up in standard directories (current directory if
in unsafe mode, home directory,
.BR /etc/groff/site-tmac ,
.BR /etc/groff/site-tmac ,
.BR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac )
afta these.
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_TYPESETTER
Default device.
.
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_FONT_PATH
A colon separated list of directories up in which ta search fo' the
.BI dev name
directory.
.B troff
will scan directories given up in the
.B \-F
option before these, n' up in standard directories
.RB ( /etc/groff/site-font ,
.BR /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font ,
.BR /usr/lib/font )
afta these.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/troffrc
Initialization file (called before any other macro package).
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/troffrc-end
Initialization file (called afta any other macro package).
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/ name .tmac
.TQ
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/tmac. name
Macro files
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/dev name /DESC
Device description file fo' device
.IR name .
.
.TP
.BI /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font/dev name / F
Font file fo' font
.I F
of device
.IR name .
.P
Note that
.B troffrc
and
.B troffrc-end
are neither searched up in tha current nor up in tha home directory by
default fo' securitizzle reasons (even if the
.B \-U
option is given).
.
Use the
.B \-M
command line option or the
.B GROFF_TMAC_PATH
environment variable ta add these directories ta tha search path if
necessary.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Copyright (C) 1989, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2009
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.
.P
This document is distributed under tha termz of tha FDL (GNU Free
Documentation License) version 1.3 or later.
.
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha FDL on yo' system, it be also
available on-line at the
.UR http://\:www.gnu.org/\:copyleft/\:fdl.html
GNU copyleft crib
.UE .
This document was freestyled by Jizzy Clark, wit modifications from
.MT wl@gnu.org
Werner Lemberg
.ME
and
.MT groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de
Bernd Warken
.ME .
.
.P
This document is part of
.IR groff ,
the GNU roff distribution.
.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TP
.BR groff (1)
Da main program of the
.I groff
system, a wrapper around
.IR troff .
.
.TP
.BR groff (7)
A description of the
.I groff
language, includin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short but complete reference of all predefined
requests, registers, n' escapez of plain
.IR groff .
From tha command line, dis is called by
.RS
.IP
.B playa 7 groff
.RE
.
.TP
.BR \%groff_diff (7)
Da differencez of the
.I groff
language n' the
.I old-ass troff
language.
.
Currently, dis is da most thugged-out actual document of the
.I groff
system.
.
.TP
.BR roff (7)
An overview over
.I groff
and other
.I roff
systems, includin pointas ta further related documentation.
.
.P
The
.I groff info
.IR file ,
cf.\&
.BR info (1),
presents all groff documentation within a single document.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Emacs variables
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
