.TH TTMKFDIR 1 "March 28, 2013"
.SH NAME
\fBttmkfdir\fR\ - Utilitizzle ta create fonts.scale filez fo' truetype fonts 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttmkfdir
.RB [OPTION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
    Originally freestyled by Joerg Pommnitz, ttmkfdir be a tool ta create valid n' complete fonts.scale file from TrueType fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Well shiiiit, it is straight-up useful when you plan ta bust a TrueType enabled font server dat is based on tha X11R6 sample implementation (xfsft fo' instance). Great care has been taken ta erectly identify tha encodings dat a given TrueType font supports.

Da ttmkfdir comes wit Red Hat Linux has experienced like some modifications or improvements, include:

\fR\- migration ta FreeType 2 library
.TP
\fR\- mo' accurate checkin fo' big-ass font files
.TP
\fR\- support fo' both two X core font backends, Freetype n' XTT
.TP
\fR\- Truetype collection(ttc) font file support
.TP
\fR\- additionizzle CJK thugged-out features
.TP
\fR\- bug fixes

 
.SH OPTIONS
Here is tha detailed usage of Red Hat version of ttmkfdir.
.TP
.B -h, --help 
It shows tha menus n' combo box up in iok UI
.TP
.B -e, --encodin <encodings.dir>
ttmkfdir is bustin its thang by checkin each TrueType font file against fontenc layer, please refer www.xfree86.org/current/fonts.html fo' details. Default encodings.dir file is /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/encodings/encodings.dir
.TP
.B -o, --output
Specify output, default is fonts.scale up in tha current directory
.TP
.B -d, --font-dir
Specify TrueType font directory, default is tha current directory
.TP
.B -f, --default-foundry
Specify name of tha default font foundry, default is "misc"
.TP
.B -m, --max-missing
Specify tha maximum number of missin charactas per encoding, default is 5. This option applies ta tha encodin dat has less than 256 codepoint definitions.
.TP
.B -a,  --max-missing-percentage
Specify tha maximum cementage of missin charactas per encoding, default is 2. This option applies ta tha encodin dat has mo' than 256 codepoint definitions.
.TP
.B -b, --font-backend
For X FreeType backend, use value "1", fo' XTT backend use value "2", default value is 1. When you have TrueType Collection font(.ttc), you need ta use dis option.
.TP
.B -x, --additional-entries
Additionizzle entries mean dem extra TTCaps shiznit fo' XTT backend, mainly fo' bold n' italic font support. Or fo' FreeType backend, cuz FreeType still don't support bold n' italic font, ttmkfdir can generate extra "dummy" XLFDs, so applications whoz ass askin dem fonts won't complain.

Default value is "0" means off,otherwise use "1" ta switch it on.
.TP
.B -c, --completeness
use less strict completenizz tests fo' encodin tables
.TP
.B -p, --panose
use panose shiznit

.SH AUTHOR
Yu Shao <yshao@redhat.com> n' Pravin Satpute <psatpute@redhat.com>
.PP
.SH LICENSE
GNU Library General Public License
