.TH ucs2any 1 "font-util 1.3.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
ucs2any \- generate BDF fonts containin subsetz of ISO 10646-1 codepoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ucs2any
[
.B +d
|
.B -d
]
.I source-name
{
.I mapping-file
.I registry-encoding
}
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ucs2any
allows one ta generate from a ISO 10646-1 encoded BDF font other BDF fonts
in any possible encoding.  This way, one can derive from a single
ISO 10646-1 masta font a whole set of 8-bit fonts up in all ISO 8859 and
various other encodings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B +d
puts DEC VT100 graphics charactas up in tha C0 range (default fo' upright,
character-cell fonts).
.TP
.B \-d
omits DEC VT100 graphics charactas from tha C0 range (default fo' all
font types except upright, character-cell fonts).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I source-name
is tha name of a ISO 10646-1 encoded BDF file.
.TP
.I mapping-file
is tha name of a cold-ass lil characta set table like dem at
.BR <ftp://ftp.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS/> .
These filez can also typically be found installed up in the
.I /usr/share/X11/fonts/util
directory.
.TP
.I registry-encoding
are tha CHARSET_REGISTRY n' CHARSET_ENCODING field joints fo' tha font
name (XLFD) of tha target font, separated by a hyphen.
.PP
Any number of
.I mapping-file
and
.I registry-encoding
operand pairs may be specified.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da command
.RS
ucs2any 6x13.bdf 8859-1.TXT iso8859-1 8859-2.TXT iso8859-2
.RE
will generate tha files
.I 6x13-iso8859-1.bdf
and
.IR 6x13-iso8859-2.bdf .
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Hopefully a gangbangin' future release gonna git a gangbangin' facilitizzle similar to
.B ucs2any
built tha fuck into tha server, n' reencode ISO 10646-1 on tha fly, cuz
storin tha same fonts up in nuff different encodings is clearly a waste of
storage capacity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bdftruncate (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B ucs2any
was freestyled by Markus Kuhn.
.PP
Branden Robinston freestyled dis manual page, originally fo' tha Debian Project.
