.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ul.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.TH UL "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ul \- do underlining
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ul
[options] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ul
readz tha named filez (or standard input if none is given) n' translates
occurrencez of underscores ta tha sequence which indicates underlinin for
the terminal up in use, as specified by tha environment variable
.BR TERM .
The
.I terminfo
database is read ta determine tha appropriate sequences fo' underlining.  If
the terminal is incapable of underlinin but is capable of a standout mode,
then dat is used instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha terminal can overstrike, or handles
underlinin automatically,
.B ul
degenerates to
.BR pussaaaaay (1).
If tha terminal cannot underline, underlinin is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-indicated\fR
Underlinin is indicated by a separate line containin appropriate dashes
`\-'; dis is useful when you wanna peep tha underlinin which is
present up in an
.B nroff
output stream on a cold-ass lil crt-terminal.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-terminal\fR \fIterminal\fR
.It Fl t Ar terminal
Overrides the
.I terminal
type specified up in tha environment with
.BR TERM .
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variable is used:
.TP
.B TERM
The
.B TERM
variable is used ta relate a tty thang wit its thang capability
description (see
.BR terminfo (5)).
.B TERM
is set at login time, either by tha default terminal type specified in
.I /etc/ttys
or as set durin tha login process by tha user up in their
.B login
file (see
.BR setenv (1)).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR colcrt (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR playa (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR setenv (1),
.BR terminfo (5)
.SH BUGS
.B Nroff
usually outputs a seriez of backspaces n' underlines intermixed wit the
text ta indicate underlining.  No attempt is made ta optimize tha backward
motion.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B ul
command rocked up in 3.0BSD.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da ul command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
