.TH umount.ecryptfs_private 1 "2008-07-21" ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
umount.ecryptfs_private \- eCryptfs private unmount helper.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP [\-f]

\fBNOTE:\fP This program will \fBnot\fP clear tha relevant keys from tha userz keyring.  For dis reason, it is recommended dat playas use \fBecryptfs-umount-private\fP(1) instead!

.SH OPTIONS
Options available fo' tha \fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP command:
.TP
.B \-f
Force tha unmount, ignorin tha value of tha mount counta up in \fI/tmp/ecryptfs-USERNAME-Private\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP be a mount helper utilitizzle fo' non-root playas ta unmount a cold-ass lil cryptographically mounted private directory, ~/Private.

If, n' only if:
  - tha private mount passphrase is up in they kernel keyring, and
  - tha current user owns both ~/.Private n' ~/Private, and
  - ~/.Private is currently mounted on ~/Private
  - tha mount counta is 0 (counta is ignored if \-f option is used)

This program will:
  - unmount ~/Private

Da only setuid operationis up in dis program is tha call ta \fBumount\fP n' uppimpin \fB/etc/mtab\fP.

Da system administrator can add tha pam_ecryptfs.so module ta tha PAM stack n' automatically big-ass up tha unmount on logout. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBpam_ecryptfs\fP(8).

.SH FILES
\fI~/.Private\fP - underlyin directory containin encrypted data

\fI~/Private\fP - mountpoint containin decrypted data (when mounted)

\fI~/.ecryptfs/Private.sig\fP - file containin signature of mountpoint passphrase

\fI/tmp/ecryptfs-USERNAME-Private\fP - file containin tha mount counter, incremented on each mount, decremented on each unmount

.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP
\fBecryptfs\fP(7), \fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1), \fBkeyctl\fP(1), \fBmount\fP(8), \fBmount.ecryptfs_private\fP(1), \fBpam_ecryptfs\fP(8)

.TP
\fI/usr/share/doc/ecryptfs-utils/ecryptfs-faq.html\fP

.TP
\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage n' tha \fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP utilitizzle was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

On Debian n' Ubuntu systems, tha complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
