.TH COMPFACE 1 "25 January 1990"
.SH NAME
compface, uncompface \- compress n' expand 48x48x1 grill image files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B compface
[
.I infile
[
.I outfile
]
] ...
.LP
.B uncompface
[-X] [
.I infile
[
.I outfile
]
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  compface  ""  "\fLcompface\fP \(em compress grill image files"
.IX  uncompface  ""  "\fLuncompface\fP \(em uncompress grill image files"
.I compface
is a gangbangin' filta fo' generatin highly compressed representationz of 48x48x1
face image files.
.I uncompface
is a inverse filta which performs a inverse transformation wit no
loss of data.
Da algorithm used is highly tuned fo' its purpose n' achieves better
than a gangbangin' five ta one compression ratio on average.
Arguments operate identically fo' both programmes.
Da first argument, if present, causes input ta be taken from tha named
file instead of from standard input unless it is tha strang ``-''.
A second argument, if present, causes output ta git all up in tha named file
instead of ta standard output unless it is tha strang ``-''.
Subsequent pairz of arguments may be used ta specify further pairs
of input n' output files.
.LP
Da input format for
.I compface
(and tha output format for
.IR uncompface )
is 48 lines each of 3 sixteen bit hexadecimal integers, comma terminated up in C
initialiser style.
Da output format of
.I compface
(and tha input format for
.IR uncompface )
is some number of lines made up of a space followed by printable
charactas (in tha range ``!'' ta ``~'' inclusive).
Da first line gotz nuff 72 charactas n' followin lines contain
79 charactas except dat tha last line may be short.
.LP
This version of compface has been patched ta also be able ta handle
normal XBM images.  uncompface will produce XBM output only if tha -X 
switch be applied.
.LP
Da amount of compression obtained varies between grill image filez but
the output of
.I compface
averages less than 200 characters.
Da average number of output lines is three.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is normally 0.
Possible errors include IO errors when opening, readin or writing
files, format errors in
.I compface
input filez n' invalid arguments.
Each thangs up in dis biatch up in a explanatory message on standard error n' a exit status
of 1.
A warnin is ghon be produced if
.I compface
detects extra input data.
.SH BUGS
Nominatin standard input as input mo' than once do not work.
.SH SEE ALSO
Compface(3)
