.TH UNCRUSTIFY "1" "Oct 2009" "uncrustify 0.60" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uncrustify \- C, C++, C#, D, Java n' Pawn source code beautifier

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uncrustify \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILES\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

If no input filez is specified, tha input is read from stdin.
.br
If readin from stdin, you should specify tha language rockin \-l.

If \-F is used or filez is specified on tha command line, tha output filename is
\fIPFX\fR + "/" + filename + \fISFX\fR.
.br
Unless, of course, tha options \fB\-\-replace\fR or \fB\-\-no\-backup\fR is used.

When readin from stdin or bustin a single file via tha '\-f' option,
the output is dumped ta stdout, unless repimped up wit \-o FILE.

Errors is always dumped ta stderr

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Basic Options:"
.TP
\fB\-c\fI CFG
Use tha config file \fICFG\fR.
.br
If not specified, uncrustify will use \fB$UNCRUSTIFY_CONFIG\fR or \fB$HOME\\.uncrustify.cfg\fR.
.TP
\fB\-f\fI FILE
Process tha single file \fIFILE\fR, bustin  output ta stdout or tha file specified wit \fB\-o\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o\fI FILE
Redirect output ta \fIFILE\fR.
.br
Use wit \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-update\-config\fR, \fB\-\-update\-config\-with\-doc\fR,
\fB\-\-universalindent\fR.
.TP
\fB\-F\fI FILE
Read filez ta process from \fIFILE\fR, one filename per line.
.br
Yo ass can create dis file rockin suttin' like \'\fBfind . \-name "*.c" > list.txt\fR\'.
.br
This cannot be combined wit \fB\-f\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-prefix\fI PFX
Prepend \fIPFX\fR ta tha output filename path.
.br
This cannot be combined wit \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-replace\fR, or \fB\-\-no\-backup\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-suffix\fI SFX
Append \fISFX\fR ta tha output filename.
.br
Da default is '.uncrustify' if neither \fISFX\fR or \fIPFX\fR is specified.
.br
This cannot be combined wit \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-replace\fR, or \fB\-\-no\-backup\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-frag\fI
Assume tha input be a cold-ass lil code fragment n' tha straight-up original gangsta line is properly indented.
.TP
\fB\-\-replace\fR
Replace source filez (creates a funky-ass backup).
.br
This cannot be combined wit \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-prefix\fR, or \fB\-\-suffix\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR
Replace files, no backup. Useful if filez is under source control
.br
This cannot be combined wit \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-prefix\fR, or \fB\-\-suffix\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-mtime\fR
Preserve mtime on replaced files.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Language override: C, CPP, D, CS, JAVA, PAWN, VALA, OC, OC+
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Load a gangbangin' file wit types (usually not needed)
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet mode \- no output on stderr (\fB\-L\fR will override)
.SS "Config/Help Options:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \-, biatch? \fB\-\-help\fR \fB\-\-usage\fR
Print dis message n' exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha version n' exit
.TP
\fB\-\-show\-config\fR
Print up option documentation n' exit
.TP
\fB\-\-update\-config\fR
Output a freshly smoked up config file.
.TP
\fB\-\-update\-config\-with\-doc\fR
Output a freshly smoked up config file wit embedded usage comments.
.TP
\fB\-\-universalindent\fR
Output a cold-ass lil config file fo' Universal Indent GUI.
.TP
\fB\-\-detect\fR
Detects tha config from a source file. Use wit '\-f FILE'.
Detection is currently fairly limited.

.SS "Debug Options:"
.TP
\fB\-p\fI FILE
Dump debug info ta a gangbangin' file
.TP
\fB\-L\fI SEV
Set tha log severitizzle (see log_levels.h)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Show tha log severitizzle up in tha logs
.TP
\fB\-\-decode\fI FLAG
Print \fIFLAG\fR as text n' exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Read a D file from stdin, output ta stdout.
cat foo.d | uncrustify \-q \-c my.cfg \-l d
.TP
Process a gangbangin' file, output ta stdout.
uncrustify \-c my.cfg \-d foo.d
.TP
Process a source tree, output ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different tree.
find src \-name "*.[ch]" > files.txt
.br
uncrustify \-c my.cfg \-F files.txt \-\-prefix out
.TP
Process a source tree in\(hyplace.
uncrustify \-c my.cfg \-\-no\-backup $(find src \-name "*.[ch]")

.SH NOTES
Use comments containin ' *INDENT\-OFF*' n' ' *INDENT\-ON*' ta disable
processin of partz of tha source file.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lil' Bow Wow Gardner

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Use tha issue tracker at <http://sourceforge.net/projects/uncrustify>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006\(hy2009 Lil' Bow Wow Gardner

.SH LICENSE
GNU GPL version 2 or lata <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>

This is free software; peep tha source fo' copyin conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even fo' MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

