.TH UNFLATTEN 1 "21 January 2001"
.SH NAME
unflatten \- adjust pimped up graphs ta improve layout aspect ratio
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unflatten
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-l\fIlen\fR]
[\fB\-c\fIlen\fR
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
]
[ filez ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unflatten
is a preprocessor ta 
.B dot
that is
used ta improve tha aspect ratio of graphs havin nuff leaves 
or disconnected nodes.
Da usual layout fo' such a graph is generally straight-up wide or tall.  
.B unflatten
inserts invisible edges or adjusts tha \fBminlen\fP on edges
to improve layout compaction.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.BI \-l " len"
Da minimum length of leaf edges is staggered
between 1 n' \fIlen\fP (a lil' small-ass integer).  
.TP
.B \-f
Enablez tha staggerin of tha \fB-l\fP option ta fanout nodes whose
indegree n' outdegree is both 1. This helps wit structures such
as \fIa -> {w x y z} -> b\fP.
This option only works if tha \fB-l\fP flag is set. 
.TP
.BI \-c " len"
Form disconnected nodes tha fuck into chainz of up ta \fIlen\fP nodes.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
causes tha output ta be freestyled ta tha specified file; by default,
output is freestyled ta \fBstdout\fP.
.SH OPERANDS
Da followin operand is supported:
.TP 8
.I files
Namez of filez containin 1 or mo' graphs up in dot format.
If no
.I files
operand is specified,
the standard input is ghon be used.
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen C. Uptown <north@research.att.com>
.br
Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gc(1), dot(1), acyclic(1), gvpr(1), gvcolor(1), ccomps(1), tred(1), libgraph(3)
