." Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH unpack200 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
unpack200 \- JAR Unpackin tool
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
\f4unpack200\fP\f2 [ \fP\f2options\fP ] \f2input\-file\fP \f2JAR\-file\fP
.LP
.LP
Options may be up in any order n' shit. Da last option on tha command line supersedes all previously specified options.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
input\-file 
Name of tha input file, which can be a pack200 gzip file or a pack200 file. Da input could also be JAR file produced by pack200(1) wit a effort of 0. In dis case tha contentz of tha input file is ghon be copied ta tha output JAR file wit tha Pack200 marker n' shit. 
.TP 3
JAR\-file 
Name of tha output JAR file. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f2unpack200\fP be a natizzle implementation dat transforms a packed file produced by \f2pack200\fP(1) tha fuck into a JAR file. Typical usage:
.LP
.LP
\f2% unpack200 myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar\fP
.LP
.LP
In dis example, tha \f2myarchive.jar\fP is produced from \f2myarchive.pack.gz\fP rockin tha default \f2unpack200\fP settings.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.LP
\f4\-Hvalue \-\-deflate\-hint=\fP\f2value\fP
.LP
.LP
Sets tha deflation ta be \f2true\fP, \f2false\fP, or \f2keep\fP on all entries within a JAR file. Da default mode is \f2keep\fP. If \f2true\fP or \f2false\fP, overrides tha default behavior n' sets tha deflation mode on all entries within tha output JAR file.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-r \-\-remove\-pack\-file\fP
.LP
.LP
Removes tha input packed file.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-v \-\-verbose\fP
.LP
.LP
Outputs minimal lyrics. Multiple justification of dis option will output mo' verbose lyrics.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-q \-\-quiet\fP
.LP
.LP
Specifies on tha down-low operation wit no lyrics.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-lfilename \-\-log\-file=\fP\f2filename\fP
.LP
.LP
Specifies a log file ta output lyrics.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-, biatch? \-h \-\-help\fP
.LP
.LP
Prints help shiznit bout dis command.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-V \-\-version\fP
.LP
.LP
Prints version shiznit bout dis command.
.LP
.LP
\f4\-J\fP\f2option\fP
.LP
.LP
Passes \f2option\fP ta tha Java launcher called by \f2unpack200\fP.
.LP
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.LP
.LP
Da followin exit joints is returned:
.LP
.LP
\f2\ 0\fP if successful completion;
.LP
.LP
\f2>0\fP if a error occurred.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
pack200(1) 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Java SE Documentation\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/index.html 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Java Deployment Guide \- Pack200\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/deployment/deployment\-guide/pack200.html 
.TP 2
o
jar(1) \- Java Archive Tool 
.TP 2
o
jarsigner(1) \- JAR Signer tool 
.TP 2
o
\f2attributes(5)\fP playa page 
.RE

.LP
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
.LP
This command should not be trippin wit \f2unpack(1)\fP. They is distinctly separate shizzle.
.LP
.LP
Da Java SE API Justification provided wit tha JDK is tha supersedin authority, up in case of discrepancies.
.LP
 
