.TH UNSQUASHFS 1 "2014\-05\-13" "4.3" "uncompress squashfs filesystems"

.SH NAME
mksquashfs \- tool ta uncompress squashfs filesystems

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunsquashfs\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILESYSTEM\fR [\fIdirectories or filez ta extract\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Squashfs be a highly compressed read\-only filesystem fo' Linux. Well shiiiit, it uses zlib compression ta compress both files, inodes n' directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Inodes up in tha system is straight-up lil' small-ass n' all blocks is packed ta minimize data overhead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Block sizes pimped outa than 4K is supported up ta a maximum of 64K.
.PP
Squashfs is intended fo' general read\-only filesystem use, fo' archival use (i.e. up in cases where a .tar.gz file may be used), n' up in constrained block device/memory systems (e.g. embedded systems) where low overhead is needed.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-v, \-version" 4
print version, licence n' copyright shiznit.
.IP "\-d \fIPATHNAME\fR, \-dest \fIPATHNAME\fR" 4
unsquash ta \fIPATHNAME\fR, default "squashfs\-root".
.IP "\-n, \-no\-progress" 4
don't display tha progress bar.
.IP "\-no, \-no\-xattrs" 4
don't extract xattrs up in file system.
.IP "\-x, \-xattrs" 4
extract xattrs up in file system (default).
.IP "\-u, \-user\-xattrs" 4
only extract user xattrs up in file system. Enablez extractin xattrs.
.IP "\-p \fINUMBER\fR, \-processors \fINUMBER\fR" 4
use \fINUMBER\fR processors. By default will use number of processors available.
.IP "\-i, \-info" 4
print filez as they is unsquashed.
.IP "\-li, \-linfo" 4
print filez as they is unsquashed wit file attributes (like ls \-l output).
.IP "\-l, \-ls" 4
list filesystem yo, but don't unsquash.
.IP "\-ll, \-lls" 4
list filesystem wit file attributes (like ls \-l output) yo, but don't unsquash.
.IP "\-f, \-force" 4
if file already exists then overwrite.
.IP "\-s, \-stat" 4
display filesystem superblock shiznit.
.IP "\-e \fIEXTRACT_FILE\fR, \-ef \fIEXTRACT_FILE\fR" 4
list of directories or filez ta extract. One per line.
.IP "\-da \fISIZE\fR, \-data\-queue \fISIZE\fR" 4
Set data queue ta \fISIZE\fR Mbytes. Default 256 Mbytes.
.IP "\-fr \fISIZE\fR, \-frag\-queue \fISIZE\fR" 4
Set fragment queue ta \fISIZE\fR Mbytes. Default 256 Mbytes.
.IP "\-r, \-regex" 4
treat extract names as POSIX regular expressions rather than use tha default shell wildcard expansion (globbing).

.SS Decompressors available
.IP "gzip" 4
.IP "lzma" 4
.IP "lzo" 4
.IP "lz4" 4
.IP "xz" 4

.SH SEE ALSO
mksquashfs(1)

.SH HOMEPAGE
Mo' shiznit bout unsquashfs n' tha squashfs filesystem can be found at <\fIhttp://squashfs.sourceforge.net/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
squashfs was freestyled by Phillip Lougher <\fIplougher@users.sourceforge.net\fR>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel.baumann@progress\-technologies.net\fR>. With some thugged-out shiznit fo' 4.3 fo' use wit Fedora.
