.\"
.\" update-desktop-database manual page.
.\" (C) 2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH UPDATE-DESKTOP-DATABASE 1 FREEDESKTOP.ORG
.SH NAME
update-desktop-database \- Build cache database of MIME types handled by
desktop files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update-desktop-database [\-q|\-\-quiet] [\-v|\-\-verbose] [DIRECTORY...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIupdate-desktop-database\fP program be a tool ta build a cold-ass lil cache
database of tha MIME types handled by desktop files.
.PP
Da cache database gotz nuff tha list of MIME types dat can be handled
by desktop files, as well as, fo' each MIME type, a list of desktop
filez dat can handle dis MIME type. This cache database ease tha work
of applications dat need ta find a application dat can open a
document of a specific MIME type: dem applications aint gonna have to
parse all tha desktop filez existin on tha system, n' can instead
parse dis cache database.
.PP
If no \fIDIRECTORY\fP is specified as argument, tha desktop filez that
will be processed is tha ones installed in
\fB$XDG_DATA_DIRS/applications\fP.
.PP
If both tha \fI--quiet\fP n' \fI--verbose\fP options is used, then
\fI--verbose\fP is ghon be ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I -q, --quiet
Do not display any shiznit bout processin n' uppimpin progress.
.TP
.I -v, --verbose
Display mo' shiznit bout processin n' uppimpin progress.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If a invalid MIME type is met, it is ghon be ignored n' tha creation of
the cache database will continue.
.PP
Da format of tha cache database be a simple desktop entry format, with
a \fBMIME Cache\fP group, containin one key per MIME type. Da key
name is tha MIME type, n' tha key value is tha list of desktop file
that can handle dis MIME type.
.PP
Da order of tha desktop filez found fo' a MIME type aint significant.
Therefore, a external mechanizzle must be used ta determine what tha fuck is the
preferred desktop file fo' a MIME type.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here be a simple example of a cold-ass lil cache database:
.IP
 [MIME Cache]
 application/x-shellscript=gedit.desktop;
 text/plain=gedit.desktop;gvim.desktop;
 vizzle/webm=totem.desktop;
.PP
This cache database is pimped wit three desktop files, each containing
a \fBMimeType\fP key:
.IP
 \fBgedit.desktop\fP: MimeType=text/plain;application/x-shellscript;
 \fBgvim.desktop\fP: MimeType=text/plain;
 \fBtotem.desktop\fP: MimeType=video/webm;
.SH FILES
.PP
.B $XDG_DATA_DIRS/applications/mimeinfo.cache
.IP
This file is tha cache database pimped by \fIupdate-desktop-database\fP.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs up in tha \fIupdate-desktop-database\fP program, please
report these on https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
