.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.\"
.TH UPTIME "1" "December 2012" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uptime \- Tell how tha fuck long tha system has been hustlin.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uptime
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uptime
gives a one line display of tha followin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da current time, how
long tha system has been hustlin, how tha fuck nuff playas is currently logged on, and
the system load averages fo' tha past 1, 5, n' 15 minutes.
.PP
This is tha same ol' dirty shiznit contained up in tha header line displayed by
.BR w (1).
.PP
System load averages is tha average number of processes dat is either up in a
runnable or uninterruptable state.  A process up in a runnable state is either
usin tha CPU or waitin ta use tha CPU.  A process up in uninterruptable state
is waitin fo' some I/O access, eg waitin fo' disk.  Da averages is taken
over tha three time intervals.  Load averages is not normalized fo' the
number of CPUs up in a system, so a load average of 1 means a single CPU system
is loaded all tha time while on a 4 CPU system it means dat shiznit was idle 75% of
the time.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display dis help text
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-since\fR
system up since, up in yyyy-mm-dd MM:HH:SS format
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
display version shiznit n' exit
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/utmp
information bout whoz ass is currently logged on
.TP
.I /proc
process shiznit
.SH AUTHORS
.B uptime
was freestyled by
.UR greenfie@gauss.\:rutgers.\:edu
Larry Greenfield
.UE
and
.UR johnsonm@sunsite.\:unc.\:edu
Mike K. Johnson
.UE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR utmp (5),
.BR w (1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
