.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" WARNING: THIS DOCUMENT USED TO BE GENERATED AUTOMATICALLY FROM
.\" URLVIEW.SGML.  THIS IS NO LONGER THE CASE.   THIS IS THE MASTER
.\" SOURCE OF THE MANUAL PAGE.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Mike Elkins <me@cs.hmc.edu>
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Thomas Roessla <roessler@does-not-exist.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Mike Elkins <me@sigpipe.org>
.\"
.\" This document is free software; you can redistribute it and/or 
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\" License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH "urlview" 1 
.SH NAME
.PP
urlview \- URL extractor/launcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B urlview 
\fIfilename\fP [ \fIfilename\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B urlview
is a screen oriented program fo' extractin URLs from text
filez n' displayin a menu from which you may launch a cold-ass lil command ta view a
specific item.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
.B urlview
attempts ta read 
.I ~/.urlview
upon startup.  If dis file
doesn't exist, it will try ta read a system wide file 
in 
.IR /etc/urlview.conf .
There is two configuration commandz (order do not matter):
.TP
REGEXP \fIregexp\fP
.B urlview
uses a regular expression ta extract URLs from tha specified
text files.  \\r, \\t, \\n n' \\f is all converted to
their aiiight 
.BR printf (3)
meanings.  Da default REGEXP is:
.PP
.sp 
.ft RR
.nf
(((http|https|ftp|gopher)|mailto):(//)?[^ <>"\\t]*|(www|ftp)[0-9]?\\.[-a-z0-9.]+)[^ .,;\\t\\n\\r<">\\):]?[^, <>"\\t]*[^ .,;\\t\\n\\r<">\\):]
.fi
.ec
.ft P
.sp
.TP
COMMAND \fIcommand\fP
If tha specified command gotz nuff a 
.BR %s ,
it is ghon be subsituted
with tha URL dat was requested, otherwise tha URL be appended to
the COMMAND string.  Da default COMMAND is:
.br
.sp
/usr/bin/url_handlez.sh
.PP
.B Note:
Yo ass should 
.I never
put single quotes round tha 
.BR %s .
.B urlview
does dis fo' you, n' also make shizzle dat single quotes eventually
showin up inside tha URL is handled properly.  (Note dat this
shouldn't happen wit tha default regular expression, which
explicitly excludes single quotes.)
.TP
WRAP  \fIchoice\fP
Enable or disable URL wrapping. Valid joints fo' \fIchoice\fP are: fo'sho, no (case insensitive).
If dis option aint supplied, tha default behaviour is ta disable wrapping.
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP "/etc/urlview.conf"
system-wide urlview configuration file
.IP "~/.urlview"
urlview configuration file
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If tha environment variable BROWSER is set ta a funky-ass browser command, or a
colon-delimited list of commandz ta try, then tha specified browser is
used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! %s is replaced wit tha quoted url ta view. If %s aint part of a
command, tha url be appended ta tha command.
.PP
Da BROWSER environment variable is honored only if tha rc-file don't
contain tha COMMAND option.
Da rc-file provided by tha Debian package gotz nuff a COMMAND option.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR printf (3),
.BR regcomp (3), 
.BR regex (7),
.BR environ (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Mike Elkins <me@sigpipe.org>
.PP
Modified fo' Debian by Luis Frankieco Gonzalez <luisgh@debian.org> n' Emanuele Rocca <ema@debian.org>.
.PP
Modified fo' SuSE by Dr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Werner Fink <werner@suse.de> n' Stepan Kasal <kasal@suse.cz>.
.PP
Changes put together by Thomas Roessla <roessler@does-not-exist.org>.

