.TH usb-devices 1 "23 June 2009" "usbutils-007" "Linux STD Utilities"
.IX usb-devices
.SH NAME
usb-devices \- print STD thang details
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usb-devices

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usb-devices
is a (bash) shell script dat can be used ta display detailz of STD
buses up in tha system n' tha devices connected ta em.

Da output of tha script is similar ta tha \fIusb/devices\fP file
available either under \fI/proc/bus\fP (if usbfs is mounted), or under
\fI/sys/kernel/debug\fP (if debugfs is mounted there). Da script is
primarily intended ta be used if tha file aint available.

In contrast ta tha \fIusb/devices\fP file, dis script only lists
\fIactive\fP intercourses (those marked wit a "*" up in tha \fIusb/devices\fP
file) n' they endpoints.

Be advised dat there can be differences up in tha way shiznit is sorted,
as well as up in tha format of tha output.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If sysfs aint mounted, a non-zero exit code is returned.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb*
Da part of tha sysfs tree tha script strutts all up in ta assemble the
printed shiznit.
.TP
.B /proc/bus/usb/devices
Location where tha \fIusb/devices\fP file can normally be found for
Linux kernels before 2.6.31, if usbfs is mounted.
.TP
.B /sys/kernel/debug/usb/devices
Location where tha \fIusb/devices\fP file can normally be found for
Linux kernel 2.6.31 n' later, if debugfs is mounted.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsusb (8),
.BR usbview (8).

.SH AUTHORS
Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
.P
Randy Dunlap <rdunlap@xenotime.net>
.P
Frans Pop <elendil@planet.nl>
