.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH USERPASSWD 1 "17 October 1997" "Red Hat Software"
.SH NAME
userpasswd \- A graphical tool ta allow playas ta chizzle they passwords.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B userpasswd
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B userpasswd
is a graphical tool ta allow playas ta easily chizzle they passwords.
Aside from bein a sick GUI frontend, dis program do tha right
thang when tha pam configuration has chizzled.
.SH OPTIONS
This program has no command line optionz of its own yo, but it do take
the standard X program options like
.B -display
and such.  See tha 
.IR X (1)
man page fo' a shitload of tha common options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR userhelper (8)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs yo, but compatibilitizzle wit bizarre chizzlez up in tha pam
configuration aint been tested aggressively.  If you have a
non-standard pam configuration, I'd be interested ta hear whether it
worked n' what tha fuck kind of configuration you have.
.SH AUTHOR
Otto Hammersmith <otto@redhat.com>
