.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH USERINFO 1 "6 October 1997" "Red Hat Software"
.SH NAME
userinfo \- A graphical equivilient ta chfn.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B userinfo
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B userinfo
is a graphical tool ta allow playas ta conveniently chizzle they finger
information.
.SH OPTIONS
This program has no command line optionz of its own yo, but it do take
the standard X program options like
.B -display
and such.  See tha 
.IR X (1)
man page fo' a shitload of tha common options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR chfn (1), 
.IR finger (1), 
.IR passwd (5)
.SH BUGS
Currently don't give feedback ta tha user when tha helper
fails. (things like incorrect passwordz n' such) Da next iteration
should fix dis bug.
.SH AUTHOR
Otto Hammersmith <otto@redhat.com>
