.\" Copyright (C) 1997, 2007 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH USERMOUNT 1 "March 13 2007" "Red Hat"
.SH NAME
usermount \- A graphical tool ta mount, unmount n' format filesystems.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usermount
[
.I options
]

.B userformat
[
.I options
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usermount
is a graphical tool ta allow playas ta easily manage removable media,
like fuckin floppy disks or zip disks.  When tha tool starts up, it scans
.I /etc/fstab
for all filesystems dat done been configured ta allow playas ta mount
and unmount em.  Da filesystem can be mounted or unmounted by
pressin tha toggle button labeled \fIMount\fR.
.PP
Also, if tha user has tha appropriate permissions fo' tha device, the
.I Format
button is ghon be active.  This allows tha user ta format disks using
.B fdformat
and create a freshly smoked up filesystem of tha type listed (using
.B mkfs
with tha appropriate option).  Naturally, tha user is ghon be prompted for
confirmation before straight-up beatin tha livin shiznit outta data on tha device.
.PP
Note dat if a thang be already mounted, tha format button is
inactizzle fo' all entries dat share tha same device.
.PP
When run as root,
.B usermount
displays all of tha entries in
.I /etc/fstab
rather than just tha ones wit the
.I user
option.

Invoking
.B userformat
.I device
allows formattin \fIdevice\fR,
as if by selecting
.I device
in the
.B userformat
window, n' by clickin the
.I Format
button.
.SH OPTIONS
This program has no command line optionz of itz own yo, but it do take
the standard X program options like
.B -display
and such.  See the
.IR X (1)
man page fo' a shitload of tha common options.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.I /etc/fstab
Da system file describin tha mountable filesystems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mount (8),
.IR fdformat (8),
.IR mkfs (8),
.IR fstab (5)
.IR X (1)
.SH BUGS
Mount entries wit a gangbangin' filesystem type of iso9660 is outright
considered CD-ROMs n' tha format button be always disabled.
.PP
Mount entries fo' swap filez or partitions is also ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A sick
feature might be ta allow root ta turn swap on n' off fo' swap
partitions.
.SH AUTHOR
Otto Hammersmith <otto@redhat.com>
