'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Mike Krapp
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH UTMPDUMP "1" "July 2012" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
utmpdump \- dump UTMP n' WTMP filez up in raw format
.SH SYNOPSIS
utmpdump [\-frohV] [ filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B utmpdump
is a simple program ta dump UTMP n' WTMP filez up in raw format, so they
can be examined.
.B utmpdump
readz from stdin unless a
.I filename
is passed.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-follow\fP"
Output appended data as tha file grows.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fP
Undump, write back edited login shiznit tha fuck into tha utmp or wtmp files.
.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fP \fIfile\fR
Write command output ta \fIfile\fR instead of standard output.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH NOTES
.B utmpdump
can be useful up in casez of corrupted utmp or wtmp entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  It can dump
out utmp/wtmp ta a ASCII file, whic can then be edited ta remove
bogus entries n' reintegrated, using
.PP
.RS
utmpdump -r < ascii_file > wtmp
.RE
.PP
but be warned, as
.B utmpdump
was freestyled fo' debuggin purposes only.
.SH BUGS
Yo ass may
.B not
use the
.B \-r
option, as tha format fo' tha utmp/wtmp filez straight fuckin dependz on tha input
format.  This tool was
.B not
written fo' aiiight use yo, but fo' debuggin only.
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Krapp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR last (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR whoz ass (1),
.BR utmp (5)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da utmpdump command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available
from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
