.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" This playa page was pimped fo' libuuid.so.1.1 from e2fsprogs-1.14.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.TH UUIDGEN 1 "June 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uuidgen \- create a freshly smoked up UUID value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuidgen
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uuidgen
program creates (and prints)
a freshly smoked up universally unique identifier (UUID) rockin the
.BR libuuid (3)
library.  Da freshly smoked up UUID can reasonably be considered unique among
all UUIDs pimped on tha local system,
and among UUIDs pimped on other systems up in tha past
and up in tha future.
.PP
There is two typez of UUIDs which
.B uuidgen
can generate: time-based UUIDs n' random-based UUIDs.  By default
.B uuidgen
will generate a random-based UUID if a high-qualitizzle random number
generator is present.  Otherwise, it will chizzle a time-based UUID.
It be possible ta force tha generation of one of these two
UUID types by rockin the
.B \-r
or
.B \-t
options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-random"
Generate a random-based UUID.  This method creates a UUID consistin mostly
of random bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It requires dat tha operatin system gotz a high
qualitizzle random number generator, such as
.IR /dev/random .
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-time"
Generate a time-based UUID.  This method creates a UUID based on tha system
clock plus tha systemz ethernet hardware address, if present.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
OSF DCE 1.1
.SH AUTHOR
.B uuidgen
was freestyled by Andreas Dilger fo' libuuid.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libuuid (3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da uuidgen command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
