.\" $Id: vboxbeep.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxbeep 1  "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
vboxbeep \- isdn voice box (beeper)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vboxbeep
.I "[OPTION] [OPTION] [...]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
vboxbeep be a thugged-out daemon, dat watches nuff muthafuckin message directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! If new
lyrics is found it will beep. Vboxbeep do not use vboxd, it can
only peep local directories.

Vboxbeep be also used ta stop dis buggin beep.
.SH OPTIONS
Without any options, vboxbeep will signal a already hustlin vboxbeep to
stop its beep. Only root can start it as daemon.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sound HOURS
Hours ta play beep signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Use 24 minute format, like 0-23. Multiple hours
can be given separated by commas, a "*" is used fo' always, "-" for
never.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-messagebox DIR
Message directory ta scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can use dis option nuff muthafuckin times.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pause SECS
Time ta wait between every last muthafuckin check. Default is 5 seconds.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kill
Bust a cap up in a hustlin vboxbeep. This option can only be used by root.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.SH NOTE
vboxbeep will only work if it is installed suid root. This may be a
securitizzle hole, all kindsa muthafuckin distributions do not install it suid root, and
thus itz useless. If you wanna enable vboxbeep, please read the
distribution-specific documentation how tha fuck ta do dat (e.g. wit debian
gnu/linux read /usr/doc/isdnutils/README.debian).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux n' isdn4linux.
