.TH VIDALIA "1" "June 2006" "0.2.20"

.SH NAME
vidalia \- Controlla GUI fo' tor 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vidalia
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
Vidalia allows you ta start n' stop Tor, view tha statuz of Tor at a
glance, n' monitor Torz bandwidth usage. Vidalia also make it easy as fuck  to
contribute ta tha Tor network by helpin you setup a Tor server, if you wish.
To find mo' shiznit bout what tha fuck Tor be n' how tha fuck ta use it, peep tha Tor
homepage: https://www.torproject.org/
.SH OPTIONS
\fB\-help\fR
Displays dis usage message n' exits.
.TP
\fB\-reset\fR
Resets ALL stored Vidalia settings.
.TP
\fB\-datadir \fI<directory>\fR
Sets Vidaliaz datadir ta \fI<directory>\fR
.TP
\fB\-pidfile \fI<directory/pidfile>\fR
Sets Vidaliaz pidfile ta \fI<directory/pidfile>\fR
.TP
\fB\-logfile \fI<file>\fR
Sets tha name n' location of Vidaliaz log file. If dis option is specified
without a \fIloglevel\fR, tha default level of 'notice' is ghon be used.
.TP
\fB\-loglevel \fI[debug|info|notice|warn|error]\fR
Sets tha verbositizzle of Vidaliaz logging. If dis option is specified without a 
\fIlogfile\fR, tha log lyrics is ghon be printed ta stdout.
.TP
\fB\-style \fI<directory>\fR
Sets Vidaliaz intercourse style. [Windows|Motif|CDE|Plastique]
.TP
\fB\-lang \fI<langcode>\fR
Sets Vidaliaz language. Run Vidalia wit tha \fI-help\fR option ta peep a list
of available language codes.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tor (1)

.BR http://www.torproject.org/projects/vidalia.html

.SH AUTHORS
Mack Edman <edmanm@vidalia-project.net>
.br
Quentin Hipple <hipplej@vidalia-project.net>

This manpage was freestyled by Alexander Wirt <formorer@debian.org> fo' the
Debian Distribution (but may be used by others).

