.TH VINAGRE "1" "April 18, 2011" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
vinagre \- a remote desktop viewer fo' tha GNOME Desktop
.SH "SYNOPSYS"
.PP
\fBvinagre\fR [\fBOPTIONS\fR] [\fB\fIserver\fR]\fR[::\fIport\fR|:display\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBvinagre\fR be a remote desktop viewer fo' tha GNOME desktop. Well shiiiit, it can support
many protocols rockin a plugin system. Current plugins exist fo' VNC n' SSH.
Vinagre has nuff features, among others:\&.
.PP
- Support fo' multiple connections simultaneously
.PP
- Bookmarks n' history support
.PP
- Avahi integration
.PP
- GNOME keyrin integration
.PP
- Yo ass can connect ta a VNC server by double clickin on a \&.vnc file when rockin nautilus\&.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Help Options:"
.TP
\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help options
.SS "Application Options:"
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR=\fIfilename\fR
Opens a .vnc file
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fullscreen\fR
Open Vinagre up in fullscreen mode
.TP
\fB\-\-geometry\fR=\fIGEOMETRY\fR
Specify geometry of tha Vinagre window up in X11 format
.TP
\-n, \fB\-\-new\-window\fR
Smoke a freshly smoked up toplevel window up in a existin instizzle of Vinagre
.TP
\fB\-\-display\fR=\fIDISPLAY\fR
X display ta use
.PP
Run 'vinagre \fB\-\-help\fR' ta peep a gangbangin' full list of available command line options
.SH "OPERANDS"
.PP
Da followin operandz is supported:
.TP
\fB\fB\fI\fR[server\fR]\fR[::\fIport|:display\fR]\fR\fR
Specifies tha VNC server ta connect to\&. Da VNC server can be either a
hostname, or a IP address. If tha server be a IPv6 address, it must be
enclosed by square brackets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da address can optionally be followed by two
colons (::) n' tha VNC port number\&, or alternatively by one colon (:) and
the display where Vinagre should run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If a port aint specified, default
value of 5900 is ghon be used\&.
If tha value is lower than 1024, 5900 is ghon be added ta it\&. For example, ":0"
means "5900" n' ":1" means ":5901"\&. If only a port is specified yo, but not
the hostname, localhost is ghon be assumed.
Possible joints fo' tha display is between 0 n' 1024. If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display number
greata than 1024 is specified, it is ghon be assumed ta be a port.
Note dat you can't specify tha port n' tha display all up in tha same time.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
\fBExample 1: Start vinagre from tha command line\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 2: Smoke a freshly smoked up top-level window\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre \-\-new-window\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 3: Connect ta a specified VNC server n' port\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre snoopy::5900\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 4: Connect ta a specified IPv4 address n' port\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre 192.168.1.35::2700
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 5: Connect ta a specified IPv6 address n' port\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre [2001:0db8:0:0:0:0:1428:57ab]::2700
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 6: Connect ta a VNC server specified by a \&.vnc file\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre \-F snoopy\&.vnc\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 7: Connect ta localhost on a specified port up in fullscreen mode\fR
.PP
.PP
.nf
example% \fBvinagre -f ::5900
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Vinagre help manual
.SH "AUTHOR"
Vinagre was freestyled by Jonh Wendell <wendell@bani.com.br> n' Dizzy Mackdaddy <amigadave@amigadave.com>
.TP
This manual page was freestyled by Emilio Pozuelo Monfort <pochu@ubuntu.com> n' Halton Huo <halton.huo@sun.com>.
