.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH VLC 1 "Feb 14, 2005"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
vlc, qvlc, svlc, nvlc, rvlc, cvlc \- tha VLC media playa
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlc
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ITEMS ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B VLC
multimedia playa n' server.

.SH OPTIONS
.B VLC
bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').
For a precise description of options, please use "vlc \-\-help".

Da complete list of
.B VLC
options dependz on what tha fuck plugins is installed cuz they automatically
add they own options. Please use "vlc \-\-longhelp \-\-advanced" fo' a
complete list of available options.

.SH ITEMS
.B VLC
recognizes nuff muthafuckin URL-style items:
.TP
.B *.mpg, *.vob, *.avi, *.mp3, *.ogg, *.opus
Various multimedia file formats
.TP
.B dvd://[<device>][@<raw device>][#[<title>][:[<chapter>][:<angle>]]]
DVD thang (for instizzle dvd:///dev/dvd). Da raw thang is optionizzle and
must done been prepared beforehand.
.TP
.B vcd://[<device>][@{E|P|E|T|S}[<number>]]
VCD thang (for instizzle vcd:///dev/cdrom).
.TP
.B udp://[@[<multicast address>][:<local port>]]
UDP stream, like fuckin one busted by VLS or another VLC.
Usually "udp://" is enough.
.TP
.B http://<server address>[:<server port>]/[<file>]
HTTP stream
.TP
.B rtsp://<server address>[:<server port>]/<stream name>
RTSP Video On Demand stream
.TP
.B vlc://<command>
Execute a playlist command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Commandz are:
.B pause
(pause execution of other items), and
.B quit
(close VLC).

.SH SEE ALSO
Online documentation: http://www.videolan.org/doc/
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Sam Hocevar <sam@zoy.org>, fo' tha Debian
GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
