.TH VLOCK 1 "16 May 1996" "Linux Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
vlock \- Virtual Console lock program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlock
.PP
.B vlock [ -a,--all ] [ -c,--current ] [ -h,--help ] [ -v,--version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vlock
is a program ta lock one or mo' sessions on tha Linux console.  This is
especially useful fo' Linux machines which have multiple playas wit access
to tha console.  One user may lock his or her session(s) while still allowing
other playas ta use tha system on other virtual consoles.  If desired, the
entire console may be locked n' virtual console switchin disabled.
.PP
By default, only tha current VC (virtual console) is locked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  With the
\fB-a,-all\fR option all VCs is locked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da locked VCs cannot be unlocked
without tha invokerz password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  And, fo' tha paranoid,
vlock make it a tryin experience fo' dem attemptin ta guess the
password, so unauthorized access ta session(s) is highly unlikely.
.PP
Please note dat it is entirely possible ta straight-up lock yo ass up of
the console wit tha \fB-a,--all\fR option if you cannot remember your
password hommie!  Unless yo ass be able ta bust a cap up in vlock by loggin up in remotely via a
serial terminal or network, a hard reset is tha only method of ``unlocking''
the display.
.PP
\fBvlock\fR works fo' console sessions primarily.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat there is
support fo' tryin ta lock non-console sessions as well yo, but that
support has not been well tested.
.SH OPTIONS
.B -a,--all
.IP
Lock all console sessions n' disable VC switching.
.PP
.B -c,--current
.IP
Lock tha current session (this is tha default).
.PP
.B -h,--help
.IP
Print a funky-ass brief help message.
.PP
.B -v,--version
.IP
Print tha version number of \fBvlock\fR.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
