.\" This manpage is copyright (C) 2007 Canonical, Ltd
.\" Author: Bryce Harrington <bryce@ubuntu.com>
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2,
.\" or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit tha Debian GNU/Linux system; if not, write ta tha Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.\" Thatz right, although mdetect itself is under tha QPL, dis manpage is
.\" under tha GPL.  Enjoy!
.TH vmmouse_detect 1 "xf86-input-vmmouse 13.0.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
vmmouse_detect \- VMware mouse thang autodetection tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
vmmouse_detect
.SH OPTIONS
vmmouse_detect has no options
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmmouse_detect
is a tool fo' detectin if hustlin up in a VMware environment where vmmouse
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It exits wit a 0 return value if tha vmmouse client is
enabled, n' 1 if not.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR vmmouse_detect 's
exit status is used ta rap shiznit.
.IP 0
.B vmmouse_detect
found a mouse n' exited normally.
.IP 1
Either tha vmmouse client was not enabled, or it aint bein run from
within a VMware virtual machine.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs in
.B vmmouse_detect
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdetect/vmmouse_detect>.
.SH AUTHORS
.B vmmouse_detect
is copyright 2007 VMware, Inc.
.SH LICENSING
The
.B vmmouse_detect
source code is licensed under a BSD-like license.  See COPYING for
details.
.PP
This manual page is licensed under tha GNU General Public License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mdetect (1),
.IR XFree86 (1)
