.TH vncviewer 1 "05 May 2004" "TigerVNC" "Virtual Network Computing"
.SH NAME
vncviewer \- VNC viewer fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vncviewer
.RI [ options ] 
.RI [ host ][: display# ]
.br
.B vncviewer
.RI [ options ] 
.RI [ host ][:: port ]
.br
.B vncviewer
.RI [ options ] 
.B \-listen
.RI [ port ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vncviewer
is a viewer (client) fo' Virtual Network Computing.  This manual page documents
version 4 fo' tha X window system.

If you run tha viewer wit no arguments it will prompt you fo' a VNC server to
connect to.  Alternatively, specify tha VNC server as a argument, e.g.:

.RS
vncviewer snoopy:2
.RE

where 'snoopy' is tha name of tha machine, n' '2' is tha display number of the
VNC server on dat machine.  Either tha machine name or display number can be
omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  So fo' example ":1" means display number 1 on tha same machine, and
"snoopy" means "snoopy:0" i.e. display 0 on machine "snoopy".

If tha VNC server is successfully contacted, yo big-ass booty is ghon be prompted fo' a
password ta authenticate yo thugged-out ass.  If tha password is erect, a window will appear
showin tha desktop of tha VNC server.

.SH AUTOMATIC PROTOCOL SELECTION

Da viewer tests tha speed of tha connection ta tha server n' chizzlez the
encodin n' pixel format (color level) appropriately.  This make it much
easier ta use than previous versions where tha user had ta specify arcane
command line arguments.

Da viewer normally starts up assumin tha link is slow, rockin the
encodin wit tha dopest compression. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If it turns up dat tha link is
fast enough it switches ta a encodin which compresses less but is
fasta ta generate, thus pimpin-out tha interactizzle feel.

Da viewer normally starts up in full-color mode yo, but switches to
low-color mode if tha bandwidth is insufficient. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis only
occurs when communicatin wit servers supportin protocol 3.8 or
newer, since nuff oldschool servers do not support color mode chizzles
safely.

Automatic selection can be turned off by settin the
\fBAutoSelect\fP parameta ta false, or from tha options dialog.

.SH POPUP MENU
Da viewer has a popup menu containin entries which big-ass up various actions.
It be probably brought up by pressin F8 yo, but dis can be configured wit the
MenuKey parameter n' shit.  Actions which tha popup menu can big-ass up include:
.RS 2
.IP * 2
switchin up in n' outta full-screen mode
.IP *
quittin tha viewer
.IP *
generatin key events, e.g. bustin  ctrl-alt-del
.IP *
accessin tha options dialog n' various other dialogs
.RE
.PP
By default, key presses up in tha popup menu git busted ta tha VNC server and
dismiss tha popup.  So ta git a F8 all up in ta tha VNC server simply press it
twice.

.SH FULL SCREEN MODE
A full-screen mode is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This is particularly useful when connecting
to a remote screen which is tha same ol' dirty size as yo' local one. If tha remote
screen is bigger, you can scroll by bumpin tha mouse against tha edge of the
screen.

Unfortunately dis mode don't work straight-up wit all window managers, since
it breaks tha X window pimpment conventions.

.SH OPTIONS (PARAMETERS)
Yo ass can git a list of parametas by givin \fB\-h\fP as a cold-ass lil command-line option
to vncviewer n' shit.  Parametas can be turned on wit -\fIparam\fP or off with
-\fIparam\fP=0.  Parametas which take a value can be specified as
-\fIparam\fP \fIvalue\fP.  Other valid forms is \fIparam\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP
-\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP --\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP.  Parameta names are
case-insensitive.

Many of tha parametas can also be set graphically via tha options dialog box.
This can be accessed from tha popup menu or from tha "Connection details"
dialog box.

.TP
.B \-display \fIXdisplay\fP
Specifies tha X display on which tha VNC viewer window should appear.

.TP
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
Standard X posizzle n' sizin justification.

.TP
.B \-listen \fI[port]\fP
Causes vncviewer ta listen on tha given port (default 5500) fo' reverse
connections from a VNC server n' shit.  WinVNC supports reverse connections initiated
usin tha 'Add New Client' menu option or tha '\-connect' command-line option.
Xvnc supports reverse connections wit a helper program called
.B vncconfig.

.TP
.B \-passwd \fIpassword-file\fP, \-PasswordFile \fIpassword-file\fP
If yo ass is on a gangbangin' filesystem which gives you access ta tha password file used by
the server, you can specify it here ta avoid typin it in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It will probably be
"~/.vnc/passwd".

.TP
.B \-DotWhenNoCursor
Show tha dot cursor when tha server sendz a invisible cursor.

.TP
.B \-PointerEventInterval
Time up in millisecondz ta rate-limit successive pointa events.

.TP
.B \-ImprovedHextile
Try harder ta compress data (default).

.TP
.B \-QualityLevel \fIlevel\fP
JPEG qualitizzle level (default is 8).

.TP
.B \-NoJPEG
Disable lossy JPEG compression up in Tight encoding.

.TP
.B CompressLevel \fIlevel\fP
Use specified compression level (default is 2).

.TP
.B CustomCompressLevel \fIlevel\fP
Use custom compression level. Default is CompressLevel is specified.

.TP
.B \-SendPrimary
Send tha primary selection n' cut buffer ta tha server as well as the
clipboard selection (default).

.TP
.B \-SendClipboard
Send clipboard chizzlez ta tha server (default).

.TP
.B \-AcceptClipboard
Accept clipboard chizzlez from tha server (default).

.TP
.B \-Shared
When you cook up a cold-ass lil connection ta a VNC server, all other existin connections are
normally closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option requests dat they be left open, allowin you to
share tha desktop wit one of mah thugs already rockin dat shit.

.TP
.B \-ViewOnly
Specifies dat no keyboard or mouse events should be busted ta tha server.
Useful if you wanna view a thugged-out desktop without interfering; often need ta be
combined with
.B \-Shared.

.TP
.B \-Maximize
Maximize viewer window. 

.TP
.B \-FullScreen
Start up in full-screen mode.

.TP
.B \-FullScreenAllMonitors
Enable full screen over all monitors (default).

.TP
.B \-FullscreenSystemKeys
Pass special keys directly ta tha server up in full-screen mode.

.TP
.B \-RemoteResize
Dynamically resize tha remote desktop size as tha size of tha local
client window chizzlez (default).

.TP
.B \-DesktopSize \fIwidth\fPx\fIheight\fP
Instead of keepin tha existin remote screen size, tha client will attempt to
switch ta tha specified since when connecting. If tha server do not support
the SetDesktopSize message then tha screen will retain tha original gangsta size.

.TP
.B \-AutoSelect
Use automatic selection of encodin n' pixel format (default is on).  Normally
the viewer tests tha speed of tha connection ta tha server n' chizzlez the
encodin n' pixel format appropriately.  Turn it off wit \fB-AutoSelect=0\fP.

.TP
.B \-FullColor, \-FullColour
Tells tha VNC server ta bust full-color pixels up in tha dopest format fo' this
display.  This is default. 

.TP
.B \-LowColorLevel, \-LowColourLevel \fIlevel\fP
Selects tha reduced color level ta use on slow links.  \fIlevel\fP can range
from 0 ta 2, 0 meanin 8 colors, 1 meanin 64 flavas (the default), 2 meaning
256 colors. Note dat decision if reduced color level is used is made by
vncviewer n' shit. If you wanna force vncviewer ta use reduced color level
use \fB-AutoSelect=0\fP parameter.

.TP
.B \-PreferredEncodin \fIencoding\fP
This option specifies tha preferred encodin ta use from one of "Tight", "ZRLE",
"hextile" or "raw".

.TP
.B -UseLocalCursor
Render tha mouse cursor locally if tha server supports it (default is on).
This can make tha interactizzle performizzle feel much betta over slow links.

.TP
.B \-WMDecorationWidth \fIw\fP, \-WMDecorationHeight \fIh\fP
Da total width n' height taken up by window manager decorations.  This is
used ta calculate tha maximum size of tha VNC viewer window.  Default is
width 6, height 24.

.TP
.B \-log \fIlogname\fP:\fIdest\fP:\fIlevel\fP
Configures tha debug log settings.  \fIdest\fP can currently be \fBstderr\fP or
\fBstdout\fP, n' \fIlevel\fP is between 0 n' 100, 100 meanin most verbose
output.  \fIlogname\fP is probably \fB*\fP meanin all yo, but you can target a
specific source file if you know tha name of its "LogWriter".  Default is
\fB*:stderr:30\fP.

.TP
.B \-MenuKey \fIkeysym-name\fP
This option specifies tha key which brangs up tha popup menu fo'sho.  Da key is
specified as a X11 keysym name (these can be obtained by removin tha XK_
prefix from tha entries up in "/usr/include/X11/keysymdef.h" - tha currently 
implemented list is: F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8, F9, F10, F11, F12, Pause, 
Print, Scroll_Lock, Escape, Insert, Delete, Home, Page_Up, Page_Down).
Default is F8.

.TP
\fB\-via\fR \fIgateway\fR
Automatically create encrypted TCP tunnel ta tha \fIgateway\fR machine
before connection, connect ta tha \fIhost\fR all up in dat tunnel
(TigerVNC\-specific). By default, dis option invokes SSH local port
forwarding, assumin dat SSH client binary can be accessed as
/usr/bin/ssh. Note dat when rockin tha \fB\-via\fR option, tha host
machine name should be specified as known ta tha gateway machine, e.g. 
"localhost" denotes tha \fIgateway\fR, not tha machine where vncviewer
was launched. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da environment variable \fIVNC_VIA_CMD\fR can override
the default tunnel command of
\fB/usr/bin/ssh\ -f\ -L\ "$L":"$H":"$R"\ "$G"\ chill\ 20\fR.  Da tunnel
command is executed wit tha environment variablez \fIL\fR, \fIH\fR,
\fIR\fR, n' \fIG\fR taken tha jointz of tha local port number, tha remote
host, tha port number on tha remote host, n' tha gateway machine
respectively.

.TP
\fB\-ZlibLevel\fR \fIlevel\fR
Zlib compression level.

.TP
.B \-x509crl \fIfile\fP
X509 CRL file

.TP
.B \-x509ca \fIfile\fP
X509 CA certificate

.TP
.B \-SecurityTypes \fItypes\fP
Specify which securitizzle scheme ta use.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Xvnc (1),
.BR vncpasswd (1),
.BR vncconfig (1),
.BR vncserver (1)
.br
http://www.tigervnc.org

.SH AUTHOR
Tristan Richardson, RealVNC Ltd.

VNC was originally pimped by tha RealVNC crew while at Olivetti
Research Ltd / AT&T Laboratories Cambridge.  TightVNC additions were
implemented by Constantin Kaplinsky. Many other playas participated in
development, testin n' support.
