.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii vorbiscomment.1
.\"
.TH VORBISCOMMENT 1 "December 30, 2008" "Xiph.Org Foundation" "Ogg Vorbis Tools"

.SH NAME
vorbiscomment \- List or edit comments up in Ogg Vorbis files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vorbiscomment
.B [-l]
.RB [ -R ]
.RB [ -e ]
.I file.ogg
.br
.B vorbiscomment
.B -a
.B [ -c commentfile | -t \*(lqname=value\*(rq ]
.RB [ -q ]
.RB [ -R ]
.RB [ -e ]
.I in.ogg
.I [out.ogg]
.br
.B vorbiscomment
.B -w
.B [ -c commentfile | -t \*(lqname=value\*(rq ]
.RB [ -q ]
.RB [ -R ]
.RB [ -e ]
.I in.ogg
.I [out.ogg]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vorbiscomment
Reads, modifies, n' appendz Ogg Vorbis audio file metadata tags.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a, --append"
Append comments.
.IP "-c file, --commentfile file"
Take comments from a gangbangin' file. Da file is tha same ol' dirty format as is output by tha -l option or given ta tha -t option: one element per line up in 'tag=value' format. If tha file is /dev/null n' -w was passed, tha existin comments is ghon be removed.
.IP "-h, --help"
Show command help.
.IP "-l, --list"
List tha comments up in tha Ogg Vorbis file.
.IP "-t 'name=value', --tag 'name=value'"
Specify a freshly smoked up tag on tha command line. Each tag is given as a single string. Da part before tha '=' is treated as tha tag name n' tha part afta as tha value.
.IP "-w, --write"
Replace comments wit tha freshly smoked up set given either on tha command line wit -t or from a gangbangin' file wit -c. If neither -c nor -t is given, tha freshly smoked up set is ghon be read from tha standard input.
.IP "-R, --raw"
Read n' write comments up in UTF-8, rather than convertin ta tha userz characta set.
.IP "-e, --escapes"
Quote/unquote newlines n' backslashes up in tha comments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This ensures every last muthafuckin comment is exactly one line up in tha output (or input), allowin ta filta n' round-trip em. Without it, you can only write multi-line comments by rockin -t n' you can't reliably distinguish dem from multiple one-line comments.

Supported escapes is c-style "\en", "\er", "\e\e" n' "\e0" fo' realz. A backslash followed by anythang else be a error.

Note: currently, anythang afta tha straight-up original gangsta "\e0" is thrown away while writing.  This be a funky-ass bug -- tha Vorbis format can safely store null charactas yo, but most other tools wouldn't handle dem anyway.
.IP "-V, --version"
Display tha version of vorbiscomment.

.\" Examplez go here
.SH EXAMPLES

To just peep what tha fuck comment tags is up in a gangbangin' file:

    vorbiscomment -l file.ogg

To edit dem comments:

    vorbiscomment -l file.ogg > file.txt
    [edit tha comments up in file.txt ta yo' satisfaction]
    vorbiscomment -w -c file.txt file.ogg newfile.ogg

To simply add a cold-ass lil comment:

    vorbiscomment -a -t 'ARTIST=No One Yo ass Know' file.ogg newfile.ogg

To add a set of comments from tha standard input:

    vorbiscomment -a file.ogg
    ARTIST=No One Yo ass Know
    ALBUM=Da Hyped Album
    <ctrl-d>

.SH TAG FORMAT

See http://xiph.org/vorbis/doc/v-comment.html fo' documentation on tha Ogg Vorbis tag format, includin a suggested list of canonical tag names.

.SH AUTHORS

.TP
Program Authors:
.br
Mike Smizzle <msmith@xiph.org>
.br
Ralph Gilez <giles@xiph.org>
.br

.TP
Manpage Author:
.br
Christopher L Cheney <ccheney@debian.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBoggenc\fR(1), \fBoggdec\fR(1), \fBogg123\fR(1), \fBogginfo\fR(1)
