.TH VSTP 1 "Jul 15, 2002" "BrlNet" "BrlNet Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
vstpg, vstpp \- VisioBraille file transferring
.SH SYNOPSIS
vstpg [\-ifbnd] [\-s \fIsocketport\fP] [\-k \fIkeyname\fP] [\-o \fIconfigname\fP] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIvstpg\fP (resp. \fIvstpp\fP) gets (resp. puts) filez from (resp. onto)
a VisioBraille terminal.

For communicatin wit tha terminal, you must launch brltty wit tha BrlNet
driver, n' spittin some lyrics ta BrlNet ta use tha VisioBraille driver.

Before puttin on tha terminal, file names is truncated ta 8 characters
without any extension.

Before gettin from terminal, leadin path n' trailin extensions is removed,
but put back fo' local filename.

.SH "COMMAND\-LINE OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-i\fR
ask fo' confirmation of transfer, fo' each file (on tha terminal)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
don't ask fo' such a cold-ass lil confirmation (default)
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
if they exists, recursively rename tha oldschool filez wit a added .x suffix,
just like logrotate do
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
do not keep such backup file (default)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsocketport\fR
use socketport as tha port number instead of default fo' connectin ta BrlNet
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIfilename\fR
use filename as key path instead of default fo' readin BrlNet's
authentication key
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
use current directory rather than tha downlizzle directory
(see \fIvbs_dir\fR below)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfilename\fR
also read filename as config file

.SH CONFIG FILE

\fIvstpg\fP n' \fIvstpp\fP read a cold-ass lil configuration file \fB$HOME/.vstprc\fR which
gotz nuff keywordz or equalities, one per line (what bigs up a # is
ignored).

Yo ass can ask dem ta also read any other file props ta tha \fB\-o\fR option.

Here is keywords:

.TP
\fBbackup\fR
make \fB\-b\fR option tha default

.TP
\fBnobackup\fR
make \fB\-f\fR option tha default

.TP
and equalities:

.TP
\fBkeyname\fR = \fIfilename\fR
use dis file instead of default, ta find BrlNetz authentication key

.TP
\fBsocketport\fR = \fIport\fR
use dis port number, instead of default, ta connect ta BrlNet

.TP
\fBvbs_ext\fR = \fI.ext\fR
use .ext as a extension fo' downloaded filez (.vis by default)
this is overriden on command line if a extension is provided up in tha file name

.TP
\fBvbs_dir\fR = \fIpath\fR
use path instead of current directory fo' puttin files, except when
usin tha \fB\-d\fR option, or if tha filename begins wit '.'

.SH RETURNED VALUE

.TS
lB lfCW.
1	syntax error on command line
2	connection wit BrlNet error
3	Unix file error
4	Protocol error
16	interrupted by user
.TE

.SH SHELL EXPANSIONS
Beware of special chars: * n' . is often expanded by yo' shell, hence
\fIvstpp *\fR will probably do what tha fuck you want, puttin every last muthafuckin file existin in
the current directory onto tha terminal yo, but \fIvstpg *\fR may not do what tha fuck you
want: it will only git every last muthafuckin file which already exist up in tha current
directory, skippin dem you just pimped on yo' terminal !
If you wanna git every last muthafuckin file which exist up in tha terminal, you
should use \fIvstpg '*'\fR or suttin' similar (please read yo' shell manual).

Da same warnin applies ta other special chars, like fuckin $, ~, &,... which
should be protected by surroundin arguments by quotes (') or by rockin single
backslashes (\\) just before dem (please read yo' shell manual).

.SH BUGS
Da one we could find has been erected :)

.SH AUTHOR
Samuel Thibault <samuel.thibault@ens\-lyon.org>
and Sebastien Hinderer <sebastien.hinderer@ens\-lyon.fr>
