.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.\"
.TH W "1" "May 2012" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
w \- Show whoz ass is logged on n' what tha fuck they is bustin.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B w
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIuser\fR [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B w
displays shiznit bout tha playas currently on tha machine, n' their
processes.  Da header shows, up in dis order, tha current time, how tha fuck long the
system has been hustlin, how tha fuck nuff playas is currently logged on, n' the
system load averages fo' tha past 1, 5, n' 15 minutes.
.PP
Da followin entries is displayed fo' each user: login name, tha tty name,
the remote host, login time, idle time, JCPU, PCPU, n' tha command line of
their current process.
.PP
Da JCPU time is tha time used by all processes attached ta tha tty.  It do
not include past background thangs yo, but do include currently hustlin
background thangs.
.PP
Da PCPU time is tha time used by tha current process, named up in tha "what"
field.
.SH "COMMAND\-LINE OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-no\-header\fR
Don't print tha header.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-no\-current\fR
Ignores tha username while figurin up the
current process n' cpu times.  To demonstrate this, do a "su" n' do a "w"
and a "w \-u".
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-short\fR
Use tha short format.  Don't print tha login time, JCPU or PCPU times.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-from\fR
Toggle printin the
.B from
(remote hostname) field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default as busted out is fo' the
.B from
field ta not be printed, although yo' system administrator or distribution
maintainer may have compiled a version up in which the
.B from
field is shown by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ip\-addr\fR
Display IP address instead of hostname fo' \fBfrom\fR field.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-old\-style\fR
Oldskool steez output.  Prints blank space fo' idle times less than one minute.
.TP
.B "user "
Show shiznit bout tha specified user only.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
PROCPS_USERLEN
Override tha default width of tha username column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Defaults ta 8.
.TP
PROCPS_FROMLEN
Override tha default width of tha from column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Defaults ta 16.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/utmp
information bout whoz ass is currently logged on
.TP
.I /proc
process shiznit
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR free (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR uptime (1),
.BR utmp (5),
.BR whoz ass (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B w
was re-written almost entirely by Charlez Blake, based on tha version by
.UR greenfie@\:gauss.\:rutgers.\:edu
Larry Greenfield
.UE
and
.UR johnsonm@\:redhat.\:com
Mike K. Johnson
.UE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
