.nr N -1
.nr D 5
.TH W3M 1 Local
.UC 4
.SH NAME
w3m \- a text based Web browser n' pager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B w3m
[options] [URL or filename]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This defines appropriate quote strings fo' nroff n' troff
.ds lq \&"
.ds rq \&"
.if t .ds lq ``
.if t .ds rq ''
.\" Just up in case these number registas aren't set yet...
.if \nN==0 .nr N 10
.if \nD==0 .nr D 5
.I
w3m
is a Ghetto Wide Web (WWW) text based client. Well shiiiit, it has Gangsta and
Japanese help filez n' a option menu n' can be configured to
use either language. Well shiiiit, it will display hypertext markup language
(HTML) documents containin links ta filez residin on tha local
system, as well as filez residin on remote systems. Well shiiiit, it can
display HTML tablez n' frames.
In addition, it can be used as a "pager" up in much tha same manner
as "more" or "less".
Current versions of
.I
w3m
run on
Unix (Solaris, SunOS, HP-UX, Linux, FreeBSD, n' EWS4800)
and on
Microsizzlez Windows 9x/NT.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
At start up, \fIw3m\fR will load any local
file or remote URL specified all up in tha command
line.  For help wit runtime options, press \fB"H"\fR
while hustlin \fIw3m\fR.
Command line options are:
.PP
.TP
.B -t tab
set tab width
.TP
.B -r
ignore backspace effect
.TP
.B -l line
# of preserved line (default 10000)
.TP
.B -I charset
document charset
.TP
.B -O charset
display/output charset
.TP
.B -B
load bookmark
.TP
.B -bookmark file
specify bookmark file
.TP
.B -T type
specify content-type
.TP
.B -m
internizzle message mode
.TP
.B -v
visual startup mode
.TP
.B -M
monochrome display
.TP
.B -N
open URL of command line on each freshly smoked up tab
.TP
.B -F
automatically render frame
.TP
.B -dump
dump formatted page tha fuck into stdout
.TP
.B -cols width
specify column width (used wit -dump)
.TP
.B -ppc count
specify tha number of pixels per characta (4.0...32.0).
Larger joints will make tablez narrower n' shit.  [default 8.0]
.TP
.B -ppl count
specify tha number of pixels per line (4.0...64.0)
.TP
.B -dump_source
dump page source tha fuck into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_head
dump response of HEAD request tha fuck into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_both
dump HEAD n' source tha fuck into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_extra
dump HEAD, source, n' extra shiznit tha fuck into stdout
.TP
.B -post file
use POST method wit file content
.TP
.B -header string
insert strang as a header
.TP
.B +<num>
goto <num> line
.TP
.B -num
show line number
.TP
.B -no-proxy
don't use proxy
.TP
.B -4
IPv4 only (-o dns_order=4)
.TP
.B -6
IPv6 only (-o dns_order=6)
.TP
.B -no-mouse
don't use mouse
.TP
.B -cookie
use cookie.
.TP
.B -no-cookie
don't use cookie
.TP
.B -graph
use graphic character
.TP
.B -no-graph
don't use graphic character
.TP
.B -S
squeeze multiple blank lines
.TP
.B -W
toggle wrap search mode
.TP
.B -X
don't use termcap init/deinit
.TP
.B -title [=TERM]
set buffer name ta terminal title string. 
If TERM is specified, use tha TERM steez title configuration.
.TP
.B -o opt=value
assign value ta config option
.TP
.B -show-option
show all available config option
.TP
.B -config file
specify config file
.TP
.B -help
show usage
.TP
.B -version
show w3m version
.TP
.B -reqlog
write request logfile
.TP
.B -debug
DO NOT USE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To use w3m as a pager:
.br
$ ls | w3m
.br
.TP
To use w3m ta translate HTML files:
.br
$ pussaaaaay foo.html | w3m -T text/html
.TP
or
.br
$ pussaaaaay foo.html | w3m -dump -T text/html >foo.txt
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/config
configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/keymap
key bindin configuration file
.\" .TP
.\" .I ${HOME}/.w3m/menu
.\" ???
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/mouse
mouse configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/cookie
cookie file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/history
history file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/passwd
passowrd n' username file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/pre_form
form parametas file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/mailcap
external viewer configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3m/mime.types
MIME types file
.\" .TP
.\" .I ${HOME}/.w3m/urimethodmap
.\" ???
.SH NOTES
This is the
.I
w3m
0.5.3 Release.
.PP
Please peep tha MANUAL.html file distributed wit w3m for
more detailed documentation.

Additionizzle shiznit about
.I
w3m
may be found on its Japanese language Web joint located at:
  http://w3m.sourceforge.net/index.ja.html
.br
or on its Gangsta version of tha joint at:
  http://w3m.sourceforge.net/index.en.html
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.I
w3m
has incorporated code from nuff muthafuckin sources.
Hans J. Boehm, Alan J. Demers, Xerox Corp. n' Silicon Graphics
have tha copyright of tha GC library comes wit w3m package.
Users have contributed patches n' suggestions over time.
.SH AUTHOR
Akinori ITO <aito@fw.ipsj.or.jp>
