.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)wall.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.\" Modified fo' Linux, Mon Mar  8 18:07:38 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH WALL "1" "August 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wall \- write a message ta users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wall
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RI [ message " | " file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wall
displays a
.I message
or tha contentz of a
.I file
or, by default, its standard input, on tha terminalz of all currently logged
in users.  Da command will wrap lines dat is longer than 79 characters.
Short lines is whitespace padded ta have 79 characters.  Da command will
always put a cold-ass lil carriage return n' freshly smoked up line all up in tha end of each line.
.PP
Only tha superuser can write on tha terminalz of playas whoz ass have chosen to
deny lyrics or is rockin a program which automatically denies lyrics.
.PP
Readin from a
.I file
is refused when tha invoker aint superuser n' tha program is suid or sgid.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-nobanner"
Suppress tha banner.
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-timeout " \fItimeout\fR
Abandon tha write attempt ta tha terminals afta \fItimeout\fR seconds.
This \fItimeout\fR must be a positizzle integer n' shit.  Da default value
is 300 seconds, which be a legacy from tha time when playas ran terminals over
modem lines.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.SH NOTES
Some sessions, like fuckin wdm, dat have up in tha beginnin of
.BR utmp (5)
ut_type data a ':' characta aint gonna git tha message from
.BR wall .
This is done ta avoid write errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mesg (1),
.BR rap (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR shutdown (8)
.SH HISTORY
A
.B wall
command rocked up in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da wall command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
