.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.0
.TH WATCHGNUPG 1 2014-08-05 "GnuPG 2.0.25" "GNU Privacy Guard"
.SH NAME
.B watchgnupg
\- Read n' print logs from a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  watchgnupg
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.I socketname

.SH DESCRIPTION
Most of tha main utilitizzles is able ta write they log filez ta a Unix
Domain socket if configured dat way.  \fBwatchgnupg\fR be a simple
listener fo' such a socket.  It ameliorates tha output wit a time stamp
and make shizzle dat long lines is not interspersed wit log output from
other utilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  This tool aint available fo' Windows.



\fBwatchgnupg\fR is commonly invoked as

.RS 2
.nf
watchgnupg --force ~/.gnupg/S.log

.SH OPTIONS

\fBwatchgnupg\fR understandz these options:


.TP
.B  --force
Delete a already existin socket file.


.TP
.B  --tcp \fIn\fR
Instead of readin from a local socket, listen fo' connects on TCP port
\fIn\fR.

.TP
.B  --verbose
Enable extra shiznital output.

.TP
.B  --version
Print version of tha program n' exit.

.TP
.B  --help
Display a funky-ass brief help page n' exit.



.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 2
.nf
$ watchgnupg --force /home/foo/.gnupg/S.log
.fi
.RE

This waits fo' connections on tha local socket
\(oq\fI/home/foo/.gnupg/S.log\fR\(cq n' shows all log entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  To make this
work tha option \fBlog-file\fR need ta be used wit all modules
which logs is ta be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da value fo' dat option must be given
with a special prefix (e.g. up in tha conf file):

.RS 2
.nf
log-file socket:///home/foo/.gnupg/S.log
.fi
.RE

For debuggin purposes it be also possible ta do remote logging.  Take
care if you use dis feature cuz tha shiznit is bust up in the
clear over tha network.  Use dis syntax up in tha conf files:

.RS 2
.nf
log-file tcp://192.168.1.1:4711
.fi
.RE

Yo ass may use any port n' not just 4711 as shown above; only IP addresses
are supported (v4 n' v6) n' no host names.  Yo ass need ta start
\fBwatchgnupg\fR wit tha \fBtcp\fR option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note dat under
Windows tha registry entry \fIHKCU\\Software\\GNU\\GnuPG:DefaultLogFile\fR
can be used ta chizzle tha default log output from \fBstderr\fR to
whatever is given by dat entry.  However tha only useful entry be a TCP
name fo' remote debugging.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fR(1),
\fBgpgsm\fR(1),
\fBgpg-agent\fR(1),
\fBscdaemon\fR(1)

Da full documentation fo' dis tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG n' tha info program is properly installed at yo' crib, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should hit you wit access ta tha complete manual includin a menu structure
and a index.






