.TH WATCH "1" "June 2011" "procps-ng" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
watch \- execute a program periodically, showin output fullscreen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B watch
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B watch
runs
.I command
repeatedly, displayin its output n' errors (the first screenfull).  This
allows you ta peep tha program output chizzle over time.  By default, the
program is run every last muthafuckin 2 seconds.
By default,
.B watch
will run until interrupted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-differences\fR [\fIpermanent\fR]
Highlight tha differences between successive thugged-out shit.  Option will read
optionizzle argument dat chizzlez highlight ta be permanent, allowin ta peep what
has chizzled at least once since first iteration.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-interval\fR \fIseconds\fR
Specify update interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Da command aint gonna allow quicker than 0.1 second
interval, up in which tha smalla joints is converted.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-precise\fR
Make
.BR watch
attempt ta run
.I command
every
.I interval
seconds. Try it with
.B ntptime
and notice how tha fuck tha fractionizzle secondz stays (nearly) tha same, as opposed to
normal mode where they continuously increase.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-no\-title\fR
Turn off tha header showin tha interval, command, n' current time at the
top of tha display, as well as tha followin blank line.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-beep\fR
Beep if command has a non-zero exit.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-errexit\fR
Freeze thugged-out shiznit on command error, n' exit afta a key press.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-chgexit\fR
Exit when tha output of
.I command
changes.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR
Interpret ANSI color sequences.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exec\fR
.I command
is given to
.B sh \-c
which means dat you may need ta use extra quotin ta git tha desired effect.
This wit tha \-\-exec option, which passes tha command to
.BR exec (2)
instead.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH NOTE
Note dat POSIX option processin is used (i.e., option processin stops at
the first non\-option argument).  This means dat flags after
.I command
don't git interpreted by
.BR watch
itself.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To peep fo' mail, you might do
.IP
watch \-n 60 from
.PP
To peep tha contentz of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory chizzle, you could use
.IP
watch \-d ls \-l
.PP
If you only horny bout filez owned by user joe, you might use
.IP
watch \-d 'ls \-l | fgrep joe'
.PP
To peep tha effectz of quoting, try these out
.IP
watch echo $$
.br
watch echo '$$'
.br
watch echo "'"'$$'"'"
.PP
To peep tha effect of precision time keeping, try adding
.I \-p
to
.IP
watch \-n 10 chill 1
.PP
Yo ass can peep fo' yo' administrator ta install tha sickest fuckin kernel with
.IP
watch uname \-r
.PP
(Note that
.I \-p
aint guaranteed ta work across reboots, especially up in tha grill of
.B ntpdate
or other bootup time-changin mechanisms)
.SH BUGS
Upon terminal resize, tha screen aint gonna be erectly repainted until the
next scheduled update.  All
.B \-\-differences
highlightin is lost on dat update as well.
.PP
Non-printin charactas is stripped from program output.  Use "cat -v" as
part of tha command pipeline if you wanna peep em.
.PP
Combinin Charactas dat is supposed ta display on tha characta at the
last column on tha screen may display one column early, or they may not
display at all.
.PP
Combinin Charactas never count as different in
.I \-\-differences
mode.  Only tha base characta counts.
.PP
Blank lines directly afta a line which endz up in tha last column do not
display.
.PP
.I \-\-precise
mode don't yet have advanced temporal distortion technologizzle ta compensate
for a
.I command
that takes mo' than
.I interval
secondz ta execute.
.B watch
also can git tha fuck into a state where it rapid-fires as nuff executions of
.I command
as it can ta catch up from a previous executions hustlin longer than
.I interval
(for example,
.B netstat
takin ages on a DNS lookup).
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Various failures.
.TP
.B 2
Forkin tha process ta peep failed.
.TP
.B 3
Replacin lil pimp process stdout wit write side pipe failed.
.TP
.B 4
Command execution failed.
.TP
.B 5
Closign lil pimp process write pipe failed.
.TP
.B 7
IPC pipe creation failed.
.TP
.B 8
Gettin lil pimp process return value with
.BR waitpid (2)
failed, or command exited up on error.
.TP
.B other
Da peep will propagate command exit status as lil pimp exit status.
.SH AUTHORS
Da original
.B watch
was freestyled by
.UR rembo@\:unisoft.\:com
Tony Rems
.UE
in 1991, wit modz and
corrections by Francois Pinard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Dat shiznit was reworked n' freshly smoked up features added by
.UR mkc@\:acm.\:org
Mike Coleman
.UE
in 1999. Da beep, exec, n' error handlin features was added by
.UR morty@\:frakir.\:org
Morty Abzug
.UE
in 2008.  On a not so dark n' stormy mornin up in March of 2003,
.UR asd@\:suespammers.\:org
Anthony DeRobertis
.UE
got sick of his watches dat should update every last muthafuckin minute eventually updating
many secondz afta tha minute started, n' added microsecond precision.
Unicode support was added up in 2009 by
.UR procps@\:rrod.\:net
Jarrod Lowe
.UE
