.TH WESTON 1 "2012-11-27" "Weston 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
weston \- tha reference Wayland server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B westsideon
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B westsideon
is tha reference implementation of a Wayland server n' shiznit fo' realz. A Wayland server be a
display server, a window manager, n' a cold-ass lil compositor all up in one. Weston has
several backendz as loadable modules: it can run on Linux KMS (kernel
modesettin via DRM), as a X client, or inside another Wayland server
instance.

Weston supports fundamentally different graphical user intercourse paradigms via
shell plugins. Two plugins is provided: tha desktop shell, n' tha tablet
shell.

When westsideon is started as tha straight-up original gangsta windowin system (i.e. not under X nor
under another Wayland server), it should be done wit tha command
.B westsideon-launch
to set up proper privileged access ta devices.

Weston also supports X clients via 
.BR XWayland ", peep below."
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH BACKENDS
.TP
.I drm-backend.so
Da DRM backend uses Linux KMS fo' output n' evdev devices fo' input.
It supports multiple monitors up in a unified desktop wit DPMS. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR westsideon-drm (7),
if installed.
.TP
.I wayland-backend.so
Da Wayland backend runs on another Wayland server, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different Weston
instance, fo' example. Weston shows up as a single desktop window on
the parent server.
.TP
.I x11-backend.so
Da X11 backend runs on a X server n' shit. Each Weston output becomes an
X window. This be a cold-ass lil skanky way ta test multi-monitor support of a
Wayland shell, desktop, or applications.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH SHELLS
.TP
Desktop shell
Desktop shell is like a modern X desktop environment, concentrating
on traditionizzle keyboard n' mouse user intercourses n' tha familiar
desktop-like window pimpment. Desktop shell consistz of the
shell plugin
.I desktop-shell.so
and tha special client
.B westsideon-desktop-shell
which serves up tha wallpaper, panel, n' screen lockin dialog.
.TP
Tablet shell
Tablet shell be a graphical user intercourse aimed fo' tablet-like
devices, where probably tha only input method be a funky-ass bust a nut on screen.
It do not support freely floatin windows or nuff other desktop
features yo, but intendz ta provide a natural intercourse on tablets.
Tablet shell consistz of tha shell plugin
.I tablet-shell.so
and tha special client
.B westsideon-tablet-shell
which serves up tha basic user intercourse.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH XWAYLAND
XWayland requires a special X.org server ta be installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This X server will
connect ta a Wayland server as a Wayland client, n' X clients will connect to
the X server n' shit. XWayland serves up backwardz compatibilitizzle ta X applications up in a
Wayland stack.

XWayland be activated by instructing
.BR westsideon " ta load " xwayland.so " module, peep " EXAMPLES .
Weston starts listenin on a freshly smoked up X display socket, n' exports it up in the
environment variable
.BR DISPLAY .
When tha straight-up original gangsta X client connects, Weston launches a special X server as a
Wayland client ta handle tha X client n' all future X clients.

It has also its own X window manager where cursor themes n' sizes can be
chosen using
.BR XCURSOR_PATH
and
.BR XCURSOR_SIZE " environment variables. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See " ENVIRONMENT .
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.
.SS Weston core options:
.TP
\fB\-\^B\fR\fIbackend.so\fR, \fB\-\-backend\fR=\fIbackend.so\fR
Load
.I backend.so
instead of tha default backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Da file is searched fo' in
.IR "/usr/lib64/weston" ,
or you can pass a absolute path. Da default backend is 
.I drm-backend.so
unless tha environment suggests otherwise, see
.IR DISPLAY " n' " WAYLAND_DISPLAY .
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print tha program version.
.TP
.BR \-\^h ", " \-\-help
Print a summary of command line options, n' quit.
.TP
\fB\-\^i\fR\fIN\fR, \fB\-\-idle\-time\fR=\fIN\fR
Set tha idle timeout to
.I N
seconds. Da default timeout is 300 seconds. When there has not been any
user input fo' tha idle timeout, Weston entas a inactizzle mode. The
screen fades ta black, n' dependin on tha shell up in use, a screensaver
may activate, monitors may switch off, n' tha shell may lock tha session.
A value of 0 effectively disablez tha timeout.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\fR=\fIfile.log\fR
Append log lyrics ta tha file
.I file.log
instead of freestylin dem ta stderr.
.TP
\fB\-\-modules\fR=\fImodule1.so,module2.so\fR
Load tha comma-separated list of modules. Only used by tha test
suite. Da file is searched fo' in
.IR "/usr/lib64/weston" ,
or you can pass a absolute path.
.TP
\fB\-\^S\fR\fIname\fR, \fB\-\-socket\fR=\fIname\fR
Weston will listen up in tha Wayland socket called
.IR name .
Weston will export
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
with dis value up in tha environment fo' all lil pimp processes ta allow dem to
connect ta tha right server automatically.
.SS DRM backend options:
See
.BR westsideon-drm (7).
.
.SS Wayland backend options:
.TP
\fB\-\-display\fR=\fIdisplay\fR
Name of tha Wayland display ta connect to, peep also
.I WAYLAND_DISPLAY
of tha environment.
.TP
\fB\-\-width\fR=\fIW\fR, \fB\-\-height\fR=\fIH\fR
Make tha desktop size
.IR W x H " pixels."
.
.SS X11 backend options:
.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen
.TP
.B \-\-no\-input
Do not provide any input devices. Used fo' testin input-less Weston.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-count\fR=\fIN\fR
Create
.I N
X windows ta emulate tha same number of outputs.
.TP
\fB\-\-width\fR=\fIW\fR, \fB\-\-height\fR=\fIH\fR
Make tha default size of each X window
.IR W x H " pixels."
.TP
.B \-\-use\-pixman
Use tha pixman renderer n' shit.  By default westsideon will try ta use EGL and
GLES2 fo' rendering.  Passin dis option will make westsideon use the
pixman library fo' software compsiting.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH FILES
.
If tha environment variable is set, tha configuration file is read
from tha respectizzle path, or tha current directory if neither is set.
.PP
.BI $XDG_CONFIG_HOME /weston.ini
.br
.BI $HOME /.config/weston.ini
.br
.I ./weston.ini
.br
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Da X display. If
.B DISPLAY
is set, and
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
is not set, tha default backend becomes
.IR x11-backend.so .
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DEBUG
If set ta any value, causes libwayland ta print tha live protocol
to stderr.
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
Da name of tha display (socket) of a already hustlin Wayland server, without
the path. Da directory path be always taken from
.BR XDG_RUNTIME_DIR .
If
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
is not set, tha socket name is "wayland-0".

If
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
is already set, tha default backend becomes
.IR wayland-backend.so .
This allows launchin Weston as a nested server.
.TP
.B WAYLAND_SOCKET
For Wayland clients, holdz tha file descriptor of a open local socket
to a Wayland server.
.TP
.B XCURSOR_PATH
Set tha list of paths ta look fo' cursors in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it chizzlez both
libwayland-cursor n' libXcursor, so it affects both Wayland n' X11 based
clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B xcursor
(3).
.TP
.B XCURSOR_SIZE
This variable can be set fo' choosin a specific size of cursor fo' realz. Affect
Wayland n' X11 clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B xcursor
(3).
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, specifies tha directory where ta look for
.BR westsideon.ini .
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Da directory fo' Westonz socket n' lock files.
Wayland clients will automatically use all dis bullshit.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Weston has a segmentation fault handlez, dat attempts ta restore
the virtual console or ungrab X before raising
.BR SIGTRAP .
If you run
.BR westsideon " under " gdb (1)
from a X11 terminal or a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different virtual terminal, n' tell gdb
.IP
handle SIGSEGV nostop
.PP
This will allow westsideon ta switch back ta gdb on crash n' then
gdb will catch tha crash wit SIGTRAP.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH BUGS
Bugs should be reported ta tha freedesktop.org bugzilla at
https://bugs.freedesktop.org wit thang "Wayland" and
component "weston".
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH WWW
http://wayland.freedesktop.org/
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "Launch Weston wit tha DRM backend on a VT"
weston-launch
.IP "Launch Weston wit tha DRM backend n' XWayland support"
weston-launch -- --modules=xwayland.so
.IP "Launch Weston (wayland-1) nested up in another Weston instizzle (wayland-0)"
WAYLAND_DISPLAY=wayland-0 westsideon -Swayland-1
.IP "From a X terminal, launch Weston wit tha x11 backend"
weston
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR westsideon-drm (7)
.\".BR westsideon-launch (1),
.\".BR westsideon.ini (5)
