.\" Man page fo' whatis
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) 
.\" 
.pc
.TH %thwhatis% 1 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%whatis% \- display manual page descriptions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %whatis% 
.RB [\| \-dlv?V \|] 
.RB [\| \-r \||\| \-w\c 
\|] 
.RB [\| \-s
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-M 
.IR path \|] 
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.I name 
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each manual page has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description available within dat shit. 
.B %whatis%
searches tha manual page names n' displays tha manual page descriptions
of any 
.I name
matched.

.I name
may contain wildcards
.RB ( \-w )
or be a regular expression
.RB ( \-r ).
Usin these options, it may be necessary ta quote the
.I name
or escape (\\) tha special charactas ta stop tha shell from interpreting
them.

.B index 
databases is used durin tha search, n' is updated by the
.B %mandb%
program.
Dependin on yo' installation, dis may be run by a periodic cron thang, or
may need ta be run manually afta freshly smoked up manual pages done been installed.
To produce a oldschool steez text
.B whatis 
database from tha relative
.B index 
database, issue tha command:

.B %whatis% \-M 
.I manpath  
.B \-w  '*' | sort > 
.I manpath/whatis

where 
.I manpath 
is a manual page hierarchy like fuckin 
.IR /usr/man .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print verbose warnin lyrics.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-r ", " \-\-regex
Interpret each 
.I name 
as a regular expression.
If a 
.I name 
matches any part of a page name, a match is ghon be made.
This option causes 
.B %whatis% 
to be somewhat slower cuz of tha nature of database searches.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-w ", " \-\-wildcard
Interpret each 
.I name 
as a pattern containin shell steez wildcards.
For a match ta be made, a expanded 
.I name 
must match tha entire page name.
This option causes
.B %whatis%
to be somewhat slower cuz of tha nature of database searches.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Do not trim output ta tha terminal width.
Normally, output is ghon be truncated ta tha terminal width ta avoid skanky
results from skankyly-written
.B NAME
sections.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIlist\fP, \fB\-\-sections\fP \fIlist\fP, \fB\-\-section\fP \fIlist\fP
Search only tha given manual sections.
.I list
is a cold-ass lil colon- or comma-separated list of sections.
If a entry in
.I list
is a simple section, fo' example "3", then tha displayed list of
descriptions will include pages up in sections "3", "3perl", "3x", n' so on;
while if a entry in
.I list
has a extension, fo' example "3perl", then tha list will only include
pages up in dat exact part of tha manual section.
.\"
.\" Cuz of tha rather wack-ass limit of 6 args per request up in some `native'
.\" *roff compilers, our crazy asses have do tha followin ta git tha two-line
.\" hangin tag on one line. .PP ta begin a freshly smoked up paragraph, then the
.\" tag, then .RS (start relatizzle indent), tha text, finally .RE
.\" (end relatizzle indent).
.\"
.PP
.B \-m 
.I system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|,
.BI \-\-systems= system\c 
\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.RS
If dis system has access ta other operatin systemz manual page names, 
they can be accessed rockin dis option.
To search NewOSz manual page names,
use tha option
.B \-m
.BR NewOS .

The
.I system
specified can be a cold-ass lil combination of comma delimited operatin system names.
To include a search of tha natizzle operatin system's
manual page names, include tha system name
.B man
in tha argument string.
This option will override the
.RB $ SYSTEM
environment variable.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
Specify a alternate set of colon-delimited manual page hierarchies to
search.
By default,
.B whatis
uses the
.RB $ MANPATH
environment variable, unless it is empty or unset, up in which case it will
determine a appropriate manpath based on your
.RB $ PATH
environment variable.
This option overrides tha contents of
.RB $ MANPATH .
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.B whatis
will normally determine yo' current locale by a cold-ass lil call ta tha C function
.BR setlocale (3)
which invigorates various environment variables, possibly including
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
and
.RB $ LANG .
To temporarily override tha determined value, use dis option ta supply a
.I locale
strin directly to
.BR whatis .
Note dat it aint gonna take effect until tha search fo' pages actually
begins.
Output like fuckin tha help message will always be displayed up in tha initially
determined locale.
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-, biatch? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 1
Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 2
Operationizzle error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 16
Nothang was found dat matched tha criteria specified.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B SYSTEM
If
.RB $ SYSTEM
is set, it gonna git tha same effect as if it had been specified as the
argument ta the
.B \-m
option.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANPATH
If
.RB $ MANPATH
is set, its value is interpreted as tha colon-delimited manual page
hierarchy search path ta use.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANWIDTH
If
.RB $ MANWIDTH
is set, its value is used as tha terminal width (see the
.B \-\-long
option).
If it aint set, tha terminal width is ghon be calculated rockin an
.BR ioctl (2)
if available, tha value of
.RB $ COLUMNS ,
or fallin back ta 80 charactas if all else fails.
.SH FILES
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/share/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
A traditionizzle global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An FHS
compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/share/man/\|.\|.\|.\|/whatis
A traditionizzle 
.B whatis
text database. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %apropos% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %man% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %mandb% (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
