.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"     This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"     California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)whereis.1 from UCB 4.2
.TH WHEREIS 1 "March 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
whereis \- locate tha binary, source, n' manual page filez fo' a cold-ass lil command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whereis
.RB [ options ]
.RB [ \-BMS
.IR directory "... " \fB\-f\fR ]
.IR name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B whereis
locates tha binary, source n' manual filez fo' tha specified command names.
Da supplied names is first stripped of leadin pathname components n' any
(single) trailin extension of tha form
.BI . ext
(for example:
.BR .c )
Prefixes of
.B s.
resultin from use of source code control is also dealt with.
.B whereis
then attempts ta locate tha desired program up in tha standard Linux places, and
in tha places specified by
.B $PATH
and
.BR $MANPATH .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IP \fB\-b\fP
Search only fo' binaries.
.IP \fB\-m\fP
Search only fo' manuals.
.IP \fB\-s\fP
Search only fo' sources.
.IP \fB\-u\fP
Only show tha command names dat have unusual entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  A command is holla'd ta be
unusual if it aint gots just one entry of each explicitly axed type.
Thus
.RB ' "whereis \-m \-u *" '
asks fo' dem filez up in tha current directory which have no documentation file,
or mo' than one.
.IP "\fB\-B \fIlist\fP"
Limit tha places where
.B whereis
searches fo' binaries, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.
.IP "\fB\-M \fIlist\fP"
Limit tha places where
.B whereis
searches fo' manuals, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.
.IP "\fB\-S \fIlist\fP"
Limit tha places where
.B whereis
searches fo' sources, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.
.IP "\fB\-f\fP"
Terminates tha directory list n' signals tha start of filenames.  It
.I must
be used when any of the
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
or
.BR \-S
options is used.
.IP "\fB\-l"
Output list of effectizzle lookup paths the
.B whereis
is using.  When non of
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
or
.BR \-S
is specified tha option will up hard coded paths dat tha command was able to
find on system.
.SH EXAMPLE
To find all filez in
.B /usr/\:bin
which is not documented
in
.B /usr/\:man/\:man1
or have no source in
.BR /usr/\:src :
.IP
.B $ cd /usr/bin
.br
.B $ whereis \-u \-ms \-M /usr/man/man1 \-S /usr/src \-f *
.SH "FILE SEARCH PATHS"
By default
.B whereis
tries ta find filez from hard-coded paths, which is defined wit glob
patterns. Da command attempst ta use contents of
.B $PATH
and
.B $MANPATH
environment variablez as default search path.  Da easiest way ta know
what paths is up in use is ta add
.B \-l
listin option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Effectz of the
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
and
.BR \-S
are display with
.BR \-l .
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da whereis command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
