.TH WHIPTAIL 1 "31 January 2007" "Whiptail Version 0.52.5"
.SH NAME
whiptail \- display dialog boxes from shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whiptail
[
.B \-\-title
.I title
]
[
.B \-\-backtitle
.I backtitle
]
[
.B \-\-clear
]
[
.B \-\-default\-item
.I string
]
[
.B \-\-defaultno
]
[
.B \-\-fb
]
[
.B \-\-nocancel
]
[
.B \-\-yes\-button
.I text
]
[
.B \-\-no\-button
.I text
]
[
.B \-\-ok\-button
.I text
]
[
.B \-\-cancel\-button
.I text
]
[
.B \-\-noitem
[
]
.B \-\-output\-fd
.I fd
]
[
.B \-\-separate\-output
]
[
.B \-\-scrolltext
]
[
.B \-\-topleft
]
.B box-options
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B whiptail
is a program dat will let you present a variety of thangs or
display lyrics rockin dialog boxes from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script. Currently,
these typez of dialog boxes is implemented: 
.LP
.BR yes/no " box," " menu" " box," " input" " box,"
.BR message " box," " text" " box," " info" " box,"
.BR checklist " box," " radiolist" " box" " gauge" " box, and"
.BR password " box."
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-clear
Da screen is ghon be cleared ta the
.BR "screen attribute" " on exit."
This don't work up in a xterm (and descendants) if alternate screen
switchin is enabled, cuz up in dat case slang writes ta (and clears)
an alternate screen.
.TP
.B \-\-defaultno
Da dialog box will open wit tha cursor over tha 
.BR No " button."
.TP
.BI \-\-default\-item " string"
Set  tha default item up in a menu box.
Normally tha straight-up original gangsta item up in tha box is tha default.
.TP
\fB\-\-fb\fR, \fB\-\-fullbuttons\fR
Use full buttons. (By default, 
.B whiptail
uses compact buttons). 
.TP
.B \-\-nocancel
Da dialog box won't gotz a 
.BR Cancel " button".
.TP
.BI \-\-yes\-button " text"
Set tha text of the
.BR Yes yes y'all, " button."
.TP
.BI \-\-no\-button " text"
Set tha text of the
.BR No " button."
.TP
.BI \-\-ok\-button " text"
Set tha text of the
.BR Ok " button."
.TP
.BI \-\-cancel\-button " text"
Set tha text of the
.BR Cancel " button."
.TP
.B \-\-noitem
Da menu, checklist n' radiolist widgets will display tags only, not
the item strings. Da menu widget still needz some shit specified,
but checklist n' radiolist expect only tag n' status.
.TP
.B \-\-notags
Don't display tags up in tha menu, checklist n' radiolist widgets.
.TP
.BI \-\-separate\-output
For checklist widgets, output result one line at a time, wit no
quoting.  This facilitates parsin by another program.
.TP
.BI \-\-output\-fd  " fd" 
Direct output ta tha given file descriptor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Most 
.B whiptail
scripts
write ta standard error yo, but  error  lyrics  may  also  be
written there, dependin on yo' script.
.TP
.BI \-\-title " title"
Specifies a
.I title
strin ta be displayed all up in tha top of tha dialog box.
.TP
.BI \-\-backtitle " backtitle"
Specifies a
.I backtitle
strin ta be displayed on tha backdrop, all up in tha top of tha screen.
.TP
.BI \-\-scrolltext
Force tha display of a vertical scrollbar.
.TP
.BI \-\-topleft
Put window up in top-left corner.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B Box Options
.TP
.BI \-\-yesno " text height width"
.RB A " yes/no" " dialog box of size"
.I height
rows by
.I width
columns is ghon be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da strang specified by
.I text
is displayed inside tha dialog box. If dis strang is too long ta be fit
in one line, it is ghon be automatically divided tha fuck into multiple lines at
appropriate places. The
.I text
strin may also contain tha sub-string
.I
"\en"
or newline characters
.I `\en'
to control line breakin explicitly.  This dialog box is useful for
askin thangs dat require tha user ta answer either yeaaaa or no.
.RB "Da dialog box has a" " Yes" " button n' a " No
button, up in which tha user can switch between by pressin the
.IR TAB " key."
.TP
.BI \-\-msgbox " text height width"
.RB A " message" " box is straight-up similar ta a" " yes/no" " box."
Da only difference between a
.B message
box n' a
.B yes/no
box is dat a
.B message
box has only a single
.B OK
button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can use dis dialog box ta display any message you like.
Afta readin tha message, tha user can press the
.I ENTER
key so that
.B whiptail
will exit n' tha callin shell script can continue its operation.
.TP
.BI \-\-infobox " text height width"
.RB An " info" " box is basically a" " message" " box."
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in dis case,
.B whiptail
will exit immediately afta displayin tha message ta tha user n' shit. The
screen aint cleared when
.B whiptail
exits, so dat tha message will remain on tha screen until tha calling
shell script clears it later n' shit. This is useful when you wanna inform
the user dat some operations is carryin on dat may require some
time ta finish.
.TP
.BI \-\-inputbox " text height width [init]"
.RB "An " input " box is useful when you wanna ask thangs that"
require tha user ta input a strang as tha answer n' shit. If init is supplied
it is used ta initialize tha input string.
When inputin the
string, the
.I BACKSPACE
key can be used ta erect typin errors. If tha input strang is longer than
the width of tha dialog box, tha input field is ghon be scrolled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! On exit,
the input strang is ghon be printed on
.IR stderr "."
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordbox " text height width [init]"
.RB "A " password " box is similar ta a input box, except tha text tha user"
entas aint displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is useful when promptin fo' passwordz or other
sensitizzle shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Be aware dat if anythang is passed up in "init", it
will be visible up in tha systemz process table ta casual snoopers fo' realz. Also, it
is straight-up confusin ta tha user ta provide dem wit a thugged-out default password they
cannot see. For these reasons, rockin "init" is highly discouraged.
.TP
.BI \-\-textbox " file height width"
.RB A " text" " box lets you display tha contentz of a text file up in a"
dialog box. Well shiiiit, it is like a simple text file viewer n' shit. Da user can move
all up in tha file by rockin the
.IR UP/DOWN ", " PGUP/PGDN
.RI n' " HOME/END" " keys available on most keyboards."
If tha lines is too long ta be displayed up in tha box, the
.I LEFT/RIGHT
keys can be used ta scroll tha text region horizontally. For more
convenience, forward n' backward searchin functions is also provided.
.IP "\fB\-\-menu \fItext height width menu-height \fR[ \fItag item \fR] \fI..."
As its name suggests, a
.B menu
box be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog box dat can be used ta present a list of chizzlez in
the form of a menu fo' tha user ta chizzle. Each menu entry consistz of a
.IR tag " strang n' a " item " string. The"
.I tag
gives tha entry a name ta distinguish it from tha other entries up in the
menu fo'sho. The
.I item
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of tha option dat tha entry represents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. The
user can move between tha menu entries by pressin the
.I UP/DOWN
keys, tha straight-up original gangsta letta of the
.I tag
as a hot-key. There are
.I menu-height
entries displayed up in tha menu at one time yo, but tha menu will be
scrolled if there be mo' entries than dis shit. When
.B whiptail
exits, the
.I tag
of tha chosen menu entry is ghon be printed on
.IR stderr "."
.IP "\fB\-\-checklist \fItext height width list-height \fR[ \fItag item status \fR] \fI..."
.RB "A " checklist " box is similar ta a " menu " box up in dat there are"
multiple entries presented up in tha form of a menu.
Yo ass can select n' deselect shit rockin tha SPACE key.  
Da initial on/off state of each entry is specified by
.IR status "."
On exit, a list of the
.I tag
stringz of dem entries dat is turned on is ghon be printed on
.IR stderr "."

.IP "\fB\-\-radiolist \fItext height width list-height \fR [ \fItag item status \fR] \fI..."
.RB "A " radiolist " box is similar ta a " menu " box.  Da only difference is"
that you can indicate which entry is currently selected, by settin its
.IR status " ta " on "."

.IP "\fB\-\-gauge \fItext height width cement\fR"
.RB "A " gauge " box displays a meta along tha bottom of tha box.
Da meta indicates a cementage.  New cementages is read from
standard input, one integer per line.  Da meta is updated
to reflect each freshly smoked up cementage.  If stdin is XXX, tha straight-up original gangsta followin line is
a cementage n' subsequent lines up ta another XXX is used fo' a freshly smoked up prompt.
Da gauge exits when EOF is reached on stdin.

.SH NOTES
whiptail interprets arguments startin wit a thugged-out dash "\-" as bein arguments.
To avoid this, n' start some text in, fo' example, a menubox item, wit a 
dash, whiptail honours tha getopt convention of acceptin tha special
argument "\-\-" which means dat all followin arguments wit dashes is to
be treated verbatim n' not parsed as options.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if
.BR whiptail " is exited by pressin tha " Yes yes y'all, " or " OK
button, n' 1 if the
.BR No " or " Cancel
button is pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Otherwise, if errors occur inside
.B whiptail
or
.B whiptail
is exited by pressin the
.I ESC
key, tha exit status is -1.
.SH AUTHOR
Based on tha playa page fo' dialog(1) by:
.LP
Savio Lam (lam836@cs.cuhk.hk) - version 0.3
.LP
Stuart Herbert (S.Herbert@sheffield.ac.uk) - patch fo' version 0.4
.LP
Modifications fo' whiptail by:
.LP
Enrique Zanardi (ezanard@debian.org)
.LP
Alastair McKinstry (mckinstry@debian.org)
