.TH WORD\-LIST\-COMPRESS 1 "2005-09-05" "GNU" "Aspell Abbreviated Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
word\-list\-compress \- word list compressor/decompressor fo' GNU Aspell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B word-list-compress
\fBc\fR[\fBompress\fR] | \fBd\fR[\fBecompress\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B word-list-compress
compresses or decompresses sorted word lists fo' use wit tha GNU Aspell
spell checker.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fBc\fR, \fBcompress\fR
compress tha plain text word list read from standard input.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBdecompress\fR
decompress tha compressed word list read from standard input.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is all dem examplez of how tha fuck you can use
.I word\-list\-compress
.TP
word\-list\-compress \fBd\fR <wordlist.cwl >wordlist.txt
Decompress file wordlist.cwl ta text file wordlist.txt
.TP
word\-list\-compress \fBc\fR <wordlist.wl >wordlist.cwl 2>errors.txt
Compress wordlist.wl ta wordlist.cwl n' bust any error lyrics ta a
text file named errors.txt
.TP
LC_COLLATE\=C sort \-u <wordlist.txt \fB|\fR word\-list\-compress c >wordlist.cwl
Sort a word list, then pipe it to
.I word\-list\-compress
to create a cold-ass lil compressed binary wordlist.cwl file.
.TP
word\-list\-compress d <words.cwl \fB|\fR aspell create masta ./words.rws
Decompress a wordlist, then pipe it to
.I aspell(1)
to create a spellin list.  Please check the
.I aspell(1)
info manual fo' proper usage n' options.
.SH TIPS
.I Word\-list\-compress
is dopest used wit sorted word list type files.  It aint a general
purpose compression program since tha resultin filez may actually
increase up in size.
.PP
.I Word\-list\-compress
accepts up ta 255 text charactas up in tha range of {0x21...0xFF}. If your
word list requires a larger characta set fo' certain languages or
longer length fo' multi\-word, scientific, medicinal, technical or other
use, then it is recommended dat you compress yo' word list using
.I prezip\-bin(1)
.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Word\-list\-compress
normally exits wit a return code of 0. If it encountas a error,
a message is busted ta standard error output (stderr), and
.I word\-list\-compress
exits wit a non-zero return value.  Error lyrics is listed below:
.TP
\fB(display help/usage message)\fR
Unknown command given on tha command line so
.I word\-list\-compress
displays a usage message ta standard error output.
.TP
\fBCorrupt Input\fR
This is only fo' tha decompression command \fBd\fR.  Da input file is
of a unknown format or tha input file/stream is corrupted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Yo ass may
have some valid output yo, but
.I word\-list\-compress
could not complete tha process.  If tha input file be a cold-ass lil compressed
wordlist but you have no output file, then it may be a newer
.I prezip\-bin(1)
version of compressed file, if so, try decompressin tha file with
.I prezip\-bin(1)
instead.
.TP
\fBOutput Data Error\fR
Da output is full, write protected, or has a error n' can no longer
be freestyled to.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR aspell (1),
.BR prezip\-bin (1),
.BR run\-with\-aspell (1)
.PP
Aspell is straight-up documented up in its Texinfo manual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  See the
.RB "`\|" aspell "\|'"
entry in
.B info
for mo' complete documentation.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
For help, peep tha Aspell homepizzy at <http://aspell.net> n' bust bug
reports/comments ta tha Aspell user list all up in tha above address.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Aaron Lehmann <aaronl@vitelus.com>,
Brian Nelson <pyro@debian.org> n' Jose Da Silva <digital@joescat.com>.
