.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Jef Poskanzer n' Craig Lerez of tha Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)write.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Modified fo' Linux, Sun Mar 12 10:21:01 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH WRITE 1 "March 1995" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
write \- bust a message ta another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B write
.I user
.RI [ ttyname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Write
allows you ta rap wit other users, by copyin lines from
your terminal ta theirs.
.PP
When you run the
.B write
command, tha user yo ass is freestylin ta gets a message of tha form:
.PP
.RS
Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...
.RE
.PP
Any further lines you enta is ghon be copied ta tha specified user's
terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If tha other user wants ta reply, they must run
.B write
as well.
.PP
When yo ass is done, type a end-of-file or interrupt character n' shit.  Da other
user will peep tha message
.B EOF
indicatin dat tha conversation is over.
.PP
Yo ass can prevent playas (other than tha superuser) from freestylin ta you with
the
.BR mesg (1)
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Some commands, fo' example
.BR nroff (1)
and
.BR pr (1),
may disallow freestylin automatically, so dat yo' output aint overwritten.
.PP
If tha user you wanna write ta is logged up in on mo' than one terminal,
you can specify which terminal ta write ta by specifyin tha terminal
name as tha second operand ta the
.B write
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Alternatively, you can let
.B write
select one of tha terminals \- it will pick tha one wit tha shortest idle
time.  This is so dat if tha user is logged up in at work n' also dialed up
from home, tha message will git all up in tha right place.
.PP
Da traditionizzle protocol fo' freestylin ta one of mah thugs is dat tha strang `\-o',
either all up in tha end of a line or on a line by itself, means dat itz the
other personz turn ta talk.  Da strang `oo' means dat tha person
believes tha conversation ta be over.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mesg (1),
.BR rap (1),
.BR whoz ass (1)
.SH HISTORY
A
.B write
command rocked up in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da write command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
