.TH WVDIAL 1 "December 2005" "WvDial"
.\"
.SH NAME
wvdial \- PPP diala wit built-in intelligence.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wvdial
[
.I OPTIONS
]
[
.I SECTION
] ...
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wvdial
is a intelligent PPP dialer, which means dat it dials a modem and
starts PPP up in order ta connect ta tha Internet.  It be suttin' like the
.BR chat (8)
program, except dat it uses heuristics ta guess how tha fuck ta dial n' log
into yo' server rather than forcin you ta write a login script.
.PP
When
.B wvdial
starts, it first loadz its configuration from
.IR /etc/wvdial.conf
and
.IR ~/.wvdialrc
which gotz nuff basic shiznit bout tha modem port, speed, n' init
string, along wit shiznit bout yo' Internizzle Service Provider (ISP),
like fuckin tha beeper number, yo' username, n' yo' password.
.PP
Then it initializes yo' modem n' dials tha server n' waits fo' a 
connection (a CONNECT strang from tha modem).  It understandz n' respondz 
to typical connection problems (like BUSY n' NO DIALTONE).
.PP
Any time afta connecting, 
.B wvdial
will start PPP if it sees a PPP sequence from tha server n' shit.  Otherwise,
it tries ta convince tha server ta start PPP by bustin tha following:
.IP \(bu 4
respondin ta any login/password prompts it sees;
.IP \(bu
interpretin \(lqchoose one of tha following\(rq-style menus;
.IP \(bu
eventually, bustin  tha word \(lqppp\(rq (a common terminal server command).
.PP
If all of dis fails,
.B wvdial
just runs
.BR pppd (8)
and hopes fo' da bomb. Well shiiiit, it will brang up tha connection, n' then wait
patiently fo' you ta drop tha link by pressin CTRL\-C.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
Several options is recognized by
.BR wvdial .
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-chat
Run wvdial as a cold-ass lil chat replacement from within pppd, instead of tha more
normal method of havin wvdial negotiate tha connection n' then call
pppd.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-config=CONFIGFILE
Run wvdial wit CONFIGFILE as tha configuration file, instead of
.IR /etc/wvdial.conf .
This is mainly useful only if you wanna have per-user
configurations, or you wanna avoid havin dial-up shiznit (usernames,
passwords, callin card numbers, etc.) up in a system wide configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-remotename
Override tha Remote Name settin up in tha diala configuration section of the
configuration file. This is mainly useful when you dial ta multiple systems
with tha same user name n' password, n' you don't wanna use inheritance
to override dis settin (which is tha recommended way ta do it).
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no\-syslog
Don't output debug shiznit ta tha syslog daemon (only useful together
with \-\-chat).
.PP
.B wvdial
is normally run without command line options, up in which case it reads
its configuration from the
.I "[Diala Defaults]"
section of
.IR /etc/wvdial.conf .
(Da configuration file is busted lyrics bout up in mo' detail in
.BR wvdial.conf (5)
manual page.)
.PP
One or mo' 
.IR SECTION s
of
.I
/etc/wvdial.conf
may be specified on tha command line.  Settings up in these sections will
override settings in
.IR "[Diala Defaults]" .
.PP
For example, tha command:
.RS
.B wvdial phone2
.RE
will read default options from the
.I "[Diala Defaults]"
section, then override any or all of tha options wit dem found up in the
.I "[Diala phone2]"
section.
.PP
If mo' than one section is specified, they is processed up in tha order they
are given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Each section will override all tha sections dat came before dat shit.
.PP
For example, tha command:
.RS
.B wvdial phone2 pulse shh
.RE
will read default options from the
.I "[Diala Defaults]"
section, then override any or all of tha options wit dem found up in the
.I "[Diala phone2]"
section, followed by the
.I "[Diala pulse]"
section, n' lastly the
.I "[Diala shh]"
section.
.PP
Usin dis method, it is possible ta easily configure
.B wvdial
to switch between different internizzle providers, modem init strings,
account names, n' so on without specifyin tha same configuration
information over n' over.
.\"
.SH BUGS
\(lqIntelligent\(rq programs is frustratin when they don't work right.
This version of
.B wvdial
has only minimal support fo' disablin or overridin its \(lqintelligence\(rq,
with tha \(lqStupid Mode\(rq, \(lqLogin Prompt\(rq, n' \(lqPassword 
Prompt\(rq options.
So, up in general if you gotz a sick ISP, it will probably work,
and if you gotz a weird ISP, it might not.
.PP
Still, it aint much phat if it don't work fo' you, right?  Don't be fooled
by tha fact that
.B wvdial
finally juiced it up ta version 1.00; it could well contain nuff bugs n' 
misfeatures.  Let our asses know if you have problems by bustin  e-mail to
.BR <wvdial\-list@lists.nit.ca> .
.PP
Yo ass may encounta some error lyrics if you aint gots write access to
.B /etc/ppp/pap\-secrets
and
.BR /etc/ppp/chap\-secrets .
Unfortunately, there be a straight-up no sick way round dis yet.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/wvdial.conf
Configuration file which gotz nuff modem, dialing, n' login
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR wvdial.conf (5).
.TP
/dev/ttyS*
Serial port devices.
.TP
/etc/ppp/peers/wvdial
Required fo' erect authentication up in pppd version 2.3.0 or newer.
.TP
/etc/ppp/{pap,chap}\-secrets
Gotz Nuff a list of usernames n' passwordz used by pppd fo' authentication.
.B wvdial
maintains dis list automatically.
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
Dizzle Coombs n' Avery Pennarun fo' Net Integration Technologies.
Us thugs would also like ta give props ta SuSE and
RedHat fo' addin a fuckin shitload of various def features to
.BR wvdial .
Thanks muthafuckas!
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wvdial.conf (5),
.BR wvdialconf (1),
.BR pppd (8),
.BR chat (8).

