.\" Copyright 1988, 1989 Digital Weapons Corporation.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH X11PERF 1 "x11perf 1.5.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
x11perf \- X11 server performizzle test program
.SH SYNTAX
.B x11perf
[ \-option ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I x11perf
program runs one or mo' performizzle tests n' reports how tha fuck fast a X server can
execute tha tests.
.PP
Many graphics benchmarks assume dat tha graphics thang is used ta display the
output of a single fancy graphics application, n' dat tha user gets his work
done on some other device, like a terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Such benchmarks probably measure
drawin speed fo' lines, polygons, text, etc.
.PP
Since workstations is not used as standalone graphics engines yo, but as
super-terminals,
.I x11perf
measures window pimpment performizzle as well as
traditionizzle graphics performance.
.I x11perf
includes benchmarks fo' tha time it
takes ta create n' map windows (as when you start up a application); ta map a
pre-existin set of windows onto tha screen (as when you deiconify an
application or pop up a menu); n' ta rearrange windows (as when you slosh
windows ta n' fro tryin ta find tha one you want).
.PP
.I x11perf
also measures graphics performizzle fo' operations not normally used in
standalone graphics displays yo, but is nonetheless used frequently by X
applications.  Such operations include CopyPlane (used ta map bitmaps into
pixels), scrollin (used up in text windows), n' various stipplez n' tiles
(used fo' CAD n' color half-toning, respectively).
.PP
.I x11perf
should be used ta analyze particular strengths n' weaknesses
of servers, n' is most useful ta a server writa whoz ass wants to
analyze n' improve a server.
.I x11perf
is meant ta comprehensively exercise just bout every last muthafuckin X11 operation you can
perform; it do not purport ta be a representatizzle sample of the
operations dat X11 applications straight-up use.
While it can be used as a funky-ass benchmark, dat shiznit was freestyled n' is intended as
a performizzle testin tool.
.PP
As such,
.I x11perf
DOES NOT whittle down measurements ta a single ``HeXStones''
or ``MeXops'' number n' shit.  We consider such numbers ta be uninformative
at dopest n' misleadin at worst.
Some servers which is straight-up fast fo' certain applications can be
very slow fo' others.
No single number or lil' small-ass set of numbers is sufficient to
characterize how tha fuck a X implementation will big-ass up on all applications.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat by knowledge of yo' straight-up application, you
may be able ta use tha numbers
.I x11perf
reports ta predict its performizzle on a given X implementation.
.PP
That holla'd, you might also wanna peep
.I x11perfcomp(1),
a program ta compare tha outputz of different
.I x11perf
runs.  Yo ass provide a list of filez containin thangs up in dis biatch from
.I x11perf,
and it lays dem up in a sick tabular format.
.PP
For repeatable thangs up in dis biatch,
.I x11perf
should be run rockin a local connection on a
freshly-started server n' shit.  Da default configuration runs each test 5 times, in
order ta peep if each trial takes approximately tha same amount of time.
Strange glitches should be examined; if non-repeatable one might
chalk dem up to
daemons n' network traffic.  Each trial is run fo' 5 seconds, up in order to
reduce random time differences.  Da number of objects processed per second is
displayed ta 3 dope digits yo, but you gonna be dirty on most UNIX system if
the numbers is straight-up consistent ta 2 digits.
.I x11perf
moves tha cursor outta tha test window; you should be careful not
to bump tha mouse n' move it back tha fuck into tha window.
(A prize ta playas whoz ass erectly explain why!!).
.PP
Before hustlin a test,
.I x11perf
determines what tha fuck tha round trip time ta tha server is, n' factors dis up of
the final timin reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  It ensures dat tha server has straight-up performed
the work axed by fetchin a pixel back from tha test window, which means
that servers rappin' ta graphics accelerators can't claim dat they is done,
while up in tha meantime tha accelerator is paintin madly.
.PP
By default
.I x11perf
automatically calibrates tha number of repetitionz of each test,
so dat each should take approximately tha same length of time ta run across
serverz of widely differin speeds.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat since each test must be run to
completion at least once, some slow servers may take a straight-up long time,
particularly on tha window movin n' resizin tests, n' on tha arc drawing
tests.
.PP
All timin reports is fo' tha smallest object involved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For example, tha line
tests bust a PolyLine request ta paint nuff muthafuckin lines at once yo, but report how
many lines per second tha server can paint, not how tha fuck nuff PolyLine requests per
second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Text tests paint a line of charactas yo, but report on tha number of
charactas per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Some window tests map, unmap, or move a single parent
window yo, but report on how tha fuck nuff lil pimps windows per second tha server can map,
unmap, or move.
.PP
Da current program is mostly tha responsibilitizzle of Joel McCormack.  It is
based upon tha x11perf pimped by Phil Karlton, Susan Angebranndt, Chris
Kent, Mary Walker, n' Todd Newman, whoz ass wanted ta assess performizzle differences between various servers.
Several tests was added  up in order ta write n' tune
the PMAX (DECStation 3100) servers.
For a general release ta tha ghetto,
.I x11perf
was rewritten ta ease makin comparisons between widely varying
machines, ta cover most blingin (and unimportant) X functionality,
and ta exercise graphics operations up in as nuff different
orientations n' alignments as possible.
.SH OPTIONS
.I x11perf
is solely Xlib based, and
accepts tha options listed below:
.TP 14
.B \-display host:dpy
Specifies which display ta use.
.TP 14
.B \-sync
Runs tha tests up in synchronous mode.
Normally only useful fo' debugging
.I x11perf .
.TP 14
.B \-pack
Runs rectangle tests so dat they pack rectanglez right next ta each other.
This make it easy as fuck  ta debug server code fo' stipplez n' tiles...if the
pattern looks skanky, you've gots alignment problems.
.TP 14
.B \-repeat \fI<n>\fP
Repeats each test
.I n
times (by default each test is run 5 times).
.TP 14
.B \-time \fI<s>\fP
Specifies how tha fuck long up in secondz each test should be run (default 5 seconds).
.TP 14
.B \-all
Runs all tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This may take a while.
.TP 14
.B \-range \fI<test1>\fP[,\fI<test2>\fP]
Runs all tha tests startin from tha specified name \fItest1\fP until
the name \fItest2\fP, includin both tha specified tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da testnames
should be one of tha options startin from -dot. (eg) -range line100
will big-ass up tha tests from tha 100 pixel line test, n' go on till the
last test, -range line100,dline10 will do tha tests from line100 to
dline10.
.TP 14
.B \-labels
Generates just tha descriptizzle labels fo' each test specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See
.I x11perfcomp
for mo' details.
.TP 14
.B \-fg \fIcolor-or-pixel\fP
Specifies tha foreground color or pixel value ta use.
.TP 14
.B \-bg \fIcolor-or-pixel\fP
Specifies tha background color or pixel value ta use.
.TP 14
.B \-clips \fIdefault\fP
Default number of clip windows.
.TP 14
.B \-ddbg \fIcolor-or-pixel\fP
Specifies tha color or pixel value ta use fo' drawing
the odd segmentz of a DoubleDashed line or arc.
This will default ta tha bg color.
.TP 14
.B \-rop <rop0 rop1 ...>
Use specified rasta ops (default is GXcopy).
This option only affects graphics
benchmarks up in which tha graphics function is straight-up used.
.TP 14
.B \-pm <pm0 pm1 ...>
Use specified planemasks (default is ~0).
This option only affects graphics
benchmarks up in which tha planemask is straight-up used.
.TP 14
.B \-depth <depth>
Use a visual wit <depth> planes per pixel (default is tha default
visual).
.TP 14
.B \-vclass <vclass>
Use a visual wit of class <vclass>.  <vclass> can be StaticGray, GrayScale,
StaticColor, PseudoColor, TrueColor, or DirectColor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  (default is tha default
visual).
.TP 14
.B \-reps <n>
Specify tha repetizzle count (Default is number dat takes approx. 5 seconds)
.TP 14
.B \-subs <s0 s1 ...>
Specify tha number of sub windows ta use up in tha Window tests.
Default is  4, 16, 25, 50, 75, 100 n' 200.
.TP 14
.B \-v1.2
Perform only x11perf Version 1.2 tests rockin Version 1.2 semantics.
.TP 14
.B \-v1.3
Perform only x11perf Version 1.3 tests rockin Version 1.3 semantics.
.TP 14
.B \-su
Set tha save_under window attribute ta True on all windows pimped by x11perf.
Default is False.
.TP 14
.B \-bs <backing_store_hint>
Set tha backing_store window attribute ta tha given value on all windows
created by x11perf. <backing_store_hint> can be WhenMapped or
Always.  Default is NotUseful.
.TP 14
.B \-dot
Dot.
.TP 14
.B \-rect1
1x1 solid-filled rectangle.
.TP 14
.B \-rect10
10x10 solid-filled rectangle.
.TP 14
.B \-rect100
100x100 solid-filled rectangle.
.TP 14
.B \-rect500
500x500 solid-filled rectangle.
.TP 14
.B \-srect1
1x1 transparent stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-srect10
10x10 transparent stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-srect100
100x100 transparent stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-srect500
500x500 transparent stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-osrect1
1x1 opaque stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-osrect10
10x10 opaque stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-osrect100
100x100 opaque stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-osrect500
500x500 opaque stippled rectangle, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tilerect1
1x1 tiled rectangle, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tilerect10
10x10 tiled rectangle, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tilerect100
100x100 tiled rectangle, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tilerect500
500x500 tiled rectangle, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddsrect1
1x1 transparent stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddsrect10
10x10 transparent stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddsrect100
100x100 transparent stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddsrect500
500x500 transparent stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddosrect1
1x1 opaque stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddosrect10
10x10 opaque stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddosrect100
100x100 opaque stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddosrect500
500x500 opaque stippled rectangle, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtilerect1
1x1 tiled rectangle, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtilerect10
10x10 tiled rectangle, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtilerect100
100x100 tiled rectangle, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtilerect500
500x500 tiled rectangle, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigsrect1
1x1 stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigsrect10
10x10 stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigsrect100
100x100 stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigsrect500
500x500 stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigosrect1
1x1 opaque stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigosrect10
10x10 opaque stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigosrect100
100x100 opaque stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigosrect500
500x500 opaque stippled rectangle, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtilerect1
1x1 tiled rectangle, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtilerect10
10x10 tiled rectangle, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtilerect100
100x100 tiled rectangle, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtilerect500
500x500 tiled rectangle, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertilerect1
1x1 tiled rectangle, 215x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertilerect10
10x10 tiled rectangle, 215x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertilerect100
100x100 tiled rectangle, 215x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertilerect500
500x500 tiled rectangle, 215x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-seg1
1-pixel thin line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-seg10
10-pixel thin line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-seg100
100-pixel thin line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-seg500
500-pixel thin line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-seg100c1
100-pixel thin line segment (1 obscurin rectangle).
.TP 14
.B \-seg100c2
100-pixel thin line segment (2 obscurin rectangles).
.TP 14
.B \-seg100c3
100-pixel thin line segment (3 obscurin rectangles).
.TP 14
.B \-dseg10
10-pixel thin dashed segment (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-dseg100
100-pixel thin dashed segment (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-ddseg100
100-pixel thin double-dashed segment (3 fg, 2 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-hseg10
10-pixel thin horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-hseg100
100-pixel thin horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-hseg500
500-pixel thin horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-vseg10
10-pixel thin vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-vseg100
100-pixel thin vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-vseg500
500-pixel thin vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-whseg10
10-pixel wide horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-whseg100
100-pixel wide horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-whseg500
500-pixel wide horizontal line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-wvseg10
10-pixel wide vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-wvseg100
100-pixel wide vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-wvseg500
500-pixel wide vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-line1
1-pixel thin (width 0) line.
.TP 14
.B \-line10
10-pixel thin line.
.TP 14
.B \-line100
100-pixel thin line.
.TP 14
.B \-line500
500-pixel thin line.
.TP 14
.B \-dline10
10-pixel thin dashed line (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-dline100
100-pixel thin dashed line (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-ddline100
100-pixel thin double-dashed line (3 fg, 2 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-wline10
10-pixel line, line width 1.
.TP 14
.B \-wline100
100-pixel line, line width 10.
.TP 14
.B \-wline500
500-pixel line, line width 50.
.TP 14
.B \-wdline100
100-pixel dashed line, line width 10 (30 on, 20 off).
.TP 14
.B \-wddline100
100-pixel double-dashed line, line width 10 (30 fg, 20 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-orect10
10x10 thin rectangle outline.
.TP 14
.B \-orect100
100-pixel thin vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-orect500
500-pixel thin vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-worect10
10x10 wide rectangle outline.
.TP 14
.B \-worect100
100-pixel wide vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-worect500
500-pixel wide vertical line segment.
.TP 14
.B \-circle1
1-pixel diameta thin (line width 0) circle.
.TP 14
.B \-circle10
10-pixel diameta thin circle.
.TP 14
.B \-circle100
100-pixel diameta thin circle.
.TP 14
.B \-circle500
500-pixel diameta thin circle.
.TP 14
.B \-dcircle100
100-pixel diameta thin dashed circle (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-ddcircle100
100-pixel diameta thin double-dashed circle (3 fg, 2 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-wcircle10
10-pixel diameta circle, line width 1.
.TP 14
.B \-wcircle100
100-pixel diameta circle, line width 10.
.TP 14
.B \-wcircle500
500-pixel diameta circle, line width 50.
.TP 14
.B \-wdcircle100
100-pixel diameta dashed circle, line width 10 (30 on, 20 off).
.TP 14
.B \-wddcircle100
100-pixel diameta double-dashed circle, line width 10 (30 fg, 20 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-pcircle10
10-pixel diameta thin partial circle,
orientation n' arc angle evenly distributed.
.TP 14
.B \-pcircle100
100-pixel diameta thin partial circle.
.TP 14
.B \-wpcircle10
10-pixel diameta wide partial circle.
.TP 14
.B \-wpcircle100
100-pixel diameta wide partial circle.
.TP 14
.B \-fcircle1
1-pixel diameta filled circle.
.TP 14
.B \-fcircle10
10-pixel diameta filled circle.
.TP 14
.B \-fcircle100
100-pixel diameta filled circle.
.TP 14
.B \-fcircle500
500-pixel diameta filled circle.
.TP 14
.B \-fcpcircle10
10-pixel diameta partial filled circle, chord fill,
orientation n' arc angle evenly distributed.
.TP 14
.B \-fcpcircle100
100-pixel diameta partial filled circle, chord fill.
.TP 14
.B \-fspcircle10
10-pixel diameta partial filled circle, pie slice fill,
orientation n' arc angle evenly distributed.
.TP 14
.B \-fspcircle100
100-pixel diameta partial filled circle, pie slice fill.
.TP 14
.B \-ellipse10
10-pixel diameta thin (line width 0) ellipse, major and
minor axis sizes evenly distributed.
.TP 14
.B \-ellipse100
100-pixel diameta thin ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-ellipse500
500-pixel diameta thin ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-dellipse100
100-pixel diameta thin dashed ellipse (3 on, 2 off).
.TP 14
.B \-ddellipse100
100-pixel diameta thin double-dashed ellipse (3 fg, 2 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-wellipse10
10-pixel diameta ellipse, line width 1.
.TP 14
.B \-wellipse100
100-pixel diameta ellipse, line width 10.
.TP 14
.B \-wellipse500
500-pixel diameta ellipse, line width 50.
.TP 14
.B \-wdellipse100
100-pixel diameta dashed ellipse, line width 10 (30 on, 20 off).
.TP 14
.B \-wddellipse100
100-pixel diameta double-dashed ellipse, line width 10 (30 fg, 20 bg).
.TP 14
.B \-pellipse10
10-pixel diameta thin partial ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-pellipse100
100-pixel diameta thin partial ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-wpellipse10
10-pixel diameta wide partial ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-wpellipse100
100-pixel diameta wide partial ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-fellipse10
10-pixel diameta filled ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-fellipse100
100-pixel diameta filled ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-fellipse500
500-pixel diameta filled ellipse.
.TP 14
.B \-fcpellipse10
10-pixel diameta partial filled ellipse, chord fill.
.TP 14
.B \-fcpellipse100
100-pixel diameta partial filled ellipse, chord fill.
.TP 14
.B \-fspellipse10
10-pixel diameta partial filled ellipse, pie slice fill.
.TP 14
.B \-fspellipse100
100-pixel diameta partial filled ellipse, pie slice fill.
.TP 14
.B \-triangle1
Fill 1-pixel/side triangle.
.TP 14
.B \-triangle10
Fill 10-pixel/side triangle.
.TP 14
.B \-triangle100
Fill 100-pixel/side triangle.
.TP 14
.B \-trap1
Fill 1x1 trapezoid.
.TP 14
.B \-trap10
Fill 10x10 trapezoid.
.TP 14
.B \-trap100
Fill 100x100 trapezoid.
.TP 14
.B \-trap300
Fill 300x300 trapezoid.
.TP 14
.B \-strap1
Fill 1x1 transparent stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-strap10
Fill 10x10 transparent stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-strap100
Fill 100x100 transparent stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-strap300
Fill 300x300 transparent stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-ostrap1
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-ostrap10
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-ostrap100
Fill 100x100 opaque stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-ostrap300
Fill 300x300 opaque stippled trapezoid, 8x8 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tiletrap1
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tiletrap10
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tiletrap100
Fill 100x100 tiled trapezoid, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-tiletrap300
Fill 300x300 tiled trapezoid, 4x4 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddstrap1
Fill 1x1 transparent stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddstrap10
Fill 10x10 transparent stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddstrap100
Fill 100x100 transparent stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddstrap300
Fill 300x300 transparent stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddostrap1
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddostrap10
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddostrap100
Fill 100x100 opaque stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddostrap300
Fill 300x300 opaque stippled trapezoid, 17x15 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtiletrap1
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtiletrap10
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtiletrap100
Fill 100x100 tiled trapezoid, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-oddtiletrap300
Fill 300x300 tiled trapezoid, 17x15 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigstrap1
Fill 1x1 transparent stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigstrap10
Fill 10x10 transparent stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigstrap100
Fill 100x100 transparent stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigstrap300
Fill 300x300 transparent stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigostrap1
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigostrap10
Fill 10x10 opaque stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigostrap100
Fill 100x100 opaque stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigostrap300
Fill 300x300 opaque stippled trapezoid, 161x145 stipple pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtiletrap1
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtiletrap10
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtiletrap100
Fill 100x100 tiled trapezoid, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-bigtiletrap300
Fill 300x300 tiled trapezoid, 161x145 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertiletrap1
Fill 1x1 tiled trapezoid, 216x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertiletrap10
Fill 10x10 tiled trapezoid, 216x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertiletrap100
Fill 100x100 tiled trapezoid, 216x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-eschertiletrap300
Fill 300x300 tiled trapezoid, 216x208 tile pattern.
.TP 14
.B \-complex10
Fill 10-pixel/side complex polygon.
.TP 14
.B \-complex100
Fill 100-pixel/side complex polygon.
.TP 14
.B \-64poly10convex
Fill 10x10 convex 64-gon.
.TP 14
.B \-64poly100convex
Fill 100x100 convex 64-gon.
.TP 14
.B \-64poly10complex
Fill 10x10 complex 64-gon.
.TP 14
.B \-64poly100complex
Fill 100x100 complex 64-gon.
.TP 14
.B \-ftext
Characta up in 80-char line (6x13).
.TP 14
.B \-f8text
Characta up in 70-char line (8x13).
.TP 14
.B \-f9text
Characta up in 60-char line (9x15).
.TP 14
.B \-f14text16
2-byte characta up in 40-char line (k14).
.TP 14
.B \-tr10text
Characta up in 80-char line (Times-Roman 10).
.TP 14
.B \-tr24text
Characta up in 30-char line (Times-Roman 24).
.TP 14
.B \-polytext
Characta up in 20/40/20 line (6x13, Times-Roman 10, 6x13).
.TP 14
.B \-polytext16
2-byte characta up in 7/14/7 line (k14, k24).
.TP 14
.B \-fitext
Characta up in 80-char image line (6x13).
.TP 14
.B \-f8itext
Characta up in 70-char image line (8x13).
.TP 14
.B \-f9itext
Characta up in 60-char image line (9x15).
.TP 14
.B \-f14itext16
2-byte characta up in 40-char image line (k14).
.TP 14
.B \-f24itext16
2-byte characta up in 23-char image line (k24).
.TP 14
.B \-tr10itext
Characta up in 80-char image line (Times-Roman 10).
.TP 14
.B \-tr24itext
Characta up in 30-char image line (Times-Roman 24).
.TP 14
.B \-scroll10
Scroll 10x10 pixels vertically.
.TP 14
.B \-scroll100
Scroll 100x100 pixels vertically.
.TP 14
.B \-scroll500
Scroll 500x500 pixels vertically.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinwin10
Copy 10x10 square from window ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinwin100
Copy 100x100 square from window ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinwin500
Copy 500x500 square from window ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixwin10
Copy 10x10 square from pixmap ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixwin100
Copy 100x100 square from pixmap ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixwin500
Copy 500x500 square from pixmap ta window.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinpix10
Copy 10x10 square from window ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinpix100
Copy 100x100 square from window ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copywinpix500
Copy 500x500 square from window ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixpix10
Copy 10x10 square from pixmap ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixpix100
Copy 100x100 square from pixmap ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copypixpix500
Copy 500x500 square from pixmap ta pixmap.
.TP 14
.B \-copyplane10
Copy 10x10 1-bit deep plane.
.TP 14
.B \-copyplane100
Copy 100x100 1-bit deep plane.
.TP 14
.B \-copyplane500
Copy 500x500 1-bit deep plane.
.TP 14
.B \-putimage10
PutImage 10x10 square.
.TP 14
.B \-putimage100
PutImage 100x100 square.
.TP 14
.B \-putimage500
PutImage 500x500 square.
.TP 14
.B \-putimagexy10
PutImage XY format 10x10 square.
.TP 14
.B \-putimagexy100
PutImage XY format 100x100 square.
.TP 14
.B \-putimagexy500
PutImage XY format 500x500 square.
.TP 14
.B \-shmput10
PutImage 10x10 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-shmput100
PutImage 100x100 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-shmput500
PutImage 500x500 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-shmputxy10
PutImage XY format 10x10 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-shmputxy100
PutImage XY format 100x100 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-shmputxy500
PutImage XY format 500x500 square, MIT shared memory extension.
.TP 14
.B \-getimage10
GetImage 10x10 square.
.TP 14
.B \-getimage100
GetImage 100x100 square.
.TP 14
.B \-getimage500
GetImage 500x500 square.
.TP 14
.B \-getimagexy10
GetImage XY format 10x10 square.
.TP 14
.B \-getimagexy100
GetImage XY format 100x100 square.
.TP 14
.B \-getimagexy500
GetImage XY format 500x500 square.
.TP 14
.B \-noop
X protocol NoOperation.
.TP 14
.B \-atom
GetAtomName.
.TP 14
.B \-pointer
QueryPointer.
.TP 14
.B \-prop
GetProperty.
.TP 14
.B \-gc
Change graphics context.
.TP 14
.B \-create
Smoke lil pimp window n' map rockin MapSubwindows.
.TP 14
.B \-ucreate
Smoke unmapped window.
.TP 14
.B \-map
Map lil pimp window via MapWindow on parent.
.TP 14
.B \-unmap
Unmap lil pimp window via UnmapWindow on parent.
.TP 14
.B \-destroy
Destroy lil pimp window via DestroyWindow parent.
.TP 14
.B \-popup
Hide/expose window via Map/Unmap popup window.
.TP 14
.B \-move
Move window.
.TP 14
.B \-umove
Moved unmapped window.
.TP 14
.B \-movetree
Move window via MoveWindow on parent.
.TP 14
.B \-resize
Resize window.
.TP 14
.B \-uresize
Resize unmapped window.
.TP 14
.B \-circulate
Circulate lowest window ta top.
.TP 14
.B \-ucirculate
Circulate unmapped window ta top.
.SH X DEFAULTS
There is no X defaults used by dis program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), x11perfcomp(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Joel McCormack
.br
Phil Karlton
.br
Susan Angebranndt
.br
Chris Kent
.br
Keith Packard
.br
Graeme Gill
