.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH X11PERFCOMP 1 "x11perf 1.5.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
x11perfcomp \- X11 server performizzle comparison program
.SH SYNTAX
.B x11perfcomp
[ \-r | \-ro ] [ \-l label_file ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I x11perfcomp
program merges tha output of several
.I x11perf(1)
runs tha fuck into a sick tabular
format.  It takes tha thangs up in dis biatch up in each file, fills up in any missin test thangs up in dis biatch if
necessary, n' fo' each test shows tha objects/second rate of each server.
If invoked wit tha -r or -ro options, it shows tha relatizzle performance
of each server ta tha straight-up original gangsta server.
.PP
Normally,
.I x11perfcomp
uses tha straight-up original gangsta file specified ta determine which specific tests it should
report on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Some (non-DEC WHAT! servers may fail ta perform
all tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  In dis case,
.I x11perfcomp
automatically substitutes up in a rate of 0.0 objects/second.
Since tha straight-up original gangsta file
determines which tests ta report on, dis file must contain a superset of
the tests reported up in tha other files, else
.I x11perfcomp
will fail.
.PP
Yo ass can provide a explicit list of tests ta report on
by rockin tha -l switch ta specify a gangbangin' file of labels.  Yo ass can create a label
file by rockin tha -label option in
.I x11perf.
.SH OPTIONS
.I x11perfcomp
accepts tha options listed below:
.TP 16
.B \-r
Specifies dat tha output should also include relatizzle server
performance.
.TP 16
.B \-ro
Specifies dat tha output should include only relatizzle server performance.
.TP 16
.B \-l label_file
Specifies a label file ta use.
.SH X DEFAULTS
There is no X defaults used by dis program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), x11perf(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Moraes freestyled tha original gangsta scripts ta compare servers.
.br
Joel McCormack just munged dem together a funky-ass bit.
