.\" $XConsortium: xbiff.man,v 1.22 94/04/17 20:43:28 gildea Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1988  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xbiff/xbiff.man,v 1.3 2001/01/27 18:21:08 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XBIFF 1 "xbiff 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xbiff \- mailbox flag fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xbiff
[ \-\fItoolkitoption\fP ... ] [ \fI\-option\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xbiff
program displays a lil image of a mailbox.  When there is no mail,
the flag on tha mailbox is down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  When mail arrives, tha flag goes up
and tha mailbox beeps.  By default, pressin any mouse button up in the
image forces \fIxbiff\fP ta remember tha current size of tha mail file
as bein tha ``empty'' size n' ta lower tha flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xbiff
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options along wit the
additionizzle options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option indicates dat a funky-ass brief summary of tha allowed options should be
printed on tha standard error.
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies tha frequency up in secondz at which \fIxbiff\fP
should update its display.  If tha mailbox is obscured n' then exposed,
it is ghon be updated immediately.  Da default is 30 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfilename\fP
This option specifies tha name of tha file which should be monitored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By
default it watches yo' inbox up in tha default location fo' your
system (some examplez are
.RI /var/mail/ username ,
.RI /usr/spool/mail/ username ,
.RI /var/spool/mail/ username
(where
.I username
is yo' login name).  If tha MAIL environment variable is set,
the file specified by it is ghon be monitored.
.TP 8
.B \-volume \fIpercentage\fP
This option specifies how tha fuck bangin tha bell should be rung when freshly smoked up mail comes in.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
This option indicates dat tha mailbox window should be shaped if masks for
the empty or full images is given.
.PP
Da followin standard X Toolkit command line arguments is commonly used with
.I xbiff:
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies tha X server ta contact.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This option specifies tha preferred size n' posizzle of tha mailbox window.
Da mailbox is 48 pixels wide n' 48 pixels high n' is ghon be centered in
the window.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies tha color ta use fo' tha background of tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies tha color ta use fo' tha border of tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fInumber\fP
This option specifies tha width up in pixelz of tha border surroundin tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies tha color ta use fo' tha foreground of tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option indicates dat reverse vizzle should be simulated by swapping
the foreground n' background colors.
.TP 8
.B \-xrm \fIresourcestring\fP
This option specifies a resource strang ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is especially
useful fo' settin resources dat aint gots separate command line options.
.SH X DEFAULTS
Da application class name is XBiff.
This program uses the
.I Mailbox
widget.
It understandz all of tha core resource names and
classes as well as:
.PP
.TP 8
.B checkCommand (\fPclass\fB CheckCommand)
Specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command ta be executed ta check fo' freshly smoked up mail rather than
examinin tha size of \fBfile\fP.  Da specified strang value is used as the
argument ta a \fIsystem\fP(3) call n' may therefore contain i/o redirection.
An exit statuz of 0 indicates dat freshly smoked up mail is waiting, 1 indicates dat there
has been no chizzle up in size, n' 2 indicates dat tha mail has been cleared.
By default, no shell command is provided.
.TP 8
.B file (\fPclass\fB File)
Specifies tha name of tha file ta monitor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da default be as busted lyrics about
above fo' the
.B \-file
command line option.
.TP 8
.B onceOnly (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies dat tha bell is only rung tha last time freshly smoked up mail is found
and aint rung again n' again n' again until at least one interval has passed with
no mail waiting.  Da window will continue ta indicate tha presence
of freshly smoked up mail until it has been retrieved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is false.
.TP 8
.B width (\fPclass\fB Width)
Specifies tha width of tha mailbox.
.TP 8
.B height (\fPclass\fB Height)
Specifies tha height of tha mailbox.
.TP 8
.B update (\fPclass\fB Interval)
Specifies tha frequency up in secondz at which tha mail should be checked.
Da default is 30.
.TP 8
.B volume (\fPclass\fB Volume)
Specifies how tha fuck bangin tha bell should be rung.  Da default is 33 cement.
.TP 8
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies tha color fo' tha foreground.
.TP 8
.B reverseVideo (\fPclass\fB ReverseVideo)
Specifies dat tha foreground n' background should be reversed.
.TP 8
.B flip (\fPclass\fB Flip)
Specifies whether or not tha image dat is shown when mail has arrived
should be inverted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da default is ``true.''
.TP 8
.B fullPixmap (\fPclass\fB Pixmap)
Specifies a funky-ass bitmap ta be shown when freshly smoked up mail has arrived.
Da default is flagup.
.TP 8
.B emptyPixmap (\fPclass\fB Pixmap)
Specifies a funky-ass bitmap ta be shown when no freshly smoked up mail is present.
Da default is flagdown.
.TP 8
.B shapeWindow (\fPclass\fB ShapeWindow)
Specifies whether or not tha mailbox window should be shaped ta the
given fullPixmapMask n' emptyPixmapMask.  Da default is false.
.TP 8
.B fullPixmapMask (\fPclass\fB PixmapMask)
Specifies a mask fo' tha bitmap ta be shown when freshly smoked up mail has arrived.
Da default is none.
.TP 8
.B emptyPixmapMask (\fPclass\fB PixmapMask)
Specifies a mask fo' tha bitmap ta be shown when no freshly smoked up mail is present.
Da default is none.
.SH ACTIONS
Da \fIMailbox\fP widget serves up tha followin actions fo' use up in event
translations:
.TP 8
.B check()
This action causes tha widget ta check fo' freshly smoked up mail n' display tha flag
appropriately.
.TP 8
.B unset()
This action causes tha widget ta lower tha flag until freshly smoked up mail comes in.
.TP 8
.B set()
This action causes tha widget ta raise tha flag until tha user resets dat shit.
.PP
Da default translation is
.sp
.nf
        <ButtonPress>:  unset()
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7),
xrdb(1),
stat(2)
.SH BUGS
Da mailbox bitmaps is skanky.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.br
Additionizzle hacks by Ralph Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
