.\" 
.\"
.\" xclip.man - xclip manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Kim Saunders
.\" Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Peta Åstrand
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH XCLIP 1
.SH NAME
xclip \- command line intercourse ta X selections (clipboard)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xclip
[OPTION] [FILE]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Readz from standard in, or from one or mo' files, n' make tha data available as a X selection fo' pastin tha fuck into X applications. Prints current X selection ta standard out.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-in\fR
read text tha fuck into X selection from standard input or filez (default)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-out\fR
print tha selection ta standard up (generally fo' pipin ta a gangbangin' file or program)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-filter\fR
when xclip is invoked up in tha up in mode wit output level set ta silent (the defaults), tha filta option will cause xclip ta print tha text piped ta standard up in back ta standard up unmodified
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-loops\fR
number of X selection requests (pastes tha fuck into X applications) ta wait fo' before exiting, wit a value of 0 (default) causin xclip ta wait fo' a unlimited number of requests until another application (possibly another invocation of xclip) takes ballershizzle of tha selection
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-target\fR
specify a particular data format rockin tha given target atom.  With \fB\-o\fR tha special target atom name "TARGETS" can be used ta git a list of valid target atoms fo' dis selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For mo' shiznit bout target atoms refer ta ICCCM section 2.6.2
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-display\fR
X display ta use (e.g. "localhost:0"), xclip defaults ta tha value up in $\fBDISPLAY\fR if dis option is omitted
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-help\fR
show quick summary of options
.TP
\fB\-selection\fR
specify which X selection ta use, options is "primary" ta use XA_PRIMARY (default), "secondary" fo' XA_SECONDARY or "clipboard" fo' XA_CLIPBOARD
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
show version shiznit
.TP
\fB\-silent\fR
fork tha fuck into tha background ta wait fo' requests, no shiznital output, errors only (default)
.TP
\fB\-quiet\fR
show shiznital lyrics on tha terminal n' run up in tha foreground
.TP
\fB\-verbose\fR
provide a hustlin commentary of what tha fuck xclip is bustin
.TP
\fB\-noutf8\fR
operate up in legacy (i.e. non UTF-8) mode fo' backwardz compatibility
(Use dis option only when straight-up necessary, as tha oldschool behavior was broken)

.PP
xclip readz text from standard up in or filez n' make it available ta other X applications fo' pastin as a X selection (traditionally wit tha middle mouse button). Well shiiiit, it readz from all filez specified, or from standard up in if no filez is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! xclip can also print tha contentz of a selection ta standard up wit the
.B
\-o
option.

xclip was designed ta allow tighta integration of X applications n' command line programs. Da default action is ta silently wait up in tha background fo' X selection requests (pastes) until another X application places data up in tha clipboard, at which point xclip exits silently. Yo ass can use tha \fB\-verbose\fR option ta peep if n' when xclip straight-up receives selection requests from other X applications.

Options can be abbreviated as long as they remain unambiguous. For example, it is possible ta use \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-disp\fR instead of \fB\-display\fR. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat \fB\-v\fR couldn't be used cuz it be ambiguous (it could be short fo' \fB\-verbose\fR or \fB\-version\fR), so it would be interpreted as a gangbangin' filename.

Note dat only tha straight-up original gangsta characta of tha selection specified wit tha \fB\-selection\fR option is blingin. This means dat "p", "sec" n' "clip" would have tha same effect as rockin "primary", "secondary" or "clipboard" respectively.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
I don't give a fuck bout playa pages without examples!

.B
uptime | xclip
.PP
Put yo' uptime up in tha X selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Then middle click up in a X application ta paste.

.B xclip -loops 10 -verbose /etc/motd
.PP
Exit afta /etc/motd (message of tha day) has been pasted 10 times. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Show how tha fuck nuff selection requests (pastes) done been processed.

.B xclip -o > helloworld.c
.PP
Put tha contentz of tha selection tha fuck into a gangbangin' file.

.B xclip -t text/html index.html
.PP
Middle click up in a X application supportin HTML ta paste tha contentz of tha given file as HTML.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM
\fBDISPLAY\fR
X display ta use if none is specified wit the
.B
\-display
option.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report any bugs, problems, queries, experiences, etc. directly ta tha lyricist.

.SH AUTHORS
Kim Saundaz <kims@debian.org>
Peta Åstrand <astrand@lysator.liu.se>
.br
