.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH XCLIPBOARD 1 "xclipboard 1.1.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xclipboard \- X clipboard client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxclipboard\fP [ \fI\-toolkitoption\fP ... ] [ \fB\-w\fP ]
[ \fB\-nw\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxclipboard\fP program is used ta collect n' display text selections
that is busted ta tha CLIPBOARD by other clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It be typically used to
save CLIPBOARD selections fo' lata use.  It stores each CLIPBOARD selection
as a separate string, each of which can be selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Each time CLIPBOARD
is asserted by another application, \fIxclipboard\fP transfers tha contents
of dat selection ta a freshly smoked up buffer n' displays it up in tha text window.
Buffers is never automatically deleted, so you gonna wanna use tha delete
button ta git rid of useless items.
.PP
Since \fIxclipboard\fP uses a Text Widget ta display tha contentz of the
clipboard, text busted ta tha CLIPBOARD may be re-selected fo' use up in other
applications.  \fIxclipboard\fP also respondz ta requests fo' tha CLIPBOARD
selection from other clients by bustin  tha entire contentz of tha currently
displayed buffer.
.PP
An \fIxclipboard\fP window has tha followin buttons across tha top:
.TP 8
.I quit
When dis button is pressed, \fIxclipboard\fP exits.
.TP 8
.I delete
When dis button is pressed, tha current buffer is deleted n' the
next one displayed.
.TP 8
.I new
Creates a freshly smoked up buffer wit no contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Useful up in constructin a new
CLIPBOARD selection by hand.
.TP 8
.I save
Displays a File Save dialog box.
Pressin tha Accept button saves tha currently
displayed buffer ta tha file specified up in tha text field.
.TP 8
.I next
Displays tha next buffer up in tha list.
.TP 8
.I previous
Displays tha previous buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIxclipboard\fP program accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command
line options as well as tha following:
.TP 8
.B \-w
This option indicates dat linez of text dat is too long ta be displayed on
one line up in tha clipboard should wrap round ta tha followin lines.
.TP 8
.B \-nw
This option indicates dat long linez of text should not wrap around. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
is tha default behavior.
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know tha hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxclipboard\fR.  In tha notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name
is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i 1.0i 1.5i
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i
XClipboard  xclipboard
	Form  form
		Command  Quit
		Command  delete
		Command  new
		Command  Save
		Command  next
		Command  prev
		Label  index
		Text  text
	TransientShell  fileDialogShell
		Dialog  fileDialog
			Label  label
			Command  accept
			Command  cancel
			Text value
	TransientShell  failDialogShell
		Dialog  failDialog
			Label  label
			Command  continue
.fi
.sp
.SH SENDING/RETRIEVING CLIPBOARD CONTENTS
Text is copied ta tha clipboard whenever a cold-ass lil client asserts ballershizzle of the
\fBCLIPBOARD\fP selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Text is copied from tha clipboard whenever a
client requests tha contentz of tha \fBCLIPBOARD\fP selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Examplez of
event bindings dat a user may wish ta include up in a resource configuration
file ta use tha clipboard are:
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i
.ta .5i 3.0i
*VT100.Translations: #override \\
	<Btn3Up>:	select-end(CLIPBOARD) \\n\\
	<Btn2Up>:	insert-selection(PRIMARY,CLIPBOARD) \\n\\
	<Btn2Down>:	ignore ()

.fi
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xcutsel(1), xterm(1), individual client documentation fo' how tha fuck ta make a
selection n' bust it ta tha CLIPBOARD.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XClipboard
specifies required resources
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph R. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
.br
Chris D. Peterson, MIT X Consortium
.br
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
