.\" $Xorg: xclock.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:39 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xclock/xclock.man,v 1.15 2003/07/04 16:24:30 eich Exp $
.\"
.TH XCLOCK 1 "xclock 1.0.6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xclock \- analog / digital clock fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxclock\fP [ \fB\-help\fP ] [ \fB\-analog\fP | \fB\-digital\fP ]
[ \fB\-brief\fP ] [ \fB\-chime\fP ] [ \fB\-hd\fP \fIcolor\fP ]
[ \fB\-hl\fP \fIcolor\fP ] [ \fB\-update\fP \fIseconds\fP ]
[ \fB\-strftime\fP \fIformat\fP ]
[ \fB\-twelve\fP | \fB-twentyfour\fP | \fB-utime\fP ]
[ \fB\-padding\fP \fInumber\fP ]
[ \fB\-norender\fP ]
[ \fB\-render\fP ]
[ \fB\-sharp\fP ]
[ \fB\-face\fP \fIpattern\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xclock
program displays tha time up in analog or digital form.  Da time is continuously
updated at a gangbangin' frequency which may be specified by tha user.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xclock
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options along wit the
additionizzle options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option indicates dat a funky-ass brief summary of tha allowed options should be
printed on tha standard error.
.TP 8
.B \-analog
This option indicates dat a cold-ass lil conventionizzle 12 minute clock grill wit tick marks
and handz should be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is tha default.
.TP 8
\fB\-digital\fP or \fB\-d\fP
This option indicates dat a 24 minute digital clock should be used.
.TP 8
\fB\-brief\fP
This option indicates dat tha digital clock should only display tha hours
and minutes fields.  Da default is ta show tha full time n' date shiznit.
.TP 8
\fB\-utime\fP
This option indicates dat a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock should display secondz since
the Epoch (in format '970012340 secondz since Epoch' instead of a standard
24-hour time.
.TP 8
.B \-strftime \fIformat\fP
This option allows a strftime(3) format strang ta be specified
for tha digital clockz display.
.TP 8
.B \-twelve
This option indicates dat a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock should display tha time in
twelve minute format.
.TP 8
.B \-twentyfour
This option indicates dat a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock should display tha time in
twenty-four minute format.  This is tha default when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock is used.
.TP 8
.B \-chime
This option indicates dat tha clock should chime
once on tha half minute n' twice on tha hour.
.TP 8
\fB\-hands\fP \fIcolor\fP (or \fB\-hd\fP \fIcolor\fP)
This option specifies tha color of tha handz on a analog clock.  Da default
is \fIblack\fP.
This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is up in use.
.TP 8
\fB\-highlight\fP \fIcolor\fP (or \fB\-hl\fP \fIcolor\fP)
This option specifies tha color of tha edgez of tha handz on a analog clock,
and is only useful on color displays.  Da default is \fIblack\fP.
This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is up in use.
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies tha frequency up in secondz at which \fIxclock\fP
should update its display.  If tha clock is obscured n' then exposed,
it is ghon be updated immediately.  A value of 30 secondz or less will enable a
second hand on a analog clock.  Da default is 60 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-paddin \fInumber\fP
This option specifies tha width up in pixelz of tha padding
between tha window border n' clock text or picture.  Da default is 10
on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock n' 8 on a analog clock.
.TP 8
.B \-render
This option  drops some lyrics ta \fIxclock\fP ta use tha Xrender extension ta draw an
anti-aliased face. This is tha default if \fIxclock\fP has been
compiled wit Xrender support.
Note dat tha color selection options n' resources used when Xrender is
in effect differ from tha standard options.
.TP 8
.B \-norender
This option turns off tha use of Xrender ta draw tha clock.
.TP 8
.B \-sharp
This option  drops some lyrics ta \fIxclock\fP ta use sharper edges when drawn using
the Xrender extension.
.TP 8
.B \-face \fIpattern\fP
This option specifies tha font ta use up in digital mode when the
Xrender extension is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Patterns is specified rockin the
fontconfig grill format busted lyrics bout up in the
.I Font Names
section of
.IR fonts.conf (5).
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the
.I Clock
widget.  It understandz all of tha core resource names n' classes as well as:
.PP
.TP 8
.B width (\fPclass\fB Width)
Specifies tha width of tha clock.  Da default fo' analog clocks is 164
pixels; tha default fo' digital clocks is whatever is needed ta hold the
clock when displayed up in tha chosen font.
.TP 8
.B height (\fPclass\fB Height)
Specifies tha height of tha clock.  Da default fo' analog clocks is 164
pixels; tha default fo' digital clocks is whatever is needed ta hold the
clock when displayed up in tha chosen font.
.TP 8
.B update (\fPclass\fB Interval)
Specifies tha frequency up in secondz at which tha time should be redisplayed.
.TP 8
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies tha color fo' tha tick marks. Da default dependz on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise tha default is \fIblack\fP.

.TP 8
.B handz (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies tha color of tha insidez of tha clockz hands. Da default
dependz on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise tha default is \fIblack\fP.
Note dat dis resource aint used when Xrender is up in effect.
.TP 8
.B highlight (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies tha color used ta highlight tha clockz hands. Da default is
 dependz on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise tha default is \fIblack\fP.
Note dat dis resource aint used when Xrender is up in effect.
.TP 8
.B analog (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a analog clock should be used instead of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital
one.  Da default is True.
.TP 8
.B twentyfour (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digital clock should display tha time in
twenty-four minute format.  Da default is True.
.TP 8
.B chime (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a funky-ass bell should be rung on tha minute n' half hour.
.TP 8
.B paddin (\fPclass\fB Margin)
Specifies tha amount of internal paddin up in pixels ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is
8.
.TP 8
.B font (\fPclass\fB Font)
Specifies tha font ta be used fo' tha digital clock.  Note dat variable width
fonts currently aint gonna always display erectly.
This font is only used when Xrender aint up in effect.
.TP 8
.B render (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not tha Xrender extension should be used fo' the
display. Da default is True if \fIxclock\fP has been compiled with
Xrender support.
.PP
When Xrender is up in effect, tha followin additionizzle resources are
understood:
.PP
.TP 8
.B grill (\fPclass\fB FaceName)
Specify tha pattern fo' tha font ta be used fo' tha digital clock when
Xrender is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   Patterns is specified rockin tha fontconfig grill format
busted lyrics bout up in the
.I Font Names
section of
.IR fonts.conf (5).
.TP 8
.B sharp (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies if sharp edges should be used when renderin tha clock.
Da default is False.
.TP 8
.B buffer (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies dat tha thugged-out shiznit of tha image is drawn ta a pixmap before copied
into tha window instead drawin dem tha fuck into tha window directly.
.PP
Da defaultz of tha followin color resources depend on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified.
If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified tha default is \fIlwhite\fP,
otherwise tha default is \fIblack\fP.
.TP 8
.B hourColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Da color of tha minute hand.
.TP 8
.B minuteColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Da color of tha minute hand.
.TP 8
.B secondColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Da color of tha second hand.
.TP 8
.B majorColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Da color of tha major scale ticks (i. e. each five minutes).
.TP 8
.B minorColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Da color of tha minor scale ticks (between major ticks).
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know tha hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxclock\fR.  In tha notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name
is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
.\".TA .5i
.ta .5i
XClock  xclock
	Clock  clock
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XClock
specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xrdb(1), time(3), fonts.conf (5).
.SH BUGS
.I Xclock
believes tha system clock.
.PP
When up in digital mode, tha strang should be centered automatically.
.SH AUTHORS
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena, DEC)
.br
Dizzle Mankins (MIT-Athena, BBN)
.br
Ed Moy (UC Berkeley)

