.ds q \N'34'
.TH xcompmgr 1
.SH NAME
xcompmgr \- sample X compositin manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "xcompmgr [\-d " display "] [\-r " radius "]"
.BI "[\-o " opacitizzle "] [\-l " left-offset "]"
.BI "[\-t " top-offset "] [\-acCfFnsS]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xcompmgr
is a sample compositin manager fo' X servers supportin tha XFIXES, DAMAGE,
and COMPOSITE extensions.  It enablez basic eye-candy effects.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d\  display
Specifies tha display ta manage.
.TP
.BI \-r\  radius
Specifies tha blur radius fo' client-side shadows.
.TP
.BI \-o\  opacity
Specifies tha opacitizzle fo' client-side shadows.
.TP
.BI \-l\  left-offset
Specifies tha left offset fo' client-side shadows.
.TP
.BI \-t\  top-offset
Specifies tha top offset fo' client-side shadows.
.TP
.BI \-I\  fade-in-step
Specifies tha opacitizzle chizzle between steps while fadin in.
.TP
.BI \-O\  fade-out-step
Specifies tha opacitizzle chizzle between steps while fadin out.
.TP
.BI \-D\  fade-delta
Specifies tha time (in milliseconds) between steps up in a gangbangin' fade.
.TP
.BI \-a
Automatic server-side compositing.  This instructs tha server ta use the
standard composizzle rules.  Useful fo' debugging.
.TP
.BI \-c
Client-side compositin wit soft shadows n' translucency support.
.TP
.BI \-f
When \-c is specified, enablez a smooth fade effect fo' transient windows like
menus, n' fo' all windows on hide n' restore events.
.TP
.BI \-n
Simple client-side compositing.
.TP
.BI \-s
Server-side compositin wit hard-edged shadows.
.TP
.BI \-C
When \-c is specified, attempts ta avoid paintin shadows on panels n' docks.
.TP
.BI \-F
When \-f is specified, also enablez tha fade effect when windows chizzle their
opacity, as wit transset(1).
.TP
.BI \-S
Enablez synchronous operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful fo' debugging.
.SH BUGS
Probably.  Please report any you find ta http://bugs.freedesktop.org/.
.SH AUTHORS
Keith Packard, wit contributions from Matthew Allum, Eric Anholt, Don Juan Doel,
Thomas Luebking, Matthew Hawn, Ely Levy, Phil Blundell, n' Carl Worth.
