.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH XCONSOLE 1 "xconsole 1.0.5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xconsole \- monitor system console lyrics wit X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxconsole\fP [-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-file \fIfile-name\fP]
[-notify] [-stripNonprint] [-daemon] [-verbose] [-exitOnFail]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xconsole
program displays lyrics which is probably busted ta /dev/console.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xconsole
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options along wit the
additionizzle options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfile-name\fP
To monitor some other device, use dis option ta specify tha thang name.
This do not work on regular filez as they is always locked n loaded ta be read from.
.TP 8
.B \-notify \-nonotify
When freshly smoked up data is received from tha console n' tha notify option is set,
the icon name of tha application has " *" appended, so dat it is evident
even when tha application is iconified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  \-notify is tha default.
.TP 8
.B \-daemon
This option causes
.I xconsole
to place itself up in tha background, rockin fork/exit.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
When set, dis option directs
.I xconsole
to display a informatizzle message up in tha straight-up original gangsta line of tha text buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-exitOnFail
When set, dis option directs
.I xconsole
to exit when it is unable ta redirect tha console output.
.TP 8
.B \-saveLines \fIcount\fP
When set,
.I xconsole
only preserves
.I count
linez of message history instead of growin tha text buffer without bound
(a
.I count
of zero \- tha default \- is treated as placin no limit on tha history).
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the
.I Athena Text
widget, look up in the
.I Athena Widget Set
documentation fo' controllin dat shit.
.PP
.I Xconsole
otherwise accepts resourcez of tha same names as tha command-line options
(without tha leadin dash).  "file" be a strang type, "saveLines" an
integer, n' tha remainin options is booleans.
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know tha hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxconsole\fR.  In tha notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name
is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
XConsole  xconsole
     XConsole  text
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XConsole
specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xrdb(1), Athena Text widget
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard (MIT X Consortium)
