.\"
.\" Copyright 2002 Keith Packard.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation, n' dat tha name of Keith Packard not be used in
.\" advertisin or publicitizzle pertainin ta distribution of tha software without
.\" specific, freestyled prior permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Keith Packard make no
.\" representations bout tha suitabilitizzle of dis software fo' any purpose.  It
.\" is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" KEITH PACKARD DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL KEITH PACKARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xcursorgen/xcursorgen.man,v 1.1 2002/09/03 06:48:28 keithp Exp $
.\"
.TH XCURSORGEN 1 "xcursorgen 1.0.5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xcursorgen \- create a X cursor file from a cold-ass lil collection of PNG images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xcursorgen"
[ \fB\-V\fP ] [ \fB\-\-version\fP ] [ \fB\-?\fP ] [ \fB\-\-help\fP ]
[ \fB\-p\fP \fIdir\fP ] [ \fB\-\-prefix\fP \fIdir\fP ]
.RI "[ " config-file
.RI "[ " output-file " ] ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xcursorgen readz tha \fIconfig-file\fP ta find tha list of cursor images along
with they hotspot n' nominal size shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Xcursorgen converts all of
the images ta Xcursor format n' writes dem ta tha \fIoutput-file\fP.
.P
Each line up in tha config file iz of tha form:
.br
<size> <xhot> <yhot> <filename> <ms-delay>
.br
.P
Multiple images wit tha same <size> is used ta create animated cursors,
the <ms-delay> value on each line indicates how tha fuck long each image should be
displayed before switchin ta tha next.  <ms-delay> can be elided fo' static
cursors.
.P
If \fIconfig-file\fP aint specified, or is specified as "-",
standard input is used fo' tha configuration file.
If \fIoutput-file\fP aint specified, or is specified as "-",
standard output is used fo' tha output file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display tha version number n' exit.
.TP 8
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Display tha usage message n' exit.
.TP 8
.BR "\-p \fIdir\fP" ", " "\-\-prefix \fIdir\fP"
Find cursor images up in tha directory specified by \fIdir\fP.   If not specified,
the current directory is used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xcursor(3)
