.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH XCUTSEL 1 "xclipboard 1.1.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xcutsel - interchange between cut buffer n' selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxcutsel\fP [ \fI-toolkitoption\fP ...] [-selection \fIselection\fP] [-cutbuffer \fInumber\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxcutsel\fP program is used ta copy tha current selection tha fuck into a
cut buffer n' ta cook up a selection dat gotz nuff tha current contents of
the cut buffer n' shit.  It acts as a funky-ass bridge between applications dat don't support
selections n' dem dat do.
.PP
By default, \fIxcutsel\fP will use tha selection named PRIMARY n' tha cut
buffer CUT_BUFFER0.  Either or both of these can be overridden by command
line arguments or by resources.
.PP
An \fIxcutsel\fP window has tha followin buttons:
.TP 8
.I "    quit"
When dis button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Any selections held by
\fIxcutsel\fP is automatically busted out.
.TP 8
.I "    copy PRIMARY ta 0"
When dis button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP copies tha current selection into
the cut buffer.
.TP 8
.I "    copy 0 ta PRIMARY"
When dis button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP converts tha current contents of
the cut buffer tha fuck into tha selection.
.PP
Da button labels reflect tha selection n' cutbuffer selected by
command line options or all up in tha resource database.
.PP
When tha ``copy 0 ta PRIMARY'' button be activated, tha button will
remain inverted as long as \fIxcutsel\fP remains tha balla of the
selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This serves ta remind you which client owns tha current
selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note dat tha value of tha selection remains constant;
if tha cutbuffer is chizzled, you must again n' again n' again activate tha copy button
to retrieve tha freshly smoked up value when desired.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xcutsel
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options as well as the
following:
.TP 8
.B \-selection \fIname\fP
This option specifies tha name of tha selection ta use.  Da default is
PRIMARY.  Da only supported abbreviations fo' dis option is ``-select'',
``-sel'' n' ``-s'', as tha standard toolkit option ``-selectionTimeout'' has a
similar name.
.TP 8
.B \-cutbuffer \fInumber\fP
This option specifies tha cut buffer ta use.  Da default is cut buffer 0.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit resource names n' classes
as well as:
.TP 8
.B "selection (\fPclass\fB Selection)"
This resource specifies tha name of tha selection ta use.  Da default is
PRIMARY.
.TP 8
.B "cutBuffer (\fPclass\fB CutBuffer)"
This resource specifies tha number of tha cut buffer ta use.  Da default is 0.
.SH WIDGET NAMES
Da followin instizzle names may be used when user configuration of the
labels up in dem is desired:
.TP 8
.B "sel-cut (\fPclass\fB Command)"
This is tha ``copy SELECTION ta BUFFER'' button.
.TP 8
.B "cut-sel (\fPclass\fB Command)"
This is tha ``copy BUFFER ta SELECTION'' button.
.TP 8
.B "quit (\fPclass\fB Command)"
This is tha ``quit'' button.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xclipboard(1), xterm(1), text widget documentation, individual client
documentation fo' how tha fuck ta cook up a selection.
.SH BUGS
There is no way ta chizzle tha name of tha selection or tha number of the
cut buffer while tha program is hustlin.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph R. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
