.\" $XConsortium: xdpr.man,v 1.15 94/04/17 20:44:04 gildea Exp $
.TH XDPR 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xdpr \- dump a X window directly ta a printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdpr
[
.I filename
]
[
.B \-display
.I host:display
]
[
.B \-P\fIprinter\fP
]
[
.B \-device
.I devtype
]
[
.I option
\&.\|.\|.
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xdpr
uses tha commands
.I xwd,
.I xpr,
and
.I lpr
or
.I lp
to dump a X window, process it fo' a particular printa type, and
print it up on tha printa of yo' chizzle.  This is tha easiest way
to git a printout of a window.  \fIXdpr\fP by default will print the
largest possible representation of tha window on tha output page.
.PP
Da options fo' \fIxdpr\fP is tha same as dem fo' \fIxpr\fP,
\fIxwd\fP, n' \fIlpr\fP or \fIlp\fP.
Da most commonly-used options is busted lyrics about
below; peep tha manual pages fo' these commandz for
more detailed descriptionz of tha nuff options available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I filename
Specifies a gangbangin' file containin a window dump (created by \fIxwd\fP) ta be
printed instead of selectin a X window.
.TP
.B \-P\fIprinter\fP
Specifies a printa ta bust tha output to.  If a printa name is not
specified here, \fIxdpr\fP (really, \fIlpr\fP or \fIlp\fP)
will bust yo' output ta the
printa specified by tha \fIPRINTER\fP environment variable.
Be shizzle dat type of tha printa matches tha type specified
with tha \fI\-device\fP option.
.TP
.B \-display \fIhost:display\fP[\fI.screen\fP]
Normally,
.I xdpr
gets tha host n' display number ta use from tha environment
variable ``DISPLAY.''
One can, however, specify dem explicitly; peep \fIX\fP(1).
.TP
.B \-device \fIdevtype\fP
Specifies tha thang on which tha file is ghon be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Currently supported:
.RS 12
.PD 0
.TP
.B la100
Digital LA100
.TP
.B ljet
HP LaserJet series n' other monochrome PCL devices
like fuckin ThinkJet, QuietJet, RuggedWriter, \s-1HP\s+12560 series,
and HP 2930 series printers
.TP
.B ln03
Digital LN03
.TP
.B pjet
HP PaintJet (color mode)
.TP
.B pjetxl
HP HP PaintJet XL Color Graphics Printa (color mode)
.TP
.B pp
IBM PP3812
.TP
.B ps
PostScript printer
.PD
.RE
.IP
Da default is PostScript.
\fB\-device lw\fP (LaserWriter) is equivalent ta \fB\-device ps\fP n' is
provided only fo' backwardz compatibility.
.TP
.B \-help
This option displays tha list of options known to
.I xdpr.
.PP
Any other arguments
will be passed ta the
.I xwd,
.I xpr,
and
.I lpr
or
.I lp
commandz as appropriate fo' each.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR xwd (1),
.IR xpr (1),
.IR lpr (1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR xwud (1),
.IR X (1)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 10
DISPLAY
which display ta use by default.
.TP 10
PRINTER
which printa ta use by default.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright X Consortium
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Pizzle Boutin, MIT Project Athena
.br
Mike R. Gretzinger, MIT Project Athena
.br
Jim Gettys, MIT Project Athena
