.\" Copyright 1988, 1989, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XDPYINFO 1 "xdpyinfo 1.3.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xdpyinfo \- display shiznit utilitizzle fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xdpyinfo"
[\-display \fIdisplayname\fP]
[\-queryExtensions]
[\-ext \fIextension-name\fP]
[-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xdpyinfo
is a utilitizzle fo' displayin shiznit bout a X server n' shit.  It be used to
examine the
capabilitizzlez of a server, tha predefined joints fo' various parametas used
in communicatin between clients n' tha server, n' tha different types of
screens n' visuals dat is available.
.PP
By default, numeric shiznit (opcode, base event, base error) about
protocol extensions aint displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This shiznit can be obtained
with tha \fB\-queryExtensions\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Use of dis option on servers
that dynamically load extensions will likely cause all possible extensions
to be loaded, which can be slow n' can consume dope server resources.
.PP
Detailed shiznit on some particular extension is displayed wit the
\fB\-ext\fP \fIextensionName\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If \fIextensionName\fP is
\fBall\fP, shiznit bout all extensions supported by both \fIxdpyinfo\fP
and tha server is displayed.
.PP
If \fB-version\fP is specified, xdpyinfo prints its version n' exits, without
contactin tha X server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git tha default host, display number, n' screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR X (7),
.IR xprop (1),
.IR xrdb (1),
.IR xwininfo (1),
.IR xrandr (1),
.IR xdriinfo (1),
.IR xvinfo (1),
.IR glxinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.br
Support fo' tha XFree86-VidModeExtension, XFree86-DGA, XFree86-Misc,
and XKB extensions added by Joe Moss
