.TH XEV 1 "xev 1.2.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xev - print contentz of X events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xev"
[\-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [\-geometry \fIgeom\fP]
[\-bw \fIpixels\fP] [\-bs \fI{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}\fP]
[\-id \fIwindowid\fP] [\-root] [\-s] [\-name \fIstring\fP] [\-rv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIXev\fP creates a window n' then asks tha X server ta bust it
\fIevents\fP whenever anythang happens ta tha window (like fuckin it being
moved, resized, typed in, clicked in, etc.).  Yo ass can also attach it ta an
existin window.  It be useful fo' seein what tha fuck causes events ta occur n' to
display tha shiznit dat they contain; it is essentially a thugged-out debuggin and
development tool, n' should not be needed up in aiiight usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies tha X server ta contact.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeom\fP
This option specifies tha size and/or location of tha window, if a window is
to be pimped.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIpixels\fP
This option specifies tha border width fo' tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-bs \fI{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}\fP
This option specifies what tha fuck kind of backin store ta give tha window.
Da default is NotUseful naaahhmean? Backin store refers ta tha the pixels saved
off-screen when tha X server maintains tha contentz of a window; NotUseful
means dat tha xev process will redraw its contents itself, as necessary.
.TP 8
.B \-id \fIwindowid\fP
This option specifies dat tha window wit tha given id should be
monitored, instead of bustin a freshly smoked up window.
.TP 8
.B \-root
This option specifies dat tha root window should be
monitored, instead of bustin a freshly smoked up window.
.TP 8
.B \-s
This option specifies dat save-undaz should be enabled on tha window. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Save
undaz is similar ta backin store yo, but they refer rather ta tha savin of
pixels off-screen when tha current window obscures other windows. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Save
undaz is only advisory, n' is normally set fo' popup dialogs n' other
transient windows.
.TP 8
.B \-name \fIstring\fP
This option specifies tha name ta assign ta tha pimped window.
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option specifies dat tha window should be up in reverse vizzle.
.TP 8
.B \-event \fIevent_mask\fP
Select which events ta display.
The
.B \-event
option can be specified multiple times ta select multiple typez of events.
When not specified, all events is selected.
Available event masks: keyboard mouse expose visibilitizzle structure substructure
focus property colormap baller_grab_button randr
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xwininfo(1), xdpyinfo(1), Xlib Programmers Manual, X Protocol
Specification
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
