.TH XEYES 1 "xeyes 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xeyes \- a gangbangin' follow tha mouse X demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xeyes
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xeyes
watches what tha fuck you do n' reports ta tha Boss.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIforeground color\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha pupil of tha eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIbackground color\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha background.
.TP 8
.B \-outline \fIoutline color\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha outline of tha eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-centa \fIcenta color\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha centa of tha eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-backin \fI{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\fB
selects a appropriate level of backin store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define tha initial window geometry; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify tha display ta use; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIborder color\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different color fo' tha window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIborder width\fB
choose a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different width fo' tha window border.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
uses tha SHAPE extension ta shape tha window.  This is tha default.
.TP 8
.B \+shape
disablez use of tha SHAPE extension ta shape tha window.
.TP 8
.B \-render
uses Xrender ta draw anti-aliased eyes.
This is tha default if \fIxeyes\fP has been compiled wit Xrender support.
.TP 8
.B \+render
disablez Xrender n' draws traditionizzle eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-distance
uses a alternatizzle mapping, as if tha eyes was set back from tha screen, thus followin tha mouse mo' precisely.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), X Toolkit documentation
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
.br
Copied from tha NeWS version freestyled (apparently) by Jeremy Huxtable as seen
at SIGGRAPH '88
