.\" $Xorg: xfd.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:42 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xfd/xfd.man,v 1.9 2003/04/19 23:49:27 herrb Exp $
.\"
.TH XFD 1 "xfd 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xfd \- display all tha charactas up in a X font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfd
[\-options ...] \fB\-fn\fP \fIfontname\fP
.PP
.B xfd
[\-options ...] \fB\-fa\fP \fIfontname\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxfd\fP utilitizzle creates a window containin tha name of tha font being
displayed, a row of command buttons, nuff muthafuckin linez of text fo' displaying
characta metrics, n' a grid containin one glyph per cell.  The
charactas is shown up in increasin order from left ta right, top to
bottom.  Da first characta displayed all up in tha top left is ghon be character
number 0 unless tha \fB\-start\fP option has been supplied up in which case the
characta wit tha number given up in tha \fB\-start\fP option is ghon be used.
.PP
Da charactas is displayed up in a grid of boxes, each big-ass enough ta hold
any single characta up in tha font.  Each characta glyph is drawn using
the PolyText16 request (used by tha \fIXlib\fP routine \fBXDrawString16\fP)
or tha XftDrawString32 routine, dependin on whether tha \fB\-fn\fP or
\fB\-fa\fP option was given.
If tha \fB\-box\fP option is given, a rectangle is ghon be drawn round each
character, showin where a ImageText16 request (used by tha \fIXlib\fP
routine \fBXDrawImageString16\fP) would cause background color ta be displayed.
.PP
Da origin of each glyph is normally set so dat tha characta is drawn in
the upper left hand corner of tha grid cell.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if a glyph has a
negatizzle left bearin or a unusually big-ass ascent, descent, or right bearing
(as is tha case wit \fIcursor\fP font), some characta may not step tha fuck up in their
own grid cells.  Da \fB\-center\fP option may be used ta force all glyphs to
be centered up in they respectizzle cells.
.PP
All tha charactas up in tha font may not fit up in tha window at once.
To peep tha next page of glyphs, press tha \fINext\fP button all up in tha top
of tha window.  To peep tha previous page, press \fIPrev\fP.  To exit \fIxfd\fP,
press \fIQuit\fP.
.PP
Individual characta metrics (index, width, bearings, ascent n' descent) can
be displayed all up in tha top of tha window by clickin on tha desired character.
.PP
Da font name displayed all up in tha top of tha window is tha full name of the
font, as determined by tha server n' shit.  See \fIxlsfonts\fP n' \fIfc-list\fP
for ways ta generate listz of fonts, as well as mo' detailed summaries of
their metrics n' properties.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.I xfd
accepts all of tha standard toolkit command line options along with
the additionizzle options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
This option specifies tha core X server side font ta be displayed.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBfont\fP resource.  A font must be specified.
.TP 8
.B \-fa \fIfont\fP
This option specifies a Xft font ta be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBface\fP resource fo' realz. A font pattern must be specified.
.TP 8
.B \-box
This option indicates dat a funky-ass box should be displayed outlinin tha area
that would be filled wit background color by a ImageText request.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBboxChars\fP resource.  Da default is False.
.TP 8
.B \-center
This option indicates dat each glyph should be centered up in its grid.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBcenterChars\fP resource.  Da default is False.
.TP 8
.B \-start \fInumber\fP
This option specifies tha glyph index of tha upper left hand corner of the
grid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is used ta view charactas at arbitrary locations up in tha font.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBstartChar\fP resource.  Da default is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-bc \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies tha color ta be used if ImageText boxes is drawn.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBboxColor\fP resource.
.TP 8
.B \-rows \fInumrows\fP
This option specifies tha number of rows up in tha grid.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBcellRows\fP resource.
.TP 8
.B \-columns \fInumcols\fP
This option specifies tha number of columns up in tha grid.
This can also be set with
the FontGrid \fBcellColumns\fP resource.
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know the
widgets which compose \fIxfd\fR.  In tha notation below, indentation
indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name is given first,
followed by tha widget instizzle name.
Da application class name is Xfd.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i 3.5i 4.0i 4.5i 5.0i 5.5i 6.0i 6.5i 7.0i
Xfd  xfd
	Paned  pane
		Label  fontname
		Box  box
			Command  quit
			Command  prev
			Command  next
		Label  select
		Label  metrics
		Label  range
		Label  start
		Form  form
			FontGrid  grid
.fi
.SH FONTGRID RESOURCES
Da FontGrid widget be a application-specific widget, n' a subclass
of tha Simple widget up in tha Athena widget set.  Da effects and
instizzle namez of dis widgetz resources is given up in the
\fBOPTIONS\fP section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Capitalize tha straight-up original gangsta letta of tha resource
instizzle name ta git tha correspondin class name.
.SH APPLICATION SPECIFIC RESOURCES
Da instizzle namez of tha application specific resources
are given below.  Capitalize tha straight-up original gangsta letta of tha resource
instizzle name ta git tha correspondin class name.
These resources is unlikely ta be bangin-ass unless yo ass is localizing
xfd fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different language.
.TP 8
.B selectFormat
Specifies a printf-style format strang used ta display shiznit
about tha selected character n' shit.  Da default is "characta 0x%02x%02x
(%u,%u) (%#o,%#o)".  Da arguments dat will come afta tha format strang are
char.byte1, char.byte2, char.byte1, char.byte2, char.byte1, char.byte2.
char.byte1 is byte 1 of tha selected character.
char.byte2 is byte 2 of tha selected character.
.TP 8
.B metricsFormat
Specifies a printf-style format strang used ta display character
metrics.  Da default is "width %d; left %d, right %d; ascent %d,
descent %d (font %d, %d)".  Da arguments dat will come afta the
format strang is tha characta metrics width, lbearing, rbearing,
characta ascent, characta descent, font ascent, n' font descent.
.TP 8
.B rangeFormat
Specifies a printf-style format strang used ta display tha range of
charactas currently bein displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is "range:
0x%02x%02x (%u,%u) thru 0x%02x%02x (%u,%u)".  Da arguments dat will
come afta tha format strang is tha followin fieldz from the
XFontStruct dat is returned from openin tha font:
min_byte1, min_char_or_byte2, min_byte1, min_char_or_byte2,
max_byte1, max_char_or_byte2, max_byte1, max_char_or_byte2.
.TP 8
.B startFormat
Specifies a printf-style format strang used ta display shiznit
about tha characta all up in tha upper left corner of tha font grid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
default is "upper left: 0x%04x (%d,%d)".  Da arguments dat will come
afta tha format strang is tha freshly smoked up character, tha high byte of tha new
character, n' tha low byte of tha freshly smoked up character.
.TP 8
.B nocharFormat
Specifies a printf-style format strang ta display when tha selected
characta do not exist.  Da default is "no such character
0x%02x%02x (%u,%u) (%#o,%#o)".  Da arguments dat will come afta the
format strang is tha same as fo' tha \fBselectFormat\fP resource.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xlsfonts(1), xrdb(1), xfontsel(1), fc-list(1),
fonts.conf(5),
.I "X Logical Font Description Conventions"
.SH "BUGS"
Da program should skip over pages full of non-existent characters.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium; previous program of tha same name by
Mark Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena.

