.\" Copyright (c) 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XFONTSEL 1 "xfontsel 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xfontsel \- point n' click selection of X11 font names
.SH SYNTAX
.PP
\fBxfontsel\fP [-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...]
[\fB-pattern \fIfontname\fP]
[\fB-print\fP]
[\fB-sample \fItext\fP]
[\fB-sample16 \fItext16\fP]
[\fB-sampleUCS \fItextUCS\fP]
[\fB-scaled\fP]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da \fIxfontsel\fP application serves up a simple way ta display
the fonts known ta yo' X server, examine samplez of each, and
retrieve tha X Logical Font Description ("XLFD") full name fo' a gangbangin' font.
.PP
If \fB-pattern\fP aint specified, all fonts wit XLFD 14-part
names is ghon be selectable.  To work wit only a subset of the
fonts, specify \fB-pattern\fP followed by a partially or fully
qualified font name; e.g., ``-pattern *medium*'' will
select dat subset of fonts which contain tha strang ``medium''
somewhere up in they font name.  Be careful bout escaping
wildcard charactas up in yo' shell.
.PP
If \fB-print\fP is specified on tha command line tha selected
font specifier is ghon be freestyled ta standard output when tha \fIquit\fP
button be activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Regardless of whether or not \fB-print\fP was
specified, tha font specifier may be made tha PRIMARY (text)
selection by activatin tha \fIselect\fP button.
.PP
Da \fB-sample\fP option specifies tha sample text ta be used to
display tha selected font if tha font is linearly indexed,
overridin tha default.
.PP
Da \fB-sample16\fP option specifies tha sample text ta be used to
display tha selected font if tha font is matrix encoded,
overridin tha default.
.PP
Da \fB-sampleUCS\fP option specifies tha sample text encoded up in tha UTF-8
form ta be used ta display tha selected font if tha font has a
CHARSET_REGISTRY of ISO10646, overridin tha default.
.PP
Da \fB-scaled\fP option enablez tha mobilitizzle ta select scaled fonts
at arbitrary pixel or point sizes.
.PP
.SH INTERACTIONS
.PP
Clickin any pointa button up in one of tha XLFD field names will pop up
a menu of tha currently-known possibilitizzles fo' dat field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If
previous chizzlez of other fieldz was made, only joints
for fonts which matched tha previously selected fieldz will be
selectable; ta make other joints selectable, you must deselect
some other field(s) by choosin tha ``*'' entry up in dat field.
Unselectable joints may be omitted from tha menu entirely as
a configuration option; peep tha \fBShowUnselectable\fP resource, below.
Whenever any chizzle is made ta a gangbangin' field value, \fIxfontsel\fP will
assert ballershizzle of tha PRIMARY_FONT selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Other applications
(see, e.g., \fIxterm\fP) may then retrieve tha selected font justification.
.PP
Scalable fonts come back from tha server wit zero fo' tha pixel size,
point size, n' average width fields.  Selectin a gangbangin' font name wit a
zero up in these positions thangs up in dis biatch up in a implementation-dependent size.
Any pixel or point size can be selected ta scale tha font ta a particular
size.  Any average width can be selected ta anamorphically scale tha font
(although you may find dis challengin given tha size of tha average
width menu).
.PP
Clickin tha left pointa button up in tha \fIselect\fP widget will
cause tha currently selected font name ta become tha PRIMARY text
selection as well as tha PRIMARY_FONT selection.
This then allows you ta paste tha strang tha fuck into other
applications.  Da \fBselect\fP button remains
highlighted ta remind you of dis fact, n' de-highlights when
some other application takes tha PRIMARY selection away.  The
\fIselect\fP widget be a toggle; pressin it when it is highlighted
will cause \fIxfontsel\fP ta release tha selection ballershizzle and
de-highlight tha widget.  Activatin tha \fIselect\fP widget twice
is tha only way ta cause \fIxfontsel\fP ta release the
PRIMARY_FONT selection.
.PP
.SH RESOURCES
.PP
Da application class is \fBXFontSel\fP.  Most of tha user-interface
is configured up in tha app-defaults file; if dis file is missing
a warnin message is ghon be printed ta standard output n' the
resultin window is ghon be nearly incomprehensible.
.PP
Most of tha dope partz of tha widget hierarchy is documented
in
.IR /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XFontSel ,
.PP
Application specific resources:
.PP
.TP 8
.B "cursor (\fPclass\fB Cursor)"
Specifies tha cursor fo' tha application window.
.TP 8
.B "pattern (\fPclass\fB Pattern)"
Specifies tha font name pattern fo' selectin a subset of
available fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Equivalent ta tha \fB-pattern\fP option.
Most useful patterns will contain at least one field
delimiter; e.g. ``*-m-*'' fo' monospaced fonts.
.TP 8
.B "pixelSizeList (\fPclass\fB PixelSizeList)"
Specifies a list of pixel sizes ta add ta tha pixel size menu,
so dat scalable fonts can be selected at dem pixel sizes.
Da default pixelSizeList gotz nuff 7, 30, 40, 50, n' 60.
.TP 8
.B "pointSizeList (\fPclass\fB PointSizeList)"
Specifies a list of point sizes (in unitz of tenthz of points) ta add to
the point size menu, so dat scalable fonts can be selected at them
point sizes.  Da default pointSizeList gotz nuff 250, 300, 350, n' 400.
.TP 8
.B "printOnQuit (\fPclass\fB PrintOnQuit)"
If \fITrue\fP tha currently selected font name is printed
to standard output when tha quit button be activated.
Equivalent ta tha \fB-print\fP option.
.TP 8
.B "sampleText (\fPclass\fB Text)"
Da sample 1-byte text ta use fo' linearly indexed fonts.
Each glyph index be a single byte, wit newline separatin lines.
.TP 8
.B "sampleText16 (\fPclass\fB Text16)"
Da sample 2-byte text ta use fo' matrix-encoded fonts.
Each glyph index is two bytes, wit a 1-byte newline separatin lines.
.TP 8
.B "scaledFonts (\fPclass\fB ScaledFonts)"
If \fITrue\fP then selection of arbitrary pixel n' point sizes for
scalable fonts is enabled.
.PP
Widget specific resources:
.PP
.TP 8
.B "showUnselectable (\fPclass\fB ShowUnselectable)"
Specifies, fo' each field menu, whether or not ta show joints that
are not currently selectable, based upon previous field selections.
If shown, tha unselectable joints is clearly identified as such
and do not highlight when tha pointa is moved down tha menu.
Da full name of dis resource is \fBfieldN.menu.options.showUnselectable\fP,
class \fBMenuButton.SimpleMenu.Options.ShowUnselectable\fP;
where N is replaced wit tha field
number (startin wit tha left-most field numbered 0).
Da default is True fo' all but field 11 (average width of characters
in font) n' False fo' field 11.  If you never wanna see
unselectable entries, '*menu.options.showUnselectable:False' is
a reasonable thang ta specify up in a resource file.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
 $XFILESEARCHPATH/XFontSel
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
xrdb(1), xfd(1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
Sufficiently ambiguous patterns can be misinterpreted n' lead ta an
initial selection strang which may not correspond ta what tha fuck tha user intended
and which may cause tha initial sample text output ta fail ta match
the proffered string.  Selectin any freshly smoked up field value will erect the
sample output, though possibly resultin up in no matchin font.
.PP
Should be able ta return a FONT fo' tha PRIMARY selection, not
just a STRING.
.PP
Any chizzle up in a gangbangin' field value will cause \fIxfontsel\fP ta assert
ballershizzle of tha PRIMARY_FONT selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Perhaps dis should
be parameterized.
.PP
When hustlin on a slow machine, it is possible fo' tha user to
request a gangbangin' field menu before tha font names done been straight-up
parsed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  An error message indicatin a missin menu is printed
to stderr but otherwise not a god damn thang wack (or good) happens.
.PP
Da average-width menu is too big-ass ta be useful.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, 1991,  X Consortium
.PP
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Ralph R. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Swick, Digital Weapons Corporation/MIT Project Athena
.PP
Mark Leisher <mleisher@crl.nmsu.edu> added tha support fo' tha UTF-8 sample
text.
