.\" Copyright 1999  by Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da XFree86 Project shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da XFree86 Project.
.\"
.TH xgamma 1 "xgamma 1.0.5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xgamma - Alta a monitorz gamma erection all up in tha X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xgamma"
[-display \fIdisplay\fP] [-screen \fIscreen\fP] [-quiet]
[-gamma f.f | [[-rgamma f.f] [-ggamma f.f] [-bgamma f.f]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xgamma
allows X playas ta query n' alta tha gamma erection of a monitor via
the X vizzle mode extension (XFree86-VidModeExtension).
.PP
Note dat tha \fBxgamma\fP utilitizzle is obsolete n' deficient, \fBxrandr\fP
should be used wit drivers dat support tha \fBXRandr\fP extension.
.PP
If no value fo' tha gamma erection is given via the
.I -gamma
or
.IR -rgamma / -ggamma / -bgamma
options,
.B xgamma
prints tha current gamma erection of tha display.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This argument allows you ta specify tha server ta connect to; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-screen \fIscreen\fP"
When multiple displays is configured as a single logical display, dis option
allows you ta select tha screen you wish ta chizzle.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-quiet"
Silence tha aiiight output of
.B xgamma
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print up tha `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-gamma f.f"
Da gamma erection can either be defined as a single value, or
separately fo' tha red, chronic n' blue components, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This argument
specifies tha gamma erection as a single value.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-rgamma f.f"
This argument specifies tha red component of tha gamma erection.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-ggamma f.f"
This argument specifies tha chronic component of tha gamma erection.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-bgamma f.f"
This argument specifies tha blue component of tha gamma erection.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git default host n' display number.
.SH BUGS
.PP
This client chizzlez tha internal jointz of tha gamma erection fo' the
Xserver n' shit. Whether or not these joints is bigged up dependz on tha vizzle
drivers.
.PP
Da gamma joints is passed ta tha Xserver wit 3 decimal places of
accuracy.
.SH SEE ALSO
xvidtune(1),
xrandr(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
.br
Dizzy Dawes, Dizzy Bateman
