.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps
.\" ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice(s) n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies of
.\" tha Software n' dat both tha above copyright notice(s) n' this
.\" permission notice step tha fuck up in supportin documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of a cold-ass lil copyright holder
.\" shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use
.\" or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" of tha copyright holder.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XHOST 1 "xhost 1.0.6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xhost \- server access control program fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xhost
[[+\-]name ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxhost\fP program
is used ta add n' delete host names or user names ta tha list allowed
to make connections ta tha X server n' shit.  In tha case of hosts, dis provides
a rudimentary form of privacy control n' security.  It be only sufficient
for a workstation (single user) environment, although it do limit the
worst abuses.  Environments which require mo' sophisticated measures should
implement tha user-based mechanizzle or use tha hooks up in the
protocol fo' passin other authentication data ta tha server.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIXhost\fP accepts tha followin command line options busted lyrics bout below.  For
security, tha options dat affect access control may only be run from the
"controllin host".  For workstations, dis is tha same ol' dirty machine as the
server n' shit.  For X terminals, it is tha login host.
.TP 8
.B \-help
Prints a usage message.
.TP 8
.BI "[+]" "name"
Da given \fIname\fP (the plus sign is optional)
is added ta tha list allowed ta connect ta tha X server.
Da name can be a host name or a cold-ass lil complete name (See
.SM
.B NAMES
for mo' details).
.TP 8
.BI \- "name"
Da given \fIname\fP is removed from tha list of allowed
to connect ta tha server n' shit.  Da name can be a host name or a cold-ass lil complete
name (See
.SM
.B NAMES
for mo' details).
Existin connections is not broken yo, but new
connection attempts is ghon be denied.
Note dat tha current machine be allowed ta be removed; however, further
connections (includin attempts ta add it back) aint gonna be permitted.
Resettin tha server (thereby breakin all connections)
is tha only way ta allow local connections again.
.TP 8
.B \+
Access is granted ta everyone, even if they aren't on tha list
(i.e., access control is turned off).
.TP 8
.B \-
Access is restricted ta only dem on tha list
(i.e., access control is turned on).
.TP 8
.I nothing
If no command line arguments is given,
a message indicatin whether or not access control is currently enabled
is printed, followed by tha list of dem allowed ta connect.
This is tha only option dat may be used from machines other than
the controllin host.
.SH NAMES
A complete name has tha syntax
``family:name'' where tha crews are
as bigs up:
.PP
.nf
.ta 1i
inet	Internizzle host (IPv4)
inet6	Internizzle host (IPv6)
dnet	DECnet host
nis	Secure RPC network name
krb	Kerberos V5 principal
local	gotz nuff only one name, tha empty string
si	Server Interpreted
.fi
.PP
Da crew is case insensitive.
Da format of tha name varies wit tha crew.
.PP
When Secure RPC is bein used, the
network independent netname (e.g., "nis:unix.\fIuid\fP@\fIdomainname\fP") can
be specified, or a local user can be specified wit just tha username
and a trailin at-sign (e.g., "nis:pat@").
.PP
For backward compatibilitizzle wit pre-R6 \fIxhost\fP,
names dat contain a at-sign (@) is assumed ta be up in tha nis crew.
Otherwise they is assumed ta be Internizzle addresses. If compiled ta support
IPv6, then all IPv4 n' IPv6 addresses returned by getaddrinfo(3) is added to
the access list up in tha appropriate inet or inet6 crew.
.PP
Da local crew specifies all tha local connections at once yo. However,
the server interpreted address "si:localuser:\fIusername\fP" can be
used ta specify a single local user n' shit. (See the
\fIXsecurity\fP(7) manual page fo' mo' details.)
.PP
Server interpreted addresses consist of a cold-ass lil case-sensitizzle type tag n' a
strin representin a given value, separated by a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example,
"si:hostname:almas" be a server interpreted address of type \fIhostname\fP,
with a value of \fIalmas\fP.   For mo' shiznit on tha available forms
of server interpreted addresses, peep tha \fIXsecurity\fP(7)
manual page.
.PP
Da initial access control list fo' display number \fBn\fP
may be set by tha file \fI/etc/X\fBn\fI.hosts\fR, where
\fBn\fP is tha display number of tha server n' shit.  See \fIXserver\fP(1)
for details.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
For each name added ta tha access control list,
a line of tha form "\fIname\fP bein added ta access control list"
is printed.
For each name removed from tha access control list,
a line of tha form "\fIname\fP bein removed from access control list"
is printed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), Xsecurity(7), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xauth(1), getaddrinfo(3)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display ta use.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Yo ass can't specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display on tha command line cuz
.B \-display
is a valid command line argument (indicatin dat you want
to remove tha machine named
.I ``display''
from tha access list).
.PP
Da X server stores network addresses, not host names, unless you use
the server-interpreted hostname type address.  If somehow you chizzle a
hostz network address while tha server is still hustlin, n' yo ass is
usin a network-address based form of authentication, \fIxhost\fP must
be used ta add tha freshly smoked up address and/or remove tha oldschool address.
.SH AUTHORS
Bob Scheifler, MIT Laboratory fo' Computa Science,
.br
Jim Gettys, MIT Project Athena (DEC).
