.\"
.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XINIT 1 "xinit 1.3.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xinit \- X Window System initializer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xinit
[ [
.I client
]
.I options
\&\.\|.\|. ] [
.B \-\^\-
[
.I server
] [
.I display
]
.I options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBxinit\fP program is used ta start tha X Window System server n' a gangbangin' first
client program on systems dat is not rockin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display manager such as
.BR xdm (1)
or up in environments
that use multiple window systems.  When dis first client exits,
\fBxinit\fP will bust a cap up in tha X server n' then terminate.
.PP
If no specific client program is given on tha command line,
\fBxinit\fP will look fo' a gangbangin' file up in tha userz home directory
called \fI.xinitrc\fP ta run as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script ta start up client programs.
If no such file exists, \fBxinit\fP will use tha followin as a thugged-out default:
.sp
	xterm  \-geometry  +1+1  \-n  login  \-display  :0
.sp
.PP
If no specific server program is given on tha command line,
\fBxinit\fP will look fo' a gangbangin' file up in tha userz home directory
called \fI.xserverrc\fP ta run as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script ta start up tha server.
If no such file exists, \fIxinit\fP will use tha followin as a thugged-out default:
.sp
	X  :0
.sp
Note dat dis assumes dat there be a program named \fIX\fP up in tha current
search path.  Da joint administrator should, therefore, cook up a link ta the
appropriate type of server on tha machine, or create a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script that
runs \fBxinit\fP wit tha appropriate server.
.PP
Note, when rockin a \fI.xserverrc\fP script be shizzle ta ``exec'' tha real X server.
Failin ta do dis can make tha X server slow ta start n' exit.  For example:
.sp
	exec Xdisplaytype
.PP
An blingin point is dat programs which is run by \fI\.xinitrc\fP
should be run up in tha background if they do
not exit right away, so dat they don't prevent other programs from
startin up.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha last long-lived program started (usually
a window manager or terminal emulator) should be
left up in tha foreground so dat tha script won't exit (which
indicates dat tha user is done n' dat \fBxinit\fP should exit).
.PP
An alternate client and/or server may be specified on the
command line.  Da desired client program n' its arguments should be given
as tha straight-up original gangsta command line arguments ta \fBxinit\fP.  To specify a particular
server command line, append a thugged-out double dash (\-\^\-) ta tha \fBxinit\fP command
line (afta any client n' arguments) followed by tha desired server command.
.PP
Both tha client program name n' tha server program name must begin wit a
slash (/) or a period (.).  Otherwise, they is treated as a arguments ta be
appended ta they respectizzle startup lines.  This make it possible to
add arguments (for example, foreground n' background colors) without
havin ta retype tha whole command line.
.PP
If a explicit server name aint given n' tha straight-up original gangsta argument followin the
double dash (\-\^\-) be a cold-ass lil colon followed by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit, \fBxinit\fP will use that
number as tha display
number instead of zero.  All remainin arguments is appended ta tha server
command line.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
Below is nuff muthafuckin examplez of how tha fuck command line arguments up in \fBxinit\fP are
used.
.TP 8
.B "xinit"
This will start up a server named \fIX\fP n' run tha userz \fI\.xinitrc\fP,
if it exists, or else start a \fIxterm\fP.
.TP 8
.B "xinit \-\^\- /usr/bin/Xvnc  :1"
This is how tha fuck one could start a specific type of server on a alternate display.
.TP 8
.B "xinit \-geometry =80x65+10+10 \-fn 8x13 \-j \-fg white \-bg navy"
This will start up a server named \fIX\fP, n' will append tha given
arguments ta tha default \fIxterm\fP command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It will ignore \fI\.xinitrc\fP.
.TP 8
.B "xinit \-e widgets \-\^\- ./Xorg \-l \-c"
This will use tha command \fI\.\/Xorg \-l \-c\fP ta start tha server n' will
append tha arguments \fI\-e widgets\fP ta tha default \fIxterm\fP command.
.TP 8
.B "xinit /usr/ucb/rsh fasthost cpupig \-display ws:1 \-\^\-  :1 \-a 2 \-t 5"
This will start a server named \fIX\fP on display 1 wit tha arguments
\fI\-a 2 \-t 5\fP.  It will then start a remote shell on tha machine
\fBfasthost\fP up in which it will run tha command \fIcpupig\fP, spittin some lyrics ta it
to display back on tha local workstation.
.PP
Below be a sample \fI\.xinitrc\fP dat starts a cold-ass lil clock, nuff muthafuckin terminals, and
leaves tha window manager hustlin as tha ``last'' application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Assumin that
the window manager has been configured properly, tha user
then chizzlez tha ``Exit'' menu item ta shut down X.
.sp
.in +8
.nf
xrdb \-load $HOME/.Xresources
xsetroot \-solid gray &
xclock \-g 50x50\-0+0 \-bw 0 &
xload \-g 50x50\-50+0 \-bw 0 &
xterm \-g 80x24+0+0 &
xterm \-g 80x24+0\-0 &
twm
.fi
.in -8
.sp
Sites dat wanna create a cold-ass lil common startup environment could simply create
a default \fI\.xinitrc\fP dat references a crib-wide startup file:
.sp
.in +8
.nf
\&#!/bin/sh
\&. /etc/X11/xinit/site.xinitrc
.fi
.in -8
.sp
Another approach is ta write a script dat starts \fBxinit\fP wit a specific
shell script.  Such scripts is probably named \fIx11\fP, \fIxstart\fP, or
\fIstartx\fP n' is a cold-ass lil convenient way ta provide a simple intercourse for
novice users:
.sp
.in +8
.nf
\&#!/bin/sh
xinit /etc/X11/xinit/site.xinitrc \-\^\- /usr/bin/X -br
.fi
.in -8
.sp
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP 15
.B DISPLAY
This variable gets set ta tha name of tha display ta which clients should
connect.
.TP 15
.B XINITRC
This variable specifies a init file containin shell commandz ta start up the
initial windows.  By default, \fI\.xinitrc\fP up in tha home directory will be
used.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
.I .xinitrc
default client script
.TP 15
.I xterm
client ta run if \fI.xinitrc\fP do not exist
.TP 15
.I .xserverrc
default server script
.TP 15
.I X
server ta run if \fI.xserverrc\fP do not exist
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR X (7),
.BR startx (1),
.BR Xserver (1),
.BR Xorg (1),
.BR xorg.conf (5),
.BR xterm (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT Laboratory fo' Computa Science
