." Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License
." version 2 fo' mo' details (a copy is included up in tha LICENSE file that
." accompanied dis code).
."
." Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License version
." 2 along wit dis work; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additionizzle shiznit or have any
." thangs.
."
.TH xjc 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
xjc \- Java(TM) Architecture fo' XML Binding
.br
Bindin Compiler
.LP
.LP
\f3Specification Version:\fP 2.1
.br
\f3Reference Implementation (RI) Version:\fP 2.1.3
.LP
.SH "Launchin xjc"
.LP
.LP
Da bindin compila can be launched rockin tha appropriate \f2xjc\fP shell script up in tha \f2bin\fP directory fo' yo' platform. We also provide a Ant task ta run tha bindin complier \- peep tha instructions fo' 
.na
\f2usin tha XJC Ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/xjcTask.html.
.LP
.LP
\f2% xjc \-help\fP
.LP
.SS 
Output
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
Usage: xjc [\-options ...] <schema file/URL/dir/jar> ... [\-b <bindinfo>] ...
.fl
If dir is specified, all schema filez up in it is ghon be compiled.
.fl
If jar is specified, /META\-INF/sun\-jaxb.episode bindin file is ghon be compiled.
.fl
Options:
.fl
  \-nv                :  do not big-ass up strict validation of tha input schema(s)
.fl
  \-extension         :  allow vendor extensions \- do not strictly follow tha Compatibilitizzle Rulez n' App E.2 from tha JAXB Spec
.fl
  \-b <file/dir>      :  specify external bindings filez (each <file> must have its own \-b); if a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is given, **/*.xjb is searched
.fl
  \-d <dir>           :  generated filez will go tha fuck into dis directory
.fl
  \-p <pkg>           :  specifies tha target package
.fl
  \-httpproxy <proxy> :  set HTTP/HTTPS proxy; format is [user[:password]@]proxyHost:proxyPort
.fl
  \-httpproxyfile <f> :  works like \-httpproxy but takes tha argument up in a gangbangin' file ta protect password
.fl
  \-classpath <arg>   :  specify where ta find user class files
.fl
  \-catalog <file>    :  specify catalog filez ta resolve external entitizzle references; support TR9401, XCatalog, n' OASIS XML Catalog format
.fl
  \-readOnly          :  generated filez is ghon be up in read\-only mode
.fl
  \-npa               :  suppress generation of package level annotations (**/package\-info.java)
.fl
  \-no\-header         :  suppress generation of a gangbangin' file header wit timestamp
.fl
  \-target 2.0        :  behave like XJC 2.0 n' generate code dat dont use any 2.1 features
.fl
  \-xmlschema         :  treat input as W3C XML Schema (default)
.fl
  \-relaxng           :  treat input as RELAX NG (experimental,unsupported)
.fl
  \-relaxng\-compact   :  treat input as RELAX NG compact syntax (experimental,unsupported)
.fl
  \-dtd               :  treat input as XML DTD (experimental,unsupported)
.fl
  \-wsdl              :  treat input as WSDL n' compile schemas inside it (experimental,unsupported)
.fl
  \-verbose           :  be extra verbose
.fl
  \-quiet             :  suppress compila output
.fl
  \-help              :  display dis help message
.fl
  \-version           :  display version shiznit
.fl

.fl

.fl
Extensions:
.fl
  \-Xlocator          :  enable source location support fo' generated code
.fl
  \-Xsync\-methodz     :  generate accessor methodz wit tha 'synchronized' keyword
.fl
  \-mark\-generated    :  mark tha generated code as @javax.annotation.Generated
.fl
  \-episode <FILE>    :  generate tha episode file fo' separate compilation
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-nv 
By default, tha XJC bindin compila performs strict validation of tha source schema before processin dat shit. Use dis option ta disable strict schema validation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This do not mean dat tha bindin compila aint gonna big-ass up any validation, it simply means dat it will big-ass up less\-strict validation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-extension 
By default, tha XJC bindin compila strictly enforces tha rulez outlined up in tha Compatibilitizzle chapta of tha JAXB Justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Appendix E.2 defines a set of W3C XML Schema features dat is not straight-up supported by JAXB v1.0. In some cases, you may be allowed ta use dem up in tha "\-extension" mode enabled by dis switch. In tha default (strict) mode, yo ass be also limited ta rockin only tha bindin customizations defined up in tha justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. By rockin tha "\-extension" switch, yo big-ass booty is ghon be allowed ta use tha JAXB Vendor Extensions 
.TP 3
\-b <file> 
Specify one or mo' external bindin filez ta process. (Each bindin file must have its own \f2"\-b"\fP switch.) Da syntax of tha external bindin filez is mad flexible. Yo ass may gotz a single bindin file dat gotz nuff customizations fo' multiple schemas or you can break tha customizations tha fuck into multiple bindings files: \f2xjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd \-b bindings123.xjb\fP
.br
\f2xjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd \-b bindings1.xjb \-b bindings2.xjb \-b bindings3.xjb\fP In addition, tha orderin of tha schema filez n' bindin filez on tha command line do not matter n' shit. 
.TP 3
\-d <dir> 
By default, tha XJC bindin compila will generate tha Java content classes up in tha current directory. Use dis option ta specify a alternate output directory. Da output directory must already exist, tha XJC bindin compila aint gonna create it fo' yo thugged-out ass. 
.TP 3
\-p <pkg> 
Specifyin a target package via dis command\-line option overrides any bindin customization fo' package name n' tha default package name algorithm defined up in tha justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-httpproxy <proxy> 
Specify tha HTTP/HTTPS proxy. Da format is [user[:password]@]proxyHost[:proxyPort]. Da oldschool \f2\-host\fP n' \f2\-port\fP is still supported by tha RI fo' backwardz compatibilitizzle yo, but they done been deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Note dat tha password specified wit dis option be a argument dat is visible ta other playas whoz ass use tha \f2top\fP command, fo' example. For pimped outa security, use \f2\-httpproxyfile\fP, below. 
.TP 3
\-httpproxyfile <file> 
Specify tha HTTP/HTTPS proxy rockin a gangbangin' file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same format as above yo, but tha password specified up in tha file aint visible ta other users. 
.TP 3
\-classpath <arg> 
Specify where ta find client application class filez used by tha \f2<jxb:javaType>\fP n' \f2<xjc:superClass>\fP customizations. 
.TP 3
\-catalog <file> 
Specify catalog filez ta resolve external entitizzle references. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Supports TR9401, XCatalog, n' OASIS XML Catalog format. Please read tha XML Entitizzle n' URI Resolvers document or tha \f2catalog\-resolver\fP sample application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-readOnly 
By default, tha XJC bindin compila do not write\-protect tha Java source filez it generates. Use dis option ta force tha XJC bindin compila ta mark tha generated Java sources read\-only. 
.TP 3
\-npa 
Supress tha generation of package level annotations tha fuck into **/package\-info.java. Usin dis switch causes tha generated code ta internalize dem annotations tha fuck into tha other generated classes. 
.TP 3
\-no\-header 
Supress tha generation of a gangbangin' file header comment dat includes some note n' timestamp. Usin dis make tha generated code mo' diff\-friendly. 
.TP 3
\-target 2.0 
Avoid generatin code dat relies on any JAXB 2.1 features. This will allow tha generated code ta run wit JAXB 2.0 runtime (like fuckin JavaSE 6.) 
.TP 3
\-xmlschema 
Treat input schemas as W3C XML Schema (default). If you do not specify dis switch, yo' input schemas is ghon be treated as W3C XML Schema. 
.TP 3
\-relaxng 
Treat input schemas as RELAX NG (experimental, unsupported). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-relaxng\-compact 
Treat input schemas as RELAX NG compact syntax(experimental, unsupported). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-dtd 
Treat input schemas as XML DTD (experimental, unsupported). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
\-wsdl 
Treat input as WSDL n' compile schemas inside it (experimental,unsupported). 
.TP 3
\-quiet 
Suppress compila output, like fuckin progress shiznit n' warnings. 
.TP 3
\-verbose 
Be extra verbose, like fuckin printin shiznital lyrics or displayin stack traces upon some errors. 
.TP 3
\-help 
Display a funky-ass brief summary of tha compila switches. 
.TP 3
\-version 
Display tha compila version shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
<schema file/URL/dir> 
Specify one or mo' schema filez ta compile. If you specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, then xjc will scan it fo' all schema filez n' compile em. 
.RE

.LP
.SS 
Non\-Standard Command Line Options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-Xlocator 
Causes tha generated code ta expose SAX Locator shiznit bout tha source XML up in tha Java bean instances afta unmarshalling. 
.TP 3
\-Xsync\-methodz 
Causes all of tha generated method signatures ta include tha \f2synchronized\fP keyword. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
\-mark\-generated 
Mark tha generated code wit tha annotation \f2@javax.annotation.Generated\fP. 
.TP 3
\-episode <file> 
Generate tha specified episode file fo' separate compilation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.RE

.LP
.SS 
Deprecated n' Removed Command Line Options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-host & \-port 
These options done been deprecated n' replaced wit tha \f3\-httpproxy\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For backwardz compatibility, we will continue ta support these options yo, but they will no longer be documented n' may be removed from future releases. 
.TP 3
\-use\-runtime 
Since tha JAXB 2.0 justification has defined a portable runtime, it is no longer necessary fo' tha JAXB RI ta generate **/impl/runtime packages. Therefore, dis switch is obsolete n' has been removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 3
\-source 
Da \-source compatibilitizzle switch was introduced up in tha straight-up original gangsta JAXB 2.0 Early Access release. Our thugged-out asses have decided ta remove dis switch from future releasez of JAXB 2.0. If you need ta generate 1.0.x code, please use a installation of tha 1.0.x codebase. 
.RE

.LP
.SS 
Compila Restrictions
.LP
.LP
In general, it is safest ta compile all related schemas as a single unit wit tha same bindin compila switches.
.LP
.LP
Please keep tha followin list of restrictions up in mind when hustlin xjc. Most of these thangs only apply when compilin multiple schemas wit multiple invocationz of xjc.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
To compile multiple schemas all up in tha same time, keep tha followin precedence rulez fo' tha target Java package name up in mind: 
.RS 3
.TP 3
1.
Da "\f2\-p\fP" command line option takes tha highest precedence. 
.TP 3
2.
<\f2jaxb:package\fP> customization 
.TP 3
3.
If \f2targetNamespace\fP is declared, apply \f2targetNamespace\fP \-> Java package name algorithm defined up in tha justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 3
4.
If no \f2targetNamespace\fP is declared, bust a hardcoded package named "generated". 
.RE
.TP 2
o
It aint legal ta have mo' than one <\f2jaxb:schemaBindings\fP> per namespace, so it is impossible ta have two schemas up in tha same target namespace compiled tha fuck into different Java packages. 
.TP 2
o
All schemas bein compiled tha fuck into tha same Java package must be submitted ta tha XJC bindin compila all up in tha same time \- they cannot be compiled independently n' work as expected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.TP 2
o
Element substitution crews spread across multiple schema filez must be compiled all up in tha same time. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "See Also"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
Hustlin tha bindin compila (XJC): [
.na
\f2command\-line instructions\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/xjc.html, 
.na
\f2usin tha XJC Ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/xjcTask.html] 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Java Architecture fo' XML Bindin (JAXB)\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/xml/jaxb/index.html 
.RE

.LP
 
