.\"
.TH XKBCOMP 1 "xkbcomp 1.2.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xkbcomp \- compile XKB keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbcomp
[option] source [ destination ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I xkbcomp
keymap compila converts a thugged-out description of a XKB keymap tha fuck into one of several
output formats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.   Da most common use fo' xkbcomp is ta create a cold-ass lil compiled
keymap file (.xkm extension) which can be read directly by XKB-capable X
servers or utilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!   Da keymap compila can also produce C header
filez or XKB source files.  Da C header filez produced by xkbcomp can be
included by X servers or utilitizzles dat need a funky-ass built-in default keymap.
Da XKB source filez produced by \fIxkbcomp\fP is straight-up resolved n' can be
used ta verify dat tha filez which typically make up a XKB keymap
are merged erectly or ta create a single file which gotz nuff a cold-ass lil complete
description of tha keymap.
.PP
Da \fIsource\fP may specify a X display, or a \fI.xkb\fP or \fI.xkm\fP
file;  unless explicitly specified, tha format of \fIdestination\fP
dependz on tha format of tha source.   Compilin a \fI.xkb\fP (keymap source)
file generates a \fI.xkm\fP (compiled keymap file) by default.   If the
source be a \fI.xkm\fP file or a X display, \fIxkbcomp\fP generates a
keymap source file by default.
.PP
If tha \fIdestination\fP be a X display, tha keymap fo' tha display
is updated wit tha compiled keymap.
.PP
Da name of tha \fIdestination\fP is probably computed from tha name
of tha source, wit tha extension replaced as appropriate.  When compiling
a single map from a gangbangin' file which gotz nuff nuff muthafuckin maps, \fIxkbcomp\fP constructs
the destination file name by appendin a appropriate extension ta the
name of tha map ta be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-a
Show all keyboard shiznit, reportin implicit or derived shiznit
as a cold-ass lil comment.  Only affects \fI.xkb\fP format output.
.TP 8
.B \-C
Produce a C header file as output (.h extension).
.TP 8
.B \-dflts
Compute defaults fo' any missin components, like fuckin key names.
.TP 8
.B \-em1 \fImsg\fP
Print \fImsg\fP before printin first error message.
.TP 8
.B \-emp \fImsg\fP
Print \fImsg\fP all up in tha start of each message line.
.TP 8
.B \-eml \fImsg\fP
If there was any errors, print \fImsg\fP before exiting.
.TP 8
.B \-help, -?
Show available options.
.TP 8
.B \-I\fIdir\fP
Specifies top-level directories ta be searched fo' filez included by the
keymap description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Afta all directories specified by \-I options
have been searched, tha current directory n' finally, tha default
xkb directory (usually /usr/lib/X11/xkb) is ghon be searched.
.sp
To prevent tha current n' default directories from bein searched,
use tha \-I option ridin' solo (i.e. without a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory), before any \-I
options dat specify tha directories you do want searched.
.TP 8
.B \-i\ \fIdeviceid\fP
If \fIsource\fP or \fIdestination\fP be a valid X display, load tha keymap
from/into tha thang wit tha specified ID (not name).
.TP 8
.B \-l
List maps dat specify tha \fImap\fP pattern up in any filez listed on the
command line (not implemented yet).
.TP 8
.B \-m\ \fIname\fP
Specifies a map ta be compiled from a file wit multiple entries.
.TP 8
.B \-merge
Merge tha compiled shiznit wit tha map from tha server (not implemented
yet).
.TP 8
.B \-o\ \fIname\fP
Specifies a name fo' tha generated output file.  Da default is tha name of
the source file wit a appropriate extension fo' tha output format.
.TP 8
.B \-opt\ \fIparts\fP
Specifies a list of optionizzle parts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Compilation errors up in any optionizzle parts
are not fatal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Parts may consist of any combination of tha lettas \fIc\fP,
\fIg\fP,\fIk\fP,\fIs\fP,\fIt\fP which specify tha compatibilitizzle map, geometry,
keycodes, symbols n' types, respectively.
.TP 8
.B -R\fIdir\fP
Specifies tha root directory fo' relatizzle path names.
.TP 8
.B -synch
Force synchronization fo' X requests.
.TP 8
.B -version
Print version number.
.TP 8
.B \-w\ \fIlvl\fP
Controls tha reportin of warnings durin compilation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A warnin level
of 0 disablez all warnings; a warnin level of 10 enablez dem all.
.TP 8
.B \-xkb
Generate a source description of tha keyboard as output (.xkb extension).
.TP 8
.B \-xkm
Generate a cold-ass lil compiled keymap file as output (.xkm extension).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994, Silicon Graphics Computa Systems n' X Consortium, Inc.
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics
