.\"
.TH XKBEVD 1 "xkbevd 1.1.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xkbevd \- XKB event daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbevd
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command is straight-up raw n' is therefore only partially implemented;  we
present it here as a rough prototype fo' pimpers, not as a general purpose
tool fo' end users.  Somethang like dis might cook up a suitable replacement
for xev;  I aint signin up, mind you yo, but itz a bangin-ass idea.
.PP
The
.I xkbevd
event daemon listens fo' specified XKB events n' executes axed commands
if they occur. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.   Da configuration file consistz of a list of event
specification/action pairs and/or variable definitions.
.PP
An event justification consistz of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short XKB event name followed by a
strin or identifier which serves as a qualifier up in parentheses;  empty
parenthesis indicate no qualification n' serve ta specify tha default
command which be applied ta events which do not match any of tha other
specifications.  Da interpretation of tha qualifier dependz on tha type
of tha event:  Bell events match rockin tha name of tha bell, message events
match on tha contentz of tha message strang n' slow key events accept
any of \fIpress\fP, \fIrelease\fP, \fIaccept\fP, or \fIreject\fP.   No
other events is currently recognized.
.PP
An action consistz of a optionizzle keyword followed by a optionizzle string
argument.  Currently, \fIxkbev\fP recognizes tha actions: \fInone\fP,
\fIignore\fP, \fIecho\fP, \fIprintEvent\fP, \fIsound\fP, n' \fIshell\fP.
If tha action aint specified, tha strang is taken as tha name of a sound
file ta be played unless it begins wit a exclamation point, up in which case
it is taken as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command.
.PP
Variable definitions up in tha argument strang is expanded wit fieldz from
the event up in question before tha argument strang is passed ta tha action
processor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.   Da general syntax fo' a variable is
either $\fIc\P or $(\fIstr\fP), where \fIc\fP be a single characta and
\fIstr\fP be a strang of arbitrary length.  All parametas have both
single-characta n' long names.
.PP
Da list of recognized parametas varies from event ta event n' is too long
to list here n' aint a thugged-out damn thang dat yo' ass can do.   This be a thugged-out pimper release anyway, so you can
be sposed ta fuckin peep tha source code (evargs.c iz of particular interest).
.PP
Da \fIignore\fP, \fIecho\fP, \fIprintEvent\fP, \fIsound\fP,and \fIshell\fP
actions do what tha fuck you would expect commandz named \fIignore\fP, \fIecho\fP,
\fIprintEvent\fP, \fIsound\fP, n' \fIshell\fP ta do, except dat tha sound
command has only been implemented n' tested fo' SGI machines.   It launches
an external program up in dis biatch, so it should be pretty easy as fuck  ta adapt,
especially if you like audio cues dat arrive on some half-second afta you
expect em.
.PP
Da only currently recognized variablez is \fIsoundDirectory\fP and
\fIsoundCmd\fP.  I be shizzle you can figure up what tha fuck they do.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-help
Prints a usage message dat is far mo' up-to-date than anythang up in this
man page.
.TP 8
.B \-cfg \fIfile\fP
Specifies tha configuration file ta read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   If no configuration file is
specified, \fIxkbevd\fP looks fo' ~/.xkb/xkbevd.cf n' $(LIBDIR)/xkb/xkbevd.cf
in dat order.
.TP 8
.B \-sc\ \fIcmd\fP
Specifies tha command used ta play sounds.
.TP 8
.B \-sd\ \fIdirectory\fP
Specifies a top-level directory fo' sound files.
.TP 8
.B \-display\ \fIdisplay\fP
Specifies tha display ta use.  If not present, \fIxkbevd\fP uses $DISPLAY.
.TP 8
.B \-bg
Tells \fIxkbevd\fP ta fork itself (and run up in tha background).
.TP 8
.B \-synch
Forces synchronization of all X requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Slow.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Print mo' shiznit, includin debuggin lyrics.   Multiple
specificationz of \fI-v\fP cause mo' output, ta a point.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1995, Silicon Graphics Computa Systems
Copyright 1995, 1998  Da Open Group
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics
