.\" $Xorg: xkbprint.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:54:50 cpqbld Exp $
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xkbprint/xkbprint.man,v 1.7 2001/01/27 18:21:16 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XKBPRINT 1 "xkbprint 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xkbprint \- print a XKB keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbprint 
[options] source [ output_file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I xkbprint
command generates a printable or encapsulated PostScript description of tha 
XKB keyboard description specified by \fIsource\fP.  Da \fIsource\fP can be 
any compiled keymap (.xkm) file dat includes a geometry description or a 
X display justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If a \fIoutput_file\fP is specified, xkbprint 
writes ta dat shit.  If no output file is specified, xkbprint creates replaces
the extension of tha source file wit \fI.ps\fP or \fI.eps\fP depending
on tha axed format.  If tha source be a non-local X display (e.g.:0), 
xkbprint appendz tha appropriate prefix ta tha display justification, 
replacin tha colon wit a thugged-out dash.  For a local display, xkprint uses
server-\fIn\fP where \fIn\fP is tha number of tha display.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-?, -help
Prints a usage message.
.TP 8
.B \-color
Print rockin tha flavas specified up in tha geometry file;  by default, xkbprint
prints a funky-ass black-and-white image of tha keyboard.
.TP 8
.B \-dflts
Attempt ta compute default names fo' any missin components, like fuckin keys.
.TP 8
.B \-diffs
Show symbols only where they is explicitly bound.
.TP 8
.B \-eps
Generate a encapsulated PostScript file.
.TP 8
.B \-fit
Fit tha keyboard image on tha page (default).
.TP 8
.B \-full
Print tha keyboard at full size.
.TP 8
.B \-grid\ \fIres\fP
Print a grid wit \fIres\fPmm resolution over tha keyboard.
.TP 8
.B \-if\ \fIfontName\fP
Specifies a internal PostScript type 1 font ta dump ta tha specified
output file or ta \fIfontName\fP.pfa, if no output file is specified.
No keyboard description is printed if a internal font is dumped.
.TP 8
.B \-label\ \fItype\fP
Specifies tha labels ta be printed on keys;  legal types are: \fInone\fP,
\fIname\fP,\fIcode\fP,\fIsymbols\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-lc\ \fI<locale>\fP
Specifies a locale up in which KeySyms should be resolved.
.TP 8
.B \-level1
Generate level 1 PostScript.
.TP 8
.B \-level2
Generate level 2 PostScript.
.TP 8
.B \-lg\ \fIgroup\fP
Print symbols up in keyboard crews startin from \fIgroup\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-ll\ \fIlevel\fP
Print symbols startin from shift level \fIlevel\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
Generate black-and-white image of keyboard (default).
.TP 8
.B \-n\ \fInum\fP
Print \fInum\fP copies.
.TP 8
.B \-nkg\ \fInum\fP
Print tha symbols up in \fInum\fP keyboard groups.
.TP 8
.B \-npk\ \fInum\fP
Number of keyboard images ta print on each page; fo' EPS files, dis 
specifies tha total number of keyboard images ta print.
.TP 8
.B \-o\ \fIfile\fP
Write output ta \fIfile\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-R\fIdirectory\fP
Use \fIdirectory\fP as tha root directory; all path names is interpreted
relatizzle ta \fIdirectory\fP.
.TP 8
.B -pict \fIwhich\fP
Controls use of pictographs instead of keysym names where available. 
\fIwhich\fP can be any of \fIall\fP, \fInone\fP, or \fIcommon\fP(default).
.TP 8
.B -synch
Forces synchronization fo' X requests.
.TP 8
.B -w\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets warnin level (0 fo' no warning, 10 fo' all warnings).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7),xkbcomp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1995, Silicon Graphics Computa Systems
Copyright 1995, 1998  Da Open Group
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics
