.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH xkbvledz 1 "xkbutils 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xkbvledz \- XKB extension user utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkbvleds
[\-indpy <name>]
[\-watch <leds>]
[[\-+]automatic]
[[\-+]explicit]
[[\-+]name]
[[\-+]real]
[[\-+]virtual]
[\-intersection]
[\-union]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used ta display tha state of LEDs on a XKB keyboard.
It reports tha chizzlez up in tha fundamenstrual componentz of tha XKB state
which includes tha effectizzle compatibilitizzle state. Da default set of LEDs
is \-union +name +automatic +real.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-indpy <name>
Mask of LEDs ta watch
.TP 8
.B \-watch <leds>
turn on synchronization
.PP
.TP 8
.B \[-+]automatic
(Don't) peep automatic LEDs
.PP
.TP 8
.B \[-+]explicit
(Don't) peep explicit LEDs
.PP
.TP 8
.B \[-+]name
(Don't) peep named LEDs
.PP
.TP 8
.B \[-+]real
(Don't) peep real LEDs
.PP
.TP 8
.B \[-+]virtual
(Don't) peep virtual LEDs
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-intersection
Watch only LEDs up in all desired sets
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-union
Watch LEDs up in any desired sets
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-help
print list of options n' exit
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-version
print program version n' exit
