.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XKILL 1 "xkill 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xkill - bust a cap up in a cold-ass lil client by its X resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xkill"
[\-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [\-id \fIresource\fP] [\-button number] [\-frame] [\-all] [\-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xkill
is a utilitizzle fo' forcin tha X server ta close connections ta clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This
program is straight-up dangerous yo, but is useful fo' abortin programs dat have
displayed undesired windows on a userz screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If no resource identifier
is given wit \fI-id\fP, \fIxkill\fP will display a special cursor
as a prompt fo' tha user ta select a window ta be capped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If a pointa button
is pressed over a non-root window, tha server will close its connection to
the client dat pimped tha window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies tha name of tha X server ta contact.
.TP 8
.B \-id \fIresource\fP
This option specifies tha X identifier fo' tha resource whose creator is
to be aborted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If no resource is specified, \fIxkill\fP will display a
special cursor wit which you should select a window ta be kill.
.TP 8
.B \-button \fInumber\fP
This option specifies tha number of pointa button
that should be used up in selectin a window ta kill.
If tha word "any" is specified, any button on tha pointa may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By
default, tha straight-up original gangsta button up in tha pointa map (which is probably tha leftmost
button) is used.
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates dat all clients wit top-level windows on tha screen
should be capped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  \fIXkill\fP will ask you ta select tha root window with
each of tha currently defined buttons ta hit you wit nuff muthafuckin chances ta abort.
Use of dis option is highly discouraged.
.TP 8
.B \-frame
This option indicates dat xkill should ignore tha standard conventions for
findin top-level client windows (which is typically nested inside a window
manager window), n' simply believe dat you wanna bust a cap up in direct lil pimps of
the root.
.TP 8
.B \-version
This option make xkill print its version n' exit without cappin' anything.
.SH CAVEATS
This command do not provide any warranty dat tha application whose
connection ta tha X server is closed will abort sickly, or even abort
at all fo' realz. All dis command do is ta close tha connection ta tha X
server n' shit. Many existin applications do indeed abort when their
connection ta tha X server is closed yo, but some can chizzle to
continue.
.SH XDEFAULTS
.TP 8
.B Button
Specifies a specific pointa button number or tha word "any" ta use when
selectin windows.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xwininfo(1),
XKillClient(3), XGetPointerMapping(3),
KillClient up in tha X Protocol Justification
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.br
Dana Chee, Bellcore
