.\"
.TH XLOAD 1 "xload 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xload \- system load average display fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 6n
\fBxload\fP	[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-scale \fIinteger\fP] [-update \fIseconds\fP] [-hl \fIcolor\fP] [-highlight \fIcolor\fP]  [-remote \fIhost\fP]
.br
	[-jumpscroll \fIpixels\fP] [-label \fIstring\fP] [-nolabel] [-lights]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xload
program displays a periodically uppimpin histogram of tha system load average.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I Xload
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options (see \fIX(7)\fP).
Da order of tha options is unimportant.  \fIxload also accepts the
followin additionizzle options:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-hl \fIcolor\fP or \-highlight \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies tha color of tha scale lines.
.TP 8
.B \-jumpscroll \fPnumber of pixels\fP
Da number of pixels ta shift tha graph ta tha left when tha graph
reaches tha right edge of tha window.  Da default value is 1/2 tha width
of tha current window.  Smooth scrollin can be  bigged up  by settin it ta 1.
.TP 8
.B \-label \fIstring\fP
Da strang ta put tha fuck into tha label above tha load average.
.TP 8
.B \-nolabel
If dis command line option is specified then no label will be
displayed above tha load graph.
.TP 8
.B \-lights
When specified, dis option causes
.I xload
to display tha current load average by rockin tha keyboard leds; for
a load average of \fIn\fP, xload lights tha straight-up original gangsta \fIn\fP keyboard leds.
This option turns off tha usual screen display.
.TP 8
.B \-scale \fIinteger\fP
This option specifies tha minimum number of tick marks up in tha histogram,
where one division represents one load average point.  If tha load goes
above dis number, \fIxload\fP will create mo' divisions yo, but it will never
use fewer than dis number n' shit.  Da default is 1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies tha interval up in secondz at which \fIxload\fP
updates its display.  Da minimum amount of time allowed between thugged-out shit
is 1 second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default is 10.
.TP 8
.B \-remote \fIhost\fP
This option  drops some lyrics ta \fIxload\fP ta display tha load of \fIhost\fP instead of \fIlocalhost\fP. \fIXload\fP gets tha shiznit from tha \fIrwhod\fP database n' consequently requires \fIrwhod\fP ta be executin both on \fIlocalhost\fP n' \fIhost\fP.
.SH RESOURCES
In addizzle ta tha resources available ta each of tha widgets used by
\fIxload\fP there is one resource defined by tha application itself.
.TP 8
.B showLabel (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
If False then no label is ghon be displayed.
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know tha hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxload\fR.  In tha notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name
is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i
XLoad  xload
	Paned  paned
		Label  label
		StripChart  load
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XLoad
specifies required resources
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7), xrdb(1), mem(4), Athena StripChart Widget.
.SH BUGS
On olda platforms, dis program may require tha mobilitizzle ta open n' read
the special system file \fI/dev/kmem\fP.  Joints dat do not allow general
access ta dis file may need ta make \fIxload\fP belong ta tha same group
as \fI/dev/kmem\fP n' turn on tha \fIset crew id\fP permission flag.
.PP
Readin tha load average is inherently non-portable.  Therefore, tha routine
used ta read it (get_load.c) must be ported ta each freshly smoked up operatin system.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co X Consortium
.br
See \fIX(7)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
K. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shizzle Hartman (MIT-LCS) n' Stuart A. Malone (MIT-LCS);
.br
with features added by Jim Gettys (MIT-Athena), Bob Scheifla (MIT-LCS),
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena), n' Chris Peterson (MIT-LCS).
