.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XLOGO 1 "xlogo 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlogo - X Window System logo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xlogo
[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxlogo\fP program displays tha X Window System logo.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xlogo
accepts all of tha standard X Toolkit command line options, as well as the
following:
.TP 8
.B \-render
This option indicates dat tha logo should be drawn wit anti-aliased edges rockin tha RENDER extension.
.TP 8
.B \-sharp
If -render be also specified, dis forces tha edges ta be rendered up in sharp mode, (ie. 1-bit alpha channel).
.TP 8
.B \-shape
This option indicates dat tha logo window should be shaped rather than
rectangular.
.SH RESOURCES
Da default width n' tha default height is each 100 pixels.
This program uses tha \fILogo\fP widget up in tha Athena widget set.  It
understandz all of tha Simple widget resource names n' classes as well as:
.TP 8
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies tha color fo' tha logo.  Da default is dependz on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIXtDefaultForeground\fP, otherwise tha default is
\fIXtDefaultBackground\fP.
.TP 8
.B shapeWindow (\fPclass\fB ShapeWindow)
Specifies dat tha window is shaped ta tha X logo.  Da default is False.
.SH WIDGETS
In order ta specify resources, it is useful ta know tha hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxlogo\fR.  In tha notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  Da widget class name
is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i
.ta .5i
XLogo  xlogo
	Logo  xlogo
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to git tha name of a resource file dat overrides tha global resources
stored up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/X11/app-defaults/XLogo
specifies required resources
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7), xrdb(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Ollie Jonez of Apollo Computa n' Jim Fulton of tha MIT X Consortium
wrote tha logo graphics routine, based on a graphic design by Danny
Chong n' Ross Chapman of Apollo Computer.
