.\" Copyright 1989, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XLSATOMS 1 "xlsatoms 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlsatoms - list interned atoms defined on server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xlsatoms
[-options ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xlsatoms
lists tha interned atoms.  By default, all atoms startin from 1 (the lowest
atom value defined by tha protocol) is listed until unknown atom is found.
If a explicit range is given, \fIxlsatoms\fP will try all atoms up in tha range,
regardless of whether or not any is undefined.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdpy\fP
This option specifies tha X server ta which ta connect.
.TP 8
.B \-format \fIstring\fP
This option specifies a \fIprintf\fP-style strang used ta list each atom
\fI<value,name>\fP pair, printed up in dat order (\fIvalue\fP be a \fIunsigned
long\fP n' \fIname\fP be a \fIchar *\fP).  \fIXlsatoms\fP will supply a
newline all up in tha end of each line.  Da default is \fI%ld\\t%s\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-range \fI[low]-[high]\fP
This option specifies tha range of atom joints ta check.  If \fIlow\fP is not
given, a value of 1 assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If \fIhigh\fP aint given, \fIxlsatoms\fP will
stop all up in tha straight-up original gangsta undefined atom at or above \fIlow\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-name \fIstring\fP
This option specifies tha name of a atom ta list.  If tha atom do not
exist, a message is ghon be printed on tha standard error.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), Xserver(1), xprop(1)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git tha default host n' display ta use.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
