.\" Copyright 1991, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XLSCLIENTS 1 "xlsclients 1.1.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlsclients - list client applications hustlin on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xlsclients"
[-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [-a] [-l] [-m maxcmdlen]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xlsclients
is a utilitizzle fo' listin shiznit bout tha client applications
runnin on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display.  It may be used ta generate scripts representing
a snapshot of tha userz current session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies tha X server ta contact.
.TP 8
.B \-a
This option indicates dat clients on all screens should be listed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  By
default, only dem clients on tha default screen is listed.
.TP 8
.B \-l
List up in long format, givin tha window name, icon name,
and class hints up in addizzle ta tha machine name n' command strang shown in
the default format.
.TP 8
.B \-m \fImaxcmdlen\fP
This option specifies tha maximum number of charactas up in a cold-ass lil command to
print out.  Da default is 10000.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git tha default host, display number, n' screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xwininfo(1), xprop(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
