.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.TH xlsfonts 1 "xlsfonts 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlsfonts \- server font list displayer fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fBxlsfonts\fR
[\fB\-display \fBhost:dpy\fR\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-ll\fR] [\fB\-lll\fR] [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-C\fR] [\fB\-1\fR] [\fB\-w \fBwidth\fR\fR] [\fB\-n \fBcolumns\fR\fR] [\fB\-u\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-fn \fBpattern\fR\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
xlsfonts lists tha fonts dat match tha given pattern.
Da wildcard characta "*" may be used ta match any sequence of characters
(includin none), n' "?" ta match any single character.
If no pattern is given, "*" be assumed.
.PP
Da "*" n' "?" charactas must be quoted ta prevent dem from bein expanded by tha shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-display \fIhost:dpy\fB\fR
This option specifies tha X server ta contact.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIhost:dpy\fB\fR
Same as \fB\-display \fIhost:dpy\fB\fR.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Lists some attributez of tha font on one line up in addition
to its name.
.TP
\fB\-ll\fR
Lists font propertizzles up in addizzle ta \fB\-l\fR output.
.TP
\fB\-lll\fR
Lists characta metrics up in addizzle ta \fB\-ll\fR output.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
This option indicates dat long listings should also print
the minimum n' maximum boundz of each font.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
This option indicates dat listings should use multiple columns.
This is tha same ol' dirty as \fB\-n 0\fR.
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
This option indicates dat listings should bust a single column.
This is tha same ol' dirty as \fB\-n 1\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w \fIwidth\fB\fR
This option specifies tha width up in charactas dat should be
used up in figurin up how tha fuck nuff columns ta print.
Da default is 79.
.TP
\fB\-n \fIcolumns\fB\fR
This option specifies tha number of columns ta use in
displayin tha output. By default, it will attempt to
fit as nuff columnz of font names tha fuck into tha number of
characta specified by \fB\-w\fR width.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
This option indicates dat tha output should be left unsorted.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
This option indicates dat xlsfonts should do a OpenFont
(and QueryFont, if appropriate) rather than a ListFonts.
This is useful if ListFonts or ListFontsWithInfo fail to
list a known font (as is tha case wit some scaled font
systems).
.TP
\fB\-fn \fIpattern\fB\fR
This option specifies tha font name pattern ta match.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBX\fR(7), \fBXserver\fR(1), \fBxset\fR(1), \fBxfd\fR(1), X Logical Font Description Conventions
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fR
\fBDISPLAY\fR must be set ta git tha default host n' display ta use.
.SH BUGS
Bustin ``xlsfonts -l'' can tie up yo' server fo' a straight-up long time.
This is straight-up a funky-ass bug wit single-threaded
non-preemptable servers, not wit dis program.
.SH AUTHOR

Mark Lillibridge
.PP
Jim Fulton
.PP
Phil Karlton
.PP
Roland Mainz

