.\" Copyright 1991, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH XMAG 1 "xmag 1.0.5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xmag \- magnify partz of tha screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmag
[
.B \-mag
.I magfactor
] [
.B \-source
.I geom
] [
.I \-toolkitoption
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIxmag\fP program allows you ta magnify portionz of a X screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If no
explicit region is specified, a square wit tha pointa up in tha upper left
corner is displayed indicatin tha area ta be enlarged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da area can be
dragged up ta tha desired size by pressin Button 2.  Once a region has
been selected, a window is popped up showin a funky-ass blown up version of tha region
in which each pixel up in tha source image is represented by a lil' small-ass square of
the same color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Pressin Button1 up in tha enlargement window
shows tha posizzle n' RGB value
of tha pixel under tha pointa until tha button is busted out. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Typin ``Q''
or ``^C'' up in tha enlargement window exits tha program.  Da application has
5 buttons across its top.
\fIClose\fP deletes dis particular magnification instance.
\fIReplace\fP brangs up tha rubber crew selector again n' again n' again ta select another
region fo' dis magnification instance.
\fINew\fP brangs up tha rubber band
selector ta create a freshly smoked up magnification instance.
\fISelect\fP puts tha magnification image tha fuck into tha primary selection.
\fIPaste\fP copies tha primary selection buffer tha fuck into \fIxmag\fP.
Note dat you can cut n' paste between \fIxmag\fP n' tha \fIbitmap\fP
program.  Resizin \fIxmag\fP resizes tha magnification area.
\fIxmag\fP preserves
the colormap, visual, n' window depth of tha source.
.SH WIDGETS
\fIxmag\fP uses tha X Toolkit n' tha Athena Widget Set.
Da magnified image is displayed up in tha Scale widget.
For mo' shiznit, peep tha Athena Widget Set documentation.
Below is tha widget structure of tha \fIxmag\fP application.
Indentation indicates hierarchical  structure.  Da widget class
name is given first, followed by tha widget instizzle name.
.sp
.nf
	Xmag xmag
		RootWindow root
		TopLevelShell xmag
			Paned pane1
				Paned pane2
					Command close
					Command replace
					Command new
					Command select
					Command paste
					Label xmag label
				Paned pane2
					Scale scale
		OverrideShell pixShell
			Label pixLabel

.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-source\fI geom\fP
This option specifies tha size and/or location of tha source region
on tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  By default, a 64x64 square is provided fo' tha user ta select
an area of tha screen.
.TP 15
.B \-mag\fI integer\fP
This option indicates tha magnification ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  5 is tha default.
.SH AUTHORS
Dizzle Sternlicht n' Davor Matic, MIT X Consortium.
