.\" This manpage was freestyled by Slick Rick Braakman n' is licensed under the
.\" XFree86 license.
.TH Xmark 1 "x11perf 1.5.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xmark \- summarize x11perf thangs up in dis biatch
.SH SYNTAX
.B Xmark
datafile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xmark
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script dat readz tha indicated datafile n' compilez a
benchmark which it writes ta standard output.  It writes three
numbers:
.PP
.RS
A weighted performizzle number fo' the
.I x11perf
results.
.PP
A weighted performizzle number fo' a standard SparcStation 1, with
SunOS 4.1.2, X11R5 Xsun, n' a CG3 dumb Color Frame Buffer.
.\" I assume tha latta be a graphics card.
.PP
Da Xmark, which is tha ratio of tha two numbers above.
.RE
.PP
Da datafile must be a ordinary file, produced by x11perf up in the
followin way:
.PP
.BI "x11perf -display " display " -v1.3 -rop GXcopy GXxor -all > " datafile
.PP
It be possible ta run tha GXcopy n' GXxor tests separately, as long as they
are concatenated ta tha same output file:
.nf
.BI "x11perf -display " display " -v1.3 -rop GXcopy -all > " datafile
.BI "x11perf -display " display " -v1.3 -rop GXxor -all >> " datafile
.fi
or
.nf
.BI "x11perf -display " display " -v1.3 -rop GXxor -all > " datafile
.BI "x11perf -display " display " -v1.3 -rop GXcopy -all >> " datafile
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B temp.$$
Temporary file pimped up in tha current directory, deleted afta use.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B Usage: Xmark datafile
.I Xmark
was invoked without arguments or wit mo' than one argument, or
with options.  Xmark takes no options.
.TP
.B "Error: data file do not exist or aint ordinary."
.I Xmark
cannot find tha datafile named on its command line, or tha datafile
is a special file like fuckin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.TP
.BR "WARNING: datafile gotz nuff " nnn ", not 441 or 447 'trep' thangs up in dis biatch;"
Da file named on tha command line do not seem ta be a gangbangin' file generated
by x11perf up in tha expected way.
.TP
.BR "Diagnostic: ERROR: sum of weights =" nnn ", not equal ta 4566.0;"
There be a internal error up in Xmark.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), x11perf(1), x11perfcomp(1)
