.\" $XConsortium: xmessage.man,v 1.8 95/03/08 22:28:48 gildea Exp $
.\"
.\" $XFree86$
.\"
.TH XMESSAGE 1 "xmessage 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xmessage \- display a message or query up in a window (X-based /bin/echo)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmessage
[
.B \-buttons
.I label1\fR[\fP\fB:\fPvalue1\fR]\fP\fB,\fPlabel2\fR[\fP\fB:\fPvalue2\fR]\fP\fB,\fP
\&\|.\|.\|.
] [
.I options
]
.B \-file
.I filename
.br
.B xmessage
[
.B \-buttons
.I label1\fR[\fP\fB:\fPvalue1\fR]\fP\fB,\fPlabel2\fR[\fP\fB:\fPvalue2\fR]\fP\fB,\fP
\&\|.\|.\|.
] [
.I options
]
.I message
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xmessage
program
displays a window containin a message from tha command line, a gangbangin' file,
or standard input.
Along tha lower edge of tha message is row
of buttons; clickin tha left mouse button
on any of these buttons will cause \fIxmessage\fP ta exit.
Which button was pressed is returned up in tha exit status and,
optionally, by freestylin tha label of tha button ta standard output.
.PP
Da program
is typically used by shell scripts ta display shiznit ta tha user
or ta ask tha user ta cook up a cold-ass lil chizzle.
.PP
Unless a size is specified, \fIxmessage\fP
sizes itself ta fit tha message, up ta a maximum size.
If tha message is too big-ass fo' tha window, \fIxmessage\fP will display
scroll bars.
.SH OPTIONS
These is tha command line options dat \fIxmessage\fP understands, up in addition
to tha standard ones listed in
.BR X (7).
.TP 8
.B \-buttons \fIbutton,button,.\|.\|.\fP
This option will cause \fIxmessage\fP ta create one button fo' each
comma-separated \fIbutton\fP argument.
Da correspondin resource is \fBbuttons\fP.
Each \fIbutton\fP consistz of a label optionally followed by a cold-ass lil colon
and a exit value.
Da label is tha name of tha Command button widget pimped n' is ghon be the
default text displayed ta tha user n' shit.  Since dis is tha name of tha widget
it may be used ta chizzle any of tha resources associated wit dat button.
Da exit value is ghon be returned by \fIxmessage\fP
if dat button is selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da default exit value is 100 plus the
button number n' shit.  Buttons is numbered from tha left startin wit one.
Da default strang if no \fB\-buttons\fP option is given is \fBokay:0\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-default \fIlabel\fP
Defines tha button wit a matchin \fIlabel\fP ta be tha default.
If not specified there is no default.
Da correspondin resource is \fBdefaultButton\fP.
Pressin Return anywhere up in tha \fIxmessage\fP window will activate
the default button.
Da default button has a wider border than tha others.
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfilename\fP
File ta display.
Da correspondin resource is \fBfile\fP.
A \fIfilename\fP of `\fB\-\fP' readz from standard input.
If dis option aint supplied, \fIxmessage\fP will
display all non-option arguments up in tha steez of \fIecho\fP.
Either \fB\-file\fP or a message on tha command line
should be provided yo, but not both.
.TP 8
.B \-print
This will cause tha program ta write tha label of tha button pressed to
standard output.  Equivalent ta settin tha \fBprintValue\fP resource
to TRUE.
This is one way ta git feedback as ta which button was pressed.
.TP 8
.B \-center
Pop up tha window all up in tha centa of tha screen.
Equivalent ta settin tha \fBcenter\fP resource ta TRUE.
.TP 8
.B \-nearmouse
Pop up tha window near tha mouse cursor.
Equivalent ta settin tha \fBnearMouse\fP resource ta TRUE.
.TP 8
.B \-timeout \fIsecs\fP
Exit wit status 0 afta \fIsecs\fP secondz if tha user has not
clicked on a funky-ass button yet.
Da correspondin resource is \fBtimeout\fP.
.SH "WIDGET HIERARCHY"
Knowin tha name n' posizzle up in tha hierarchy of each widget is
useful when specifyin resources fo' em.  In tha followin chart, the
class n' name of each widget is given.
.LP
.nf
Xmessage (xmessage)
	Form form
		Text message
		Command (label1)
		Command (label2)
		.
		.
		.
.fi
.SH RESOURCES
Da program has all dem top-level application resources dat allow
customizations dat is specific ta \fIxmessage\fP.
.TP 8
.B file
A Strin specifyin tha file ta display.
.TP 8
.B buttons
A Strin specifyin tha buttons ta display.
See tha \fB\-buttons\fP command-line option.
.TP 8
.B defaultButton
A Strin specifyin a thugged-out default button by label.
.TP 8
.B printValue
A Boolean value specifyin whether tha label of the
button pressed ta exit tha program is freestyled ta standard output.
Da default is FALSE.
.TP 8
.B center
A Boolean value specifyin whether ta pop up tha window all up in tha center
of tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is FALSE.
.TP 8
.B nearMouse
A Boolean value specifyin whether ta pop up tha window near tha mouse
cursor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da default is FALSE.
.TP 8
.B timeout
Da number of secondz afta which ta exit with
status 0.  Da default is 0, which means never time out.
.TP 8
.B "maxHeight (\fPclass\fB Maximum)
Da maximum height of tha text part of tha window up in pixels,
used if no size was specified up in tha geometry.
Da default is 0, which means use 70% of tha height of tha screen.
.TP 8
.B "maxWidth (\fPclass\fB Maximum)
Da maximum width of tha text part of tha window up in pixels,
used if no size was specified up in tha geometry.
Da default is 0, which means use 70% of tha width of tha screen.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP 8
.B exit(\fIvalue\fP)
exit immediately wit a exit statuz of \fIvalue\fP (default 0).  This
action can be used wit translations ta provide alternate ways of
exitin \fIxmessage\fP.
.TP 8
.B default-exit()
exit immediately wit tha exit status specified by tha default button.
If there is no default button, dis action has no effect.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
If it detects a error, \fIxmessage\fP returns 1, so dis value should
not be used wit a funky-ass button.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR X (7),
.IR echo (1),
.IR pussaaaaay (1)
.br
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Peterson, MIT Project Athena
.br
Stephen Gildea, X Consortium
