.\" $XdotOrg: xserver/xorg/hw/xfree86/doc/man/Xorg.man.pre,v 1.3 2005/07/04 18:41:01 ajax Exp $
.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH Xorg 1 "xorg-server 1.14.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xorg - X11R7 X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xorg
.RI [\fB:\fP display ]
.RI [ option
.IR ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xorg
is a gangbangin' full featured X server dat was originally designed fo' UNIX and
UNIX-like operatin systems hustlin on Intel x86 hardware.  It now runs
on a wider range of hardware n' OS platforms.
.PP
This work was derived by tha X.Org Foundation from tha XFree86 Project's
.I "XFree86\ 4.4rc2"
release.
Da XFree86 release was originally derived from
.I "X386\ 1.2"
by Thomas Roell which was contributed ta X11R5 by Snitily Graphics
Consultin Service.
.SH PLATFORMS
.PP
.B Xorg
operates under a wide range of operatin systems n' hardware platforms.
Da Intel x86 (IA32) architecture is da most thugged-out widely supported hardware
platform.  Other hardware platforms include Compaq Alpha, Intel IA64, AMD64,
SPARC n' PowerPC.  Da most widely supported operatin systems is the
free/OpenSource UNIX-like systems like fuckin Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD,
OpenBSD, n' Solaris.  Commercial UNIX operatin systems such as
UnixWare is also supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Other supported operatin systems include
GNU Hurd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Mac OS X is supported wit the
Xquartz(1) X server n' shit.  Win32/Cygwin is supported wit the
XWin(1) X server.
.PP
.SH "NETWORK CONNECTIONS"
.B Xorg
supports connections made rockin tha followin reliable
byte-streams:
.TP 4
.I "Local"
On most platforms, tha "Local" connection type be a UNIX-domain socket.
On some System V platforms, tha "local" connection types also include
STREAMS pipes, named pipes, n' some other mechanisms.
.TP 4
.I TCP\/IP
.B Xorg
listens on port
.RI 6000+ n ,
where
.I n
is tha display number n' shit.  This connection type can be disabled wit the
.B \-nolisten
option (see tha Xserver(1) playa page fo' details).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
For operatin systems dat support local connections other than Unix
Domain sockets (SVR3 n' SVR4), there be a cold-ass lil compiled-in list specifying
the order up in which local connections should be attempted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This list
can be overridden by the
.I XLOCAL
environment variable busted lyrics bout below.  If tha display name indicates a
best-choice connection should be made (e.g.
.BR :0.0 ),
each connection mechanizzle is tried until a cold-ass lil connection succeedz or no
more mechanizzlez is available.  Note: fo' these OSs, tha Unix Domain
socket connection is treated differently from tha other local connection
types.  To use it tha connection must be made to
.BR unix:0.0 .
.PP
The
.I XLOCAL
environment variable should contain a list of one more
more of tha following:
.PP
.RS 8
.nf
NAMED
PTS
SCO
ISC
.fi
.RE
.PP
which represent SVR4 Named Streams pipe, Old-style USL Streams pipe,
SCO XSight Streams pipe, n' ISC Streams pipe, respectively.  Yo ass can
select a single mechanizzle (e.g.
.IR XLOCAL=NAMED ),
or a ordered list (e.g. \fIXLOCAL="NAMED:PTS:SCO"\fP).
his variable overrides tha compiled-in defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  For SVR4 it is
recommended that
.I NAMED
be tha straight-up original gangsta preference connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default settin is
.IR PTS:NAMED:ISC:SCO .
.PP
To globally override tha compiled-in defaults, you should define (and
export if using
.B sh
or
.BR ksh )
.I XLOCAL
globally.  If you use startx(1) or xinit(1), tha definizzle should be
at tha top of your
.I .xinitrc
file.  If you use xdm(1), tha definitions should be early on up in the
.I /usr/lib/X11/xdm/Xsession
script.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Xorg
supports nuff muthafuckin mechanizzlez fo' supplying/obtainin configuration and
run-time parameters: command line options, environment variables, the
xorg.conf(5) configuration files, auto-detection, and
fallback defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  When tha same shiznit is supplied up in mo' than
one way, tha highest precedence mechanizzle is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da list of mechanisms
is ordered from highest precedence ta lowest.  Note dat not all parameters
can be supplied via all methods.  Da available command line options
and environment variablez (and some defaults) is busted lyrics bout here n' in
the Xserver(1) manual page.  Most configuration file
parameters, wit they defaults, is busted lyrics bout up in the
xorg.conf(5) manual page.  Driver n' module specific
configuration parametas is busted lyrics bout up in tha relevant driver or module
manual page.
.PP
In addizzle ta tha aiiight server options busted lyrics bout up in the
Xserver(1) manual page,
.B Xorg
accepts tha followin command line switches:
.TP 8
.BI vt XX
.I XX
specifies tha Virtual Terminal thang number which
.B Xorg
will use.  Without dis option,
.B Xorg
will pick tha straight-up original gangsta available Virtual Terminal dat it can locate.  This
option applies only ta platforms dat have virtual terminal support, such
as Linux, BSD, OpenSolaris, SVR3, n' SVR4.
.TP
.B \-allowMouseOpenFail
Allow tha server ta start up even if tha mouse thang can't be opened
or initialised. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is equivalent ta the
.B AllowMouseOpenFail
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.B \-allowNonLocalXvidtune
Make tha VidMode extension available ta remote clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This allows
the xvidtune client ta connect from another host.  This is equivalent
to the
.B AllowNonLocalXvidtune
xorg.conf(5) file option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  By default non-local
connections is not allowed.
.TP 8
.BI \-bgamma " value"
Set tha blue gamma erection.
.I value
must be between 0.1 n' 10.
Da default is 1.0.  Not all drivers support all dis bullshit.  See also the
.BR \-gamma ,
.BR \-rgamma ,
and
.B \-ggamma
options.
.TP 8
.BI \-bpp " n"
No longer supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Use
.B \-depth
to set tha color depth, n' use
.B \-fbbpp
if you straight-up need ta force a non-default framebuffer (hardware) pixel
format.
.TP 8
.BI \-config " file"
Read tha server configuration from
.IR file .
This option will work fo' any file when tha server is run as root (i.e,
with real-uid 0), or fo' filez relatizzle ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory up in tha config
search path fo' all other users.
.TP 8
.BI \-configdir " directory"
Read tha server configuration filez from
.IR directory .
This option will work fo' any directory when tha server is run as root
(i.e, wit real-uid 0), or fo' directories relatizzle ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory up in the
config directory search path fo' all other users.
.TP 8
.B \-configure
When dis option is specified, the
.B Xorg
server loadz all vizzle driver modules, probes fo' available hardware,
and writes up a initial xorg.conf(5) file based on
what was detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This option currently has some problems on some
platforms yo, but up in most cases it aint nuthin but a phat way ta bootstrap the
configuration process.  This option is only available when tha server
is run as root (i.e, wit real-uid 0).
.TP 8
.BI "\-crt /dev/tty" XX
SCO only.  This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.B vt
option, n' is provided fo' compatibilitizzle wit tha natizzle SCO X server.
.TP 8
.BI \-depth " n"
Sets tha default color depth.  Legal joints is 1, 4, 8, 15, 16, and
24.  Not all drivers support all joints.
.TP 8
.B \-disableVidMode
Disable tha partz of tha VidMode extension (used by tha xvidtune
client) dat can be used ta chizzle tha vizzle modes.  This is equivalent
to the
.B DisableVidModeExtension
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.B \-fbbpp \fIn\fP
Sets tha number of framebuffer bits per pixel.  Yo ass should only set this
if you shizzle itz necessary; normally tha server can deduce tha erect
value from
.B \-depth
above.  Useful if you wanna run a thugged-out depth 24 configuration wit a 24
bpp framebuffer rather than tha (possibly default) 32 bpp framebuffer
(or vice versa).  Legal joints is 1, 8, 16, 24, 32.  Not all drivers
support all joints.
.TP 8
.B \-flipPixels
Swap tha default joints fo' tha black n' white pixels.
.TP 8
.BI \-gamma " value"
Set tha gamma erection.
.I value
must be between 0.1 n' 10.  Da default is 1.0.  This value be applied
equally ta tha R, G n' B joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Those joints can be set independently
with the
.BR \-rgamma ,
.BR \-bgamma ,
and
.B \-ggamma
options.  Not all drivers support all dis bullshit.
.TP 8
.BI \-ggamma " value"
Set tha chronic gamma erection.
.I value
must be between 0.1 n' 10.  Da default is 1.0.  Not all drivers support
this.  See also the
.BR \-gamma ,
.BR \-rgamma ,
and
.B \-bgamma
options.
.TP 8
.B \-ignoreABI
The
.B Xorg
server checks tha ABI revision levelz of each module dat it loads.  It
will normally refuse ta load modulez wit ABI revisions dat is newer
than tha server's.  This is cuz such modulez might use intercourses
that tha server do not have.  When dis option is specified, mismatches
like dis is downgraded from fatal errors ta warnings.  This option
should be used wit care.
.TP 8
.B \-isolateDevice \fIbus\-id\fP
Restrict thang resets ta tha thang at
.IR bus\-id .
The
.I bus\-id
strin has tha form
.IB bustype : bus : thang : function
(e.g., \(oqPCI:1:0:0\(cq).
At present, only isolation of PCI devices is supported; i.e., dis option
is ignored if
.I bustype
is anythang other than \(oqPCI\(cq.
.TP 8
.B \-keeptty
Prevent tha server from detachin its initial controllin terminal.
This option is only useful when debuggin tha server n' shit.  Not all platforms
support (or can use) dis option.
.TP 8
.BI \-keyboard " keyboard-name"
Use tha xorg.conf(5) file
.B InputDevice
section called
.I keyboard-name
as tha core keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option is ignored when the
.B Layout
section specifies a cold-ass lil core keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  In tha absence of both a Layout
section n' dis option, tha straight-up original gangsta relevant
.B InputDevice
section is used fo' tha core keyboard.
.TP 8
.BI \-layout " layout-name"
Use tha xorg.conf(5) file
.B Layout
section called
.IR layout-name .
By default tha first
.B Layout
section is used.
.TP 8
.BI \-logfile " filename"
Use tha file called
.I filename
as the
.B Xorg
server log file.  Da default log file is
.BI /var/log/Xorg. n .log
on most platforms, where
.I n
is tha display number of the
.B Xorg
server n' shit.  Da default may be up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory on some platforms.
This option is only available when tha server is run as root (i.e, with
real-uid 0).
.TP 8
.BR \-logverbose " [\fIn\fP]"
Sets tha verbositizzle level fo' shiznit printed ta the
.B Xorg
server log file.  If the
.I n
value aint supplied, each occurrence of dis option increments tha log
file verbositizzle level.  When the
.I n
value is supplied, tha log file verbositizzle level is set ta dat value.
Da default log file verbositizzle level is 3.
.TP 8
.BI \-modulepath " searchpath"
Set tha module search path to
.IR searchpath .
.I searchpath
is a cold-ass lil comma separated list of directories ta search for
.B Xorg
server modules.  This option is only available when tha server is run
as root (i.e, wit real-uid 0).
.TP 8
.B \-nosilk
Disable Silken Mouse support.
.TP 8
.B \-novtswitch
Disable tha automatic switchin on X server reset n' shutdown ta the
VT dat was actizzle when tha server started, if supported by tha OS.
.TP 8
.B \-pixmap24
Set tha internal pixmap format fo' depth 24 pixmaps ta 24 bits per pixel.
Da default is probably 32 bits per pixel.  There is normally lil
reason ta use dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Some client applications don't like this
pixmap format, even though it aint nuthin but a perfectly legal format.  This is
equivalent ta the
.B Pixmap
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.B \-pixmap32
Set tha internal pixmap format fo' depth 24 pixmaps ta 32 bits per pixel.
This is probably tha default.  This is equivalent ta the
.B Pixmap
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.BI \-pointa " pointer-name"
Use tha xorg.conf(5) file
.B InputDevice
section called
.I pointer-name
as tha core pointer n' shit.  This option is ignored when the
.B Layout
section specifies a cold-ass lil core pointer n' shit.  In tha absence of both a Layout
section n' dis option, tha straight-up original gangsta relevant
.B InputDevice
section is used fo' tha core pointer.
.TP 8
.B \-quiet
Suppress most shiznital lyrics at startup.  Da verbositizzle level
is set ta zero.
.TP 8
.BI \-rgamma " value"
Set tha red gamma erection.
.I value
must be between 0.1 n' 10.  Da default is 1.0.  Not all drivers support
this.  See also the
.BR \-gamma ,
.BR \-bgamma ,
and
.B \-ggamma
options.
.TP 8
.B \-sharevts
Smoke up virtual terminals wit another X server, if supported by tha OS.
.TP 8
.BI \-screen " screen-name"
Use tha xorg.conf(5) file
.B Screen
section called
.IR screen-name .
By default tha screens referenced by tha default
.B Layout
section is used, or tha first
.B Screen
section when there be no
.B Layout
sections.
.TP 8
.B \-showconfig
This is tha same ol' dirty as the
.B \-version
option, n' is included fo' compatibilitizzle reasons.  It may be removed
in a gangbangin' future release, so the
.B \-version
option should be used instead.
.TP 8
.B \-showDefaultModulePath
Print up tha default module path tha server was compiled with.
.TP 8
.B \-showDefaultLibPath
Print up tha path libraries should be installed to.
.TP 8
.B \-showopts
For each driver module installed, print up tha list of options n' their
argument types.
.TP 8
.BI \-weight " nnn"
Set RGB weightin at 16 bpp.  Da default is 565.  This applies only to
those drivers which support 16 bpp.
.TP 8
.BR \-verbose " [\fIn\fP]"
Sets tha verbositizzle level fo' shiznit printed on stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If the
.I n
value aint supplied, each occurrence of dis option increments the
verbositizzle level.  When the
.I n
value is supplied, tha verbositizzle level is set ta dat value.  Da default
verbositizzle level is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-version
Print up tha server version, patchlevel, release date, tha operating
system/platform dat shiznit was built on, n' whether it includes module loader
support.
.SH "KEYBOARD"
.PP
The
.B Xorg
server is normally configured ta recognize various special combinations
of key presses dat instruct tha server ta big-ass up some action, rather
than just bustin  tha key press event ta a cold-ass lil client application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. These actions
depend on tha XKB keymap loaded by a particular keyboard thang n' may or
may not be available on a given configuration.
.PP
Da followin key combinations is commonly part of tha default XKEYBOARD
keymap.
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Backspace
Immediately kills tha server -- no thangs asked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it can be disabled by
settin the
.B DontZap
xorg.conf(5) file option ta a TRUE value.
.PP
.RS 8
It should be noted dat zappin is triggered by the
.B Terminate_Server
action up in tha keyboard map. This action aint part of tha default keymaps
but can be enabled wit tha XKB option
.B \*qterminate:ctrl_alt_bksp\*q.
.RE
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Plus
Change vizzle mode ta next one specified up in tha configuration file.
This can be disabled wit the
.B DontZoom
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Minus
Change vizzle mode ta previous one specified up in tha configuration file.
This can be disabled wit the
.B DontZoom
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+F1...F12
For systems wit virtual terminal support, these keystroke
combinations is used ta switch ta virtual terminals 1 all up in 12,
respectively.  This can be disabled wit the
.B DontVTSwitch
xorg.conf(5) file option.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B Xorg
typically uses a cold-ass lil configuration file called
.B xorg.conf
and configuration filez wit tha suffix
.I .conf
in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory called
.B xorg.conf.d
for its initial setup.
Refer ta tha xorg.conf(5) manual page fo' shiznit
about tha format of dis file.
.PP
.B Xorg
has a mechanizzle fo' automatically generatin a funky-ass built-in configuration
at run-time when no
.B xorg.conf
file or
.B xorg.conf.d
filez is present.  Da current version of dis automatic configuration
mechanizzle works up in two ways.
.PP
Da first is via enhancements dat have made nuff componentz of the
.B xorg.conf
file optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  This means dat shiznit dat can be probed or
reasonably deduced don't need ta be specified explicitly, pimped outly
reducin tha amount of built-in configuration shiznit dat needz to
be generated at run-time.
.PP
Da second is ta have "safe" fallbacks fo' most configuration shiznit.
This maximises tha likelihood dat the
.B Xorg
server will start up in some usable configuration even when shiznit
about tha specific hardware aint available.
.PP
Da automatic configuration support fo' Xorg is work up in progress.
It be currently aimed at da most thugged-out ghettofab hardware n' software platforms
supported by Xorg.  Enhancements is planned fo' future releases.
.SH FILES
The
.B Xorg
server config filez can be found up in a range of locations.  These are
documented straight-up up in tha xorg.conf(5) manual page.  The
most commonly used locations is shown here.
.TP 30
.B /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Server configuration file.
.TP 30
.B /etc/X11/xorg.conf-4
Server configuration file.
.TP 30
.B /etc/xorg.conf
Server configuration file.
.TP 30
.B /usr/etc/xorg.conf
Server configuration file.
.TP 30
.B /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf
Server configuration file.
.TP 30
.B /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d
Server configuration directory.
.TP 30
.B /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d-4
Server configuration directory.
.TP 30
.B /etc/xorg.conf.d
Server configuration directory.
.TP 30
.B /usr/etc/xorg.conf.d
Server configuration directory.
.TP 30
.B /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d
Server configuration directory.
.TP 30
.BI /var/log/Xorg. n .log
Server log file fo' display
.IR n .
.TP 30
.B /usr/bin/\(**
Client binaries.
.TP 30
.B /usr/include/\(**
Header files.
.TP 30
.B /usr/lib/\(**
Libraries.
.TP 30
.B /usr/share/fonts/X11/\(**
Fonts.
.TP 30
.B /usr/share/X11/XErrorDB
Client error message database.
.TP 30
.B /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/\(**
Client resource justifications.
.TP 30
.B /usr/share/man/man?/\(**
Manual pages.
.TP 30
.BI /etc/X n .hosts
Initial access control list fo' display
.IR n .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xinit(1),
xorg.conf(5), xvidtune(1),
xkeyboard-config (7),
apm(4),
ati(4),
chips(4),
cirrus(4),
cyrix(4),
fbdev(4),
glide(4),
glint(4),
i128(4),
i740(4),
imstt(4),
intel(4),
mga(4),
neomagic(4),
nsc(4),
nv(4),
openchrome (4),
r128(4),
rendition(4),
s3virge(4),
siliconmotion(4),
sis(4),
sunbw2(4),
suncg14(4),
suncg3(4),
suncg6(4),
sunffb(4),
sunleo(4),
suntcx(4),
tdfx(4),
tga(4),
trident(4),
tseng(4),
v4l(4),
vesa(4),
vmware(4),
.br
Web crib
.IR <http://www.x.org> .

.SH AUTHORS
Xorg has nuff contributors ghetto wide.  Da namez of most of them
can be found up in tha documentation, ChizzleLog filez up in tha source tree,
and up in tha actual source code.
.PP
Xorg was originally based on XFree86 4.4rc2.
That was originally based on \fIX386 1.2\fP by Thomas Roell, which
was contributed ta tha then X Consortiumz X11R5 distribution by SGCS.
.PP
Xorg is busted out by tha X.Org Foundation.
.PP
Da project dat became XFree86 was originally dropped up in 1992 by
Dizzy Dawes, Glenn Lai, Jim Tsillas n' Dizzy Wexelblat.
.PP
XFree86 was lata integrated up in tha then X Consortiumz X11R6 release
by a crew of dedicated XFree86 pimpers, includin tha following:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
Stuart Anderson    \fIanderson@metrolink.com\fP
Doug Anston         \fIdanson@lgc.com\fP
Gertjan Akkerman   \fIakkerman@dutiba.twi.tudelft.nl\fP
Mike Bernston       \fImike@mbsun.mlb.org\fP
Robin Cutshaw      \fIrobin@XFree86.org\fP
Dizzy Dawes        \fIdawes@XFree86.org\fP
Marc Evans         \fImarc@XFree86.org\fP
Pascal Haible      \fIhaible@izfm.uni-stuttgart.de\fP
Matthieu Herrb     \fIMatthieu.Herrb@laas.fr\fP
Dirk Hohndel       \fIhohndel@XFree86.org\fP
Dizzy Holland      \fIdavidh@use.com\fP
Alan Hourihane     \fIalanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk\fP
Jeffrey Hsu        \fIhsu@soda.berkeley.edu\fP
Glenn Lai          \fIglenn@cs.utexas.edu\fP
Ted Lemon          \fImellon@ncd.com\fP
Rich Murphey       \fIrich@XFree86.org\fP
Hans Nasten        \fInasten@everyware.se\fP
Mark Snitily       \fImark@sgcs.com\fP
Randy Terbush      \fIrandyt@cse.unl.edu\fP
Jizzle Tombs          \fItombs@XFree86.org\fP
Kees Verstoep      \fIversto@cs.vu.nl\fP
Pizzle Vixie         \fIpaul@vix.com\fP
Mark Weaver        \fIMark_Weaver@brown.edu\fP
Dizzy Wexelblat    \fIdwex@XFree86.org\fP
Philip Wheatley    \fIPhilip.Wheatley@ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM\fP
Thomas Wolfram     \fIwolf@prz.tu-berlin.de\fP
Orest Zborowski    \fIorestz@eskimo.com\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Xorg source be available from tha FTP server
\fI<ftp://ftp.x.org/>\fP, n' from tha X.Org
server \fI<http://gitweb.freedesktop.org/>\fP.  Documentation n' other
information can be found from tha X.Org wizzy crib
\fI<http://www.x.org/>\fP.

.SH LEGAL
.PP
.B Xorg
is copyright software, provided under licenses dat permit modification
and redistribution up in source n' binary form without fee.
.B Xorg is copyright by a shitload of authors and
contributors from round tha ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Licensin shiznit can be found
at
.IR <http://www.x.org> .
Refer ta tha source code fo' specific copyright notices.
.PP
.B XFree86(TM)
is a trademark of Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.PP
.B X11(TM)
and
.B X Window System(TM)
are trademarkz of Da Open Group.
