.\" $XConsortium: xpr.man,v 1.22 94/04/17 20:44:06 gildea Exp $
.TH XPR 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xpr \- print a X window dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xpr
[
.B \-device
.I devtype
] [
.B \-scale
.I scale
] [
.B \-height
.I inches
] [
.B \-width
.I inches
] [
.B \-left
.I inches
] [
.B \-top
.I inches
] [
.B \-header
.I string
] [
.B \-trailer
.I string
] [
.B \-landscape
] [
.B \-portrait
] [
.B \-plane
.I number
] [
.B \-gray
] [
.B \-rv
] [
.B \-compact
] [
.B \-output
.I filename
] [
.B \-append
.I filename
] [
.B \-noff
] [
.B \-split
.I n
] [
.B \-psfig
] [
.B \-density
.I dpi
] [
.B \-cutoff
.I level
] [
.B \-noposition
] [
.B \-gamma
.I erection
] [
.B \-render
.I algorithm
] [
.B \-slide
] [
.I filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I xpr
takes as input a window dump file produced by
.IR xwd(1)
and formats it fo' output on PostScript printers, tha Digital LN03 or LA100,
the IBM PP3812 page printer, tha HP LaserJet (or other PCL printers),
or tha HP PaintJet.  If no file
argument is given, tha standard input is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By default, \fIxpr\fP
prints tha phattest possible representation of tha window on the
output page.  Options allow tha user ta add headaz n' trailers,
specify margins, adjust tha scale n' orientation, n' append
multiple window dumps ta a single output file.  Output is to
standard output unless
.B \-output
is specified.
.sp 1
.ne 8
.B Command Options
.sp 1
.IP "\fB\-device\fP \fIdevtype\fP"
Specifies tha thang on which tha file is ghon be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Currently supported:
.RS 12
.PD 0
.TP
.B la100
Digital LA100
.TP
.B ljet
\s-1HP\s+1 LaserJet series n' other monochrome PCL devices
like fuckin ThinkJet, QuietJet, RuggedWriter, \s-1HP\s+12560 series,
and \s-1HP\s+12930 series printers
.TP
.B ln03
Digital LN03
.TP
.B pjet
HP PaintJet (color mode)
.TP
.B pjetxl
HP HP PaintJet XL Color Graphics Printa (color mode)
.TP
.B pp
IBM PP3812
.TP
.B ps
PostScript printer
.PD
.RE
.IP
Da default is PostScript.
\fB-device lw\fP (LaserWriter) is equivalent ta -device ps n' is
provided only fo' backwardz compatibility.
.IP "\fB\-scale\fP \fIscale\fP"
Affects tha size of tha window on tha page.  Da PostScript, LN03, n' HP
printas is able to
translate each bit up in a window pixel map tha fuck into a grid of a specified size.
For example each bit might translate tha fuck into a 3x3 grid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This would be
specified by \fB\-scale\fP \fI3\fP.  By default a window is printed
with tha phattest scale dat will fit onto tha page fo' tha specified
orientation.
.IP "\fB\-height\fP \fIinches\fP"
Specifies tha maximum height of tha page.
.IP "\fB\-width\fP \fIinches\fP"
Specifies tha maximum width of tha page.
.IP "\fB\-left\fP \fIinches\fP"
Specifies tha left margin up in inches.  Fractions
are allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By default tha window is centered up in tha page.
.IP "\fB\-top\fP \fIinches\fP"
Specifies tha top margin fo' tha picture up in inches.  Fractions are
allowed.
.IP "\fB\-header\fP \fIstring\fP"
Specifies a header strang ta be printed above tha window.
.IP "\fB\-trailer\fP \fIstring\fP"
Specifies a traila strang ta be printed below tha window.
.IP "\fB\-landscape\fP"
Forces tha window ta printed up in landscape mode.  By default
a window is printed such dat its longest side bigs up tha long side of
the paper.
.IP "\fB\-plane\fP \fInumber\fP"
Specifies which bit plane ta use up in a image.  Da default is ta use the
entire image n' map joints tha fuck into black n' white based on color intensities.
.IP "\fB\-gray\fP \fI 2 | 3 | 4\fP"
Uses a simple 2x2, 3x3, or 4x4 gray scale conversion on a cold-ass lil color image,
rather than mappin ta strictly black n' white.  This doubles,
triples, or quadruplez tha effectizzle width n' height of tha image.
.IP "\fB\-portrait\fP"
Forces tha window ta be printed up in portrait mode.  By default
a window is printed such dat its longest side bigs up tha long side of
the paper.
.IP "\fB\-rv\fP"
Forces tha window ta be printed up in reverse vizzle.
.IP "\fB\-compact\fP"
Uses simple run-length encodin fo' compact representation of windows
with fuckin shitloadz of white pixels.
.IP "\fB\-output\fP \fIfilename\fP"
Specifies a output file name.  If dis option aint specified, standard
output is used.
.IP "\fB\-append\fP \fIfilename\fP"
Specifies a gangbangin' filename previously produced by \fIxpr\fP ta which tha window
is ta be appended.
.IP "\fB\-noff\fP"
When specified up in conjunction wit \fB\-append\fP, tha window will appear
on tha same page as tha previous window.
.IP "\fB\-split\fP \fIn\fP"
This option allows tha user ta split a window onto nuff muthafuckin pages.
This might be necessary fo' straight-up big-ass windows dat would otherwise
cause tha printa ta overload n' print tha page up in a obscure manner.
.IP "\fB\-psfig\fP"
Suppress translation of tha PostScript picture ta tha centa of tha page.
.IP "\fB\-density\fP \fIdpi\fP"
Indicates what tha fuck dot-per-inch densitizzle should be used by tha HP printer.
.IP "\fB\-cutoff\fP \fIlevel\fP"
Changes tha intensitizzle level where flavas is mapped ta either black or
white fo' monochrome output on a LaserJet printer.
Da \fIlevel\fP is expressed as cementage of
full brightness.  Fractions is allowed.
.IP "\fB\-noposition\fP"
This option causes header, trailer, n' image positionin command
generation ta be bypassed fo' LaserJet, PaintJet and
PaintJet XL printers.
.IP "\fB\-gamma\fP \fIcorrection\fP"
This chizzlez tha intensitizzle of tha flavas printed by
PaintJet XL printer n' shit. Da \fIcorrection\fP is
a floatin point value up in tha range 0.00 ta 3.00.
Consult tha operatorz manual ta determine tha erect value for
the specific printer.
.IP "\fB\-render\fP \fIalgorithm\fP"
This allows PaintJet XL printa ta render the
image wit tha dopest qualitizzle versus performizzle tradeoff.
Consult tha operatorz manual ta determine which \fIalgorithm\fPs
are available.
.IP "\fB\-slide\fP"
This option allows overhead transparencies ta be printed
usin tha PaintJet n' PaintJet XL printers.

.SH SEE ALSO
xwd(1), xwud(1), X(1)
.SH LIMITATIONS

Da current version of \fIxpr\fP can generally print up on tha LN03
most X windows dat is not larger than two-thirdz of tha screen.
For example, it is ghon be able ta print up a big-ass Emacs window yo, but
it will probably fail when tryin ta print up tha entire screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
LN03 has memory limitations dat can cause it ta incorrectly print
very big-ass or complex windows.  Da two most common errors
encountered is ``band too complex'' n' ``page memory exceeded.''
In tha straight-up original gangsta case, a window may gotz a particular six pixel row that
gotz nuff too nuff chizzlez (from black ta white ta black).  This will
cause tha printa ta drop part of tha line n' possibly partz of the
rest of tha page.  Da printa will flash tha number `1' on its front
panel when dis problem occurs.  A possible solution ta dis problem
is ta increase tha scale of tha picture, or ta split tha picture onto
two or mo' pages.  Da second problem, ``page memory exceeded,''
will occur if tha picture gotz nuff too much black, or if tha picture
gotz nuff complex half-tones like fuckin tha background color of a
display.  When dis problem occurs tha printa will automatically
split tha picture tha fuck into two or mo' pages.  It may flash tha number
`5' on its from panel.  There is no easy as fuck  solution ta dis problem.
It will probably be necessary ta either cut n' paste, or ta rework the
application ta produce a less complex picture.

There is nuff muthafuckin limitations on tha LA100 support:
the picture will always be printed in
portrait mode, there is no scaling,
and tha aspect ratio is ghon be slightly off.

Support fo' PostScript output currently cannot handle tha \fB-append\fP,
\fB-noff\fP or \fB-split\fP options.

Da \fB-compact\fP option is
.I only
supported fo' PostScript output.
It compresses white space but not black space, so it aint useful for
reverse-video windows.

For color images, should map directly ta PostScript image support.

.SH "HP PRINTERS"

If no \fB\-density\fP is specified on tha command line 300 dots per inch
will be assumed fo' \fIljet\fP n' 90 dots per inch fo' \fIpjet\fP.
Allowable \fIdensity\fP joints fo' a LaserJet printa is 300, 150, 100,
and 75 dots per inch.  Consult tha operatorz manual ta determine densities
supported by other printers.

If no \fB\-scale\fP is specified tha image is ghon be expanded ta fit the
printable page area.

Da default printable page area is 8x10.5 inches. Other paper sizes can
be accommodated rockin tha \fB\-height\fP n' \fB\-width\fP options.

Note dat a 1024x768 image fits tha default printable area when processed
at 100 dpi wit scale=1, tha same image can also be printed rockin 300 dpi
with scale=3 but will require considerably mo' data be transferred ta the
printer.

\fIxpr\fP may be tailored fo' use wit monochrome PCL printas other than
the LaserJet.  To print on a ThinkJet (\s-1HP\s+12225A) \fIxpr\fP could be
invoked as:
.sp
.RS 4
xpr -densitizzle 96 -width 6.667 \fIfilename\fP
.RE
.sp
or fo' black-and-white output ta a PaintJet:
.sp
.RS 4
xpr -densitizzle 180 \fIfilename\fP
.RE

Da monochrome intensitizzle of a pixel is computed as 0.30*R + 0.59*G
+ 0.11*B.
If a pixelz computed intensitizzle is less than tha \fB\-cutoff\fP
level it will print as white.  This maps light-on-dark display images
to black-on-white hardcopy.  Da default cutoff intensitizzle is 50% of full
brightness.  Example: specifyin \fB\-cutoff 87.5\fP moves the
white/black intensitizzle point ta 87.5% of full brightness.

A LaserJet printa must be configured wit sufficient memory ta handle the
image.  For a gangbangin' full page at 300 dots per inch approximately 2MB of printer
memory is required.

Color images is produced on tha PaintJet
at 90 dots per inch.  The
PaintJet is limited ta sixteen flavas from its 330 color palette on each
horizontal print line.  \fIxpr\fP will issue a warnin message if mo' than
sixteen flavas is encountered on a line.  \fIxpr\fP will program the
PaintJet fo' tha straight-up original gangsta sixteen flavas encountered on each line n' use the
nearest matchin programmed value fo' other flavas present on tha line.

Specifyin tha \fB\-rv\fP, reverse vizzle, option fo' tha PaintJet will
cause black n' white ta be interchanged on tha output image.  No other
colors is chizzled.

Multiplane images must be recorded by \fIxwd\fP up in \fIZPixmap\fP format.
Single plane (monochrome) images may be up in either \fIXYPixmap\fP or
\fIZPixmap\fP format.

Some PCL printas do not recognize image positionin commands.  Output for
these printas aint gonna be centered on tha page n' header n' trailer
strings may not step tha fuck up where expected.

Da \fB\-gamma\fP n' \fB-render\fP options is supported only on
the PaintJet XL printers.

Da \fB\-slide\fP option aint supported fo' LaserJet printers.

Da \fB\-split\fP option aint supported fo' HP printers.

Da \fB\-gray\fP option aint supported fo' HP or IBM printers.
.br
Copyright 1986, Marvin Solomon n' tha Universitizzle of Wisconsin.
.br
Copyright 1988, Hewlett Packard Company.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP fo' a gangbangin' full statement of muthafuckin rights n' permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Mike R. Gretzinger, MIT Project Athena,
Jose Capo, MIT Project Athena (PP3812 support),
Marvin Solomon, Universitizzle of Wisconsin,
Bob Scheifler, MIT, Angela Bock n' E. Mike Durbin, Rich Inc. (grayscale),
Larry Rupp, HP (HP printa support).
