.\" Copyright 1991, Digital Weapons Corporation.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XRDB 1 "xrdb 1.1.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrdb - X server resource database utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdb
[-option ...] [\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xrdb
is used ta git or set tha contentz of tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property
on tha root window of screen 0, or tha SCREEN_RESOURCES property on
the root window of any or all screens, or every last muthafuckin thang combined.
Yo ass would normally run dis program from yo' X startup file.
.LP
Most X clients use tha RESOURCE_MANAGER n' SCREEN_RESOURCES propertizzles to
get user preferences about
color, fonts, n' so on fo' applications.  Havin dis shiznit in
the server (where it be available ta all clients) instead of on disk,
solves tha problem up in previous versionz of X dat required you to
maintain \fIdefaults\fP filez on every last muthafuckin machine dat you might use.
It also allows fo' dynamic changin of defaults without editin files.
.LP
Da RESOURCE_MANAGER property is used fo' resources dat apply ta all
screenz of tha display.  Da SCREEN_RESOURCES property on each screen
specifies additionizzle (or overriding) resources ta be used fo' dat screen.
(When there is only one screen, SCREEN_RESOURCES is normally not used,
all resources is just placed up in tha RESOURCE_MANAGER property.)
.LP
Da file specified by
.I filename
(or tha contents from standard input if - or no filename is given)
is optionally passed all up in tha C preprocessor wit the
followin symbols defined, based on tha capabilitizzlez of tha server
bein used:
.TP 8
.B SERVERHOST=\fIhostname\fP
the hostname portion of tha display ta which yo ass is connected.
.TP 8
.B SRVR_\fIname\fB
the SERVERHOST hostname strang turned tha fuck into a legal identifier.
For example, "my-dpy.lcs.mit.edu" becomes SRVR_my_dpy_lcs_mit_edu.
.TP 8
.B HOST=\fIhostname\fP
the same as
.BR SERVERHOST .
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY_NUM=\fInum\fP
the number of tha display on tha server host.
.TP 8
.B CLIENTHOST=\fIhostname\fP
the name of tha host on which
.I xrdb
is hustlin.
.TP 8
.B CLNT_\fIname\fB
the CLIENTHOST hostname strang turned tha fuck into a legal identifier.
For example, "expo.lcs.mit.edu" becomes CLNT_expo_lcs_mit_edu.
.TP 8
.B RELEASE=\fInum\fP
the vendor release number fo' tha server n' shit.  Da interpretation of this
number will vary dependin on VENDOR.
.TP 8
.B REVISION=\fInum\fP
the X protocol minor version supported by dis server (currently 0).
.TP 8
.B VERSION=\fInum\fP
the X protocol major version supported by dis server (should always be 11).
.TP 8
.B VENDOR="\fIvendor\fP"
a strang literal specifyin tha vendor of tha server.
.TP 8
.B VNDR_\fIname\fP
the VENDOR name strang turned tha fuck into a legal identifier.
For example, "MIT X Consortium" becomes VNDR_MIT_X_Consortium.
.TP 8
.B EXT_\fIname\fP
A symbol is defined fo' each protocol extension supported by tha server.
Each extension strang name is turned tha fuck into a legal identifier.
For example, "X3D-PEX" becomes EXT_X3D_PEX.
.TP 8
.B NUM_SCREENS=\fInum\fP
the total number of screens.
.TP 8
.B SCREEN_NUM=\fInum\fP
the number of tha current screen (from zero).
.TP 8
.B BITS_PER_RGB=\fInum\fP
the number of dope bits up in a RGB color justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This is the
log base 2 of tha number of distinct shadez of each primary dat tha hardware
can generate.  Note dat it probably aint related ta PLANES.
.TP 8
.B CLASS=\fIvisualclass\fP
one of StaticGray, GrayScale, StaticColor, PseudoColor, TrueColor,
DirectColor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This is tha visual class of tha root window.
.TP 8
.B CLASS_\fIvisualclass\fP=\fIvisualid\fP
the visual class of tha root window up in a gangbangin' form you can \fI#ifdef\fP on.
Da value is tha numeric id of tha visual.
.TP 8
.B COLOR
defined only if CLASS is one of StaticColor, PseudoColor, TrueColor, or
DirectColor.
.TP 8
.B CLASS_\fIvisualclass\fP_\fIdepth\fP=\fInum\fP
A symbol is defined fo' each visual supported fo' tha screen.
Da symbol includes tha class of tha visual n' its depth;
the value is tha numeric id of tha visual.
(If mo' than one visual has tha same ol' dirty class n' depth, tha numeric id
of tha straight-up original gangsta one reported by tha server is used.)
.TP 8
.B HEIGHT=\fInum\fP
the height of tha root window up in pixels.
.TP 8
.B WIDTH=\fInum\fP
the width of tha root window up in pixels.
.TP 8
.B PLANES=\fInum\fP
the number of bit planes (the depth) of tha root window.
.TP 8
.B X_RESOLUTION=\fInum\fP
the x resolution of tha screen up in pixels per meter.
.TP 8
.B Y_RESOLUTION=\fInum\fP
the y resolution of tha screen up in pixels per meter.
.LP
SRVR_\fIname\fP, CLNT_\fIname\fP, VNDR_\fIname\fP, n' EXT_\fIname\fP
identifiers is formed by changin all charactas other than letters
and digits tha fuck into underscores (_).
.LP
Lines dat begin wit a exclamation mark (!) is ignored n' may
be used as comments.
.LP
Note dat since
.I xrdb
can read from standard input, it can be used to
the chizzle tha contentz of propertizzles directly from
a terminal or from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.I xrdb
program accepts tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option (or any unsupported option) will cause a funky-ass brief description of
the allowable options n' parametas ta be printed.
.TP 8
.B \-version
This option will cause tha xrdb version ta be printed n' tha program ta exit
without struttin any other operations.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies tha X server ta be used; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
It also specifies tha screen ta use fo' tha \fI-screen\fP option,
and it specifies tha screen from which preprocessor symbols are
derived fo' tha \fI-global\fP option.
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates dat operation should be performed on the
screen-independent resource property (RESOURCE_MANAGER), as well as
the screen-specific property (SCREEN_RESOURCES) on every last muthafuckin screen of the
display.  For example, when used up in conjunction wit \fI-query\fP,
the contentz of all propertizzles is output.  For \fI-load\fP, \fI-override\fP
and \fI-merge\fP,
the input file is processed once fo' each screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da resources which occur
in common up in tha output fo' every last muthafuckin screen is collected, n' these is applied
as tha screen-independent resources.  Da remainin resources is applied
for each individual per-screen property.  This tha default mode of operation.
.TP 8
.B \-global
This option indicates dat tha operation should only be performed on
the screen-independent RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B \-screen
This option indicates dat tha operation should only be performed on
the SCREEN_RESOURCES property of tha default screen of tha display.
.TP 8
.B \-screens
This option indicates dat tha operation should be performed on
the SCREEN_RESOURCES property of each screen of tha display.
For \fI-load\fP, \fI-override\fP n' \fI-merge\fP, tha input file is
processed fo' each screen.
.TP 8
.B \-n
This option indicates dat chizzlez ta tha specified propertizzles (when used with
\fI-load\fP, \fI-override\fP or \fI-merge\fP)
or ta tha resource file (when used wit \fI-edit\fP) should be shown on the
standard output yo, but should not be performed.
.TP 8
.B \-quiet
This option indicates dat warnin bout duplicate entries should not be
displayed.
.TP 8
.B -cpp \fIfilename\fP
This option specifies tha pathname of tha C preprocessor program ta be used.
Although
.I xrdb
was designed ta use CPP, any program dat acts as a gangbangin' filter
and accepts tha -D, -I, n' -U options may be used.
.TP 8
.B -nocpp
This option indicates that
.I xrdb
should not run tha input file all up in a preprocessor before loadin it
into properties.
.TP 8
.B -undef
This option is passed ta tha C preprocessor if used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it prevents it from
predefinin any system specific macros.
.TP 8
.B \-symbols
This option indicates dat tha symbols dat is defined fo' tha preprocessor
should be printed onto tha standard output.
.TP 8
.B \-query
This option indicates dat tha current contentz of tha specified
propertizzles should be printed onto tha standard output.  Note dat since
preprocessor commandz up in tha input resource file is part of tha input
file, not part of tha property, they won't step tha fuck up in tha output from this
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
.B \-edit
option can be used ta merge tha contentz of propertizzles back tha fuck into tha input
resource file without damagin preprocessor commands.
.TP 8
.B \-load
This option indicates dat tha input should be loaded as tha freshly smoked up value
of tha specified properties, replacin whatever was there (i.e.
the oldschool contents is removed).  This is tha default action.
.TP 8
.B \-override
This option indicates dat tha input should be added to, instead of
replacing, tha current contentz of tha specified properties.
New entries override previous entries.
.TP 8
.B \-merge
This option indicates dat tha input should be merged n' lexicographically
sorted with, instead of replacing, tha current contentz of tha specified
properties.
.TP 8
.B \-remove
This option indicates dat tha specified propertizzles should be removed
from tha server.
.TP 8
.B \-retain
This option indicates dat tha server should be instructed not ta reset if
\fIxrdb\fP is tha straight-up original gangsta client.  This should never be necessary under normal
conditions, since \fIxdm\fP n' \fIxinit\fP always act as tha straight-up original gangsta client.
.TP 8
.B \-edit \fIfilename\fP
This option indicates dat tha contentz of tha specified properties
should be edited tha fuck into tha given file, replacin any joints already listed
there, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho.  This allows you ta put chizzlez dat you have made ta yo' defaults
back tha fuck into yo' resource file, preservin any comments or preprocessor lines.
.TP 8
.B \-backup \fIstring\fP
This option specifies a suffix ta be appended ta tha filename used with
.B \-edit
to generate a funky-ass backup file.
.TP 8
.B \-D\fIname[=value]\fP
This option is passed all up in ta tha preprocessor n' is used ta define
symbols fo' use wit conditionals such as
.I #ifdef.
.TP 8
.B \-U\fIname\fP
This option is passed all up in ta tha preprocessor n' is used ta remove
any definitionz of dis symbol.
.TP 8
.B \-I\fIdirectory\fP
This option is passed all up in ta tha preprocessor n' is used ta specify
a directory ta search fo' filez dat is referenced with
.I #include.
.SH FILES
.I Xrdb
does not load any filez on its own yo, but nuff desktop environments use
xrdb ta load \fI~/.Xresources\fP filez on session startup ta initialize
the resource database, as a generalized replacement fo' \fI~/.Xdefaults\fP
files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), appres(1), listres(1),
Xlib Resource Manager documentation, Xt resource documentation
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to figure up which display ta use.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Da default fo' no arguments should be ta query, not ta overwrite, so that
it is consistent wit other programs.
.SH AUTHORS
Bob Scheifler, Phil Karlton, rewritten from tha original gangsta by Jim Gettys
