.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XREFRESH 1 "xrefresh 1.0.5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrefresh - refresh all or part of a X screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xrefresh"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xrefresh
is a simple X program dat causes all or part of yo' screen ta be repainted.
This is useful when system lyrics have messed up yo' screen.
.I Xrefresh
maps a window on top of tha desired area of tha screen n' then immediately
unmaps it,
causin refresh events ta be busted ta all applications.  By default,
a window wit no background is used, causin all applications ta repaint
``smoothly.''
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha various options can be used ta indicate dat a solid background
(of any color) or tha root window background should be used instead.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-white
Use a white background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da screen just appears ta flash quickly, n' then
repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-black
Use a funky-ass black background (in effect, turnin off all of tha electron glocks to
the tube).  This can be somewhat disorientin as every last muthafuckin thang goes black for
a moment.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-solid \fIcolor\fP
Use a solid background of tha specified color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Try green.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-root
Use tha root window background.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-none
This is tha default.  All of tha windows simply repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-geometry \fIWxH+X+Y\fP
Specifies tha portion of tha screen ta be repainted; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This  argument  allows  you  ta  specify tha server n' screen to
refresh; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.SH X DEFAULTS
The
.I xrefresh
program uses tha routine
.I XGetDefault(3)
to read defaults, so its resource names is all capitalized.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Black\fP, \fBWhite\fP, \fBSolid\fP, \fBNone\fP, \fBRoot\fP
Determines what tha fuck sort of window background ta use.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Geometry
Determines tha area ta refresh.  Not straight-up useful.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
DISPLAY - To git default host n' display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7)
.SH BUGS
.PP
It should have just one default type fo' tha background.
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Gettys, Digital Weapons Corp., MIT Project Athena
