.\" $Xorg: Xserver.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:04:07 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" $XdotOrg: xserver/xorg/doc/Xserver.man.pre,v 1.4 2005/12/23 20:11:12 alanc Exp $
.\" Copyright 1984 - 1991, 1993, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/Xserver.man,v 3.31 2004/01/10 22:27:46 dawes Exp $
.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH XSERVER 1 "xorg-server 1.14.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xserver \- X Window System display server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B X
[option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I X
is tha generic name fo' tha X Window System display server n' shit.  It is
frequently a link or a cold-ass lil copy of tha appropriate server binary for
rollin da most thugged-out frequently used server on a given machine.
.SH "STARTING THE SERVER"
Da X server is probably started from tha X Display Manager program
\fIxdm\fP(1) or a similar display manager program.
This utilitizzle is run from tha system boot filez n' takes care of keeping
the server hustlin, promptin fo' usernames n' passwords, n' startin up
the user sessions.
.PP
Installations dat run mo' than one window system may need ta use the
\fIxinit\fP(1) utilitizzle instead of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display manager n' shit.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat \fIxinit\fP is
to be considered a tool fo' buildin startup scripts n' is not
intended fo' use by end users.  Joint administrators is \fBstrongly\fP
urged ta bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display manager, or build other intercourses fo' novice users.
.PP
Da X server may also be started directly by tha user, though this
method is probably reserved fo' testin n' aint recommended for
normal operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  On some platforms, tha user must have special
permission ta start tha X server, often cuz access ta certain
devices (e.g. \fI/dev/mouse\fP) is restricted.
.PP
When tha X server starts up, it typically takes over tha display.  If
yo ass is hustlin on a workstation whose console is tha display, you may
not be able ta log tha fuck into tha console while tha server is hustlin.
.SH OPTIONS
Many X servers have device-specific command line options.  See tha manual
pages fo' tha individual servers fo' mo' details; a list of
server-specific manual pages is provided up in tha SEE ALSO section below.
.PP
All of tha X servers accept tha command line options busted lyrics bout below.
Some X servers may have alternatizzle wayz of providin tha parameters
busted lyrics bout here yo, but tha joints provided via tha command line options
should override joints specified via other mechanisms.
.TP 8
.B :\fIdisplaynumber\fP
Da X server runs as tha given \fIdisplaynumber\fP, which by default is 0.
If multiple X servers is ta run simultaneously on a host, each must have
a unique display number n' shit.  See tha DISPLAY
NAMES section of tha \fIX\fP(7) manual page ta learn how tha fuck to
specify which display number clients should try ta use.
.TP 8
.B \-a \fInumber\fP
sets pointa acceleration (i.e. tha ratio of how tha fuck much is reported ta how tha fuck much
the user straight-up moved tha pointer).
.TP 8
.B \-ac
disablez host-based access control mechanisms.  Enablez access by any host,
and permits any host ta modify tha access control list.
Use wit off tha hook caution.
This option exists primarily fo' hustlin test suites remotely.
.TP 8
.B \-audit \fIlevel\fP
sets tha audit trail level.  Da default level is 1, meanin only connection
rejections is reported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Level 2 additionally reports all successful
connections n' disconnects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Level 4 enablez lyrics from the
SECURITY extension, if present, includin generation n' revocation of
authorizations n' violationz of tha securitizzle policy.
Level 0 turns off tha audit trail.
Audit lines is busted as standard error output.
.TP 8
.B \-auth \fIauthorization-file\fP
specifies a gangbangin' file which gotz nuff a cold-ass lil collection of authorization recordz used
to authenticate access.  See also tha \fIxdm\fP(1) and
\fIXsecurity\fP(7) manual pages.
.TP 8
.BI \-background\ none
Asks tha driver not ta clear tha background on startup, if tha driver supports dis shit.
May be useful fo' smooth transizzle wit eg. fbdev driver.
For securitizzle reasons dis aint tha default as tha screen contents might
show a previous user session.
.TP 8
.B \-br
sets tha default root window ta solid black instead of tha standard root weave
pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.   This is tha default unless -retro or -wr is specified.
.TP 8
.B \-bs
disablez backin store support on all screens.
.TP 8
.B \-c
turns off key-click.
.TP 8
.B c \fIvolume\fP
sets key-click volume (allowable range: 0-100).
.TP 8
.B \-cc \fIclass\fP
sets tha visual class fo' tha root window of color screens.
Da class numbers is as specified up in tha X protocol.
Not obeyed by all servers.
.TP 8
.B \-core
causes tha server ta generate a cold-ass lil core dump on fatal errors.
.TP 8
.B \-displayfd \fIfd\fP
specifies a gangbangin' file descriptor up in tha launchin process.  Rather than specify
a display number, tha X server will attempt ta listen on successively higher
display numbers, n' upon findin a gangbangin' free one, will write tha display number back
on dis file descriptor as a newline-terminated string.  Da \-pn option is
ignored when rockin \-displayfd.
.TP 8
.B \-deferglyphs \fIwhichfonts\fP
specifies tha typez of fonts fo' which tha server should attempt ta use
deferred glyph loading.  \fIwhichfonts\fP can be all (all fonts),
none (no fonts), or 16 (16 bit fonts only).
.TP 8
.B \-dpi \fIresolution\fP
sets tha resolution fo' all screens, up in dots per inch.
To be used when tha server cannot determine tha screen size(s) from the
hardware.
.TP 8
.B dpms
enablez DPMS (display juice pimpment skillz), where supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  The
default state is platform n' configuration specific.
.TP 8
.B \-dpms
disablez DPMS (display juice pimpment skillz).  Da default state
is platform n' configuration specific.
.TP 8
.BI \-extension extensionName
disablez named extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.   If a unknown extension name is specified,
a list of accepted extension names is printed.
.TP 8
.BI +extension extensionName
enablez named extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.   If a unknown extension name is specified,
a list of accepted extension names is printed.
.TP 8
.B \-f \fIvolume\fP
sets beep (bell) volume (allowable range: 0-100).
.TP 8
.B \-fc \fIcursorFont\fP
sets default cursor font.
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
sets tha default font.
.TP 8
.B \-fp \fIfontPath\fP
sets tha search path fo' fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This path be a cold-ass lil comma separated list
of directories which tha X server searches fo' font databases.
See tha FONTS section of dis manual page fo' mo' shiznit n' tha default
list.
.TP 8
.B \-help
prints a usage message.
.TP 8
.B \-I
causes all remainin command line arguments ta be ignored.
.TP 8
.B \-maxbigreqsize \fIsize\fP
sets tha maximum big-ass request to
.I size
MB.
.TP 8
.B \-nocursor
disable tha display of tha pointa cursor.
.TP 8
.B \-nolisten \fItrans-type\fP
disablez a transhiznit type.  For example, TCP/IP connections can be disabled
with
.BR "\-nolisten tcp" .
This option may be issued multiple times ta disable listenin ta different
transhiznit types.
.TP 8
.B \-noreset
prevents a server reset when tha last client connection is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
overrides a previous
.B \-terminate
command line option.
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIminutes\fP
sets screen-saver pattern cycle time up in minutes.
.TP 8
.B \-pn
permits tha server ta continue hustlin if it fails ta establish all of
its well-known sockets (connection points fo' clients) yo, but
establishes at least one.  This option is set by default.
.TP 8
.B \-nopn
causes tha server ta exit if it fails ta establish all of its well-known
sockets (connection points fo' clients).
.TP 8
.B \-r
turns off auto-repeat.
.TP 8
.B r
turns on auto-repeat.
.TP 8
.B -retro
starts tha stipple wit tha funky-ass stipple n' cursor visible.  Da default
is ta start wit a funky-ass black root window, n' ta suppress display of tha cursor
until tha last time a application calls XDefineCursor().  For tha Xorg
server, dis also sets tha default fo' tha DontZap option ta FALSE.  For
kdrive servers, dis implies -zap.
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIminutes\fP
sets screen-saver timeout time up in minutes.
.TP 8
.B \-su
disablez save under support on all screens.
.TP 8
.B \-seat \fIseat\fP
seat ta run on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Takes a strang identifyin a seat up in a platform
specific syntax. On platforms which support dis feature dis may be
used ta limit tha server ta expose only a specific subset of devices
connected ta tha system.
.TP 8
.B \-t \fInumber\fP
sets pointa acceleration threshold up in pixels (i.e. afta how tha fuck nuff pixels
pointa acceleration should take effect).
.TP 8
.B \-terminate
causes tha server ta terminizzle at server reset, instead of continuin ta run.
This overrides a previous
.B \-noreset
command line option.
.TP 8
.B \-to \fIseconds\fP
sets default connection timeout up in seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-tst
disablez all testin extensions (e.g., XTEST, XTrap, XTestExtension1, RECORD).
.TP 8
.B tty\fIxx\fP
ignored, fo' servers started tha ancient way (from init).
.TP 8
.B v
sets vizzle-off screen-saver preference.
.TP 8
.B \-v
sets vizzle-on screen-saver preference.
.TP 8
.B \-wm
forces tha default backing-store of all windows ta be WhenMapped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
is a funky-ass backdoor way of gettin backing-store ta apply ta all windows.
Although all mapped windows gonna git backin store, tha backin store
attribute value reported by tha server fo' a window is ghon be tha last
value established by a cold-ass lil client.  If it has never been set by a cold-ass lil client,
the server will report tha default value, NotUseful naaahhmean, biatch?  This behavior is
required by tha X protocol, which allows tha server ta exceed the
clientz backin store expectations but do not provide a way ta tell
the client dat it is bustin so.
.TP 8
.B \-wr
sets tha default root window ta solid white instead of tha standard root weave
pattern.
.TP 8
.B \-x \fIextension\fP
loadz tha specified extension at init.
This be a no-op fo' most implementations.
.TP 8
.B [+-]xinerama
enables(+) or disables(-) tha XINERAMA extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default state is
platform n' configuration specific.
.SH SERVER DEPENDENT OPTIONS
Some X servers accept tha followin options:
.TP 8
.B \-ld \fIkilobytes\fP
sets tha data space limit of tha server ta tha specified number of kilobytes.
A value of zero make tha data size as big-ass as possible.  Da default value
of \-1 leaves tha data space limit unchanged.
.TP 8
.B \-lf \fIfiles\fP
sets tha number-of-open-filez limit of tha server ta tha specified number.
A value of zero make tha limit as big-ass as possible.  Da default value
of \-1 leaves tha limit unchanged.
.TP 8
.B \-ls \fIkilobytes\fP
sets tha stack space limit of tha server ta tha specified number of kilobytes.
A value of zero make tha stack size as big-ass as possible.  Da default value
of \-1 leaves tha stack space limit unchanged.
.TP 8
.B \-render
.BR default | mono | gray | color
sets tha color allocation policy dat is ghon be used by tha render extension.
.RS 8
.TP 8
.I default
selects tha default policy defined fo' tha display depth of tha X
server.
.TP 8
.I mono
don't use any color cell.
.TP 8
.I gray
use a gray map of 13 color cells fo' tha X render extension.
.TP 8
.I color
use a cold-ass lil color cube of at most 4*4*4 flavas (that is 64 color cells).
.RE
.TP 8
.B \-dumbSched
disablez smart-ass schedulin on platforms dat support tha smart-ass scheduler.
.TP
.B \-schedInterval \fIinterval\fP
sets tha smart-ass schedulerz schedulin interval to
.I interval
milliseconds.
.SH XDMCP OPTIONS
X servers dat support XDMCP have tha followin options.
See tha \fIX Display Manager Control Protocol\fP justification fo' more
information.
.TP 8
.B \-query \fIhostname\fP
enablez XDMCP n' sendz Query packets ta tha specified
.IR hostname .
.TP 8
.B \-broadcast
enable XDMCP n' broadcasts BroadcastQuery packets ta tha network.  The
first respondin display manager is ghon be chosen fo' tha session.
.TP 8
.B \-multicast [\fIaddress\fP [\fIhop count\fP]]
Enable XDMCP n' multicast BroadcastQuery packets ta tha  network.
Da first respondin display manager is chosen fo' tha session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If an
address is specified, tha multicast is busted ta dat address.  If no
address is specified, tha multicast is busted ta tha default XDMCP IPv6
multicast group.  If a hop count is specified, it is used as tha maximum
hop count fo' tha multicast.  If no hop count is specified, tha multicast
is set ta a maximum of 1 hop, ta prevent tha multicast from bein routed
beyond tha local network.
.TP 8
.B \-indirect \fIhostname\fP
enablez XDMCP n' bust IndirectQuery packets ta tha specified
.IR hostname .
.TP 8
.B \-port \fIport-number\fP
uses tha specified \fIport-number\fP fo' XDMCP packets, instead of the
default.  This option must be specified before any \-query, \-broadcast,
\-multicast, or \-indirect options.
.TP 8
.B \-from \fIlocal-address\fP
specifies tha local address ta connect from (useful if tha connectin host
has multiple network intercourses).  Da \fIlocal-address\fP may be expressed
in any form aaight ta tha host platformz \fIgethostbyname\fP(3)
implementation.
.TP 8
.B \-once
causes tha server ta terminizzle (rather than reset) when tha XDMCP session
ends.
.TP 8
.B \-class \fIdisplay-class\fP
XDMCP has a additionizzle display qualifier used up in resource lookup for
display-specific options.  This option sets dat value, by default it
is "MIT-Unspecified" (not a straight-up useful value).
.TP 8
.B \-cookie \fIxdm-auth-bits\fP
When testin XDM-AUTHENTICATION-1, a private key is shared between the
server n' tha manager n' shit.  This option sets tha value of dat private
data (not dat it is straight-up private, bein on tha command line!).
.TP 8
.B \-displayID \fIdisplay-id\fP
Yet another XDMCP specific value, dis one allows tha display manager to
identify each display so dat it can locate tha shared key.
.SH XKEYBOARD OPTIONS
X servers dat support tha XKEYBOARD (a.k.a. \*qXKB\*q) extension accept the
followin options.  All layout filez specified on tha command line must be
located up in tha XKB base directory or a subdirectory, n' specified as the
relatizzle path from tha XKB base directory.  Da default XKB base directory is
.IR /usr/lib/X11/xkb .
.TP 8
.BR [+-]accessx " [ \fItimeout\fP [ \fItimeout_mask\fP [ \fIfeedback\fP [ \fIoptions_mask\fP ] ] ] ]"
enables(+) or disables(-) AccessX key sequences.
.TP 8
.B \-xkbdir \fIdirectory\fP
base directory fo' keyboard layout files.  This option aint available
for setuid X servers (i.e., when tha X serverz real n' effectizzle uids
are different).
.TP 8
.B \-ardelay \fImilliseconds\fP
sets tha autorepeat delay (length of time up in millisecondz dat a key must
be pissed off before autorepeat starts).
.TP 8
.B \-arinterval \fImilliseconds\fP
sets tha autorepeat interval (length of time up in millisecondz dat should
elapse between autorepeat-generated keystrokes).
.TP 8
.B \-xkbmap \fIfilename\fP
loadz keyboard description up in \fIfilename\fP on server startup.
.SH "NETWORK CONNECTIONS"
Da X server supports client connections via a platform-dependent subset of
the followin transhiznit types: TCP\/IP, Unix Domain sockets, DECnet,
and nuff muthafuckin varietizzlez of SVR4 local connections.  See tha DISPLAY
NAMES section of tha \fIX\fP(7) manual page ta learn how tha fuck to
specify which transhiznit type clients should try ta use.
.SH GRANTING ACCESS
Da X server implements a platform-dependent subset of tha following
authorization protocols: MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1, XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1,
XDM-AUTHORIZATION-2, SUN-DES-1, n' MIT-KERBEROS-5.  See the
\fIXsecurity\fP(7) manual page fo' shiznit on the
operation of these protocols.
.PP
Authorization data required by tha above protocols is passed ta the
server up in a private file named wit tha \fB\-auth\fP command line
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Each time tha server be bout ta accept tha straight-up original gangsta connection
afta a reset (or when tha server is starting), it readz dis file.
If dis file gotz nuff any authorization records, tha local host is not
automatically allowed access ta tha server, n' only clients which
send one of tha authorization recordz contained up in tha file up in the
connection setup shiznit is ghon be allowed access.  See the
\fIXau\fP manual page fo' a thugged-out description of tha binary format of this
file.  See \fIxauth\fP(1) fo' maintenizzle of dis file, n' distribution
of its contents ta remote hosts.
.PP
Da X server also uses a host-based access control list fo' deciding
whether or not ta accept connections from clients on a particular machine.
If no other authorization mechanizzle is bein used,
this list initially consistz of tha host on which tha server is hustlin as
well as any machines listed up in tha file \fI/etc/X\fBn\fI.hosts\fR, where
\fBn\fP is tha display number of tha server n' shit.  Each line of tha file should
contain either a Internizzle hostname (e.g. expo.lcs.mit.edu) or a DECnet
hostname up in double colon format (e.g. hydra::) or a cold-ass lil complete name up in tha format
\fIfamily\fP:\fIname\fP as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fIxhost\fP(1) manual page.
There should be no leadin or trailin spaces on any lines.  For example:
.sp
.in +8
.nf
joesworkstation
corporate.company.com
star::
inet:bigcpu
local:
.fi
.in -8
.PP
Users can add or remove hosts from dis list n' enable or disable access
control rockin tha \fIxhost\fP command from tha same machine as tha server.
.PP
If tha X FireWall Proxy (\fIxfwp\fP) is bein used without a cribpolicy,
host-based authorization must be turned on fo' clients ta be able to
connect ta tha X server via tha \fIxfwp\fP.  If \fIxfwp\fP is run without
a configuration file n' thus no cribpolicy is defined, if \fIxfwp\fP
is rockin a X server where xhost + has been run ta turn off host-based
authorization checks, when a cold-ass lil client tries ta connect ta dis X server
via \fIxfwp\fP, tha X server will deny tha connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See \fIxfwp\fP(1)
for mo' shiznit bout dis proxy.
.PP
Da X protocol intrinsically aint gots any notion of window operation
permissions or place any restrictions on what tha fuck a cold-ass lil client can do; if a program can
connect ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display, it has full run of tha screen.
X servers dat support tha SECURITY extension fare betta cuz clients
can be designated untrusted via tha authorization they use ta connect; see
the \fIxauth\fP(1) manual page fo' details.  Restrictions is imposed
on untrusted clients dat curtail tha mischizzle they can do.  See tha SECURITY
extension justification fo' a cold-ass lil complete list of these restrictions.
.PP
Sites dat have better
authentication n' authorization systems might wish ta make
use of tha hooks up in tha libraries n' tha server ta provide additional
securitizzle models.
.SH SIGNALS
Da X server attaches special meanin ta tha followin signals:
.TP 8
.I SIGHUP
This signal causes tha server ta close all existin connections, free all
resources, n' restore all defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It be busted by tha display manager
whenever tha main userz main application (usually a \fIxterm\fP or window
manager) exits ta force tha server ta clean up n' prepare fo' tha next
user.
.TP 8
.I SIGTERM
This signal causes tha server ta exit cleanly.
.TP 8
.I SIGUSR1
This signal is used like differently from either of tha above.  When the
server starts, it checks ta peep if it has inherited SIGUSR1 as SIG_IGN
instead of tha usual SIG_DFL.  In dis case, tha server sendz a SIGUSR1 to
its parent process afta it has set up tha various connection schemes.
\fIXdm\fP uses dis feature ta recognize when connectin ta tha server
is possible.
.SH FONTS
Da X server can obtain fonts from directories and/or from font servers.
Da list of directories n' font servers
the X server uses when tryin ta open a gangbangin' font is controlled
by tha \fIfont path\fP.
.LP
Da default font path is
catalogue:/etc/X11/fontpath.d,built-ins .
.LP
A special kind of directory can be specified rockin tha \fBcatalogue\fP:
prefix. Directories specified dis way can contain symlinks pointin ta the
real font directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha FONTPATH.D section fo' details.
.LP
Da font path can be set wit tha \fB\-fp\fP option or by \fIxset\fP(1)
afta tha server has started.
.SH "FONTPATH.D"
Yo ass can specify a special kind of font path up in tha form \fBcatalogue:<dir>\fR.
Da directory specified afta tha catalogue: prefix is ghon be scanned fo' symlinks
and each symlink destination is ghon be added as a local fontfile FPE.
.PP
Da symlink can be suffixed by attributes like fuckin '\fBunscaled\fR', which
will be passed all up in ta tha underlyin fontfile FPE. Da only exception is
the newly introduced '\fBpri\fR' attribute, which is ghon be used fo' ordering
the font paths specified by tha symlinks.

An example configuration:

.nf
    75dpi:unscaled:pri=20 \-> /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi
    pimpscript:pri=60 \-> /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript
    misc:unscaled:pri=10 \-> /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc
    type1:pri=40 \-> /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1
    type1:pri=50 \-> /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1
.fi

This will add /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc as tha straight-up original gangsta FPE wit tha attribute
\N'39'unscaled', second FPE is ghon be /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi, also with
the attribute 'unscaled' etc. This is functionally equivalent ta setting
the followin font path:

.nf
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc:unscaled,
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi:unscaled,
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP 30
.I /etc/X\fBn\fP.hosts
Initial access control list fo' display number \fBn\fP
.TP 30
.IR /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc , /usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi , /usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi
Bitmap font directories
.TP 30
.IR /usr/share/fonts/X11/TTF , /usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1
Outline font directories
.TP 30
.I /tmp/.X11-unix/X\fBn\fP
Unix domain socket fo' display number \fBn\fP
.TP 30
.I /usr/adm/X\fBn\fPmsgs
Error log file fo' display number \fBn\fP if run from \fIinit\fP(8)
.TP 30
.I /usr/lib/X11/xdm/xdm-errors
Default error log file if tha server is run from \fIxdm\fP(1)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
General shiznit: \fIX\fP(7)
.PP
Protocols:
.I "X Window System Protocol,"
.I "Da X Font Service Protocol,"
.I "X Display Manager Control Protocol"
.PP
Fonts: \fIbdftopcf\fP(1), \fImkfontdir\fP(1), \fImkfontscale\fP(1),
\fIxfs\fP(1), \fIxlsfonts\fP(1), \fIxfontsel\fP(1), \fIxfd\fP(1),
.I "X Logical Font Description Conventions"
.PP
Keyboards: \fIxkeyboard-config\fP(7)
.PP
Security: \fIXsecurity\fP(7), \fIxauth\fP(1), \fIXau\fP(1),
\fIxdm\fP(1), \fIxhost\fP(1), \fIxfwp\fP(1),
.I "Securitizzle Extension Justification"
.PP
Startin tha server: \fIstartx\fP(1), \fIxdm\fP(1), \fIxinit\fP(1)
.PP
Controllin tha server once started: \fIxset\fP(1), \fIxsetroot\fP(1),
\fIxhost\fP(1), \fIxinput\fP(1), \fIxrandr\fP(1)
.PP
Server-specific playa pages:
\fIXorg\fP(1), \fIXdmx\fP(1), \fIXephyr\fP(1), \fIXnest\fP(1),
\fIXvfb\fP(1), \fIXquartz\fP(1), \fIXWin\fP(1).
.PP
Server internal documentation:
.I "Definizzle of tha Portin Layer fo' tha X v11 Sample Server"
.SH AUTHORS
Da sample server was originally freestyled by Susan Angebranndt, Raymond
Drewry, Philip Karlton, n' Todd Newman, from Digital Equipment
Corporation, wit support from a big-ass cast.  It has since been
extensively rewritten by Keith Packard n' Bob Scheifler, from MIT.
Dizzle Wiggins took over post-R5 n' made substantial improvements.
