.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XSET 1 "xset 1.2.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xset - user preference utilitizzle fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xset
[-display \fIdisplay\fP]
.br
[-b] [b {on|off}] [b [\fIvolume\fP [\fIpitch\fP [\fIduration\fP]]]]
.br
[-bc] [bc]
.br
[-c] [c {on|off}] [c [\fIvolume\fP]]
.br
[+dpms] [-dpms]
.br
	[dpms \fIstandby\fP [\fI suspend\fP [\fI off\fP]]]
	[dpms force {standby|suspend|off|on}]
.br
[fp=\fIpathlist\fP]
[-fp=\fIpathlist\fP]
[+fp=\fIpathlist\fP]
[fp-\fIpathlist\fP]
[fp+\fIpathlist\fP]
.br
[fp default] [fp rehash]
.br
[-led [\fIinteger\fP|named \fIindicator\fP]]
[led [\fIinteger\fP|named \fIindicator\fP]]
.br
[led {on|off}]
.br
[mouse [\fIaccel_mult\fP[/\fIaccel_div\fP] [\fIthreshold\fP]]] [mouse default]
.br
[p \fIpixel\fP \fIcolor\fP]
.br
[-r [keycode]]  [r [keycode]]
[r {on|off}] [r rate \fIdelay\fP [\fIrate\fP]]
.br
[s [\fIlength\fP [\fIperiod\fP]]] [s {blank|noblank}]
[s {expose|noexpose}] [s {on|off}] [s default] [s activate] [s reset]
.br
[q]
.br
[-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used ta set various user preference optionz of tha display.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies tha server ta use; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B b
Da \fBb\fP option controls bell volume, pitch n' duration.
This option accepts up ta three numerical parameters, a preceding
dash(-), or a 'on/off' flag.  If no parametas are
given, or tha 'on' flag is used, tha system defaults is ghon be used.
If tha dash or 'off' is given, tha bell is ghon be turned
off.
If only one numerical parameta is given, the
bell volume is ghon be set ta dat value, as a cementage of its maximum.
Likewise, tha second numerical
parameta specifies tha bell pitch, up in hertz, and
the third numerical parameter
specifies tha duration up in milliseconds.  Note dat not
all hardware can vary tha bell characteristics.  Da X server will set
the characteristics of tha bell as closely as it can ta tha user's
specifications.
.PP
.TP 8
.B bc
Da \fBbc\fP option controls \fIbug compatibility\fP mode up in tha server,
if possible; a precedin dash(-) disablez tha mode, otherwise tha mode
is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Various pre-R4 clients pass illegal joints up in some
protocol requests, n' pre-R4 servers did not erectly generate
errors up in these cases.  Such clients, when run against a R4 server,
will terminizzle abnormally or otherwise fail ta operate erectly.
Bug compatibilitizzle mode explicitly reintroduces certain bugs tha fuck into the
X server, so dat nuff such clients can still be run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This mode should be
used wit care; freshly smoked up application pimpment should be done wit dis mode
disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da server must support tha MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD
protocol extension up in order fo' dis option ta work.
.TP 8
.B c
Da \fBc\fP option controls key click.
This option can take a optionizzle value, a precedin dash(-),
or a 'on/off' flag.
If no parameta or tha 'on' flag is given, tha system defaults
will be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha dash or 'off' flag is used, keyclick will be
disabled.
If a value from 0 ta 100 is given, it is used to
indicate volume, as a cementage of tha maximum.
Da X server will set
the volume ta tha nearest value dat tha hardware can support.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-dpms
Da \fB\-dpms\fP option disablez DPMS (Energy Star) features.
.TP 8
.B +dpms
Da \fB+dpms\fP option enablez DPMS (Energy Star) features.
.TP 8
.B dpms \fIflags...\fP
Da \fBdpms\fP option allows tha DPMS (Energy Star) parametas ta be
set.  Da option can take up ta three numerical joints, or tha `force'
flag followed by a DPMS state.  Da `force' flags forces tha server
to immediately switch ta tha DPMS state specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da DPMS state can
be one of `standby', `suspend', `off', or `on'.  When numerical joints are
given, they set tha inactivitizzle period
(in unitz of seconds)
before tha three modes is activated.
Da first value given is fo' tha `standby' mode, tha second is fo' the
`suspend' mode, n' tha third is fo' tha `off' mode.  Settin these
values implicitly enablez tha DPMS features.  A value of zero disables
a particular mode.
.TP 8
.B fp= \fIpath,...\fP
Da \fBfp=\fP sets tha font path ta tha entries given up in tha path argument.
Da entries is interpreted by tha server, not by tha client.
Typically they is directory names or font server names yo, but the
interpretation is server-dependent.
.TP 8
.B fp \fBdefault\fP
Da \fBdefault\fP argument causes tha font path ta be reset ta tha server's
default.
.TP 8
.B fp \fBrehash\fP
Da \fBrehash\fP argument resets tha font path ta its current value,
causin tha server ta reread tha font databases in
the current font path.  This is generally only used when addin freshly smoked up fonts to
a font directory (afta hustlin \fImkfontdir\fP ta recreate tha font database).
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-fp \fRor\fP fp\-"
Da \fB\-fp\fP n' \fBfp\-\fP options remove elements from tha current
font path.  They must be followed by a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of entries.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\+fp \fRor\fP fp\+"
This \fB\+fp\fP n' \fBfp\+\fP options prepend n' append elements ta the
current font path, respectively.  They must be followed by a cold-ass lil comma-separated
list of entries.
.PP
.TP 8
.B led
Da \fBled\fP option controls tha keyboard LEDs.
This controls tha turnin on or off of one or all of tha LEDs.
It accepts a optionizzle integer, a precedin dash(-) or a 'on/off' flag.
If no parameta or tha 'on' flag is given, all LEDs is turned on.
If a precedin dash or tha flag 'off' is given, all LEDs is turned off.
If a value between 1 n' 32 is given, dat LED is ghon be turned on or off
dependin on tha existence of a precedin dash.
``xset hustled 3'' would turn hustled #3 on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  ``xset -led 3'' would turn it off.
Da particular LED joints may refer ta different LEDs on different
hardware.
If tha X server supports tha XKEYBOARD (XKB) extension, ledz may be
referenced by tha XKB indicator name by specifyin tha `named' keyword
and tha indicator name.   For example, ta turn on tha Scroll Lock LED:
.IP
xset hustled named "Scroll Lock"
.PP
.TP 8
.B mouse
Da \fBm\fP option controls tha mouse parameters; it may be
abbreviated ta 'm'. Of course, it applies ta most pointin devices, not just
mice. Da parametas fo' tha pointin thang is `acceleration' and
`threshold'. Da acceleration can be specified as a integer, or as a simple
fraction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Threshold is just a integer n' shit. Da settin be applied ta all connected
pointin devices. xinput(1) should be used if you need device-specific settings.
.PP
By default tha pointa (the on-screen representation of tha pointin device)
will go `acceleration' times as fast when tha thang travels mo' than
`threshold' mickeys (i.e. would-be pixels) up in 10 ms, includin a small
transizzle range. This way, tha pointin thang can be used fo' precise
alignment when it is moved slowly, yet it can be set ta travel across
the screen up in a gangbangin' flick of tha wrist when desired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  One or both
parametas fo' the
.B m
option can be omitted yo, but if only one is
given, it is ghon be interpreted as tha acceleration.
If no parametas or tha flag 'default' is used, tha system defaults will
be set.
.PP
If tha `threshold' parameta is provided n' 0, tha `acceleration'
parameta is ghon be used up in tha exponent of a mo' natural n' continuous
formula, givin precise control fo' slow motion but big-ass reach fo' fast
motion, n' a progressive transizzle fo' motions up in between.
Recommended `acceleration' value up in dis case is 3/2 ta 3 yo, but not
limited ta dat range.
.PP
In tha X.org X Server 1.6 n' above, tha behaviour busted lyrics bout so far is linked
to tha default profile. There is other profilez (i.e. functions determining
pointa acceleration from thang velocity) n' additionizzle settings, so the
above description may not apply ta non-default cases. In tha X.org Server 1.7,
these is available as input thang propertizzles (see xinput).

.PP
.TP 8
.B p
Da \fBp\fP option controls pixel color joints.
Da parametas is tha color map entry number up in decimal,
and a cold-ass lil color justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da root background flavas may be chizzled
on some servers by alterin tha entries fo' BlackPixel n' WhitePixel.
Although these is often 0 n' 1, they need not be.  Also, a server may
choose ta allocate dem flavas privately, up in which case a error will
be generated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da map entry must not be a read-only color,
or a error will result.
.PP
.TP 8
.B r
Da \fBr\fP option controls tha autorepeat.
Invokin wit "\fB-r\fP", or "\fBr\ off\fP", will disable autorepeat, whereas
"\fBr\fP", or "\fBr\ on\fP" will enable autorepeat.
Peepin tha "\fB-r\fP" or "\fBr\fP" option wit a integer keycode between 0 and
255 will disable or enable autorepeat on dat key respectively yo, but only
if it make sense fo' tha particular keycode.  Keycodes below 8 are
not typically valid fo' dis command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Example: "\fBxset\ -r\ 10\fP" will
disable autorepeat fo' tha "1" key on tha top row of a IBM PC keyboard.

If tha server supports tha XFree86-Misc extension, or tha XKB extension,
then a parameter
of 'rate' be accepted n' should be followed by zero, one or two numeric
values. Da first specifies tha delay before autorepeat starts and
the second specifies tha repeat rate.  In tha case dat tha server
supports tha XKB extension, tha delay is tha number of milliseconds
before autorepeat starts, n' tha rate is tha number of repeats
per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha rate or delay aint given, it is ghon be set
to tha default value.
.PP
.TP 8
.B s
Da \fBs\fP option lets you set tha screen saver parameters.
This option accepts up ta two numerical parameters, a 'blank/noblank'
flag, a 'expose/noexpose' flag, a 'on/off' flag, a 'activate/reset' flag,
or tha 'default' flag.
If no parametas or tha 'default' flag is used, tha system is ghon be set
to its default screen saver characteristics.
Da 'on/off' flags simply turn tha screen saver functions on or off.
Da 'activate' flag forces activation of screen saver even if tha screen
saver had been turned off.
Da 'reset' flag forces deactivation of screen saver if it be active.
Da 'blank' flag sets the
preference ta blank tha vizzle (if tha hardware can do so) rather than
display a funky-ass background pattern, while 'noblank' sets the
preference ta display a pattern rather than blank tha vizzle.
Da 'expose' flag sets the
preference ta allow window exposures (the server can freely discard
window contents), while 'noexpose' sets tha preference ta disable
screen saver unless tha server can regenerate tha screens without
causin exposure events.
Da length n' period
parametas fo' tha screen saver function determines how tha fuck long the
server must be inactizzle fo' screen savin ta activate, n' tha period
to chizzle tha background pattern ta avoid burn in.
Da arguments is specified up in seconds.
If only one numerical parameta is given, it is ghon be used fo' tha length.
.PP
.TP 8
.B q
Da \fBq\fP option gives you shiznit on tha current settings.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -version
Da \fB-version\fP option prints tha program version n' exits without
fuckin wit anythang else.
.PP
These settings is ghon be reset ta default joints when you log out.
.PP
Note dat not all X implementations is guaranteed ta honor all of these
options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), Xserver(1), xmodmap(1), xrdb(1), xsetroot(1), xinput(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT Laboratory fo' Computa Science
.br
Dizzy Krikorian, MIT Project Athena (X11 version)
.br
XFree86-Misc support added by Dizzy Dawes n' Joe Moss
.br
Manpage thugged-out shiznit added by Mike A yo. Harris <mharris@redhat.com>
