.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XSETROOT 1 "xsetroot 1.1.1" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xsetroot \- root window parameta settin utilitizzle fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsetroot
[-help] [-version] [-def] [-display \fIdisplay\fP]
[-cursor \fIcursorfile maskfile\fP]
[-cursor_name \fIcursorname\fP]
[-xcf \fIcursorfile\fP \fIcursorsize\fP]
[-bitmap \fIfilename\fP]
[-mod \fIx y\fP] [-gray] [-grey] [-fg \fIcolor\fP] [-bg \fIcolor\fP] [-rv]
[-solid \fIcolor\fP] [-name \fIstring\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xsetroot
program
allows you ta tailor tha appearizzle of tha background ("root")
window on a workstation display hustlin X.  Normally, you experiment with
.I xsetroot
until you find a personalized look dat you like, then put the
.I xsetroot
command dat produces it tha fuck into yo' X startup file.
If no options is specified, or if
.I -def
is specified, tha window is reset ta its default state.  The
.I -def
option can be specified along wit other options n' only tha non-specified
characteristics is ghon be reset ta tha default state.
.PP
Only one of tha background color/tilin changin options
(-solid, -gray, -grey, -bitmap, n' -mod) may be specified at a time.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Da various options is as bigs up:
.IP \fB-help\fP
Print a usage message n' exit.
.IP \fB-verson\fP
Print a version message n' exit.
.IP \fB-def\fP
Reset unspecified attributes ta tha default joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  (Restores tha background
to tha familiar gray mesh n' tha cursor ta tha hollow x shape.)
.IP "\fB-cursor\fP \fIcursorfile\fP \fImaskfile\fP"
This lets you chizzle tha pointa cursor ta whatever
you want when tha pointa cursor is outside of any window.
Cursor n' mask filez is bitmaps (lil pictures), n' can be made wit the
.I bitmap(1)
program.  Yo ass probably want tha mask file ta be all black until you
get used ta tha way masks work.
.IP "\fB-cursor_name\fP \fIcursorname\fP
This lets you chizzle tha pointa cursor ta one of tha standard
cursors from tha cursor font.  Refer ta appendix B of tha X protocol for
the names (except dat tha XC_ prefix is elided fo' dis option).
.IP "\fB-xcf\fP \fIcursorfile\fP \fIcursorsize\fP"
This lets you chizzle tha pointa cursor ta one loaded from a Xcursor file
as defined by libXcursor, all up in tha specified size.
.IP "\fB-bitmap\fP \fIfilename\fP"
Use tha bitmap specified up in tha file ta set tha window pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass can
make yo' own bitmap filez (lil pictures) rockin the
.I bitmap(1)
program.  Da entire background is ghon be made up of repeated "tiles" of
the bitmap.
.IP "\fB-mod\fP \fIx\fP \fIy\fP"
This is used if you want a plaid-like grid pattern on yo' screen.
x n' y is integers rangin from 1 ta 16.  Try tha different combinations.
Zero n' wack numbers is taken as 1.
.IP \fB-gray\fP
Make tha entire background gray.  (Easier on tha eyes.)
.IP \fB-grey\fP
Make tha entire background grey.
.IP "\fB-fg\fP \fIcolor\fP"
Use ``color'' as tha foreground color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Foreground n' background colors
are meaningful only up in combination wit -cursor, -bitmap, or -mod.
.IP "\fB-bg\fP \fIcolor\fP"
Use ``color'' as tha background color.
.IP \fB-rv\fP
This exchanges tha foreground n' background colors.  Normally tha foreground
color is black n' tha background color is white.
.IP "\fB-solid\fP \fIcolor\fP"
This sets tha background of tha root window ta tha specified color. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This
option is only useful on color servers.
.IP "\fB-name\fP \fIstring\fP"
Set tha name of tha root window ta ``string''.  There is no default value.
Usually a name be assigned ta a window so dat the
window manager can bust a text representation when tha window is iconified.
This option is unused since you can't iconify tha background.
.IP "\fB-display\fP \fIdisplay\fP"
Specifies tha server ta connect to; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(7), xset(1), xrdb(1), Xcursor(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena
