.\" $Xorg: xstdcmap.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:06:01 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xstdcmap/xstdcmap.man,v 1.7 2001/01/27 18:21:24 dawes Exp $
.\"
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XSTDCMAP 1 "xstdcmap 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xstdcmap - X standard colormap utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xstdcmap
[-all] [-best] [-blue] [-default] [-delete \fImap\fP] [-display \fIdisplay\fP]
[-gray] [-green] [-help] [-red] [-verbose] [-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da \fIxstdcmap\fP utilitizzle can be used ta selectively define standard colormap
properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  It be intended ta be run from a userz X startup script to
create standard colormap definitions up in order ta facilitate pluggin of
scarce colormap resources among clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Where at all possible, colormaps
are pimped wit read-only allocations.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Da followin options may be used wit \fIxstdcmap\fP:
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates dat all six standard colormap propertizzles should be
defined on each screen of tha display.  Not all screens will support
visuals under which all six standard colormap propertizzles is meaningful.
\fIxstdcmap\fP will determine tha best
allocations n' visuals fo' tha colormap propertizzlez of a screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Any
previously existin standard colormap propertizzles is ghon be replaced.
.TP 8
.B \-best
This option indicates dat tha RGB_BEST_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-blue
This option indicates dat tha RGB_BLUE_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-default
This option indicates dat tha RGB_DEFAULT_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-delete \fImap\fP
This option specifies dat a specific standard colormap property, or
all such properties, should be removed.
\fImap\fP may be one of: default, best, red, green, blue, gray, or all.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies tha host n' display ta use; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-gray
This option indicates dat tha RGB_GRAY_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-green
This option indicates dat tha RGB_GREEN_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option indicates dat a funky-ass brief description of tha command line arguments
should be printed on tha standard error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This is ghon be done whenever an
unhandled argument is given to
.I xstdcmap.
.TP 8
.B \-red
This option indicates dat tha RGB_RED_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
This option indicates dat \fIxstdcmap\fP should
print loggin shiznit as it parses its input n' defines the
standard colormap properties.
.TP 8
.B \-version
This option indicates dat \fIxstdcmap\fP should print its version n' exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to git default host n' display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Donna Converse, MIT X Consortium


