.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xvidtune/xvidtune.man,v $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Kaleb S. KEITHLEY
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL Kaleb S. KEITHLEY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Kaleb S. KEITHLEY shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Kaleb S. KEITHLEY.
.\"
.TH xvidtune 1 "xvidtune 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xvidtune \- vizzle mode tuner fo' Xorg
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xvidtune
[
.B -show
|
.B -prev
|
.B -next
|
.B -unlock
] [
.I \-toolkitoption
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xvidtune be a cold-ass lil client intercourse ta tha X server vizzle mode
extension (XFree86-VidModeExtension).
.PP
When given one of tha non-toolkit options, xvidtune provides
a command line intercourse ta either print or switch tha vizzle mode.
.PP
Without any options (or wit only toolkit options) it
presents tha user wit various buttons n' slidaz dat can be
used ta interactively adjust existin vizzle modes.
It will also print tha settings up in a gangbangin' format suitable fo' inclusion
in a xorg.conf file.
.PP
Normally tha Xorg X servers only allow chizzlez ta be made with
the XFree86-VidModeExtension from clients connected via a local
connection type.
.PP
Note:  Da original gangsta mode settings can be restored by pressin tha `R' key,
and dis can be used ta restore a stable screen up in thangs where the
screen becomes unreadable.
.PP
Da available buttons are:
.PP
.nf
.B Left
.B Right
.B Up
.B Down
.fi
.RS 10
Adjust tha vizzle mode so dat tha display is ghon be moved up in the
appropriate direction.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B Wider
.B Narrower
.B Shorter
.B Taller
.fi
.RS 10
Adjust tha vizzle mode so dat tha display size be altered
appropriately.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Quit
Exit tha program.
.TP 10
.B Apply
Adjust tha current vizzle mode ta match tha selected settings.
.TP 10
.B Auto
Cause tha Up/Down/Right/Left, Wider/Narrower/Shorter/Taller, Restore,
and tha special S3 buttons ta be applied immediately.
This button can be toggled.
.TP 10
.B Test
Temporarily switch ta tha selected settings.
.TP 10
.B Restore
Return tha settings ta they original gangsta joints.
.TP 10
.B Fetch
Query tha server fo' its current settings.
.TP 10
.B Show
Print tha currently selected settings ta stdout up in xorg.conf
"Modeline" format.  Da primary selection is similarly set.
.TP 10
.B Next
Switch tha Xserver ta tha next vizzle mode.
.TP 10
.B Prev
Switch tha Xserver ta tha previous vizzle mode.
.PP
For some S3-based cardz (964 n' 968) tha followin is also available:
.TP 10
.B InvertVCLK
Change tha VCLK invert/non-invert state.
.TP 10
.B EarlySC
Change tha Early SC state.  This affects screen wrapping.
.PP
.nf
.B BlankDelay1
.B BlankDelay2
.fi
.RS 10
Set tha blank delay joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  This affects screen wrapping.  Acceptable
values is up in tha range 0\-7.  Da joints may be incremented or decremented
with tha `+' n' `-' buttons, or by pressin tha `+' or `-' keys up in the
text field.
.RE
.PP
For S3-864/868 based cardz \fIInvertVCLK\fP n' \fIBlankDelay1\fP may
be useful naaahhmean, biatch?  For S3 Trio32/Trio64 cardz only \fIInvertVCLK\fP be available.
At tha moment there be no default settings available fo' these chips
in tha vizzle mode extension n' thus dis feature is disabled up in xvidtune.
It can be enabled by settin any of tha optionizzle S3 commandz up in the
screen section of xorg.conf, e.g. using
.RS 10
.B blank_delay \fI"\(**"\fP 0
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
\fIxvidtune\fP accepts tha standard X Toolkit command line options as well
as tha following:
.TP 10
.B \-show
Print tha current settings ta stdout up in xorg.conf
"Modeline" format n' exit.
.TP 10
.B \-prev
Switch tha Xserver ta tha previous vizzle mode.
.TP 10
.B \-next
Switch tha Xserver ta tha next vizzle mode.
.TP 10
.B \-unlock
Normally, \fIxvidtune\fP will disable tha switchin of vizzle modes
via hot-keys while it is hustlin.  If fo' some reason tha program
did not exit cleanly n' they is still disabled, tha program can
be re-run wit dis option ta re-enable tha mode switchin key
combinations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrandr (1),
.BR Xorg (1),
.BR xorg.conf (5).
.SH AUTHORS
Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
.br
Additions n' modifications by Jizzle Tombs, Dizzy Dawes, n' Joe Moss.
.SH BUGS
X Error handling, i.e. when tha server do not allow xvidtune
clients ta write freshly smoked up modes, could be better.
