.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  Da Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XWD 1 "xwd 1.0.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xwd - dump a image of a X window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwd"
[-debug] [-help] [-nobdrs] [-out \fIfile\fP] [-xy] [-frame] [-add \fIvalue\fP]
[-root | -id \fIid\fP | -name \fIname\fP ] [-icmap] [-screen] [-silent]
[-display \fIdisplay\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwd
is a X Window System window dumpin utility.
.I Xwd
allows X playas ta store window images up in a specially formatted dump
file.  This file can then be read by various other X utilitizzles for
redisplay, printing, editing, formatting, archiving, image processing, etc.
Da target window is selected by clickin tha pointa up in tha desired window.
Da keyboard bell is rung once all up in tha beginnin of tha dump n' twice when
the dump is completed.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This argument allows you ta specify tha server ta connect to; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print up tha `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-nobdrs"
This argument specifies dat tha window dump should not include the
pixels dat compose tha X window border n' shit.  This is useful up in thangs
where you may wish ta include tha window contents up in a thugged-out document 
as a illustration.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-out \fIfile\fP"
This argument allows tha user ta explicitly specify tha output
file on tha command line.  Da default is ta output ta standard out.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-xy"
This option applies ta color displays only. Well shiiiit, it selects `XY' format dumping
instead of tha default `Z' format.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-add \fIvalue\fP"
This option specifies a signed value ta be added ta every last muthafuckin pixel.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-frame"
This option indicates dat tha window manager frame should be included when
manually selectin a window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-root"
This option indicates dat tha root window should be selected fo' the
window dump, without requirin tha user ta select a window wit tha pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-id \fIid\fP"
This option indicates dat tha window wit tha specified resource id
should be selected fo' tha window dump, without requirin tha user to
select a window wit tha pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-name \fIname\fP"
This option indicates dat tha window wit tha specified WM_NAME property
should be selected fo' tha window dump, without requirin tha user to
select a window wit tha pointer.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-icmap"
Normally tha colormap of tha chosen window is used ta obtain RGB joints.
This option forces tha straight-up original gangsta installed colormap of tha screen ta be used
instead.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-screen"
This option indicates dat tha GetImage request used ta obtain tha image
should be done on tha root window, rather than directly on tha specified
window.  In dis way, you can obtain piecez of other windows dat overlap
the specified window, n' mo' blinginly, you can capture menus or other
popups dat is independent windows but step tha fuck up over tha specified window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-silent"
Operate silently, i.e. don't rang any bells before n' afta dumping
the window.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git default host n' display number.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definizzle file.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwud(1), X(7)
.SH AUTHORS
Tony Della Fera, Digital Weapons Corp., MIT Project Athena
.br
Lil' Willy F. Wyatt, Smizzlesonian Astrophysical Observatory
