.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.\"
.TH XWININFO 1 "xwininfo 1.1.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xwininfo \- window shiznit utilitizzle fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwininfo"
[\-help] [\-id \fIid\fP] [\-root] [\-name \fIname\fP] [\-int]
[\-children] [\-tree] [\-stats] [\-bits] [\-events] [\-size] [\-wm] [\-shape]
[\-frame] [\-all]
[\-english] [\-metric]
[\-display \fIdisplay\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwininfo
is a utilitizzle fo' displayin shiznit bout windows.
Various shiznit is displayed dependin on which options is selected.
If no options is chosen, \fB\-stats\fP be assumed.
.PP
Da user has tha option of selectin tha target window with
the mouse (by clickin any mouse button up in tha desired window) or by
specifyin its window id on tha command line wit tha \fB\-id\fP option.
Or instead of specifying
the window by its id number, tha \fB\-name\fP option may be used ta specify
which window is desired by name.
There be also a special \fB\-root\fP option ta quickly obtain shiznit
on tha screenz root window.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-help"
Print up tha `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-id \fIid\fP"
This option allows tha user ta specify a target window \fIid\fP on the
command line rather than rockin tha mouse ta select tha target window.
This is straight-up useful up in debuggin X applications where tha target
window aint mapped ta tha screen or where tha use of tha mouse might
be impossible or interfere wit tha application.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-name \fIname\fP"
This option allows tha user ta specify dat tha window named \fIname\fP
is tha target window on tha command line rather than rockin tha mouse to
select tha target window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-root"
This option specifies dat Xz root window is tha target window.
This is useful up in thangs where tha root window is straight-up obscured.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-int"
This option specifies dat all X window idz should be displayed as
integer joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da default is ta display dem as hexadecimal joints.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-children
This option causes tha root, parent, n' lil pimps windows' idz n' names of
the selected window ta be displayed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-tree
This option is like \fB\-children\fP but displays all lil pimps recursively.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-stats
This option causes tha display of various attributes pertainin to
the location n' appearizzle of tha selected window.
Hype displayed includes tha location of tha window,
its width n' height, its depth, border width, visual id n' class,
colormap id if any, map state, backing-store hint, n' location of tha corners.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bits
This option causes tha display of various attributes pertainin to
the selected windowz raw bits n' how tha fuck tha selected window is ta be stored.
Displayed shiznit includes tha selected windowz bit gravity,
window gravity, backing-store hint, backing-planes value, backin pixel,
and whether or not tha window has save-under set.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-events
This option causes tha selected windowz event masks ta be displayed.
Both tha event mask of events wanted by some client n' tha event mask of
events not ta propagate is displayed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-size
This option causes tha selected windowz sizin hints ta be displayed.
Displayed shiznit includes: fo' both tha aiiight size hints n' the
zoom size hints, tha user supplied location if any; tha program supplied
location if any; tha user supplied size if any; tha program supplied size if
any; tha minimum size if any; tha maximum size if any; tha resize increments
if any; n' tha minimum n' maximum aspect ratios if any.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-wm
This option causes tha selected windowz window manager hints ta be
displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Hype displayed may include whether or not tha application
accepts input, what tha fuck tha windowz icon window # n' name is, where tha window's
icon should go, n' what tha fuck tha windowz initial state should be.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-shape
This option causes tha selected windowz window n' border shape extents to
be displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-frame
This option causes window manager frames ta be considered when manually
selectin windows.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-metric
This option causes all individual height, width, n' x n' y positions ta be
displayed up in millimetas as well as number of pixels, based on what tha fuck the
server be thinkin tha resolution is. Geometry justifications dat is in
\fB+x+y\fP form is not chizzled.
.TP 8
.B \-english
This option causes all individual height, width, n' x n' y positions ta be
displayed up in inches (and feet, yards, n' milez if necessary) as well as
number of pixels. \fB\-metric\fP n' \fB\-english\fP may both be enabled at the
same time.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option be a quick way ta ask fo' all shiznit possible.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option allows you ta specify tha server ta connect to; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Da followin be a sample summary taken wit no options specified:

xwininfo: Window id: 0x60000f "xterm"

  Absolute upper-left X: 2
  Absolute upper-left Y: 85
  Relatizzle upper-left X:  0
  Relatizzle upper-left Y:  25
  Width: 579
  Height: 316
  Depth: 8
  Visual: 0x1e
  Visual Class: PseudoColor
  Border width: 0
  Class: InputOutput
  Colormap: 0x27 (installed)
  Bit Gravitizzle State: NorthWestGravity
  Window Gravitizzle State: NorthWestGravity
  Backin Store State: NotUseful
  Save Under State: no
  Map State: IsViewable
  Override Redirect State: no
  Corners:  +2+85  -699+85  -699-623  +2-623
  -geometry 80x24+0+58

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git tha default host n' display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR X (7),
.IR xprop (1),
.IR xdpyinfo (1),
.IR xdriinfo (1),
.IR xvinfo (1),
.IR glxinfo (1)
.SH BUGS
Usin \fB\-stats \-bits\fP shows some redundant shiznit.
.PP
Da \fB-geometry\fP strang displayed must make assumptions bout the
windowz border width n' tha behavior of tha application n' the
window manager n' shit.  As a result, tha location given aint always
correct.
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena
