.\" Copyright 1988, 1998  Da Open Group
.\" 
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\" 
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of Da Open Group shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH XWUD 1 "xwud 1.0.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xwud - image displayer fo' X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwud"
[\-in \fIfile\fP] [\-noclick] [\-geometry \fIgeom\fP] [\-display \fIdisplay\fP]
[\-new] [\-std <maptype>] [\-raw] [\-vis <vis-type-or-id>] [\-scale]
[\-help] [\-rv] [\-plane \fInumber\fP] [\-fg \fIcolor\fP] [\-bg \fIcolor\fP]
[\-dumpheader]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwud
is a X Window System image undumpin utility.
.I Xwud
allows X playas ta display up in a window a image saved
in a specially formatted dump file, like fuckin produced by \fIxwd(1)\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-bg \fIcolor\fP"
If a funky-ass bitmap image (or a single plane of a image) is displayed, dis option
can be used ta specify tha color ta display fo' tha "0" bits up in tha image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This option allows you ta specify tha server ta connect to; peep \fIX(7)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-dumpheader
This option prints up tha XWD header shiznit only.  Nothang is displayed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-fg \fIcolor\fP"
If a funky-ass bitmap image (or a single plane of a image) is displayed, dis option
can be used ta specify tha color ta display fo' tha "1" bits up in tha image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-geometry \fIgeom\fP"
This option allows you ta specify tha size n' posizzle of tha window.
Typically yo big-ass booty is ghon only wanna specify tha position, n' let tha size
default ta tha actual size of tha image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-help"
Print up a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of tha allowable options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-in \fIfile\fP"
This option allows tha user ta explicitly specify tha input 
file on tha command line.  If no input file is given, tha standard input
is assumed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-new
This option forces creation of a freshly smoked up colormap fo' displayin tha image.
If tha image characteristics happen ta match dem of tha display, this
can git tha image on tha screen fasta yo, but all up in tha cost of rockin a new
colormap (which on most displays will cause other windows ta go
technicolor).
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-noclick"
Clickin any button up in tha window will terminizzle tha application,
unless dis option is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Termination can always be  bigged up 
by typin 'q', 'Q', or ctrl-c.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-plane \fInumber\fP"
Yo ass can select a single bit plane of tha image ta display
with dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Planes is numbered wit zero bein tha least
significant bit.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-raw
This option forces tha image ta be displayed wit whatever color joints
happen ta currently exist on tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option is mostly useful when
undumpin a image back onto tha same screen dat tha image originally
came from, while tha original gangsta windows is still on tha screen, n' thangs up in dis biatch
in gettin tha image on tha screen faster.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-rv
If a funky-ass bitmap image (or a single plane of a image) is displayed, dis option
forces tha foreground n' background flavas ta be swapped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This may be
needed when displayin a funky-ass bitmap image which has tha color sense of pixel
values "0" n' "1" reversed from what tha fuck they is on yo' display.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-scale
Allow tha window ta be resized, n' scale tha image ta tha size of tha window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-std \fImaptype\fP"
This option causes tha image ta be displayed rockin tha specified
Standard Colormap.  Da property name is obtained by convertin the
type ta upper case, prependin "RGB_", n' appendin "_MAP".
Typical types is "best", "default", n' "gray".  See \fIxstdcmap(1)\fP
for one way of bustin Standard Colormaps.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "\-vis \fIvis-type-or-id\fP"
This option allows you ta specify a particular visual or visual class.
Da default is ta pick tha "best" one.  A particular class can be
specified: "StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor", "PseudoColor",
"DirectColor", or "TrueColor".  Or "Match" can be specified, meaning
use tha same class as tha source image.  Alternatively, a exact
visual id (specific ta tha server) can be specified, either as a
hexadecimal number (prefixed wit "0x") or as a thugged-out decimal number.
Finally, "default" can be specified, meanin ta use tha same class
as tha colormap of tha root window.  Case aint dope in
any of these strings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To git default display.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definizzle file.
.SH BUGS
xwud don't handle big/deep images straight-up well on servers dat don't 
have tha BIG-REQUESTS extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwd(1), xstdcmap(1), X(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium


