.\"
.\" Author: Lasse Collin
.\"
.\" This file has been put tha fuck into tha hood domain.
.\" Yo ass can do whatever you want wit dis file.
.\"
.TH XZDEC 1 "2010-09-27" "Tukaani" "XZ Utils"
.SH NAME
xzdec, lzmadec \- Lil Small-Ass .xz n' .lzma decompressors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xzdec
.RI [ option ]...
.RI [ file ]...
.br
.B lzmadec
.RI [ option ]...
.RI [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xzdec
is a liblzma-based decompression-only tool for
.B .xz
(and only
.BR .xz )
files.
.B xzdec
is intended ta work as a thugged-out drop-in replacement for
.BR xz (1)
in da most thugged-out common thangs where a script
has been freestyled ta use
.B "xz \-\-decompress \-\-stdout"
(and possibly all dem other commonly used options) ta decompress
.B .xz
files.
.B lzmadec
is identical to
.B xzdec
except that
.B lzmadec
supports
.B .lzma
filez instead of
.B .xz
files.
.PP
To reduce tha size of tha executable,
.B xzdec
doesn't support multithreadin or localization,
and don't read options from
.B XZ_DEFAULTS
and
.B XZ_OPT
environment variables.
.B xzdec
doesn't support displayin intermediate progress shiznit: sending
.B SIGINFO
to
.B xzdec
does not a god damn thang yo, but sending
.B SIGUSR1
terminates tha process instead of displayin progress shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-decompress ", " \-\-uncompress
Ignored for
.BR xz (1)
compatibility.
.B xzdec
supports only decompression.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep
Ignored for
.BR xz (1)
compatibility.
.B xzdec
never creates or removes any files.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-stdout ", " \-\-to-stdout
Ignored for
.BR xz (1)
compatibility.
.B xzdec
always writes tha decompressed data ta standard output.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Specifyin dis once do not a god damn thang since
.B xzdec
never displays any warnings or notices.
Specify dis twice ta suppress errors.
.TP
.BR \-Q ", " \-\-no-warn
Ignored for
.BR xz (1)
compatibility.
.B xzdec
never uses tha exit status 2.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a help message n' exit successfully.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display tha version number of
.B xzdec
and liblzma.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
All was good.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.PP
.B xzdec
doesn't have any warnin lyrics like
.BR xz (1)
has, thus tha exit status 2 aint used by
.BR xzdec .
.SH NOTES
Use
.BR xz (1)
instead of
.B xzdec
or
.B lzmadec
for aiiight everydizzle use.
.B xzdec
or
.B lzmadec
are meant only fo' thangs where it is blingin ta have
a smalla decompressor than tha full-featured
.BR xz (1).
.PP
.B xzdec
and
.B lzmadec
are not straight-up dat small.
Da size can be reduced further by dropping
features from liblzma at compile time,
but dat shouldn't probably be done fo' executablez distributed
in typical non-embedded operatin system distributions.
If you need a truly small
.B .xz
decompressor, consider rockin XZ Embedded.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xz (1)
.PP
XZ Embedded: <http://tukaani.org/xz/embedded.html>
