.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH ypmatch 1 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
ypmatch - print tha jointz of one or mo' keys from a NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypmatch
[
.BR \-kt
]
[
.BI \-d " domain"
]
.I key ... mapname
.br
.B ypmatch
.B \-x
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ypmatch
prints tha jointz of one or mo' keys from tha NIS database
specified by mapname, which may be a map name or a map nickname.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
Specify a thugged-out domain other than tha default domain as returned by
.BR domainname (8).
.TP
.B \-k
Display map keys. This option is useful wit maps up in which the
values is null or tha key aint part of tha value.
.TP
.B \-t
This option inhibits map nickname translation.
.TP
.B \-x
Display tha map nickname translation table.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/yp/nicknames
map nickname translation table.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR nicknames (5),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypset (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B ypmatch
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
