.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2004, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\"  published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH yppasswd 1 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
yppasswd, ypchfn, ypchsh \- chizzle yo' password up in tha NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "yppasswd [-f] [-l] [-p] [user]"
.br
.B "ypchfn [user]"
.br
.B "ypchsh [user]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
In tha oldschool days, tha standard
.BR passwd (1),
.BR chfn (1)
and
.BR chsh (1)
tools could not be used under Linux ta chizzle tha playas NIS password,
shell n' GECOS shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For changin tha NIS shiznit, they were
replaced by they NIS counterparts,
.BR yppasswd ,
.B ypchfn
and
.BR ypchsh .
.P
Today, dis versions is deprecated n' should not be used any
longer.
.P
Usin tha command line switches, you can chizzle whether ta update your
password
.BR \-p ,
your login shell
.BR \-l ,
or yo' GECOS field
.BR \-f ,
or a cold-ass lil combination of em.
.B yppasswd
implies the
.B \-p
option, if no other option is given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you use the
.B \-f
or
.B \-l
option, you also need ta add the
.B \-p
flag.
.B ypchfn
implies the
.B \-f
option, and
.B ypchsh
.BR \-l .
.P
When invoked without the
.I user
argument, tha account shiznit fo' tha invokin user is ghon be updated,
otherwise dat of
.I user
will be updated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This option is only available ta tha super-user n' shit. If the
yppasswdd daemon on tha server supports it, you can give tha root password
of tha server instead of tha playas [old] password.
.P
All tools will first prompt tha user fo' tha current NIS password needed
for authentication wit the
.BR yppasswdd (8)
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subsequently, the
program prompts fo' tha updated shiznit:
.P
If we use shadowin passwordz rockin passwd.adjunct, SHA-512 is ghon be 
used fo' hashin a freshly smoked up password by default. If we wanna use MD5, 
SHA_256 or olda DES, we need ta set tha environment variable 
YP_PASSWD_HASH. Possible joints is "DES", "MD5", "SHA-256" n' 
"SHA-512" (value is case-insensitive).
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fByppasswd\fP or \fB-p\fP"
Change tha userz NIS password.	Da user is prompted fo' tha freshly smoked up password.
While typin tha password, echoin is turned off, so tha password do not
appear on tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. An empty password is rejected, as is passwordz shorter
than six characters. Da user will then be axed ta retype the
password ta make shizzle it wasn't	misspelled tha last time.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fBypchsh\fP or \fB-l\fP"
Change tha userz login shell. Da user is prompted fo' a freshly smoked up shell,
offerin tha oldschool one as default:
.IP
.in +2n
.ft B
.nf
Login shell [/bin/sh]: _
.fi
.ft
.in
.IP
To accept tha default, simply press return, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To clear tha shell field in
your
.BR passwd (5)
file entry (so dat tha systemz default shell is selected),
enta tha string
.IR none .
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fBypchfn\fP or \fB-f\fP"
Change tha userz full name n' related shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Traditionally, some
applications expect tha GECOS field (field 4) of the
.BR passwd (5)
file to
contain tha userz real name (as opposed ta tha login name) plus some
additionizzle shiznit like tha crib beeper number n' shit. This shiznit is
displayed by
.BR finger (1)
and probably some other tools, like a muthafucka.
.IP
When settin tha full name,
.B ypchfn
displays tha followin prompts, wit tha defaults up in brackets:
.IP
.in +2n
.ft B
.nf
Name [Joe Doe]:
Location [2nd floor, bldg 34]:
Office Phone [12345]:
Home Phone []:
.fi
.ft
.in
.IP
To accept a thugged-out default, simply press return, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To clear a gangbangin' field, enta tha string
.IR none .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR finger (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR yppasswdd (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B yppasswd
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
