.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH ypwhich 1 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
ypwhich - return name of NIS server or map master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypwhich
[
.BI \-d " domain"
]
[
.BR \-V "n"
]
[
.I hostname
]
.br
.B ypwhich
[
.BI \-d " domain"
]
[
.B \-t
]
.B \-m
[
.I mname
]
.br
.B ypwhich
.B \-x
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ypwhich
returns tha name of tha NIS server dat supplies tha NIS
skillz ta a NIS client, or which is tha masta fo' a map.
If invoked without arguments, it gives tha NIS server for
the local machine. If
.I hostname
is specified, dat machine is queried ta smoke up which NIS
masta it is using.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
Specify a thugged-out domain other than tha default domain.
.TP
.B \-t
This option inhibits map nickname translation.
.TP
.BI \-m " mname"
Find tha masta NIS server fo' a map.
No
.I hostname
can be specified wit the
.B \-m
option.
.I mname
can be a mapname or nickname fo' a map.
If
.I mname
is omitted,
.B ypwhich
will produce a list of available maps.
.TP
.B \-x
Display tha map nickname translation table.
.TP
.B \-Vn
Version of
.BR ypbind (8),
V2 is default.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/yp/nicknames
map nickname translation table.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR nicknames (5),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypset (8)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B ypwhich
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
