.\" yum-debug-dump
.TH "yum-debug-dump" "1" "28 April 2008" "Seth Vidal" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum-debug-dump \- write system RPM configuration ta a thugged-out debug-dump file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum-debug-dump\fP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum-debug-dump\fP be a program which creates a gzipped file containin a
lot of shiznit useful ta pimpers tryin ta debug a problem.
.PP
By default it will output a gangbangin' file ta tha current hustlin directory named
yum_debug_dump-<hostname>-<time>.txt.gz. This file gotz nuff no private
information but do
contain a cold-ass lil complete list of all packages you have installed, all packages
available up in any repository, blingin configuration n' system shiznit.
Yo ass can view dis file rockin tha 'zless' command.
.PP 
Yo ass can use tha corespondin program \fByum-debug-restore\fP ta act on dis file
and restore a set of packages (much like dump/restore).
.PP 
.SH "FILES"
As yum-debug-dump uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum-debug-restore (1)
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
