.\" yum-groups-manager
.TH "yum-groups-manager" "1" "23 August 2008" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum-groups-manager \- create n' edit yumz crew metadata
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum-groups-manager\fP [options] [packages]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fByum-groups-manager\fP is used ta create or edit a crew metadata file fo' a
yum repository. This is often much easier than writing/editin tha XML by hand.
Da \fByum-groups-manager\fP can load a entire file of crews metadata and
either create a freshly smoked up crew or edit a existin crew n' then write all of the
groups metadata back out.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display a help message, n' then quit.
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fP"
Display a version message, n' then quit.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-name\fP"
Da name ta lookup/use fo' tha group. If you specify a existin crew id, then
the crew wit dat id gonna git itz name chizzled ta dis value.
.IP "\fB\-\-id\fP"
Da id ta lookup/use fo' tha group. If you don't specify a id yo, but do specify a
name dat don't refer ta a existin group, then a id fo' tha crew is
generated based on tha name.
.IP "\fB\-\-description\fP"
Da description ta use fo' tha group.
.IP "\fB\-\-mandatory\fP"
Store tha package names specified within tha mandatory section of tha specified
group, tha default is ta use tha default section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This overrides tha optional
argument.
.IP "\fB\-\-optional\fP"
Store tha package names specified within tha optionizzle section of tha specified
group, tha default is ta use tha default section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is overridden by
the mandatory argument.
.IP "\fB\-\-dependencies\fP"
Also include tha namez of tha direct dependencies fo' each package specified.
.IP "\fB\-\-not\-user\-visible\fP"
Make tha crew not visible up in yum grouplist.
.IP "\fB\-\-user\-visible\fP"
Make tha crew visible up in yum grouplist (this is tha default).
.IP "\fB\-\-display\-order\fP"
Change tha integer which controls tha order crews is presented in, fo' example
in yum grouplist.
.IP "\fB\-\-load\fP"
Load tha crews metadata shiznit from tha specified file, before
performin any operations. This option can be specified multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-save\fP"
Save tha result ta dis file, you can specify tha name of a gangbangin' file yo ass is
loadin from as tha data will only be saved when all tha operations have been
performed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option can also be specified multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-merge\fP"
This is tha same ol' dirty as loadin n' savin a gangbangin' file, however tha "merge" file is
loaded before any others n' saved last.
.IP "\fB\-\-print\fP"
Also print tha result ta stdout, if savin or merging.
.IP "\fB\-\-remove\fP"
Instead of addin package, remove em. Note dat tha packages is removed from
all sections (default, mandatory n' optional).
.IP "\fB\-\-translated\-name\fP"
This be another name fo' tha crew within tha locale given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da syntax is
lang:text. Eg. en:my-group-name-in-english
.IP "\fB\-\-translated\-description\fP"
This be another description fo' tha crew within tha locale given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da syntax is
lang:text. Eg. en:my-group-description-in-english.

.SH "YUM OPTIONS"
Da followin options is meant ta be tha same as dem wit tha same name
in yum.
.IP "\fB\-c CONFIG, \-\-config=CONFIG\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-enablerepo\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-disablerepo\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-noplugins\fP"
.IP "\fB\-C, \-\-cache\fP"
.IP "\fB\-\-tempcache\fP"

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Smoke a freshly smoked up crew metadata file, wit a crew called yum containin all tha packages dat start wit yum:"
\fB yum-groups-manager \-\-name YUM \-\-save groups.xml \(aqyum*\(aq\fP
.IP "Afta tha above command, load tha groups.xml data, work wit tha yum group, make tha crew not user visible, n' remove tha yum-skip-broken n' yum-prioritizzles packages from it:"
\fB yum-groups-manager \-n YUM \-\-merge groups.xml \-\-remove yum-skip-broken yum-prioritizzles \-\-not\-user\-visible\fP
.IP "Afta tha above commands, add a thugged-out description n' a translated name ta tha yum group:"
\fB yum-groups-manager \-n YUM \-\-merge groups.xml \-\-description \(aqThis be a crew wit most of tha yum packages up in it\(aq \-\-translated\-name \(aqen:yum packages\(aq\fP
.SH "FILES"
\fByum-groups-manager\fP uses tha yum libraries fo' retrievin shiznit and
packages. If no configuration file is specified, tha default yum
configuration is ghon be used.
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum (8)
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi
.SH "BUGS"
.nf
There is a cold-ass lil couple options you can't set, yet. Most notably you cannot put
package names tha fuck into tha conditionizzle section (where they is installed with
groupinstall only if another package is installed).

Other than that, there be no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
