.\" yum-debug-dump
.TH "yum-debug-restore" "1" "15 December 2011" "Jizzy Antill" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum-debug-restore \- replay Yum transactions captured up in a thugged-out debug-dump file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum-debug-restore\fP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum-debug-restore\fP be a program which takes a gzipped file pimped by
\fByum-debug-dump\fP n' acts on tha shiznit bout installed packages
contained within.
.PP

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-\-output\fP"
Output tha commandz dat would be run ta stdout.
.IP "\fB\-\-shell=<file>\fP"
Output tha commandz dat would be run ta a gangbangin' file.
.IP "\fB\-\-install\-latest\fP"
Ask yum ta install tha sickest fuckin version of tha given packages, instead of the
version dat was installed up in tha debug-dump file.
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore\-arch\fP"
Ignore tha architecture of tha packages, so you can "restore" a i386 debug-dump
on a x86_64 machine.
.IP "\fB\-\-filter\-types=[install,remove,update,downgrade]\fP"
Only big-ass up tha given typez of commands, so you can filta ta just upgrades
and installs.

.SH "FILES"
As yum-debug-restore uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum-debug-dump (1)
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
