.\" yumdownloader
.TH "yumdownloader" "1" "28 November 2005" "Gijs Hollestelle" ""
.SH "NAME"
yumdownloader \- downlizzle RPM packages from Yum repositories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByumdownloader\fP [options] package1 [package2...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByumdownloader\fP be a program fo' downloadin RPMs from Yum repositories.
.PP 
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Help; display a help message n' then quit\&.
.IP "\fB\-\-destdir DIR\fP" 
Specify a thugged-out destination directory fo' tha download. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Defaults ta tha current directory.
.IP "\fB\-\-urls\fP"
Instead of downloadin RPMs, list tha URLs dat would be downloaded.
.IP "\fB\-\-resolve\fP"
When downloadin RPMs, resolve dependencies n' also downlizzle tha required packages.
.IP "\fB\-\-source\fP"
Instead of downloadin tha binary RPMs, downlizzle tha source RPMs.
.IP "\fB\-\-archlist=ARCH1[,ARCH2...]\fP"
Limit tha query ta packagez of given n' compatible architectures. Valid joints is all
architectures known ta rpm/yum like fuckin 'i386' n' 'src' for
source RPMS. Note dat repoquery will now chizzle yumz "arch" ta tha first
value up in tha archlist. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So "\-\-archlist=i386,i686" will chizzle yumz canonical
arch ta i386 yo, but allow packagez of i386 n' i686.
.SH "ADDITIONAL OPTIONS"
Yumdownloader inherits all other options from yum. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha yum(8) playa page
for mo' shiznit

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP "Downlizzle tha kernel RPM ta /var/tmp:"
\fByumdownloader \-\-destdir /var/tmp kernel\fP
.IP "List tha URL fo' tha kernel n' kernel-smp RPMs:"
\fByumdownloader \-\-urls kernel kernel-smp\fP
.PP 
.SH "FILES"
As yumdownloader uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
