.TH ZENITY 1 "December 2011"
.SH NAME
zenitizzle \- display GTK+ dialogs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zenity
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBzenity\fP be a program dat will display GTK+ dialogs, n' return
(either up in tha return code, or on standard output) tha users
input. This allows you ta present shiznit, n' ask fo' shiznit
from tha user, from all manner of shell scripts.
.PP
For example, \fBzenitizzle \-\-question\fP will return either 0, 1 or 5,
dependin on whether tha user pressed \fIOK\fP, \fICancel\fP or timeout
has been reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fBzenitizzle --entry\fP will output on standard output
what tha user typed tha fuck into tha text entry field.
.PP
Comprehensive documentation be available up in tha GNOME Help Browser,
under \fIGNOME/Utilities\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
This program bigs up tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
options startin wit two dashes (`-').

.PP
Dialog options

.TP
.B \-\-calendar
Display calendar dialog
.TP
.B \-\-entry
Display text entry dialog
.TP
.B \-\-error
Display error dialog
.TP
.B \-\-file\-selection
Display file selection dialog
.TP
.B \-\-info
Display info dialog
.TP
.B \-\-list
Display list dialog
.TP
.B \-\-notification
Display notification
.TP
.B \-\-progress
Display progress indication dialog
.TP
.B \-\-question
Display question dialog
.TP
.B \-\-text-info
Display text shiznit dialog
.TP
.B \-\-warning
Display warnin dialog
.TP
.B \-\-scale
Display scale dialog
.TP
.B \-\-color-selection
Display color selection dialog
.TP
.B \-\-password
Display password dialog
.TP
.B \-\-forms
Display forms dialog

.PP
General options

.TP
.B \-\-title=TITLE
Set tha dialog title
.TP
.B \-\-window-icon=ICONPATH
Set tha window icon wit tha path ta a image fo' realz. Alternatively, one of tha four stock icons can be used: 'error', 'info', 'question' or 'warning'
.TP
.B \-\-width=WIDTH
Set tha dialog width
.TP
.B \-\-height=HEIGHT
Set tha dialog height
.TP
.B \-\-timeout=TIMEOUT
Set tha dialog timeout up in seconds
.PP 
Calendar options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-day=INT
Set tha calendar day
.TP
.B \-\-month=INT
Set tha calendar month
.TP
.B \-\-year=INT
Set tha calendar year
.TP
.B \-\-date-format=PATTERN
Set tha format fo' tha returned date. Da default dependz on tha user locale or be set wit tha strftime style. For example %A %d/%m/%y

.PP
Text entry options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-entry-text=STRING
Set tha entry text
.TP
.B \-\-hide-text
Hide tha entry text

.PP
Error options
.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-no\-wrap
Do not enable text wrapping
.TP
.B \-\-no\-markup
Do not enable pango markup

.PP
File selection options
.TP
.B \-\-filename=FILENAME
Set tha file or directory ta be selected by default
.TP
.B \-\-multiple
Allow selection of multiple filenames up in file selection dialog
.TP
.B \-\-directory
Activate directory-only selection
.TP
.B \-\-save
Activate save mode
.TP
.B \-\-separator=SEPARATOR
Specify separator characta when returnin multiple filenames
.TP
.B \-\-confirm\-overwrite
Confirm file selection if filename already exists
.TP
.B \-\-file\-filter=NAME | PATTERN1 PATTERN2
Sets a gangbangin' filename filter


.PP
Info options
.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-no\-wrap
Do not enable text wrapping
.TP
.B \-\-no\-markup
Do not enable pango markup

.PP
List options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-column=STRING
Set tha column header
.TP
.B \-\-checklist
Use check boxes fo' first column
.TP
.B \-\-radiolist
Use radio buttons fo' first column
.TP
.B \-\-separator=STRING
Set output separator character
.TP
.B \-\-multiple
Allow multiple rows ta be selected
.TP
.B \-\-editable
Allow chizzlez ta text
.TP
.B \-\-print-column=NUMBER
Specify what tha fuck column ta print ta standard output. Da default is ta return
the first column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 'ALL' may be used ta print all columns.
.TP
.B \-\-hide\-column=NUMBER
Hide a specific column
.TP
.B \-\-hide\-header
Hides tha column headers

.PP
Notification options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha notification text
.TP
.B \-\-listen
Listen fo' commandz on stdin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Commandz include 'message', 'tooltip', 'icon', n' 'visible' separated by a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, 'message: Wuz crackalackin' ghetto', 'visible: false', or 'icon: /path/to/icon'. Da icon command also accepts tha four stock icon: 'error', 'info', 'question', n' 'warning'

.PP
Progress options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-percentage=INT
Set initial cementage
.TP
.B \-\-auto\-close
Close dialog when 100% has been reached
.TP
.B \-\-auto\-kill
Bust a cap up in parent process if quit button is pressed
.TP
.B \-\-pulsate
Pulsate progress bar
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cancel
Hides tha quit button

.PP
Question options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-no\-wrap
Do not enable text wrapping
.TP
.B \-\-no\-markup
Do not enable pango markup
.TP
.B \-\-ok\-label
Set tha text of tha OK button
.TP
.B \-\-cancel\-label
Set tha text of tha quit button

.PP
Text options

.TP
.B \-\-filename=FILENAME
Open file
.TP
.B \-\-editable
Allow chizzlez ta text
.TP
.B \-\-checkbox=TEXT
Enable a cold-ass lil checkbox fo' use like a 'I read n' accept tha terms.'
.TP
.B \-\-ok\-label
Set tha text of tha OK button
.TP
.B \-\-cancel\-label
Set tha text of tha quit button

.PP
Warnin options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-no\-wrap
Do not enable text wrapping
.TP
.B \-\-no\-markup
Do not enable pango markup

.PP
Scale options

.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-value=VALUE
Set initial value
.TP
.B \-\-min\-value=VALUE
Set minimum value
.TP
.B \-\-max\-value=VALUE
Set maximum value
.TP
.B \-\-step=VALUE
Set step size
.TP
.B \-\-print\-partial
Print partial joints
.TP
.B \-\-hide\-value
Hide value

.PP
Color selection options

.TP
.B \-\-color=VALUE
Set tha initial color
.TP
.B \-\-show\-palette
Show tha palette

.PP
Password dialog options

.TP
.B \-\-username
Display tha username field

.PP
Forms dialog options

.TP
.B \-\-add\-entry=FIELDNAME
Add a freshly smoked up Entry up in forms dialog
.TP
.B \-\-add\-password=FIELDNAME
Add a freshly smoked up Password Entry up in forms dialog
.TP
.B \-\-add\-calendar=FIELDNAME
Add a freshly smoked up Calendar up in forms dialog
.TP
.B \-\-text=STRING
Set tha dialog text
.TP
.B \-\-separator=STRING
Set output separator character
.TP
.B \-\-forms\-date-format=PATTERN
Set tha format fo' tha returned date. Da default dependz on tha user locale or be set wit tha strftime style. For example %A %d/%m/%y

.PP
Miscellaneous options

.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-about
Display a bout dialog.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of program.

.PP
Also tha standard GTK+ options is accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For mo' shiznit bout tha GTK+ options, execute followin command.
.IP
zenitizzle \-\-help\-gtk

.SH ENVIRONMENT

Normally, zenitizzle detects tha terminal window from which dat shiznit was launched and
keeps itself above dat window.  This behavior can be disabled by unsettin the
WINDOWID environment variable.

.SH EXAMPLES

Display a gangbangin' file selector wit tha title \fISelect a gangbangin' file to
remove\fP. Da file selected is returned on standard output.
.IP
zenitizzle  \-\-title="Select a gangbangin' file ta remove" \-\-file-selection
.PP
Display a text entry dialog wit tha title \fISelect Host\fP n' the
text \fISelect tha host you wanna flood-ping\fP. Da entered
text is returned on standard output.
.IP
zenitizzle  \-\-title "Select Host" \-\-entry \-\-text "Select tha host you wanna flood-ping"
.PP
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialog, askin \fIMicrosizzlez Windows has been found hommie! Would
you like ta remove it?\fP. Da return code is ghon be 0 (true up in shell)
if \fIOK\fP is selected, n' 1 (false) if \fICancel\fP is selected.
.IP
zenitizzle  \-\-question \-\-title "Alert"  \-\-text "Microsizzlez Windows has been found hommie! Would you like ta remove it?"
.PP
Show tha search thangs up in dis biatch up in a list dialog wit tha title \fISearch Results\fP
and tha text \fIFindin all header files...\fP.
.IP
find . \-name '*.h' | zenitizzle \-\-list \-\-title "Search Results" \-\-text "Findin all header files.." \-\-column "Files"
.PP
Show a notification up in tha message tray
.IP
zenitizzle \-\-notification \-\-window-icon=update.png \-\-text "System update necessary!"
.PP
Display a weekly hustlin list up in a cold-ass lil check list dialog wit \fIApples\fP n' \fIOranges\fP pre selected
.IP
zenitizzle \-\-list \-\-checklist \-\-column "Buy" \-\-column "Item" TRUE Applez TRUE Oranges FALSE Pears FALSE Toothpaste
.PP
Display a progress dialog while searchin fo' all tha postscript filez up in yo' home directory
.P
find $HOME \-name '*.ps' | zenitizzle \-\-progress \-\-pulsate
.SH AUTHOR
\fBZenity\fP was freestyled by Glynn Fosta <glynn.foster@sun.com>.
.P
This manual page was freestyled by Ross Burton <ross@burtonini.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgdialog\fP(1), \fBdialog\fP(1)
