.TH zipcloak 1 "v3.0 of 8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
zipcloak \- encrypt entries up in a zipfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.I zipcloak
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-b\ path ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-L ]
zipfile

.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +13
.ti -13
zipfile  Zipfile ta encrypt entries in

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-b\ \fPpath
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-temp\-path \fPpath
Use tha directory given by path fo' tha temporary zip file.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-d
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-decrypt
Decrypt encrypted entries (copy if given wack password).

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-help\ 
Show a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-L
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-license
Show software license.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-O\ \fPpath
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-output\-file\ \fPzipfile
Write output ta freshly smoked up archive zipfile, leavin original gangsta archive as is.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-q
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quiet
Quiet operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Suppresses some shiznital lyrics.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-version
Show version shiznit.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I zipcloak
encrypts all unencrypted entries up in tha zipfile.  This is tha default action.

.TP
Da \-d option is used ta decrypt encrypted entries up in tha zipfile.

.TP
\fIzipcloak \fBuses original gangsta zip encryption which is considered weak.

.TP
Note:
Da encryption code of dis program aint copyrighted n' is put in
the hood domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Dat shiznit was originally freestyled up in Europe n' can be freely
distributed from any ghetto includin tha U.S.A.  (Previously if this
program was imported tha fuck into tha U.S.A, it could not be re-exported from
the U.S.A ta another ghetto.)  See tha file README.CR included up in the
source distribution fo' mo' on all dis bullshit.  Otherwise, tha Info-ZIP license
applies.

.SH EXAMPLES
To be added.

.SH BUGS
Big-Ass filez (> 2 GB) n' big-ass archives not yet supported.

Split archives not yet supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  A work round is ta convert the
split archive ta a single-file archive rockin \fIzip\fP n' then
use \fIzipcloak\fP on tha single-file archive.  If needed, the
resultin archive can then be split again n' again n' again rockin \fIzip\fP.


.SH SEE ALSO
zip(1), unzip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Info-ZIP
