.\"  Copyright (c) 1990-2009 Info-ZIP.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  See tha accompanyin file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-02 or later
.\"  (the contentz of which is also included up in unzip.h) fo' termz of use.
.\"  If, fo' some reason, all these filez is missing, tha Info-ZIP license
.\"  also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\"
.\" zipgrep.1 by Greg Roelofs.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH ZIPGREP 1L "20 April 2009" "Info-ZIP"
.SH NAME
zipgrep \- search filez up in a ZIP archive fo' lines matchin a pattern
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzipgrep\fP [\fBegrep_options\fP] \fIpattern\fP
\fIfile\fP[\fI.zip\fP] [\fIfile(s)\fP\ .\|.\|.]
[\fB\-x\fP\ \fIxfile(s)\fP\ .\|.\|.]
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIzipgrep\fP will search filez within a ZIP archive fo' lines matching
the given strang or pattern, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  \fIzipgrep\fP be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script n' requires
\fIegrep\fP(1) n' \fIunzip\fP(1L) ta function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Its output is identical to
that of \fIegrep\fP(1).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.IP \fIpattern\fP
Da pattern ta be located within a ZIP archive.  Any strang or regular
expression accepted by \fIegrep\fP(1) may be used.
.IR file [ .zip ]
Path of tha ZIP archive.  (Wildcard expressions fo' tha ZIP archive name are
not supported.)  If tha literal filename aint found, tha suffix \fC.zip\fR
is appended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat self-extractin ZIP filez is supported, as wit any
other ZIP archive; just specify tha \fC.exe\fR suffix (if any) explicitly.
.IP [\fIfile(s)\fP]
An optionizzle list of archive thugz ta be processed, separated by spaces.
If no member filez is specified, all thugz of tha ZIP archive is searched.
Regular expressions (wildcards) may be used ta match multiple members:
.RS
.IP *
matches a sequence of 0 or mo' characters
.IP ?
matches exactly 1 character
.IP [.\|.\|.]
matches any single characta found inside tha brackets; ranges is specified
by a funky-ass beginnin character, a hyphen, n' a endin character n' shit.  If a exclamation
point or a cold-ass lil caret (`!' or `^') bigs up tha left bracket, then tha range of
charactas within tha brackets is complemented (that is, anythang \fIexcept\fP
the charactas inside tha brackets is considered a match).
.RE
.IP
(Be shizzle ta quote any characta dat might otherwise be interpreted or
modified by tha operatin system.)
.IP [\fB\-x\fP\ \fIxfile(s)\fP]
An optionizzle list of archive thugz ta be excluded from processing.
Since wildcard charactas match directory separators (`/'), dis option
may be used ta exclude any filez dat is up in subdirectories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For
example, ``\fCzipgrep grumpy foo *.[ch] -x */*\fR'' would search fo' the
strin ``grumpy'' up in all C source filez up in tha main directory of tha ``foo''
archive yo, but none up in any subdirectories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Without tha \fB\-x\fP
option, all C source filez up in all directories within tha zipfile would be
searched.
.\" =========================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
All options prior ta tha ZIP archive filename is passed ta \fIegrep\fP(1).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIegrep\fP(1), \fIunzip\fP(1L), \fIzip\fP(1L), \fIfunzip\fP(1L),
\fIzipcloak\fP(1L), \fIzipinfo\fP(1L), \fIzipnote\fP(1L), \fIzipsplit\fP(1L)
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH URL
Da Info-ZIP home page is currently at
.EX
\fChttp://www.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR
.EE
or
.EX
\fCftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR .
.EE
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH AUTHORS
\fIzipgrep\fP was freestyled by Jean-loup Gailly.
.PD
