.TH zipnote 1 "v3.0 of 8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
zipnote \- write tha comments up in zipfile ta stdout, edit comments n' rename filez up in zipfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.I zipnote
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-b\ path ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-L ]
zipfile

.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +13
.ti -13
zipfile  Zipfile ta read comments from or edit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w
Write comments ta a zipfile from stdin (see below).
.TP
.BI \-b\ \fRpath
Use path fo' tha temporary zip file.
.TP
.BI \-h
Show a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help.
.TP
.BI \-q
Suppress some shiznital lyrics.
.TP
.BI \-v
Show version shiznit.
.TP
.BI \-L
Show software license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I zipnote
writes tha comments up in a zipfile ta stdout.  This is tha default mode.  A second mode
allows uppimpin tha comments up in a zipfile as well as allows changin tha names
of tha filez up in tha zipfile.  These modes is busted lyrics bout below.

.SH EXAMPLES
To write all comments up in a zipfile ta stdout use fo' example
.LP
.nf
     zipnote foo.zip > foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
This writes all comments up in tha zipfile
.I foo.zip
to tha file
.I foo.tmp
in a specific format.

.LP
If desired, dis file can then be edited ta chizzle tha comments n' then used
to update tha zipfile.
.LP
.nf
     zipnote -w foo.zip < foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
Da namez of tha filez up in tha zipfile can also be chizzled up in dis way.  This is done by
followin lines like
.nf
     "@ name"
.fi
in tha pimped temporary file (called
.I foo.tmp
here) wit lines like
.nf
     "@=newname"
.fi
and then rockin tha -w option as above.

.SH BUGS
Da temporary file format is rather specific n' zipnote is rather picky bout dat shit.
It should be easier ta chizzle file names up in a script.

Do not yet support big-ass (> 2 GB) or split archives.

.SH SEE ALSO
zip(1), unzip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Info-ZIP
