.TH ZLESS 1
.SH NAME
zless \- file perusal filta fo' crt viewin of compressed text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zless
[ name ...  ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I  Zless
is a gangbangin' filta which allows examination of compressed or plain text files
one screenful at a time on a soft-copy terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  It be tha equivalent of
settin tha environment variable LESSOPEN ta '|gzip -cdfq -- %s',
and tha environment variable LESSMETACHARS to
\&'<space><tab><newline>;*?"()<>[|&^`#\e$%=~',
and then hustlin
.IR less .
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat enough playas seem ta be thinkin dat havin the
command
.I zless
available is blingin ta be worth providin dat shit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zmore(1), less(1)
.SH "BUGS"
.I Zless
does not work wit compressed data dat is piped ta it via standard
input; it requires dat input filez be specified as arguments.
To read compressed data from a pipe, you can use
.RB ".\|.\|." "|gunzip|less"
instead of
.RB ".\|.\|." "|zless" .
.SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
Copyright \(co 2006, 2007 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
Copyright \(co 1992, 1993 Jean-loup Gailly
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat tha entire
resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a permission
notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of dis manual
into another language, under tha above conditions fo' modified versions,
except dat dis permission notice may be stated up in a translation approved
by tha Foundation.
