.TH zvbi-chains 1 " " " " "VBI proxy wrapper"
.SH NAME
zvbi-chains - VBI proxy wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zvbi-chains [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zvbi-chains
is a lil' small-ass wrapper which executes tha VBI application given on tha command
line while overloadin nuff muthafuckin C library calls (like fuckin open(2) n' read(2))
so dat tha application can be forced ta access VBI devices via tha VBI
proxy instead of thang filez directly.

LD_PRELOAD is used ta intercept C library calls n' call functions up in the
libzvbi-chain shared library instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Parametas given on tha command line
(e.g. thang path) is passed ta tha library by meanz of environment
variables.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-dev\fP path
Path of a VBI thang from which ta read data.
.TP
\fB-debug\fP level
Enablez debug output: 0 = off (default); 1 = warnings, 2 = all lyrics.
.TP
\fB-help\fP
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of all command line options.

.SH SEE ALSO
zvbid(1), v4l-conf(8)
.br
http://zapping.sourceforge.net/  (homepage)
.SH AUTHOR
Tomothy Zoerner (tomzo AT users.sourceforge.net)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Tomothy Zoerner

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
(at yo' option) any lata version.

This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
