.TH zvbid 1 "(c) 2003 Tomothy Zoerner" " " "VBI proxy daemon"
.SH NAME
zvbid - VBI proxy daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zvbid [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zvbid
is a proxy fo' VBI devices, i.e. it forwardz one or mo' VBI data streams
to one or mo' connected clients n' manages channel chizzle requests.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-dev\fP path
Path of a thang from which ta read data.  This argument can be given
several times wit different devices.
.TP
\fB-buffers\fP count
Number of buffers ta allocate fo' capturin VBI raw data from devices
which support streamin (currently only vizzle4linux, rev. 2)  A higher
number of buffers can prevent data loss up in case of high latency. The
downside is higher memory consumption (typically 65kB per buffer.)
Default count is 8, maximum is 32.
.TP
\fB-nodetach\fP
Daemon process remains connected ta tha terminal from which dat shiznit was started
(e.g. so dat you can stop it by pressin Control-C keys).  Intended for
shiznit blastin only.
.TP
\fB-kill\fP
Terminates a proxy daemon hustlin fo' tha given device.
.TP
\fB-debug\fP level
Enablez debug output: 0= off(default); 1= general lyrics;
In addizzle 2, 4, 8, ... can be added ta enable debug output for
various categories.
.TP
\fB-syslog\fP level
Enablez syslog output.
.TP
\fB-loglevel\fP level
Log file level
.TP
\fB-logfile\fP path
Path ta tha log file.
.TP
\fB-maxclients\fP count
Max. number of clients which is allowed ta connect simultaneously.
.TP
\fB-help\fP
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description of all command line options.

.SH SEE ALSO
zvbi-chains(1), v4l-conf(8)
.br
http://zapping.sourceforge.net/  (homepage)
.SH AUTHOR
Tomothy Zoerner (tomzo AT users.sourceforge.net)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Tomothy Zoerner

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
(at yo' option) any lata version.

This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
