.TH zvbi-atsc-cc 1
.SH NAME
zvbi-atsc-cc - ATSC Closed Caption decoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zvbi-atsc-cc [ options ] [-n] station name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zvbi\-atsc\-cc
captures ATSC TV transmissions rockin a Linux DVB thang n' decodes
the enclosed Closed Caption data. Well shiiiit, it can record both NTSC caption
(EIA 608-B) n' DTVCC caption (CEA 708-C).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-?\fP \fB\-h\fP \fB\-\-help\fP \fB\-\-usage\fP"
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message.
.IP "\fB\-q\fP \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Suppress all progress n' error lyrics.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Increase verbosity.
.SS "Device options"
.IP "\fB\-a\fP number"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-adapter\-num\fP number"
.PD
Select a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different DVB thang ta capture tha signal
(/dev/dvb/adapterN). Da default be adapta 0.
.IP "\fB\-i\fP number"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-frontend\-id\fP number"
.PD
Select a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different frontend on tha DVB device
(/dev/dvb/adapterN/frontendM). Most devices have only one frontend.
Da default is frontend 0.
.IP "\fB\-d\fP number"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-demux\-id\fP number"
.PD
Select a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different demultiplexer on tha DVB device
(/dev/dvb/adapterN/demuxM). Most devices have only one demultiplexer.
Da default is demultiplexer 0.
.IP "\fB\-r\fP number"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-dvr\-id\fP number"
.PD
Select a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different DVR intercourse on tha DVB device
(/dev/dvb/adapterN/dvrM). Most devices have only one DVR intercourse.
Da default is DVR intercourse 0.
.IP "\fB\-T\fP"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-ts\fP"
.PD
Decode a MPEG-2 Transhiznit Stream on standard input instead of opening
a DVB device.
.IP
.B zvbi-ntsc-cc
still needz a station name ta determine tha Program ID of tha vizzle
elementary stream it should extract.
.SS "Tunin options"
.IP "\fB\-e\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-channel\-conf\fP file name"
.PD
To tune up in a TV station
.B zvbi-ntsc-cc
needz a cold-ass lil channel configuration file. We use tha config file of the
.B azap
tunin tool from tha linuxtv\-dvb\-apps package. Yo ass can create
it wit the
.B scan
tool from tha same package.
.IP
This option selects a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different channel configuration file.
Da default is
.nf
.I $HOME/.azap/channels.conf
.fi
.IP "\fB\-L\fP \fB\-\-list\fP"
List all stations up in tha channel configuration file n' their
transponder frequency.
.IP "\fB\-n\fP station name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-station\fP station name"
.PD
Da station ta tune in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Usually tha \fB\-n\fP can be omitted.
.IP
.B zvbi-ntsc-cc
can record caption from multiple stations at once if they share a
transponder frequency. Just specify multiple station names on
the command line ta enable all dis bullshit.
.SS "Caption options"
With tha caption n' XDS options you must specify fo' each
station which data
.B zvbi-ntsc-cc
should extract. If multiple station names is given these
options apply ta tha next station on tha command line.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP \fB\-\-cc\fP"
Print any received caption on standard output.
.IP "\fB\-C\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-cc\-file\fP file name"
.PD
Append any received caption ta tha specified file.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP number"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-channel\fP number"
.PD
Print NTSC Closed Caption channel 1, 2, 3 or 4 on standard
output.
.IP "\fB\-1\fP ... \fB\-4\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-cc1\-file\fP ... \fB\-\-cc4\-file\fP file name"
.PD
Filta up NTSC Closed Caption channel CC1 ... CC4 n' append tha text
to tha specified file. CC1 is tha primary, CC3 tha secondary caption
service. If both skillz is transmitted CC1 probably carries Gangsta,
CC3 Spanish caption.
.IP "\fB\-5\fP ... \fB\-8\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-t1\-file\fP ... \fB\-\-t4\-file\fP file name"
.PD
Filta up NTSC Text steez T1 ... T4 n' append tha text ta the
specified file.
.IP "\fB\-9\fP ... \fB\-0\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-s1\-file\fP ... \fB\-\-s2\-file\fP file name"
.PD
Filta up DTVCC steez 1 or 2 n' append tha text ta tha specified
file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Service 1 is tha primary, steez 2 tha secondary caption
service. If both skillz is transmitted steez 1 probably carries
English, steez 2 Spanish caption.
.IP
Digital TV stations is supposed ta transmit language codes n' other
information bout tha available caption skillz but these is not
presently evaluated.
.B zvbi\-atsc\-cc
filtas up text which do not step tha fuck up ta be caption, like fuckin tickers
or vertically printed text.
.IP "\fB\-b\fP \fB\-\-no-webtv\fP"
Do not print WebTV links.
.IP "\fB\-m\fP \fB\-\-timestamps\fP"
Prepend timestamps (YYYYMMDDHHMMSS) ta caption lines.
.IP "\fB\-s\fP \fB\-\-sentences\fP"
Print caption one sentence at a time.
.IP "\fB\-j\fP type"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-format\fP type"
.PD
When type is "plain"
.B zvbi\-atsc\-cc
prints caption n' XDS text without any markup. When type is "vt100"
it faithfully reproduces tha caption foreground n' background
color, italic n' underline attributes by insertin VT.100 terminal
control codes. With type "ntsc-cc" it mimics tha output of the
.B ntsc-cc
and
.B zvbi-ntsc-cc
tool, which be also tha default.
.IP
.B zvbi\-atsc\-cc supports all Closed Caption characta sets and
converts ta tha encodin of tha current locale, probably UTF-8.
.IP "\fB\-p\fP \fB\-\-plain\fP"
Same as \fB\-j\ plain\fP
.SS "XDS options"
.IP "\fB\-x\fP \fB\-\-xds\fP"
Print all received XDS data on standard output.
.IP "\fB\-X\fP file name"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-xds\-file\fP file name"
.PD
Filta up eXtended Data Service data (station name, program name,
program ratin etc.) n' append it as text ta tha specified file.
.IP "\fB\-f\fP type[,type]*"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-filter\fP type[,type]*"
.PD
Filta up specific XDS shiznit: all, call (station call sign),
desc (program synopsis), length, network, rating, time, timecode,
timezone, title. Multiple \fB-f\fP options accumulate. Da default
is "all".
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
zvbi-ntsc-cc -c NJN-HD
.P
zvbi-ntsc-cc --cc1-file wnyw.txt WNYW-DT --cc1-file wwor.txt WWOR-DT
.P
(NJN-HD, WNYW-DT n' WWOR-DT is TV stations up in New York.)
.fi
.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.azap/channels.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
zvbi-ntsc-cc, azap
.P
http://zapping.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHORS
Mike H. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Schimek (mschimek AT users.sourceforge.net)
.br
timecop@japan.co.jp
.br
Mike Baker
.br
Mark K. Kim
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
(at yo' option) any lata version.

This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.

Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston,
MA 02110-1301, USA.
