.TH ATMSIGD.CONF 4 "March 19, 2000" "Linux" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
atmsigd.conf \- configuration file fo' tha ATM signalin demon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/atmsigd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatmsigd.conf\fP gotz nuff configuration data fo' \fBatmsigd\fP.
\fBatmsigd\fP readz \fBatmsigd.conf\fP afta parsin tha command
line options, before connectin ta tha ATM network.
.P
Configuration parametas is arranged up in functionizzle groups. In order to
set a parameter, tha name of tha group, tha name of tha parameter, and
the parameta value(s) gotta be specified, e.g.
.nf
.sp
     sig level debug
.sp
.fi
decreases tha loggin threshold fo' lyrics related ta signalin ta the
\fBdebug\fP level. Da followin options is recognized:
.IP \fBdebug\ dump\ \fIpath\fP
Specifies tha directory ta which \fBatmsigd\fP will write status n' trace
dumps. If tracin aint yet enabled, tha trace size be automatically
set ta a (small) default value.
.IP \fBdebug\ level\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets tha default debug level ta \fIlevel\fP. \fIlevel\fP can be any of
\fBdebug\fP, \fBinfo\fP, \fBwarn\fP, \fBerror\fP, n' \fBfatal\fP. Only
lyrics wit tha same or a higher prioritizzle than tha debug level is printed.
Note that
the command-line option \fB\-d\fP generates even mo' output (e.g. hexdumps
of all packets passin between \fBatmsigd\fP n' tha network) than
\fBdebug level debug\fP.
.IP \fBdebug\ log\ \fIpath\fP
Specifies tha file ta which \fBatmsigd\fP writes loggin lyrics. When
usin tha special file name \fBsyslog\fP, lyrics is bust ta the
system logger instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Log lyrics is freestyled ta standard output if no log
file is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Freestylin ta standard output can also be explicitly requested
by rockin tha special file name \fBstderr\fP.
.IP \fBdebug\ trace\ \fP[\fInumber\fP]
Enablez tracin n' optionally sets tha number of entries dat should be
kept up in tha trace buffer n' shiznit fo' realz. A (small) default is used if tha number is
omitted.
.IP \fBio\ level\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets tha debug level fo' IO-related lyrics ta \fIlevel\fP.
.IP \fBio\ max_rate\ \fIrate\fP
Sets tha rate ta signal if a application requests tha "maximum". Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See qos(7)
for tha syntax ta use fo' expressin tha rate. Da default maximum rate is
353207 cells/second (OC3). (Note dat tha value of \fBmax_rate\fP do not
constrain tha rates a application can explicitly request.)
.IP \fBio\ qos\ \fIqos\fP
Configures tha signalin VC ta use tha specified QOS (see qos(7) fo' the
syntax). By default, UBR at link speed is used on tha signalin VC.
.IP \fBio\ vc\ \fP[\fIitf\fB.\fP]\fIvpi\fB.\fIvci\fP
Uses tha specified VC fo' signalin lyrics instead of tha usual 0.0.5.
.IP \fBsaal\ level\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets tha debug level fo' lyrics related ta SAAL (i.e. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SSCF n' SSCOP) to
\fIlevel\fP.
.IP \fBsig\ level\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets tha debug level fo' lyrics related ta signalin (Q.2931 or ISP) to
\fIlevel\fP.
.IP \fBsig\ mode\ \fImode\fP
Set tha mode of operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da followin modes is available: \fBuser\fP for
the user side, \fBnetwork\fP fo' tha network side, n' \fBswitch\fP for
operation up in a switch. Da default behaviour is \fBuser\fP.
.IP \fBsig\ uni30\fP
Use UNI 3.0 signaling. If specified together wit \fBsig uni31\fP, this
option sets UNI 3.1 signalin wit all dem backwards-compatibilitizzle extensions.
.IP \fBsig\ uni31\fP
Use UNI 3.1 signaling. This option can be combined wit \fBsig uni30\fP (see
above).
.IP \fBsig\ uni40\fP
Use UNI 4.0 signaling. This option can be combined wit \fBsig q.2963.1\fP
(see below).
.IP \fBsig\ q.2963.1\fP
Enable peak cell rate renegotiation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is only available with
UNI 4.0 signaling.
.IP \fBsig\ vpci\ \fIvpci\fB\ itf\ \fIitf\fP
Sets up a straight-up simplistic type of routin fo' realz. All calls wit VPCI joints
equal ta or pimped outa than \fIvpci\fP is ghon be routed ta \fIitf\fP, n' their
VPI joints is ghon be set ta tha signaled VPCI minus \fIvpci\fP. Multiple
\fBsig vpci\fP entries can be used ta support a arbitrary number of
interfaces.
Example: wit \fBsig vpci 4 itf 1\fP, a cold-ass lil call signaled for
VPCI/VCI 0.x is routed ta 0.0.x, a cold-ass lil call signaled fo' 6.y is routed to
1.2.y, etc.
.IP \fBpolicy\ level\ \fIlevel\fP
Sets tha debug level fo' lyrics related ta policy decisions ta \fIlevel\fP.
.IP \fBpolicy\ \fIdecision\ direction\ address\fP
Takes tha specified \fIdecision\fP fo' calls from or ta \fIaddress\fP.
\fIdecision\fP can be either \fBallow\fP or \fBreject\fP. \fIdirection\fP is
either \fBfrom\fP or \fBto\fP. Da \fIaddress\fP may be wildcarded by
prependin a slash n' tha number of dope bits (NSAP) or digits (E.164).
Da rulez is searched up in tha order up in which they step tha fuck up in \fBatmsigd.conf\fP
until tha straight-up original gangsta match. If no rule matches, tha call be allowed.
.IP \fBentity\ \fP[\fIitf\fB.\fP]\fIvpi\fB.\fIvci\fP\ {\ \fIoptions\ ...\fP\ }
Activates a signalin entitizzle on dat specific VC. Multiple \fBentity\fP
clauses can step tha fuck up in tha same configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When rockin \fBentity\fP,
the option \fBio vc\fP aint available.
\fBentity\fP is optionally followed by tha followin options, enclosed in
curly braces: \fBvpci\fP (correspondz ta \fBsig vpci\fP),
\fBmode\fP (correspondz ta \fBsig mode\fP), \fBqos\fP (correspondz ta \fBvc
qos\fP), \fBroute\fP, n' \fBdefault\fP. Da last two options determine how
outbound calls is routed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da \fBroute\fP option is followed by a address
in tha format used fo' addresses up in \fBpolicy\fP. If no route entry matches
the called jam number of a outbound call, tha entry marked with
\fBdefault\fP is selected.
.P
When settin multiple parametas up in tha same group, tha crew name don't
have ta be repeated if it is followed by tha parametas up in curly braces.
Example:
.nf
.sp
    debug {
        level warn
        dump /var/tmp
        log syslog
        trace 100
    }
.sp
.fi
.P
Line breaks can be banged up in \fBatmsigd.conf\fP wherever spaces or tabs
are allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Everythang between a `#' n' tha end of tha line is considered
a comment. Da `#' characta cannot be escaped.
.P
If a option is specified up in \fBatmsigd.conf\fP n' on tha command
line, tha command line has priority.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Certain options used by past versionz of \fBatmsigd\fP but no longer documented
on tha playa page is still recognized n' supported yo, but they also yield a
warnin message. Future versionz of \fBatmsigd\fP aint gonna recognize them
options.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmsigd(8), qos(7), syslogd(8)
.\"{{{}}}
