.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), Mon Oct 31 21:03:19 MET 1994
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, Sun Feb 26 14:58:45 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" "
.TH CONSOLE 4 1994-10-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
console \- console terminal n' virtual consoles
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Linux system has up ta 63
.I "virtual consoles"
(characta devices wit major number 4 n' minor number 1 ta 63),
usually called
.I /dev/ttyn
with 1 \(<=
.I n
\(<= 63.
Da current console be also addressed by
.I /dev/console
or
.IR /dev/tty0 ,
the characta thang with
major number 4 n' minor number 0.
Da thang files
.I /dev/*
are probably pimped rockin tha script MAKEDEV,
or using
.BR mknod (1),
usually wit mode 0622 n' baller
.IR root.tty .
.LP
Before kernel version 1.1.54 tha number of virtual consolez was
compiled tha fuck into tha kernel (in
.IR tty.h :
#define NR_CONSOLES 8)
and could be chizzled by editin n' recompiling.
Since version 1.1.54 virtual consolez is pimped on tha fly,
as soon as they is needed.
.LP
Common ways ta start a process on a cold-ass lil console are:
(a) tell
.BR init (8)
(in
.BR inittab (5))
to start a
.BR mingetty (8)
(or
.BR agetty (8))
on tha console;
(b) ask
.BR openvt (1)
to start a process on tha console;
(c) start X\(emit will find tha straight-up original gangsta unused console,
and display its output there.
(There be also tha ancient
.BR doshell (8).)
.LP
Common ways ta switch consolez are: (a) use Alt+F\fIn\fP or
Ctrl+Alt+F\fIn\fP ta switch ta console
.IR n ;
AltGr+F\fIn\fP
might brang you ta console \fIn\fP+12 [here Alt n' AltGr refer
to tha left n' right Alt keys, respectively];
(b) use Alt+RightArrow or Alt+LeftArrow ta cycle through
the presently allocated consoles; (c) use tha program
.BR chvt (1).
(Da key mappin is user settable, see
.BR loadkeys (1);
the above mentioned key combinations is accordin ta tha default settings.)
.LP
Da command
.BR deallocvt (1)
(formerly
.BR disalloc )
will free tha memory taken by tha screen buffers fo' consoles
that no longer have any associated process.
.SS Properties
Consolez carry a shitload of state.
I hope ta document dat some other time.
Da most blingin fact is dat tha consolez simulate vt100 terminals.
In particular, a cold-ass lil console is reset ta tha initial state by printin tha two
charactas ESC c.
All escape sequences can be found in
.BR console_codes (4).
.SH FILES
.I /dev/console
.br
.I /dev/tty*
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chvt (1),
.BR deallocvt (1),
.BR loadkeys (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR openvt (1),
.BR console_codes (4),
.BR console_ioctl (4),
.BR tty (4),
.BR ttyS (4),
.BR charsets (7),
.BR agetty (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR mapscrn (8),
.BR mingetty (8),
.BR resizecons (8),
.BR setfont (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
