.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corporation, Lyricist Andi Kleen
.\" Description based on comments up in arch/x86/kernel/cpuid.c
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CPUID 4 2009-03-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
cpuid \- x86 CPUID access device
.SH DESCRIPTION
CPUID serves up a intercourse fo' queryin shiznit bout tha x86 CPU.

This thang be accessed by
.BR lseek (2)
or
.BR pread (2)
to tha appropriate CPUID level n' readin up in chunkz of 16 bytes.
A larger read size means multiple readz of consecutizzle levels.

Da lower 32 bitz of tha file posizzle is used as tha incoming
.IR %eax ,
and tha upper 32 bitz of tha file posizzle as tha incoming
.IR %ecx ,
the latta intended fo' "counting"
.I eax
levels like
.IR eax=4 .

This driver uses
.IR /dev/cpu/CPUNUM/cpuid ,
where
.I CPUNUM
is tha minor number,
and on a SMP box will direct tha access ta CPU
.I CPUNUM
as listed in
.IR /proc/cpuinfo .

This file is protected so dat it can be read only by tha user
.IR root ,
or thugz of tha group
.IR root .
.SH NOTES
Da CPUID instruction can be directly executed by a program
usin inline assembler.
However dis thang allows convenient
access ta all CPUs without changin process affinity.

Most of tha shiznit in
.I cpuid
is reported by tha kernel up in cooked form either in
.I /proc/cpuinfo
or all up in subdirectories in
.IR /sys/devices/system/cpu .
Direct CPUID access all up in dis thang should only
be used up in exceptionizzle cases.

The
.I cpuid
driver aint auto-loaded.
On modular kernels you might need ta use tha followin command
to load it explicitly before use:

     $ \fImodprobe cpuid\fP

There is no support fo' CPUID functions dat require additional
input registers.

Straight-up oldschool x86 CPUs don't support CPUID.
.SH SEE ALSO
Intel Corporation, Intel 64 n' IA-32 Architectures
Software Developerz Manual Volume 2A:
Instruction Set Reference, A-M, 3-180 CPUID reference.

Intel Corporation, Intel Processor Identification and
the CPUID Instruction, Application note 485.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
