.TH CRONTABS 4 2012-08-29 "Marcela Mašláňová" "Crontabs users' Manual"
.SH NAME
crontabs \- configuration n' scripts fo' hustlin periodical thangs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run-parts 
.RB [ --list | --test ] \fP\fI<directory>\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Crontabs be a oldschool name fo' tha run-parts script n' tha system
crontab. Da run-parts script runs all executablez up in tha specified
directory.
.B Run-parts
runs all executablez up in tha specified directory.
Da execution of filez can be allowed or denied by bustin file 
.B thangs.allow
or 
.B thangs.deny
which hit dat shiznit similar as other allow/deny config files. Da file must be
created up in tha specified directory.
.TP
.B --list
print namez of all filez (not limited ta executables) yo, but don't run
them. This option can't be used wit 
.B test
option.
.TP
.B --test
print namez of files, which would be run.

Randomization of thangs can be configured up in tha 
.IR /etc/sysconfig/run-parts
file. To enable randomization of thangs, set tha RANDOMIZE parameta ta 1
and set tha RANDOM parameta ta a integer which determines a random
seed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Additionally, you may configure tha RANDOMTIME parameta (again,
by specifyin a integer) ta provide a additionizzle level of
randomization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Jobs is not randomized when tha RANDOM n' RANDOMTIME
parametas is set ta 0. Values up in these two parametas must be set to
1 or larger ta provide a phat enough randomization.

Randomization of cron thangs can be useful fo' shared networks, where
multiple cron thangs executed at once can cause spikes up in traffic,
especially durin everyday thangs. With randomized thangs, tha workload is
evenly distributed all up in tha day.

.SH EXAMPLE OF CONFIGURATION FILE
.nf
RANDOMIZE=1
RANDOM=4
RANDOMTIME=8
.fi
.PP
Historically tha crontab file contained configuration which called 
.B run-parts
on filez up in 
.I cron.{daily,weekly,monthly}
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! These thangs is now run
indirectly all up in 
.B anacron 
to prevent conflicts between 
.B cron 
and 
.B anacron.
That means tha 
.B anacron 
package has ta be installed if tha thangs up in these
directories should be hustlin. Refer ta tha 
.B anacron(8) 
how ta limit tha time of dizzle of tha thang execution.

.SH EXAMPLE
.I /etc/cron.daily/jobs.deny
could contain fo' example 
.B 0logwatch 
which forbid execution of dis script.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B anacron(8), crontab(5)
