'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 lars brinkhoff <lars@nocrew.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, Thu Jan 27 19:16:19 CET 2000, lars@nocrew.org
.\"
.TH DSP56K 4 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
dsp56k \- DSP56001 intercourse device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <asm/dsp56k.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t read(int " fd ", void *" data ", size_t " length );
.BI "ssize_t write(int " fd ", void *" data ", size_t " length );

.BI "int ioctl(int " fd ", DSP56K_UPLOAD, struct dsp56k_upload *" program );
.BI "int ioctl(int " fd ", DSP56K_SET_TX_WSIZE, int " wsize );
.BI "int ioctl(int " fd ", DSP56K_SET_RX_WSIZE, int " wsize );
.BI "int ioctl(int " fd ", DSP56K_HOST_FLAGS, struct dsp56k_host_flags *" flags );
.BI "int ioctl(int " fd ", DSP56K_HOST_CMD, int " cmd );
.fi
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da dsp56k thang be a cold-ass lil characta thang wit major number 55 n' minor
number 0.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Motorola DSP56001 be a gangbangin' straight-up programmable 24-bit digital signal
processor found up in Atari Falcon030-compatible computers.
Da \fIdsp56k\fP special file is used ta control tha DSP56001, and
to bust n' receive data rockin tha bidirectionizzle handshaked host
port.
.PP
To bust a thugged-out data stream ta tha signal processor, use
.BR write (2)
to the
device, and
.BR read (2)
to receive processed data.
Da data can be busted or
received up in 8, 16, 24, or 32-bit quantitizzles on tha host side yo, but will
always be peeped as 24-bit quantitizzles up in tha DSP56001.
.PP
Da following
.BR ioctl (2)
calls is used ta control the
\fIdsp56k\fP device:
.IP \fBDSP56K_UPLOAD\fP
resets tha DSP56001 n' uploadz a program.
Da third
.BR ioctl (2)
argument must be a pointa ta a \fIstruct dsp56k_binary\fP wit members
\fIbin\fP pointin ta a DSP56001 binary program, n' \fIlen\fP set to
the length of tha program, counted up in 24-bit lyrics.
.IP \fBDSP56K_SET_TX_WSIZE\fP
sets tha transmit word size.
Allowed joints is up in tha range 1 ta 4,
and is tha number of bytes dat is ghon be busted at a time ta the
DSP56001.
These data quantitizzles will either be padded wit zero
bytes, or truncated ta fit tha natizzle 24-bit data format of the
DSP56001.
.IP \fBDSP56K_SET_RX_WSIZE\fP
sets tha receive word size.
Allowed joints is up in tha range 1 ta 4,
and is tha number of bytes dat is ghon be received at a time from the
DSP56001.
These data quantitizzles will either truncated, or padded with
a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq) ta fit tha natizzle 24-bit data format of tha DSP56001.
.IP \fBDSP56K_HOST_FLAGS\fP
read n' write tha host flags.
Da host flags is four
general-purpose bits dat can be read by both tha hostin computa and
the DSP56001.
Bits 0 n' 1 can be freestyled by tha host, n' bits 2 and
3 can be freestyled by tha DSP56001.

To access tha host flags, tha third
.BR ioctl (2)
argument must be a pointer
to a \fIstruct dsp56k_host_flags\fP.
If bit 0 or 1 is set up in the
\fIdir\fP member, tha correspondin bit up in \fIout\fP is ghon be written
to tha host flags.
Da state of all host flags is ghon be returned in
the lower four bitz of tha \fIstatus\fP member.
.IP \fBDSP56K_HOST_CMD\fP
sendz a host command.
Allowed joints is up in tha range 0 ta 31, n' be a
user-defined command handled by tha program hustlin up in tha DSP56001.
.SH FILES
/dev/dsp56k
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Fredrik Norin <noring@nocrew.org>, lars brinkhoff <lars@nocrew.org>,
.\" Tomas Berndtsson <tomas@nocrew.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR linux/include/asm-m68k/dsp56k.h ,
.IR linux/drivers/char/dsp56k.c ,
.UR http://dsp56k.nocrew.org/
.UE ,
DSP56000/DSP56001 Digital Signal Processor Userz Manual
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
