.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH EXA 4 "xorg-server 1.14.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
exa \- freshly smoked up 2D acceleration architecture fo' X.Org
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B EXA
provides a simple API fo' vizzle drivers ta implement fo' 2D acceleration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It
is a module loaded by drivers, n' aint intended ta be loaded on its own.
See yo' driverz manual page fo' how tha fuck ta enable
.BR EXA .
.PP
The
.B EXA
architecture is designed ta make acceleratin tha Render extension simple and
efficient, n' thangs up in dis biatch up in various performizzle tradeoffs compared ta XAA.  Some
xorg.conf options is available fo' debuggin performizzle thangs or
driver renderin problems.  They is not intended fo' general use.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qEXANoComposite\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disablez acceleration of tha Composite operation, which be all up in tha ass of
the Render extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Not related ta tha Composite extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Default: No.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qEXANoUploadToScreen\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disablez acceleration of uploadin pixmap data ta tha framebuffer n' shit. Default: No.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qEXANoDownloadFromScreen\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disablez acceleration of downloadin of pixmap data from tha framebuffer.
.B NOTE:
Not usable wit drivers which rely on DownloadFromScreen succeeding.
Default: No.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMigrationHeuristic\*q \*q" anystr \*q
Chooses a alternate pixmap migration heuristic, fo' debuggin purposes.  The
default is intended ta be tha dopest struttin one fo' general use, though others
may help wit specific use cases.  Available options include \*qalways\*q,
\*qgreedy\*q, n' \*qsmart\*q.  Default: always.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Xorg (1),
.BR xorg.conf(5).
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Keith Packard, Eric Anholt, Zack Rusin, n' Michel D\(:anzer
