.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH FBDEV 4 "xf86-video-fbdev 0.4.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fbdev \- vizzle driver fo' framebuffer device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qfbdev\*q"
.BI "  BusID  \*qpci:" bus : dev : func \*q
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fbdev
is a Xorg driver fo' framebuffer devices.  This be a non-accelerated
driver, tha followin framebuffer depths is supported: 8, 15, 16, 24.
All visual types is supported fo' depth 8, n' TrueColor visual is
supported fo' tha other depths.  Multi-head configurations is supported.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
Da 
.B fbdev
driver supports all hardware where a gangbangin' framebuffer driver be available.
fbdev uses tha os-specific submodule fbdevhw(4) ta talk
to tha kernel
device driver n' shit.  Currently a gangbangin' fbdevhw module be available fo' linux.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5) fo' general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to
this driver.
.PP
For dis driver it aint required ta specify modes up in tha screen 
section of tha config file.  The
.B fbdev
driver can pick up tha currently used vizzle mode from tha framebuffer 
driver n' will use it if there be no vizzle modes configured.
.PP
For PCI boardz you might gotta add a BusID line ta tha Device
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See above fo' a sample line.
.PP
Da followin driver 
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qfbdev\*q \*q" strang \*q
Da framebuffer thang ta use. Default: /dev/fb0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of tha shadow framebuffer layer n' shit.  Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*q" strang \*q
Enable rotation of tha display. Da supported joints is "CW" (clockwise,
90 degrees), "UD" (upside down, 180 degrees) n' "CCW" (counta clockwise,
270 degrees). Implies use of tha shadow framebuffer layer n' shit.   Default: off.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1),
X(7), fbdevhw(4)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Gerd Knorr, Michel D\(:anzer, Geert Uytterhoeven
