'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" n' 1994,1995 Alain Knaff (Alain.Knaff@imag.fr)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, Sun Feb 26 15:00:02 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH FD 4 2010-08-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fd \- floppy disk device
.SH CONFIGURATION
Floppy drives is block devices wit major number 2.
Typically they
are owned by
.I root.floppy
(i.e., user root, crew floppy) n' have
either mode 0660 (access checkin via crew membership) or mode 0666
(everybody has access).
Da minor
numbers encode tha thang type, drive number, n' controlla number.
For each thang type (that is, combination of densitizzle n' track count)
there be a funky-ass base minor number.
To dis base number, add tha drive's
number on its controlla n' 128 if tha drive is on tha secondary
controller.
In tha followin thang tables, \fIn\fP represents the
drive number.
.PP
\fBWarning: If you use formats wit mo' tracks
than supported by yo' drive, you may cause it mechanical damage.\fP
Tryin once if mo' tracks than tha usual 40/80 is supported should not
damage it yo, but no warranty is given fo' dis shit.
If yo ass is not sure, don't create device
entries fo' dem formats, so as ta prevent they usage.
.PP
Drive-independent thang filez which automatically detect tha media
format n' capacity:
.TS
l l.
Name	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP	0
.TE
.PP
5.25 inch double densitizzle thang files:
.TS
lw(1i) l l l l l.
Name	Capac.	Cyl.	Sect.	Heads	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBd360\fP	360K	40	9	2	4
.TE
.PP
5.25 inch high densitizzle thang files:
.TS
lw(1i) l l l l l.
Name	Capac.	Cyl.	Sect.	Heads	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh360\fP	360K	40	9	2	20
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh410\fP	410K	41	10	2	48
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh420\fP	420K	42	10	2	64
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh720\fP	720K	80	9	2	24
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh880\fP	880K	80	11	2	80
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh1200\fP	1200K	80	15	2	8
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh1440\fP	1440K	80	18	2	40
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh1476\fP	1476K	82	18	2	56
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh1494\fP	1494K	83	18	2	72
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBh1600\fP	1600K	80	20	2	92
.TE
3.5 inch double densitizzle thang files:
.TS
lw(1i) l l l l l.
Name	Capac.	Cyl.	Sect.	Heads	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBD360\fP	360K	80	9	1	12
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBD720\fP	720K	80	9	2	16
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBD800\fP	800K	80	10	2	120
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBD1040\fP	1040K	80	13	2	84
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBD1120\fP	1120K	80	14	2	88
.TE
.PP
3.5 inch high densitizzle thang files:
.TS
lw(1i) l l l l l.
Name	Capac.	Cyl.	Sect.	Heads	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH360\fP	360K	40	9	2	12
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH720\fP	720K	80	9	2	16
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH820\fP	820K	82	10	2	52
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH830\fP	830K	83	10	2	68
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1440\fP	1440K	80	18	2	28
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1600\fP	1600K	80	20	2	124
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1680\fP	1680K	80	21	2	44
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1722\fP	1722K	82	21	2	60
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1743\fP	1743K	83	21	2	76
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1760\fP	1760K	80	22	2	96
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1840\fP	1840K	80	23	2	116
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBH1920\fP	1920K	80	24	2	100
.TE
.PP
3.5 inch extra densitizzle thang files:
.TS
lw(1i) l l l l l.
Name	Capac.	Cyl.	Sect.	Heads	Base minor #
_
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBE2880\fP	2880K	80	36	2	32
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBCompaQ\fP	2880K	80	36	2	36
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBE3200\fP	3200K	80	40	2	104
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBE3520\fP	3520K	80	44	2	108
\fBfd\fP\fIn\fP\fBE3840\fP	3840K	80	48	2	112
.TE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfd\fP special filez access tha floppy disk drives up in raw mode.
Da following
.BR ioctl (2)
calls is supported by \fBfd\fP devices:
.IP \fBFDCLRPRM\fP
clears tha media shiznit of a thugged-out drive (geometry of disk up in drive).
.IP \fBFDSETPRM\fP
sets tha media shiznit of a thugged-out drive.
Da media shiznit will be
lost when tha media is chizzled.
.IP \fBFDDEFPRM\fP
sets tha media shiznit of a thugged-out drive (geometry of disk up in drive).
Da media shiznit aint gonna be lost when tha media is chizzled.
This will disable autodetection.
In order ta reenable autodetection, you
have ta issue a \fBFDCLRPRM\fP.
.IP \fBFDGETDRVTYP\fP
returns tha type of a thugged-out drive (name parameter).
For formats which work
in nuff muthafuckin drive types, \fBFDGETDRVTYP\fP returns a name which is
appropriate fo' tha crazy oldschool drive type which supports dis format.
.IP \fBFDFLUSH\fP
invalidates tha buffer cache fo' tha given drive.
.IP \fBFDSETMAXERRS\fP
sets tha error thresholdz fo' reportin errors, abortin tha operation,
recalibrating, resetting, n' readin sector by sector.
.IP \fBFDSETMAXERRS\fP
gets tha current error thresholds.
.IP \fBFDGETDRVTYP\fP
gets tha internal name of tha drive.
.IP \fBFDWERRORCLR\fP
clears tha write error statistics.
.IP \fBFDWERRORGET\fP
readz tha write error statistics.
These include tha total number of
write errors, tha location n' disk of tha straight-up original gangsta write error, n' the
location n' disk of tha last write error.
Disks is identified by a
generation number which is incremented at (almost) each disk chizzle.
.IP \fBFDTWADDLE\fP
Switch tha drive motor off fo' all dem microseconds.
This might be
needed up in order ta access a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk whose sectors is too close together.
.IP \fBFDSETDRVPRM\fP
sets various drive parameters.
.IP \fBFDGETDRVPRM\fP
readz these parametas back.
.IP \fBFDGETDRVSTAT\fP
gets tha cached drive state (disk chizzled, write protected et al.)
.IP \fBFDPOLLDRVSTAT\fP
polls tha drive n' return its state.
.IP \fBFDGETFDCSTAT\fP
gets tha floppy controlla state.
.IP \fBFDRESET\fP
resets tha floppy controlla under certain conditions.
.IP \fBFDRAWCMD\fP
sendz a raw command ta tha floppy controller.
.PP
For mo' precise shiznit, consult also tha \fI<linux/fd.h>\fP and
\fI<linux/fdreg.h>\fP include files, as well as the
.BR floppycontrol (1)
manual page.
.SH FILES
/dev/fd*
.SH NOTES
Da various formats permit readin n' freestylin nuff typez of disks.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if a gangbangin' floppy is formatted wit a inter-sector gap dat is too small,
performizzle may drop,
to tha deal wit needin all dem secondz ta access a entire track.
To prevent this, use interleaved formats.

It aint possible to
read floppies which is formatted rockin GCR (group code recording),
which is used by Applez Pt II n' Macintosh computas (800k disks).

Readin floppies which is hard sectored (one hole per sector, with
the index hole bein a lil skewed) aint supported.
This used ta be common wit olda 8-inch floppies.
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Alain Knaff (Alain.Knaff@imag.fr), Dizzy Niemi
.\" (niemidc@clark.net), Bizzle Broadhurst (bbroad@netcom.com).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR floppycontrol (1),
.BR getfdprm (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR superformat (1),
.BR mount (8),
.BR setfdprm (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
