.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 1997 Jizzy S. Kallal
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" erection, aeb, 970825
.TH FULL 4 2007-11-24 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
full \- always full device
.SH CONFIGURATION
If yo' system do not have
.I /dev/full
created already, it
can be pimped wit tha followin commands:
.nf

        mknod \-m 666 /dev/full c 1 7
        chown root:root /dev/full
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
File
.I /dev/full
has major thang number 1
and minor thang number 7.
.LP
Writes ta the
.I /dev/full
device will fail wit an
.B ENOSPC
error.
This can be used ta test how tha fuck a program handlez disk-full errors.

Readz from the
.I /dev/full
device will return \\0 characters.

Seeks on
.I /dev/full
will always succeed.
.SH FILES
/dev/full
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mknod (1),
.BR null (4),
.BR zero (4)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
