.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:56:20 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 21:38:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" (and some mo' by aeb)
.\"
.TH HD 4 1992-12-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
hd \- MFM/IDE hard disk devices
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hd*
devices is block devices ta access MFM/IDE hard disk drives
in raw mode.
Da masta drive on tha primary IDE controlla (major device
number 3) is
.BR hda ;
the slave drive is
.BR hdb .
Da masta drive of tha second controlla (major thang number 22)
is
.B hdc
and tha slave
.BR hdd .
.LP
General IDE block thang names have tha form
.BI hd X\c
, or
.BI hd XP\c
, where
.I X
is a letta denotin tha physical drive, and
.I P
is a number denotin tha partizzle on dat physical drive.
Da first form,
.BI hd X,
is used ta address tha whole drive.
Partizzle numbers is assigned up in tha order tha partitions
are discovered, n' only nonempty, nonextended partitions
get a number.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat partizzle numbers 1-4 is given ta the
four partitions busted lyrics bout up in tha MBR (the "primary" partitions),
regardless of whether they is unused or extended.
Thus, tha straight-up original gangsta logical partizzle will be
.BI hd X 5\c
\&.
Both DOS-type partitionin n' BSD-disklabel partitionin is supported.
Yo ass can have at most 63 partitions on a IDE disk.
.LP
For example,
.I /dev/hda
refers ta all of tha straight-up original gangsta IDE drive up in tha system; and
.I /dev/hdb3
refers ta tha third DOS "primary" partizzle on tha second one.
.LP
They is typically pimped by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda b 3 0
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda1 b 3 1
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda2 b 3 2
.br
\&...
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda8 b 3 8
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb b 3 64
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb1 b 3 65
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb2 b 3 66
.br
\&...
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb8 b 3 72
.br
chown root:disk /dev/hd*
.RE
.SH FILES
/dev/hd*
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR sd (4),
.BR mount (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
