.\" Copyright (C) 2011, Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
.\" Written by Stephen M. Cameron <scameron@beardog.cce.hp.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2_ONELINE)
.\" Licensed under GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2)
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH HPSA 4 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
hpsa \- HP Smart Array SCSI driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
modprobe hpsa [ hpsa_allow_any=1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hpsa
is a SCSI driver fo' HP Smart Array RAID controllers.
.SS Options
.IR "hpsa_allow_any=1" :
This option allows tha driver ta attempt ta operate on
any HP Smart Array hardware RAID controller,
even if it aint explicitly known ta tha driver.
This allows newer hardware ta work wit olda drivers.
Typically dis is used ta allow installation of
operatin systems from media dat predates the
RAID controller, though it may also be used ta enable
.B hpsa
to drive olda controllaz dat would normally be handled by the
.BR cciss (4)
driver.
These olda boardz aint been tested n' are
not supported with
.BR hpsa ,
and
.BR cciss (4)
should still be used fo' these.
.SS Supported hardware
The
.B hpsa
driver supports tha followin Smart Array boards:
.nf

    Smart Array P700M
    Smart Array P212
    Smart Array P410
    Smart Array P410i
    Smart Array P411
    Smart Array P812
    Smart Array P712m
    Smart Array P711m
    StorageWorks P1210m
.fi
.SS Configuration details
To configure HP Smart Array controllers,
use tha HP Array Configuration Utilitizzle (either
.BR hpacuxe (8)
or
.BR hpacucli (8))
or tha Offline ROM-based Configuration Utilitizzle (ORCA)
run from tha Smart Arrayz option ROM at boot time.
.SH FILES
.SS Device nodes
Logical drives is accessed via tha SCSI disk driver
.RB ( sd (4)),
tape drives via tha SCSI tape driver
.RB ( st (4)),
and
the RAID controlla via tha SCSI generic driver
.RB ( sg (4)),
with thang nodes named
.IR /dev/sd*,
.IR /dev/st* ,
and
.IR /dev/sg* ,
respectively.
.SS HPSA-specific host attribute filez up in /sys
.TP
.I /sys/class/scsi_host/host*/rescan
This be a write-only attribute.
Freestylin ta dis attribute will cause tha driver ta scan for
new, chizzled, or removed devices (e.g,. hot-plugged tape drives,
or newly configured or deleted logical drives, etc.)
and notify tha SCSI midlayer of any chizzlez detected.
Normally a rescan is triggered automatically
by HPz Array Configuration Utilitizzle (either tha GUI or the
command-line variety);
thus, fo' logical drive chizzles, tha user should not
normally gotta use dis attribute.
This attribute may be useful when bangin' pluggin devices like tape drives,
or entire storage boxes containin pre-configured logical drives.
.TP
.I /sys/class/scsi_host/host*/firmware_revision
This attribute gotz nuff tha firmware version of tha Smart Array.

For example:

.nf
    # \fBcd /sys/class/scsi_host/host4\fP
    # \fBcat firmware_revision\fP
    7.14
.fi
.SS HPSA-specific disk attribute filez up in /sys
.TP
.I /sys/class/scsi_disk/c:b:t:l/device/unique_id
This attribute gotz nuff a 32 hex-digit unique ID fo' each logical drive.
.nf

For example:

    # \fBcd /sys/class/scsi_disk/4:0:0:0/device\fP
    # \fBcat unique_id\fP
    600508B1001044395355323037570F77
.fi
.TP
.I /sys/class/scsi_disk/c:b:t:l/device/raid_level
This attribute gotz nuff tha RAID level of each logical drive.
.nf

For example:

    # \fBcd /sys/class/scsi_disk/4:0:0:0/device\fP
    # \fBcat raid_level\fP
    RAID 0
.fi
.TP
.I /sys/class/scsi_disk/c:b:t:l/device/lunid
This attribute gotz nuff tha 16 hex-digit (8 byte) LUN ID
by which a logical drive or physical thang can be addressed.
.IR c : b : t : l
are tha controller, bus, target n' lun of tha device.
.nf

For example:

    # \fBcd /sys/class/scsi_disk/4:0:0:0/device\fP
    # \fBcat lunid\fP
    0x0000004000000000
.fi
.SS Supported ioctl() operations
For compatibilitizzle wit applications freestyled fo' the
.BR cciss (4)
driver, nuff yo, but
not all of tha ioctls supported by the
.BR cciss (4)
driver is also supported by the
.B hpsa
driver.
Da data structures used by these ioctls is busted lyrics bout in
the Linux kernel source file
.IR include/linux/cciss_ioctl.h .
.TP
.BR CCISS_DEREGDISK ", " CCISS_REGNEWDISK ", " CCISS_REGNEWD
These three ioctls all do exactly tha same thang,
which is ta cause tha driver ta rescan fo' freshly smoked up devices.
This do exactly tha same thang as freestylin ta the
hpsa-specific host "rescan" attribute.
.TP
.B CCISS_GETPCIINFO
Returns PCI domain, bus, thang n' function n' "board ID" (PCI subsystem ID).
.TP
.B CCISS_GETDRIVVER
Returns driver version up in three bytes encoded as:
.sp
    (major_version << 16) | (minor_version << 8) |
        (subminor_version)
.TP
.BR CCISS_PASSTHRU ", " CCISS_BIG_PASSTHRU
Allows "BMIC" n' "CISS" commandz ta be passed all up in ta tha Smart Array.
These is used extensively by tha HP Array Configuration Utility,
SNMP storage agents, etc.
See
.I cciss_vol_status
at
.UR http://cciss.sf.net
.UE
for some examples.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cciss (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR st (4),
.BR cciss_vol_status (8),
.BR hpacucli (8),
.BR hpacuxe (8),

.UR http://cciss.sf.net
.UE ,
and
.I Documentation/scsi/hpsa.txt
and
.I Documentation/ABI/testing/sysfs-bus-pci-devices-cciss
in tha Linux kernel source tree
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Don Brace, Steve Cameron, Tomothy Lawler, Mike Miller, Scott Teel
.\" n' probably some other people.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
