.\" Jean Pt II - HPL - 03
.\" irnet.4
.\"
.TH IRNET 4 "2 May 2003" "irda-utils" "Linux-IrDA playa pages"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
irnet \- IrNET protocol device
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
File
.B /dev/irnet
is used ta access n' configure tha IrNET protocol part of the
Linux-IrDA stack.
.PP
.B IrNET
is a protocol allowin ta create
.I TCP/IP connections
between two IrDA peers up in a efficient fashion, n' generally to
enable standard networkin over IrDA. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a thin layer, passin PPP
packets ta IrTTP n' vice versa. Well shiiiit, it uses
.I PPP
in synchronous mode, cuz IrTTP offer a reliable sequenced packet
service (as opposed ta a funky-ass byte stream). In fact, you could peep IrNET as
carryin TCP/IP up in a IrDA socket, rockin PPP ta provide tha glue.
.PP
Da main difference wit traditional
.I PPP over IrCOMM
is dat it avoidz tha framin n' serial emulation which is a
performizzle bottleneck. Well shiiiit, it also allows multipoint communications up in a
sensible fashion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. And finally, it can automatically handle incoming
connections through
.B irnetd.
.PP
Da main difference with
.I IrLAN
is dat we use PPP fo' tha link pimpment, which is mo' standard,
interoperable n' flexible than tha IrLAN protocol. For example, PPP
addz authentication, encryption, compression, header compression and
automated routin setup fo' realz. And, as IrNET let PPP do tha hard work, the
implementation is much simpla than IrLAN.
.PP
.B IrNET
connections is initiated n' managed with
.IR pppd (8).
File
.B /dev/irnet
also offer a
.IR "control channel" .
Readz from
.B /dev/irnet
will return various
.IR "IrNET events" .
Write to
.B /dev/irnet
allow to
.I configure
the IrNET connection.
.\"
.\" CONFIGURATION part
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
If yo' system do not have
.B /dev/irnet
created already, it can be pimped wit tha followin commands:
.nf

        mknod -m 644 /dev/irnet c 10 187
        chown root:root /dev/irnet
.fi
.PP
Yo ass will also need ta have IrNET support up in yo' kernel or as module
and tha Linux-IrDA stack installed n' configured (see 
.IR irattach (8)).
.PP
File
.B /dev/irnet
is supposed ta only be used wit the
.I PPP line discipline
or fo' accessin tha 
.IR "control channel" ,
other use is unsupported.
.B IrNET
support multiple concurrent connections (limited by tha IrDA stack),
all dem connections is multiplexed on a single
.B /dev/irnet
device (as opposed ta IrCOMM which as one thang per connection).
.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
Freestylin commandz to
.B /dev/irnet
allow to
.I configure
the IrNET connection bein made. This need ta be done through
.IR pppd (8)
(see below fo' examples). Commandz is separated by comas.
.TP
.BI name " <peer>"
Connect ta tha IrDA thang which IrDA nickname is
.IR <peer> .
Da IrDA nickname be a strang up ta 31 characters.
.TP
.BI daddr " <peer>"
Connect ta tha IrDA thang which IrDA address is
.IR <peer> .
Da IrDA address be a 32 bits hexadecimal number.
.TP
.BI raddr " <port>"
Restrict connections ta tha local IrDA intercourse which IrDA address is
.IR <port> .
Da IrDA address be a 32 bits hexadecimal number.
.\"
.\" DISPLAY part
.\"
.SH DISPLAY
Readin from
.B /dev/irnet
will show various
.IR "IrNET events" .
This is probably done wit tha command
.IR "cat /dev/irnet" .
.TP
.B Found
Dump of tha current IrNET discovery log.
.TP
.B Discovered 
New IrNET thang discovered.
.TP
.B Expired
Previously discovered IrNET thang no longer present.
.TP
.B Connected ta 
This computa successfully established a IrNET connection ta a peer.
.TP
.B Connection from 
A peer successfully established a IrNET connection ta dis computer.
.TP
.B Request from
A peer attempted ta connect ta dis computer yo, but no IrNET connection
was waitin fo' dat shit.
.TP
.B No-answer from
This computa attempted ta connect ta a peer yo, but no IrNET connection
was waitin fo' dat shit.
.TP
.B Blocked link with
Da IrDA link of tha IrNET connection is currently blocked.
.TP
.B Disconnection from
A peer successfully terminated a IrNET connection wit dis computer.
.TP
.B Disconnected to
This computa successfully terminated a IrNET connection wit a peer.
.PP
File
.B /proc/net/irda/irnet
will also show tha current state of tha various IrNET connections.
.\"
.\" EXAMPLE part
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
Start a IrNET server acceptin any incomin connection:
.br
.B "	pppd /dev/irnet 9600 local noauth nolock passive"
.PP
Start a IrNET client connectin ta any IrDA peer:
.br
.B "	pppd /dev/irnet 9600 local noauth nolock"
.PP
Start a IrNET client connectin ta tha IrDA peer called
.IR MyIrDANode :
.br
.B "	pppd /dev/irnet 9600 local noauth nolock connect ""echo name MyIrDANode""
.PP
Start a IrNET server acceptin incomin connection from peer wit IrDA address 0x12345678 only on IrDA port 0x87654321:
.br
.B "	pppd /dev/irnet 9600 local noauth nolock passive connect ""echo daddr 0x12345678 , saddr 0x87654321"""
.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Tourrilhes \- jt@hpl.hp.com
.\"
.\" FILES part
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /dev/irnet
.br
.I /proc/net/irda/irnet
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR irda (7),
.BR irnetd (8),
.BR pppd (8),
.BR irattach (8),
.BR irdadump (8).
