'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) Mike Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de),
.\"     Sun Jan 15 19:16:33 1995
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, Sun Feb 26 15:02:58 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.TH LP 4 1995-01-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
lp \- line printa devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/lp.h>
.SH CONFIGURATION
\fBlp\fP[0\(en2] is characta devices fo' tha parallel line printers;
they have major number 6 n' minor number 0\(en2.
Da minor numbers
correspond ta tha printa port base addresses 0x03bc, 0x0378 n' 0x0278.
Usually they have mode 220 n' is owned by root n' crew lp.
Yo ass can use printa ports either wit pollin or wit interrupts.
Interrupts is recommended when high traffic is expected, fo' example,
for laser printers.
For usual dot matrix printas pollin will probably be enough.
Da default is polling.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da following
.BR ioctl (2)
calls is supported:
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPTIME, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
Sets tha amount of time dat tha driver chills before recheckin tha printer
when tha printerz buffer appears ta be filled to
.IR arg .
If you gotz a gangbangin' fast printer, decrease dis number;
if you gotz a slow printa then increase dat shit.
This is up in hundredthz of a second, tha default 2
bein 0.02 seconds.
It only influences tha pollin driver.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPCHAR, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
Sets tha maximum number of busy-wait iterations which tha pollin driver do
while waitin fo' tha printa ta git locked n loaded fo' receivin a cold-ass lil characta to
.IR arg .
If printin is too slow, increase dis number; if the
system gets too slow, decrease dis number.
Da default is 1000.
It only influences tha pollin driver.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPABORT, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
If
.I arg
is 0, tha printa driver will retry on errors, otherwise
it will abort.
Da default is 0.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPABORTOPEN, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
If
.I arg
is 0,
.BR open (2)
will be aborted on error, otherwise error is ghon be ignored.
Da default is ta ignore dat shit.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPCAREFUL, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
If
.I arg
is 0, then tha out-of-paper, offline n' error signals are
required ta be false on all writes, otherwise they is ignored.
Da default is ta ignore em.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPWAIT, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
Sets tha number of busy waitin iterations ta wait before strobin the
printa ta accept a just-written character, n' tha number of iterations to
wait before turnin tha strobe off again,
to
.IR arg .
Da justification say dis time should be 0.5
microsecondz yo, but experience has shown tha delay caused by tha code is
already enough.
For dat reason, tha default value is 0.
This is used fo' both tha pollin n' tha interrupt driver.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPSETIRQ, int \fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
This
.BR ioctl (2)
requires superuser privileges.
It takes an
.I int
containin tha freshly smoked up IRQ as argument.
As a side effect, tha printa is ghon be reset.
When
.I arg
is 0, tha pollin driver is ghon be used, which be also default.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPGETIRQ, int *\fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
Stores tha currently used IRQ in
.IR arg .
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPGETSTATUS, int *\fP\fIarg\fP\fB)\fP"
Stores tha value of tha status port in
.IR arg .
Da bits have tha followin meaning:
.TS
l l.
LP_PBUSY	inverted busy input, actizzle high
LP_PACK	unchanged acknowledge input, actizzle low
LP_POUTPA	unchanged out-of-paper input, actizzle high
LP_PSELECD	unchanged selected input, actizzle high
LP_PERRORP	unchanged error input, actizzle low
.TE
.sp
Refer ta yo' printa manual fo' tha meanin of tha signals.
Note dat undocumented bits may also be set, dependin on yo' printer.
.IP "\fBint ioctl(int \fP\fIfd\fP\fB, LPRESET)\fP"
Resets tha printer.
No argument is used.
.SH FILES
/dev/lp*
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Da printa driver was originally freestyled by Jim Weigand n' Linus
.\" Torvalds.
.\" Dat shiznit was further improved by Mike K.\& Johnson.
.\" Da interrupt code was freestyled by Nigel Gamble.
.\" Alan Cox modularized dat shit.
.\" LPCAREFUL, LPABORT, LPGETSTATUS was added by Chris Metcalf.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1),
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR lpcntl (8),
.BR tunelp (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
