.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:59:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEM 4 1992-11-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mem, kmem, port \- system memory, kernel memory n' system ports
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mem
is a cold-ass lil characta thang file
that be a image of tha main memory of tha computer.
It may be used, fo' example, ta examine (and even patch) tha system.
.LP
Byte addresses in
.B mem
are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
References ta nonexistent locations cause errors ta be returned.
.LP
Examinin n' patchin is likely ta lead ta unexpected thangs up in dis biatch
when read-only or write-only bits is present.
.LP
It be typically pimped by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 660 /dev/mem c 1 1
.br
chown root:kmem /dev/mem
.RE
.LP
Da file
.B kmem
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR mem ,
except dat tha kernel virtual memory
rather than physical memory be accessed.
.LP
It be typically pimped by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 640 /dev/kmem c 1 2
.br
chown root:kmem /dev/kmem
.RE
.LP
.B port
is similar to
.BR mem ,
but tha I/O ports is accessed.
.LP
It be typically pimped by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 660 /dev/port c 1 4
.br
chown root:mem /dev/port
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /dev/mem
.br
.I /dev/kmem
.br
.I /dev/port
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR ioperm (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
