.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH mga 4 "xf86-video-mga 1.6.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
mga \- Matrox vizzle driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qmga\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mga
is a Xorg driver fo' Matrox vizzle cards.  Da driver is fully
accelerated, n' serves up support fo' tha followin framebuffer depths: 8,
15, 16, 24, n' a 8+24 overlay mode.  All visual types is supported for
depth 8, n' both TrueColor n' DirectColor visuals is supported fo' the
other depths except 8+24 mode which supports PseudoColor, GrayScale and
TrueColor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Multi\-card configurations is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  XVideo is supported
on G200 n' newer systems, wit either
.B TexturedVideo
or vizzle overlay.  Da second head of dual\-head cardz is supported fo' the
G450 n' G550.  Support fo' tha second head on G400 cardz requires a
binary\-only "mga_hal" module dat be available from Matrox
<http://www.matrox.com>, n' may be on tha CD supplied wit tha card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  That
module also serves up various other enhancements, n' may be necessary to
use tha DVI (digital) output on tha G550 (and other cards).
.SH "SUPPORTED HARDWARE"
The
.B mga
driver supports PCI n' AGP vizzle cardz based on tha followin Matrox
chips.  They is listed up in approximate chronological order of thang
(with da most thugged-out recent chipsets listed last), so consult dis list when you
are unsure whether yo' card is meant when references is made ta \(oqG200
and later\(cq chips, fo' example.
.TP
.B MGA2064W
.TP
.B MGA1064SG
Mystique
.TP
.B MGA2164W
Millennium Pt II
.TP
.B G100
Productiva G100
.TP
.B G200
Millennium G200 n' Mystique G200
.TP
.B G400
Millennium G400, Millennium G400 MAX, Millennium G450, n' Marvel G450 eTV
.TP 
.B G550
Millennium G550 n' Millennium G550 Dual DVI
.SH "CONFIGURATION DETAILS"
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5) fo' general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific ta this
driver.
.PP
Da driver auto\-detects tha chipset type yo, but tha following
.B ChipSet
names may optionally be specified up in tha config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section, n' will override tha auto\-detection:
.PP
.RS 4
"mga2064w", "mga1064sg", "mga2164w", "mga2164w agp", "mgag100", "mgag200",
"mgag200 pci", "mgag400", "mgag550".
.RE
.PP
Da G450 is Chipset "mgag400" wit ChipRev 0x80.
.PP
Da driver will auto\-detect tha amount of vizzle memory present fo' all
chips except tha Millennium Pt II.  In tha Millennium Pt II case it defaults
to 4096\ kBytes.  When rockin a Millennium Pt II, tha actual amount of vizzle
memory should be specified wit a
.B VideoRam
entry up in tha config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section.
.PP
Da followin driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qColorKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
Set tha colormap index used fo' tha transparency key fo' tha depth 8 plane
when operatin up in 8+24 overlay mode.  Da value must be up in tha range
2\-255.  Default: 255.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable tha HW cursor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qMGASDRAM\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Specify whether G100, G200 or G400 cardz have SDRAM.  Da driver attempts to
auto\-detect dis based on tha cardz PCI subsystem ID.  This option may
be used ta override dat auto\-detection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
.B mga
driver aint able ta auto\-detect tha presence of SDRAM on secondary
headz up in multihead configurations so dis option will often need ta be
specified up in multihead configurations.  Default: auto\-detected.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAccelMethod\*q \*q" "string" \*q
Chooses between available acceleration architectures.  Valid options are
.B XAA
and
.B EXA.
XAA is tha traditionizzle acceleration architecture n' support fo' it is hella
stable.  EXA be a newer acceleration architecture wit betta performizzle for
the Render n' Composite extensions yo, but tha renderin code fo' it is newer and
possibly unstable.  Da default is
.B XAA.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoHal\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable loadin tha "mga_hal" module.  Default: tha module is
loaded when available n' when rockin hardware dat it supports.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qOverclockMem\*q"
Set clocks ta joints used by some commercial X Servers (G100, G200 n' G400
only).  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qPciRetry\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable PCI retries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCW\*q"
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*qCCW\*q"
Rotate tha display clockwise or counterclockwise.  This mode is unaccelerated.
Default: no rotation.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of tha shadow framebuffer layer n' shit.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSyncOnGreen\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable combinin tha sync signals wit tha chronic signal.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qUseFBDev\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of on OS\-specific fb intercourse (and aint supported
on all OSs).  See fbdevhw(4) fo' further shiznit.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVideoKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets tha default pixel value fo' tha YUV vizzle overlay key.
Default: undefined.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTexturedVideo\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This has XvImage support use tha texture engine rather than tha vizzle
overlay.  This option is only supported by G200 n' lata chips, n' only
at 16 n' 32 bits per pixel.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qOldDmaInit\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This forces tha driver ta use tha oldschool DMA initialization path fo' DRI.
Use dis option only ta support a olda version of tha DRI driver with
a newer DRM (version 3.2 or later).  This option also disablez tha use
of direct renderin on PCI cards.
Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qForcePciDma\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This forces tha use of PCI DMA even if AGP DMA could be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This
option is primarily intended fo' testin purposes yo, but it could also
be used on systems wit a funky-ass buggy or skankyly function AGP implementation.
Default: off.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Radoslaw Kapitan, Mark Vojkovich, n' also Dizzy Dawes, Guy
Desbief, Dirk Hohndel, Doug Merritt, Andrew E. Mileski, Andrew van der Stock,
Leonard N. Zubkoff, Andrew C fo' realz. Aitchison.
