.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH MODESETTING 4 "xf86-video-modesettin 0.8.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
modesettin \- vizzle driver fo' framebuffer device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qmodesetting\*q"
.BI "  BusID  \*qpci:" bus : dev : func \*q
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B modesetting
is a Xorg driver fo' KMS devices.  This be a non-accelerated
driver, tha followin framebuffer depths is supported: 8, 15, 16, 24.
All visual types is supported fo' depth 8, n' TrueColor visual is
supported fo' tha other depths.  RandR 1.2 is supported.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
Da 
.B modesetting
driver supports all hardware where a KMS driver be available.
modesettin uses tha Linux DRM KMS ioctls n' dumb object create/map.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5) fo' general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to
this driver.
.PP
For dis driver it aint required ta specify modes up in tha screen 
section of tha config file.  The
.B modesetting
driver can pick up tha currently used vizzle mode from tha kernel
driver n' will use it if there be no vizzle modes configured.
.PP
For PCI boardz you might gotta add a BusID line ta tha Device
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  See above fo' a sample line.
.PP
Da followin driver 
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qkmsdev\*q \*q" strang \*q
Da framebuffer thang ta use. Default: /dev/dri/card0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of tha shadow framebuffer layer n' shit.  Default: on.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1),
X(7)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Dizzle Airlie
