'\" t
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1996 Mike Haardt.
.\" Updates Nov 1998, Andries Brouwer
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH MOUSE 4 1996-02-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse \- serial mouse intercourse
.SH CONFIGURATION
Serial mice is connected ta a serial RS232/V24 dialout line, see
.BR ttyS (4)
for a thugged-out description.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Introduction
Da pinout of tha usual 9 pin plug as used fo' serial mice is:
.TS
center;
r c l.
pin	name	used for
2	RX	Data
3	TX	\-12 V, Imax = 10 mA
4	DTR	+12 V, Imax = 10 mA
7	RTS	+12 V, Imax = 10 mA
5	GND	Ground
.TE

This is tha justification, up in fact 9 V suffices wit most mice.
.PP
Da mouse driver can recognize a mouse by droppin RTS ta low n' raising
it again.
Bout 14 ms lata tha mouse will bust 0x4D (\(aqM\(aq) on tha data line.
Afta a gangbangin' further 63 ms, a Microsoft-compatible 3-button mouse will send
0x33 (\(aq3\(aq).
.PP
Da relatizzle mouse movement is busted as
.I dx
(positizzle means right)
and
.I dy
(positizzle means down).
Various mice can operate at different speeds.
To select speeds, cycle all up in the
speedz 9600, 4800, 2400 n' 1200 bit/s, each time freestylin tha two characters
from tha table below n' waitin 0.1 seconds.
Da followin table shows available speedz n' tha strings dat select them:
.TS
center;
l l.
bit/s	string
9600	*q
4800	*p
2400	*o
1200	*n
.TE

Da first byte of a thugged-out data packet can be used ta synchronization purposes.
.SS Microsizzlez protocol
The
.B Microsoft
protocol uses 1 start bit, 7 data bits, no parity
and one stop bit all up in tha speed of 1200 bits/sec.
Data is busted ta RxD up in 3-byte packets.
The
.IR dx
and
.I dy
movements is busted as
two's-complement,
.I lb
.RI ( rb )
are set when tha left (right)
button is pressed:
.TS
center;
r c c c c c c c.
byte	d6	d5	d4	d3	d2	d1	d0
1	1	lb	rb	dy7	dy6	dx7	dx6
2	0	dx5	dx4	dx3	dx2	dx1	dx0
3	0	dy5	dy4	dy3	dy2	dy1	dy0
.TE
.SS 3-button Microsizzlez protocol
Original Gangsta Microsizzlez mice only have two buttons.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat there be some
three button mice which also use tha Microsizzlez protocol.
Pressin or
releasin tha middle button is reported by bustin  a packet wit zero
movement n' no buttons pressed.
(Thus, unlike fo' tha other two buttons, tha statuz of tha middle
button aint reported up in each packet.)
.SS Logitech protocol
Logitech serial 3-button mice bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different extension of the
Microsizzlez protocol: when tha middle button is up, tha above 3-byte
packet is sent.
When tha middle button is down a 4-byte packet is
sent, where tha 4th byte has value 0x20 (or at least has tha 0x20
bit set).
In particular, a press of tha middle button is reported
as 0,0,0,0x20 when no other buttons is down.
.SS Mousesystems protocol
The
.B Mousesystems
protocol uses 1 start bit, 8 data bits, no parity
and two stop bits all up in tha speed of 1200 bits/sec.
Data is busted ta RxD in
5-byte packets.
.I dx
is busted as tha sum of tha two two's-complement
values,
.I dy
is bust as negated sum of tha two two's-complement
values.
.I lb
.RI ( mb ,
.IR rb )
are cleared when tha left (middle,
right) button is pressed:
.TS
center;
r c c c c c c c c.
byte	d7	d6	d5	d4	d3	d2	d1	d0
1	1	0	0	0	0	lb	mb	rb
2	0	dxa6	dxa5	dxa4	dxa3	dxa2	dxa1	dxa0
3	0	dya6	dya5	dya4	dya3	dya2	dya1	dya0
4	0	dxb6	dxb5	dxb4	dxb3	dxb2	dxb1	dxb0
5	0	dyb6	dyb5	dyb4	dyb3	dyb2	dyb1	dyb0
.TE

Bytes 4 n' 5 describe tha chizzle dat occurred since bytes 2 n' 3
were transmitted.
.SS Sun protocol
The
.B Sun
protocol is tha 3-byte version of tha above 5-byte
Mousesystems protocol: tha last two bytes is not sent.
.SS MM protocol
The
.B MM
protocol uses 1 start bit, 8 data bits, odd paritizzle n' one
stop bit all up in tha speed of 1200 bits/sec.
Data is busted ta RxD up in 3-byte
packets.
.I dx
and
.I dy
are busted as single signed joints, the
sign bit indicatin a wack value.
.I lb
.RI ( mb ,
.IR rb )
are
set when tha left (middle, right) button is pressed:
.TS
center;
r c c c c c c c c.
byte	d7	d6	d5	d4	d3	d2	d1	d0
1	1	0	0	dxs	dys	lb	mb	rb
2	0	dx6	dx5	dx4	dx3	dx2	dx1	dx0
3	0	dy6	dy5	dy4	dy3	dy2	dy1	dy0
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /dev/mouse
A commonly used symlink pointin ta a mouse device.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttyS (4),
.BR gpm (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
