.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corporation, Lyricist Andi Kleen
.\" Some sentences copied from comments up in arch/x86/kernel/msr.c
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MSR 4 2009-03-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
msr \- x86 CPU MSR access device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /dev/cpu/CPUNUM/msr
provides a intercourse ta read n' write tha model-specific
registas (MSRs) of a x86 CPU.
.I CPUNUM
is tha number of tha CPU ta access as listed in
.IR /proc/cpuinfo .

Da regista access is done by openin tha file n' seeking
to tha MSR number as offset up in tha file, n' then
readin or freestylin up in chunkz of 8 bytes.
An I/O transfer of mo' than 8 bytes means multiple readz or writes
of tha same register.

This file is protected so dat it can be read n' freestyled only by tha user
.IR root ,
or thugz of tha group
.IR root .
.SH NOTES
The
.I msr
driver aint auto-loaded.
On modular kernels you might need ta use tha followin command
to load it explicitly before use:

    $ \fImodprobe msr\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
Intel Corporation Intel 64 n' IA-32 Architectures
Software Developerz Manual Volume 3B Appendix B,
for a overview of tha Intel CPU MSRs.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
