.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:00:12 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH NULL 4 2009-02-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
null, zero \- data sink
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data freestyled ta a
.BR null
or
.B zero
special file is discarded.
.PP
Readz from the
.B null
special file always return end of file (i.e.,
.BR read (2)
returns 0), whereas
readz from
.B zero
always return bytes containin zero (\e0 characters).
.LP
.B null
and
.B zero
are typically pimped by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 666 /dev/null c 1 3
.br
mknod \-m 666 /dev/zero c 1 5
.br
chown root:root /dev/null /dev/zero
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /dev/null
.br
.I /dev/zero
.SH NOTES
If these devices is not writable n' readable fo' all users, many
programs will act strangely.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR full (4)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
