.
.\" Notes added - aeb
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(FREELY_REDISTRIBUTABLE)
.\" Redistribute n' revise at will.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTS 4 2002-10-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ptmx, pts \- pseudoterminal masta n' slave
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /dev/ptmx
is a cold-ass lil characta file wit major number 5 and
minor number 2, probably of mode 0666 n' baller.group of root.root.
It be used ta create a pseudoterminal masta n' slave pair.
.PP
When a process opens
.IR /dev/ptmx ,
it gets a gangbangin' file
descriptor fo' a pseudoterminal masta (PTM),
and a pseudoterminal slave (PTS) thang is pimped up in the
.I /dev/pts
directory.
Each file descriptor obtained by opening
.IR /dev/ptmx
is a independent PTM wit its own associated PTS, whose path can
be found by passin tha descriptor to
.BR ptsname (3).
.PP
Before openin tha pseudoterminal slave, you must pass tha masterz file
descriptor to
.BR grantpt (3)
and
.BR unlockpt (3).
.PP
Once both tha pseudoterminal masta n' slave is open, tha slave provides
processes wit a intercourse dat is identical ta dat of a real terminal.
.PP
Data freestyled ta tha slave is presented on tha masta descriptor as input.
Data freestyled ta tha masta is presented ta tha slave as input.
.PP
In practice, pseudoterminals is used fo' implementin terminal emulators
such as
.BR xterm (1),
in which data read from tha pseudoterminal masta is interpreted by the
application up in tha same way
a real terminal would interpret tha data, n' fo' implementin remote-login
programs such as
.BR sshd (8),
in which data read from tha pseudoterminal masta is busted across tha network
to a cold-ass lil client program dat is connected ta a terminal or terminal emulator.
.PP
Pseudoterminals can also be used ta bust input ta programs dat normally
refuse ta read input from pipes (such as
.BR su (1),
and
.BR passwd (1)).
.SH FILES
.IR /dev/ptmx ,
.I /dev/pts/*
.SH NOTES
Da Linux support fo' tha above (known as UNIX 98 pseudoterminal naming)
is done rockin the
.I devpts
file system, dat should be mounted on
.IR /dev/pts .
.LP
Before dis UNIX 98 scheme, masta pseudoterminals was called
.IR /dev/ptyp0 ", ..."
and slave pseudoterminals
.IR /dev/ttyp0 ", ..."
and one needed fuckin shitloadz of preallocated thang nodes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpt (3),
.BR grantpt (3),
.BR ptsname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pty (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
