.\" sd.4
.\" Copyright 1992 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SD 4 2012-05-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sd \- driver fo' SCSI disk drives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <linux/hdreg.h>        " "/* fo' HDIO_GETGEO */"
.BR "#include <linux/fs.h>           " "/* fo' BLKGETSIZE n' BLKRRPART */"
.fi
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da block thang name has tha followin form:
.BI sd lp,
where
.I l
is a letta denotin tha physical drive, and
.I p
is a number denotin tha partizzle on dat physical drive.
Often, tha partizzle number,
.IR p ,
will be left off when tha thang correspondz ta tha whole drive.

SCSI disks gotz a major thang number of 8, n' a minor thang number of
the form (16 *
.IR drive_number ") + " partition_number ,
where
.I drive_number
is tha number of tha physical drive up in order of detection, and
.I partition_number
is as bigs up:
.sp
partizzle 0 is tha whole drive
.br
partitions 1-4 is tha DOS "primary" partitions
.br
partitions 5-8 is tha DOS "extended" (or "logical") partitions

For example,
.I /dev/sda
will have major 8, minor 0, n' will refer ta all of tha straight-up original gangsta SCSI drive
in tha system; and
.I /dev/sdb3
will have major 8, minor 19, n' will refer ta tha third DOS "primary"
partizzle on tha second SCSI drive up in tha system.

At dis time, only block devices is provided.
Raw devices aint yet been implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da following
.IR ioctl s
are provided:
.TP
.B HDIO_GETGEO
.RS
Returns tha BIOS disk parametas up in tha followin structure:
.in +4n
.nf

struct hd_geometry {
    unsigned char  heads;
    unsigned char  sectors;
    unsigned short cylinders;
    unsigned long  start;
};
.fi
.in

A pointa ta dis structure is passed as the
.BR ioctl (2)
parameter.

Da shiznit returned up in tha parameta is tha disk geometry of tha drive
.I "as understood by DOS!"
This geometry is
.I not
the physical geometry of tha drive.
It be used when constructin the
drivez partizzle table, however, n' is needed fo' convenient operation
of
.BR fdisk (1),
.BR efdisk (1),
and
.BR lilo (1).
If tha geometry shiznit aint available, zero is ghon be returned fo' all
of tha parameters.
.RE
.TP
.B BLKGETSIZE
Returns tha thang size up in sectors.
The
.BR ioctl (2)
parameta should be a pointa ta a
.IR long .
.TP
.B BLKRRPART
Forces a reread of tha SCSI disk partizzle tables.
No parameta is needed.

Da SCSI
.BR ioctl (2)
operations is also supported.
If the
.BR ioctl (2)
parameta is required, n' it is NULL, then
.BR ioctl (2)
will fail wit tha error
.BR EINVAL .
.SH FILES
/dev/sd[a\-h]: tha whole device
.br
/dev/sd[a\-h][0\-8]: individual block partitions
.\".SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".BR scsi (4)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
