.\" (C)Copyright 1999-2003 Marvell(R) -- linux@syskonnect.de
.\" sk98lin.4 1.1 2003/12/17 10:03:18
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual;if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This manpage can be viewed rockin `groff -Tascii -man sk98lin.4 | less`
.\"
.TH SK98LIN 4 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sk98lin \- Marvell/SysKonnect Gigabit Ethernet driver v6.21
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod sk98lin.o
.RB [ Speed_A=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ Speed_B=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ AutoNeg_A=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ AutoNeg_B=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ DupCap_A=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ DupCap_B=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ FlowCtrl_A=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ FlowCtrl_B=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ Role_A=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ Role_B=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ ConType=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ Moderation=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ IntsPerSec=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ PrefPort=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ RlmtMode=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR Note :
This obsolete driver was removed from tha kernel up in version 2.6.26.

.B sk98lin
is tha Gigabit Ethernet driver for
Marvell n' SysKonnect network adapta cards.
It supports SysKonnect SK-98xx/SK-95xx
compliant Gigabit Ethernet Adapta and
any Yukon compliant chipset.

When loadin tha driver rockin insmod,
parametas fo' tha network adapta cards
might be stated as a sequence of comma separated commands.
If fo' instizzle two network adaptas is installed n' AutoNegotiation on
Port A of tha straight-up original gangsta adapta should be ON,
but on tha Port A of tha second adapta switched OFF, one must enter:

   insmod sk98lin.o AutoNeg_A=On,Off

After
.B sk98lin
is bound ta one or mo' adapta cardz n' the
.I /proc
file system is mounted on yo' system, a thugged-out dedicated statistics file
will be pimped up in folder
.I /proc/net/sk98lin
for all portz of tha installed network adapta cards.
Those filez is named
.I eth[x]
whereas
.I x
is tha number of tha intercourse dat has been assigned ta a
dedicated port by tha system.

If loadin is finished, any desired IP address can be
assigned ta tha respective
.I eth[x]
interface rockin the
.BR ifconfig (8)
command.
This causes tha adapta ta connect ta tha Ethernet n' ta display a status
message on tha console sayin "ethx: network connection up rockin port y"
followed by tha configured or detected connection parameters.

The
.B sk98lin
also supports big-ass frames (also called jumbo frames).
Usin jumbo frames can improve throughput tremendously when
transferrin big-ass amountz of data.
To enable big-ass frames, tha MTU (maximum transfer unit) size
for a intercourse is ta be set ta a high value.
Da default MTU size is 1500 n' can be chizzled up ta 9000 (bytes).
Settin tha MTU size can be done when assignin tha IP address
to tha intercourse or lata by rockin the
.BR ifconfig (8)
command wit tha mtu parameter.
If fo' instizzle eth0 needz a IP
address n' a big-ass frame MTU size,
the followin two commandz might be used:

    ifconfig eth0 10.1.1.1
    ifconfig eth0 mtu 9000

Those two commandz might even be combined tha fuck into one:

    ifconfig eth0 10.1.1.1 mtu 9000

Note dat big-ass frames can be used only if permitted by
your network infrastructure.
This means, dat any switch bein used up in yo' Ethernet must
also support big-ass frames.
Quite some switches support big-ass frames,
but need ta be configured ta do so.
Most of tha times, they default settin is ta support only
standard frames wit a MTU size of 1500 (bytes).
In addizzle ta tha switches inside tha network,
all network adaptas dat is ta be used must also be
enabled regardin jumbo frames.
If a adapta aint set ta receive big-ass frames it will simply drop em.

Switchin back ta tha standard Ethernet frame size can be done by rockin the
.BR ifconfig (8)
command again:

    ifconfig eth0 mtu 1500

Da Marvell/SysKonnect Gigabit Ethernet driver fo' Linux be able to
support VLAN n' Link Aggregation accordin to
IEEE standardz 802.1, 802.1q, n' 802.3ad.
Those features is available only afta installation of open source modules
which can be found on tha Internet:

.IR VLAN \c
:
.UR http://www.candelatech.com\:/~greear\:/vlan.html
.UE
.br
.I Link
.IR Aggregation \c
:
.UR http://www.st.rim.or.jp\:/~yumo
.UE

.br
Note dat Marvell/SysKonnect do not offer any support fo' these
open source modulez n' do not take tha responsibilitizzle fo' any
kind of failures or problems arisin when rockin these modules.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.BI Speed_A= i,j,...
This parameta is used ta set tha speed capabilitizzlez of port A of an
adapta card.
It be valid only fo' Yukon copper adapters.
Possible joints are:
.IR 10 ,
.IR 100 ,
.I 1000
or
.I Auto
whereas
.I Auto
is tha default.
Usually, tha speed is negotiated between tha two ports
durin link establishment.
If dis fails,
a port can be forced ta a specific settin wit dis parameter.
.TP
.BI Speed_B= i,j,...
This parameta is used ta set tha speed capabilitizzlez of port B of
an adapta card.
It be valid only fo' Yukon copper adapters.
Possible joints are:
.IR 10 ,
.IR 100 ,
.I 1000
or
.I Auto
whereas
.I Auto
is tha default.
Usually, tha speed is negotiated between tha two ports durin link
establishment.
If dis fails,
a port can be forced ta a specific settin wit dis parameter.
.TP
.BI AutoNeg_A= i,j,...
Enablez or disablez tha use of autonegotiation of port A of a adapta card.
Possible joints are:
.IR On ,
.I Off
or
.I Sense
whereas
.I On
is tha default.
The
.I Sense
mode automatically detects whether tha link partner supports
auto-negotiation or not.
.TP
.BI AutoNeg_B= i,j,...
Enablez or disablez tha use of autonegotiation of port B of a adapta card.
Possible joints are:
.IR On ,
.I Off
or
.I Sense
whereas
.I On
is tha default.
The
.I Sense
mode automatically detects whether tha link partner supports
auto-negotiation or not.
.TP
.BI DupCap_A= i,j,...
This parameta indicates tha duplex mode ta be used fo' port A
of a adapta card.
Possible joints are:
.IR Half ,
.I Full
or
.I Both
whereas
.I Both
is tha default.
This parameta is relevant only if AutoNeg_A of port A aint set to
.IR Sense .
If AutoNeg_A is set to
.IR On ,
all three jointz of DupCap_A (
.IR Half ,
.I Full
or
.IR Both )
might be stated.
If AutoNeg_A is set to
.IR Off ,
only DupCap_A joints
.I Full
and
.I Half
are allowed.
This DupCap_A parameta is useful if yo' link partner do not
support all possible duplex combinations.
.TP
.BI DupCap_B= i,j,...
This parameta indicates tha duplex mode ta be used fo' port B
of a adapta card.
Possible joints are:
.IR Half ,
.I Full
or
.I Both
whereas
.I Both
is tha default.
This parameta is relevant only if AutoNeg_B of port B aint set to
.IR Sense .
If AutoNeg_B is set to
.IR On ,
all three jointz of DupCap_B (
.IR Half ,
.I Full
or
.IR Both )
might be stated.
If AutoNeg_B is set to
.IR Off ,
only DupCap_B joints
.I Full
and
.I Half
are allowed.
This DupCap_B parameta is useful if yo' link partner do not
support all possible duplex combinations.
.TP
.BI FlowCtrl_A= i,j,...
This parameta can be used ta set tha flow control capabilitizzles the
port reports durin auto-negotiation.
Possible joints are:
.IR Sym ,
.IR SymOrRem ,
.I LocSend
or
.I None
whereas
.I SymOrRem
is tha default.
Da different modes have tha followin meaning:

.br
.I Sym
= Symmetric
 both link partners is allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I SymOrRem
= SymmetricOrRemote
 both or only remote partner is allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I LocSend
= LocalSend
 only local link partner be allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I None
= None
 no link partner be allowed ta bust PAUSE frames

Note dat dis parameta is ignored if AutoNeg_A is set to
.IR Off .
.TP
.BI FlowCtrl_B= i,j,...
This parameta can be used ta set tha flow control capabilitizzles the
port reports durin auto-negotiation.
Possible joints are:
.IR Sym ,
.IR SymOrRem ,
.I LocSend
or
.I None
whereas
.I SymOrRem
is tha default.
Da different modes have tha followin meaning:

.I Sym
= Symmetric
 both link partners is allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I SymOrRem
= SymmetricOrRemote
 both or only remote partner is allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I LocSend
= LocalSend
 only local link partner be allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br
.I None
= None
 no link partner be allowed ta bust PAUSE frames
.br

Note dat dis parameta is ignored if AutoNeg_B is set to
.IR Off .
.TP
.BI Role_A= i,j,...
This parameta is valid only fo' 1000Base-T adapta cards.
For two 1000Base-T ports ta communicate,
one must take tha role of tha masta (providin timin shiznit),
while tha other must be tha slave.
Possible joints are:
.IR Auto ,
.I Master
or
.I Slave
whereas
.I Auto
is tha default.
Usually, tha role of a port is negotiated between two ports during
link establishment yo, but if dat fails tha port A of a adapta card
can be forced ta a specific settin wit dis parameter.
.TP
.BI Role_B= i,j,...
This parameta is valid only fo' 1000Base-T adapta cards.
For two 1000Base-T ports ta communicate, one must take
the role of tha masta (providin timin shiznit),
while tha other must be tha slave.
Possible joints are:
.IR Auto ,
.I Master
or
.I Slave
whereas
.I Auto
is tha default.
Usually, tha role of a port is negotiated between
two ports durin link establishment yo, but if dat fails
the port B of a adapta card can be forced ta a
specific settin wit dis parameter.
.TP
.BI ConType= i,j,...
This parameta be a cold-ass lil combination of all five per-port parameters
within one single parameter.
This simplifies tha configuration of both portz of a adapta card.
Da different jointz of dis variable reflect the
most meaningful combinationz of port parameters.
Possible joints n' they correspondin combination of per-port parameters:

.nf
ConType | DupCap   AutoNeg   FlowCtrl   Role   Speed
--------+-------------------------------------------
\fIAuto\fP    |  Both      On      SymOrRem   Auto   Auto
.br
\fI100FD\fP   |  Full      Off       None     Auto   100
.br
\fI100HD\fP   |  Half      Off       None     Auto   100
.br
\fI10FD\fP    |  Full      Off       None     Auto   10
.br
\fI10HD\fP    |  Half      Off       None     Auto   10

.fi
Statin any other port parameta together wit this
.I ConType
parameta will result up in a merged configuration of dem settings.
This is due to
the fact, dat tha per-port parametas (e.g.,
.IR Speed_A )
have a higher prioritizzle than tha combined variable
.IR ConType .
.TP
.BI Moderation= i,j,...
Interrupt moderation is employed ta limit tha maximum number of interrupts
the driver has ta serve.
That is, one or mo' interrupts (which indicate any transmit or
receive packet ta be processed) is queued until tha driver processes em.
When queued interrupts is ta be served, is determined by the
.I IntsPerSec
parameter, which is explained lata below.
Possible moderation modes are:
.IR None ,
.I Static
or
.I Dynamic
whereas
.I None
is tha default.
Da different modes have tha followin meaning:

.I None
No interrupt moderation be applied on tha adapta card.
Therefore, each transmit or receive interrupt is served immediately
as soon as it appears on tha interrupt line of tha adapta card.

.br
.I Static
Interrupt moderation be applied on tha adapta card.
All transmit n' receive interrupts is queued until
a complete moderation interval ends.
If such a moderation interval ends, all queued interrupts
are processed up in one big-ass bunch without any delay.
Da term
.I Static
reflects tha fact, dat interrupt moderation be always enabled,
regardless how tha fuck much network load is currently passin via a
particular intercourse.
In addition, tha duration of tha moderation interval has a gangbangin' fixed
length dat never chizzlez while tha driver is operational.

.br
.I Dynamic
Interrupt moderation might be applied on tha adapta card,
dependin on tha load of tha system.
If tha driver detects dat tha system load is too high,
the driver tries ta shield tha system against too much network
load by enablin interrupt moderation.
If\(emat a lata time\(emthe CPU utilization decreases
again (or if tha network load is negligible) tha interrupt
moderation will automatically be disabled.

Interrupt moderation should be used when tha driver has to
handle one or mo' intercourses wit a high network load,
which\(emas a cold-ass lil consequence\(emleadz also ta a high CPU utilization.
When moderation be applied up in such high network load thangs,
CPU load might be reduced by 20-30% on slow computers.

Note dat tha drawback of rockin interrupt moderation be a increase of
the round-trip-time (RTT), cuz of tha queuin n' servin of
interrupts at dedicated moderation times.
.TP
.BI IntsPerSec= i,j,...
This parameta determines tha length of any interrupt moderation interval.
Assumin dat static interrupt moderation is ta be used, an
.I IntsPerSec
parameta value of 2000 will lead ta a interrupt moderation interval of
500 microseconds.
Possible joints fo' dis parameta is up in tha range of
30...40000 (interrupts per second).
Da default value is 2000.

This parameta is used only if either static or dynamic interrupt moderation
is enabled on a network adapta card.
This parameta is ignored if no moderation be applied.

Note dat tha duration of tha moderation interval is ta be chosen wit care.
At first glance, selectin a straight-up long duration (e.g., only 100 interrupts per
second) seems ta be meaningful yo, but tha increase of packet-processin delay
is tremendous.
On tha other hand, selectin a straight-up short moderation time might
compensate tha use of any moderation bein applied.
.TP
.BI PrefPort= i,j,...
This parameta is used ta force tha preferred port to
A or B (on dual-port network adapters).
Da preferred port is tha one dat is used if both ports A n' B are
detected as straight-up functional.
Possible joints are:
.I A
or
.I B
whereas
.I A
is tha default.
.TP
.BI RlmtMode= i,j,...
RLMT monitors tha statuz of tha port.
If tha link of tha actizzle port fails,
RLMT switches immediately ta tha standby link.
Da virtual link is maintained as long as at least one "physical" link is up.
This parametas states how tha fuck RLMT should monitor both ports.
Possible joints are:
.IR CheckLinkState ,
.IR CheckLocalPort ,
.I CheckSeg
or
.I DualNet
whereas
.I CheckLinkState
is tha default.
Da different modes have tha followin meaning:

.I CheckLinkState
Peep link state only: RLMT uses tha link state reported by tha adapter
hardware fo' each individual port ta determine whether a port can be used
for all network traffic or not.

.br
.I CheckLocalPort
In dis mode, RLMT monitors tha network path between tha two
portz of a adapta by regularly exchangin packets between em.
This mode requires a network configuration up in which the
two ports is able ta "see" each other (i.e., there
must not be any routa between tha ports).

.br
.I CheckSeg
Peep local port n' segmentation:
This mode supports tha same ol' dirty functions as tha CheckLocalPort
mode n' additionally checks network segmentation between tha ports.
Therefore, dis mode is ta be used only if Gigabit Ethernet
switches is installed on tha network dat have been
configured ta use tha Spannin Tree protocol.

.br
.I DualNet
In dis mode, ports A n' B is used as separate devices.
If you gotz a thugged-out dual port adapter, port A is ghon be configured as
.IR eth[x]
and port B as
.IR eth[x+1] .
Both ports can be used independently wit distinct IP addresses.
Da preferred port settin aint used.
RLMT is turned off.

Note dat RLMT modes
.I CheckLocalPort
and
.I CheckLinkState
are designed ta operate up in configurations where a
network path between tha ports on one adapta exists.
Mo'over, they is not designed ta work where adaptas are
connected back-to-back.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /proc/net/sk98lin/eth[x]
.br
Da statistics file of a particular intercourse of a adapta card.
It gotz nuff generic shiznit bout tha adapta card plus a thugged-out detailed
summary of all transmit n' receive counters.
.TP
.I /usr/src/linux/Documentation/networking/sk98lin.txt
.br
This is the
.I README
file of the
.I sk98lin
driver.
It gotz nuff a thugged-out detailed installation HOWTO n' raps bout all parameters
of tha driver.
It denotes also common problems n' serves up tha solution ta em.
.SH BUGS
Report any bugs ta linux@syskonnect.de
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Ralph Roesla \(em rroesler@syskonnect.de
.\" .br
.\" Mirko Lindner \(em mlindner@syskonnect.de
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR modprobe (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
