.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2003-04-07 by Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.TH TTY 4 2003-04-07 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tty \- controllin terminal
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da file
.I /dev/tty
is a cold-ass lil characta file wit major number 5 and
minor number 0, probably of mode 0666 n' baller.group root.tty.
It be a synonym fo' tha controllin terminal of a process, if any.
.LP
In addizzle ta the
.BR ioctl (2)
requests supported by tha thang that
.B tty
refers to, the
.BR ioctl (2)
request
.B TIOCNOTTY
is supported.
.SS TIOCNOTTY
Detach tha callin process from its controllin terminal.
.sp
If tha process is tha session leader,
then
.B SIGHUP
and
.B SIGCONT
signals is busted ta tha foreground process group
and all processes up in tha current session lose they controllin tty.
.sp
This
.BR ioctl (2)
call works only on file descriptors connected
to
.IR /dev/tty .
It be used by daemon processes when they is invoked
by a user at a terminal.
Da process attempts ta open
.IR /dev/tty .
If tha open succeeds, it
detaches itself from tha terminal by using
.BR TIOCNOTTY ,
while if the
open fails, it is obviously not attached ta a terminal n' do not need
to detach itself.
.SH FILES
/dev/tty
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR termios (3),
.BR console (4),
.BR tty_ioctl (4),
.BR ttyS (4),
.BR agetty (8),
.BR mingetty (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
