.\" $Id: ttyI.man.in,v 1.11 2002/01/31 18:52:12 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2002/01/31 18:52:12 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ttyI.4 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps ttyI.4 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH ttyi 4 "2002/01/31" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" "Special files"
.SH NAME
ttyI \- ISDN characta devices wit modem emulator
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IB ttyI [ 0-63 ]
are emulated tty devicez of tha Linux
.SM ISDN
subsystem.
These devices can be used up in tha same way as tha traditionizzle serial
devices
.IR ttySx.
Da straight-up legit major thang numbers are
.B 43
for
.I ttyI .
Da minor thang numbers start with
.B 0
and end with
.BR 63 .

The
.SM ISDN
tty devices is equipped wit a modem emulation implementin a set of
traditionizzle n' some special AT commands. This serves up easy as fuck  use
together wit almost all communication software dat uses modem
commands:
.BR minicom (1),
.BR seyon (1),
.BR XCept (1),
.BR uucico (8),
.BR mgetty (8),
.BR dip (8),
.BR pppd (8)
and mo' n' mo' n' mo'. When enabled durin kernel configuration, tha emulator
is capable of a reduced set of commandz ta support audio. To use
audio features, an
.SM ISDN
card wit a audio-capable low-level driver is needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Currently
the only audio-capable drivers is tha telez n' HiSax driver.

Da line disciplines is handled by tha kernel so dat SLIP,
CSLIP n' asynchronous PPP is possible.

Da port speed of the
.SM ISDN
tty devices be always 64000 bps.

.SH AT COMMAND SET
Da description of
.B AT commands
here do
.B not
cover audio related commands. For a thugged-out description of audio related commands,
see
.BR isdn_audio (4).
Da followin 
.B AT commands
are supported by
.SM ISDN
tty devices:
.TP
.B ATA
Answer a incomin call.
.TP
.BI ATD num
.RI "Dial number " num .
Allowed is digits [0-9] n' tha characters
",", "#", ".", "*", "W", "P", "T", "S", "-". Da charactas are
ignored except of "S" which indicates a SPV if it precedes the
number
.RB ( only
German 1TR6 ISDN).
.TP
.B ATE0
Echo off.
.TP
.B ATE1
Echo on (default).
.TP
.B ATH
Hang up.
.TP
.B ATH0
Hang up.
.TP
.B ATH1
Off hook (ignored).
.TP 
.B ATI
Return thang Hype ("ISDN fo' Linux...").
.TP 
.B ATI0
Return thang Hype ("ISDN fo' Linux...").
.TP 
.B ATI1
Return thang Hype ("ISDN fo' Linux...").
.TP
.B ATI2
Return Statistics of last connection.
.TP
.B ATO
Return from command mode ta online mode (data mode).
.TP
.B ATQ0
Enable result codes (default).
.TP
.B ATQ1
Disable result codes.
.TP
.BI ATS x = y
.RI "Set regista " x " ta value " y .
.TP
.BI ATS x ?
.RI "Show content of regista " x .
.TP
.BI ATS x . y = z
.RI "Set regista " x ", bit " y " ta value " z
.TP
.BI ATS x . y ?
.RI "Show bit " y " of regista " x .
.TP
.B ATV0
Print result code as number.
.TP
.B ATV1
Print result code as text (default).
.TP
.B ATZ
Reset all registas n' load flava joints.
.TP
.BI AT&B x
Set packet size of outgoin packets ta value
.I x
(maximum 4000). Da actual packet size dependz on tha hardware
driver n' may be smalla than
.I x
(e.g. wit tha telez driver). There will be
.B no
error message if tha value is bigger than tha hardware driver
can process yo. However tha size of tha outgoin packets will be
set erectly.
.TP
.B AT&D2
DTR fallin edge: hang up n' return ta command mode (default).
.TP
.B AT&D3
DTR fallin edge: hang up, return ta command mode n' reset all
registers.
.TP
.BI AT&E x
Set MSN (Euro-ISDN, EDSS1) or EAZ (German 1TR6) ta value
.IR  x .
For MSNs,
.I x
is a strang of digits representin tha local beeper number, while fo' EAZs
.I x
should be only tha last digit of tha Number.
.TP
.B AT&F
Set all registas n' flava ta "factory-defaults".
.TP
.BI AT&L plist
Set list of beeper numbers ta listen on.
.I plist
is a list of wildcard patterns separated by semicolon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If dis is
set, it has precedence over tha MSN set by AT&E.
.TP
.B AT&V
Show current regista settings.
.TP
.B AT&W0
Write registas n' EAZ/MSN ta profile. (Yo ass need ta run
.BR iprofd (8)
for makin chizzlez permanent.)
.TP
.B AT&X0
Disable BTX-Mode (default).
.TP
.B AT&X1
Enable BTX-Mode.
.SH ESCAPE SEQUENCE
Durin a thugged-out data connection, tha driver can be set ta command mode by
typin in
.IB delay +++ delay\c
.RB .
Da escape characta (default "+") may be set via regista 2. The
.I delay
must be at least 1.5 secondz n' between each escape
characta tha pause must not exceed 0.5 seconds.
.I
ATO
brings tha modem emulation back ta data mode.
.SH REGISTERS
.TP
.BR 0 " (default 0)"
Number of rings on which tha "modem" will answer n' shit. (S0=0 will
disable auto answering).
.TP
.BR 1 " (default 0)"
Counts n' stores tha number of rings from a incomin call.
.TP
.BR 2 " (default 43 = '+')"
ASCII code of tha escape character.
.TP
.BR 3 " (default 13 = CR)"
ASCII code of Carriage Return.
.TP
.BR 4 " (default 10 = LF)"
ASCII code of Line Feed.
.TP
.BR 5 " (default 8 = BS)"
ASCII code of Backspace.
.TP
.BR 6 " (default 3)"
Duration, up in number of seconds, modem waits before dialling.
.TP
.BR 7 " (default 60)"
Wait time fo' carrier up in seconds.
.TP
.BR 8 " (default 2)"
Pause time fo' comma (',') up in dial command up in secondz (ignored).
.TP
.BR 9 " (default 6)"
Carrier detect time up in tenthz of secondz (ignored).
.TP
.BR 10 " (default 7)"
Wait time until hangup afta carrier loss up in tenthz of seconds
(ignored).
.TP
.BR 11 " (default 70)
Duration n' delay up in millisecondz fo' bust a nut on tone dialling
(ignored).
.TP
.BR 12 " (default 69)
Bit-mapped register.
.br
Bit	Description
.br
0	0 = Suppress response lyrics.
.br
	1 = Show response lyrics.
.br
1	0 = Response lyrics as text.
.br
	1 = Numeric response lyrics.
.br
2	0 = Echo off.
.br
	1 = Echo on.
.br
3	0 = DCD always on.
.br
	1 = DCD bigs up carrier.
.br
4	0 = CTS bigs up RTS.
.br
	1 = Ignore RTS, CTS always on.
.br
5	0 = Low-edge on DTR: Hangup n' return
.br
		to command mode.
.br
	1 = Same as 0 but also resets all
.br
		registers.
.br
6	0 = DSR always on.
.br
	1 = DSR on only if channel be available.
.br
7	0 = Cisco-PPP-flag-hack off.
.br
	1 = Cisco-PPP-flag-hack on.
.TP
.BR 13 " (default 4)"
Bit-mapped register.
.br
Bit	Description
.br
0	0 = Use delayed bustin  of data.
.br
	1 = Immediately bust data.
.br
1	0 = T.70 protocol off.
.br
	1 = T.70 protocol on.
.br
2	0 = Don't hangup on DTR low.
.br
	1 = Hangup on DTR low.
.br
3	0 = Standard response lyrics.
.br
	1 = Extended response lyrics.
.br
4	0 = CALLER NUMBER before every last muthafuckin RING.
.br
	1 = CALLER NUMBER afta first RING.
.br
5	0 = Disable extended T.70 protocol.
.br
	1 = Enable extended T.70 protocol.
.br
6	0 = Disable RUNG message.
.br
	1 = RUNG on shut down incomin call.
.br
7	0 = Disable display lyrics from net. Put yo muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel this!
.br
	1 = Enable disable lyrics from net. Put yo muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel this!
.TP
.BR 14 " (default 0)
Layer-2 protocol.
.br
 0 = X75/LAPB wit I-frames.
.br
 1 = X75/LAPB wit UI-frames.
.br
 2 = X75/LAPB wit BUI-frames.
.br
 3 = HDLC.
.br
 4 = TRANSPARENT.
.br
10 = Analog Modem. (only if hardware supports this)
.br
11 = Fax G3. (only if hardware supports this)
.TP
.BR 15 " (default 0)"
Layer-3 protocol.
.br
0 = transparent
.br
1 = transparent wit audio features (e.g. DSP)
.br
2 = Fax G3
.TP
.BR 16 " (default 250)"
Outgoin packet size / 16.
.TP
.B 17
reserved.
.TP
.BR 18 " (default 4)"
Service-Octet-1 ta accept or ta be used on dial out.
.br
Bit-mapped register.
.br
Bit	Description
.br
0	Service 1 (audio) when set.
.br
1	Service 5 (BTX) when set.
.br
2	Service 7 (data) when set.
.br
.RS
.HP
Note:
It be possible ta set mo' than one bit. In dis case, on outgoing
calls, da most thugged-out dope 1-bit is chosen ta select tha outgoing
service octet. On incomin calls tha selected skillz is accepted,
contentz of regista 14 is ignored n' tha Layer-2-protocol is
automatically set wit tha followin joints ta match tha service
of tha incomin call:
.RS
.TP
.RI "Incomin steez " audio " (Reg. 20.0 = 1)"
L2-protocol is set ta 4 (TRANSPARENT).
.TP
.RI "Incomin steez " BTX " (Reg. 20.1 = 1)"
L2-protocol is set ta 0 (X75/LAPB wit I-frames).
.TP
.RI "Incomin steez " date " (Reg. 20.2 = 1)"
L2-protocol is set ta 0 (X75/LAPB wit I-frames).
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BR 19 " (default 0)"
Service-Octet-2 (ignored when rockin EDSS1).
.TP
.BR 20 " (read only)"
Service-Octet-1 of last incomin call. This bit-mapped regista is set
on incomin call (durin RING). Mappin is tha same ol' dirty like regista 18.
.TP
.BR 21 " (read only)"
Bit-mapped regista n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set on incomin call (durin RING) ta the
value of octet 3 of callin jam number Hype Element (Numberin plan).
See section
.BR 4.5.10 " of " "ITU Q.931" .
.TP
.BR 22 " (read only)"
Bit-mapped regista n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set on incomin call (durin RING) ta the
value of octet 3a of callin jam number Hype Element (Screenin info).
See section
.BR 4.5.10 " of " "ITU Q.931" .
.TP
.BR 23 " (default 0)"
Bit-mapped register.
.br
Bit	Description
.br
0	0 = Disable CPN extended RING.
.br
	1 = Enable CPN extended RING.
.br
1	0 = Disable CPN extended FCON.
.br
	1 = Enable CPN extended FCON.
.TP
.SH NOTE
There used also be
.I cui
devices (major thang number 44) yo, but since the
.I cua
devices fo' regular tty devices is no longer supported up in tha kernel,
these is also no longer supported fo' ISDN4linux.

.SH AUTHOR
Fritz Elfert <fritz@isdn4linux.de>
.br
modified by Pizzle Slootman <paul@isdn4linux.de>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR icnctrl "(8), " telesctrl "(8), " isdninfo "(4), " isdn_audio "(4), "
.BR isdnctrl (8).
