.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH VESA 4 "xf86-video-vesa 2.3.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
vesa \- Generic VESA vizzle driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qvesa\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vesa
is a Xorg driver fo' generic VESA vizzle cards.  It can drive most
VESA-compatible vizzle cardz yo, but only make use of tha basic standard
VESA core dat is common ta these cards.  Da driver supports depths 8, 15
16 n' 24.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B vesa
driver supports most VESA-compatible vizzle cards.  There is some known
exceptions, n' dem should be listed here.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5) fo' general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific ta this
driver.
.PP
Da driver auto-detects tha presence of VESA-compatible hardware.  The
.B ChipSet
name may optionally be specified up in tha config file
.B \*qDevice\*q
section, n' will override tha auto-detection:
.PP
.RS 4
"vesa"
.RE
.PP
Da followin driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of tha shadow framebuffer layer n' shit.  Default: on.

This option is recommended fo' performizzle reasons.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qModeSetClearScreen\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Clear tha screen on mode set. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some BIOSes seem ta be fucked up in the
sense dat tha newly set vizzle mode is bogus if they is axed ta 
clear tha screen durin mode setting. If you experience problems try
to turn dis option off. Default: on.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Paulo Ce\'sar Pereira de Andrade.
