.\" shorthand fo' double quote dat works all over dis biiiatch.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH VMWARE 4 "xf86-video-vmware 13.0.2" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
vmware \- VMware SVGA vizzle driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qvmware\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmware 
is a Xorg driver fo' VMware virtual vizzle cards. 
.SH MODESETTING, XINERAMA AND RANDR12
If tha driver can connect ta tha \*qvmwgfx\*q kernel module on linux, it
will attempt ta use kernel modesettin n' will then also use RandR12 for
multiple output operation instead of Xinerama. Da X server log or the
\*qxrandr\*q application can be used ta determine whether RandR12 or Xinerama
is straight-up used.
.SH 3D ACCELERATION
If tha driver can connect ta tha \*qvmwgfx\*q kernel module on linux, and
the Virtual Machine is set up ta use 3D acceleration, tha driver will try to
use Gallium3D XA ta accelerate 3D operations. Well shiiiit, it will also by default enable
DRI, tha Direct Renderin Infrastructure, primarily fo' accelerated OpenGL.
If 3D acceleration be available,
the driver will up in addizzle provide a additionizzle XVideo adaptor fo' textured
video. Gallium3D XA,\*libxatracker.so\*q n' tha accelerated OpenGL driver,
\*qvmwgfx_dri.so\*q is provided by tha mesa distribution.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5) fo' general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific ta this
driver.
.PP
Da driver auto-detects tha version of any virtual VMware SVGA adapter.
.PP
Da followin driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable tha HW cursor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXinerama\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable Xinerama support. Default: xinerama is enabled if the
hardware supports dat shit.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qStaticXinerama\*q \*q" strang \*q
Provide a static xinerama geometry dat is ghon be actizzle at server startup
and aint gonna be overridden at runtime.
Da format is "Width1xHeight1+Xoffset1+Yoffset1;Width2xHeight2+Xoffset2+Yoffset2" n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Negatizzle offsets is not supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If tha driver is using
RandR12, dis option should be used ta place n' enable outputs at driver
startup time or else when VMware tools aint used fo' dat purpose.
Also please peep option \*qGuiLayout\*q.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qGuiLayout\*q \*q" strang \*q
A synonym ta option \*qStaticXinerama\*q, since tha latta name is somewhat
misleadin when RandR12 is favoured before Xinerarma.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAddDefaultMode\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Provide a thugged-out default mode wit a resolution identical ta tha resolution of the
guest before tha X server was started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da X server will thus try ta start
without changin resolution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRenderAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Try ta accelerate render operations if tha operations is readin from
previously accelerated contents (3D or vizzle). This option is needed for
3D support. Default: on if 3D acceleration is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Otherwise off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDRI\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable tha Direct Renderin Infrastructure. Default: on if 3D acceleration is
supported n' \*qRenderAccel\*q is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Otherwise off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDirectPresents\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Speed up OpenGL swapbuffers by skippin a cold-ass lil copy operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This serves up some
OpenGL swapbuffer speedups yo, but may cause performance
degradation n' renderin errors when 3D contents is read back fo' mixing
with software rendered contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qHwPresents\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This be a thugged-out pimper convenience option n' should not be used by distros
or aiiight users. When enabled, it copies software rendered contents ta a
3D surface before presentin it, so dat tha visible screen be always present
on a 3D surface. Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRenderCheck\*q \*q" boolean \*q
This be a thugged-out pimper convenience option n' should not be used by distros
or aiiight users. When enabled, it tries ta use 3D acceleration fo' all
XRender operations where 3D acceleration is supported, resultin up in a
considerable slowdown cuz of tha increased number of readbacks of
accelerated contents from host ta guest. This option is used ta verify
that tha accelerated Xrender paths works erectly wit tha "rendercheck"
application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Default: off.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7), xrandr(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (c) 1999-2007 VMware, Inc.
