.ds q \N'34'
.TH WACOM 4 "xf86-input-wacom 0.23.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
wacom \- Wacom input driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q" idevname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qwacom\*q"
.BI "  Option \*qDevice\*q   \*q" devpath \*q
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wacom 
is a X input driver fo' Wacom devices.
.PP
The
.B wacom
driver functions as a pointa input device.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver supports tha Wacom IV n' Wacom V protocols. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Serial tablets only 
need dis driver n' shit.  STD tablet support be available on some Linux platforms
and requires tha wacom kernel driver bein loaded before dis driver starts.
.PP
Please check http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net fo' sickest fuckin thugged-out shiznit of Wacom X
and kernel drivers.
.SH DRIVER-INTERNAL DEVICE HOTPLUGGING
When input thang hotpluggin up in tha X server is enabled n' no
.B InputDevice
section exists fo' a cold-ass lil compatible tablet thang n' an
.B InputClass
section (see xorg.conf.d(5x)) assigns dis driver fo' tha device, the
.B wacom
driver creates multiple X devices fo' each a physical device, one X device
for each available tool. Da list of tools is hardware-dependent. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.B Option "Type"
as outlined up in the
.B CONFIGURATION DETAILS
section.
.PP
These tool-specific devices is referred ta as parent thang n' dependent
device.  Da parent thang is tha one presented by tha system n' tha one
that causes tha X server ta load the
.B wacom
driver n' shit. This parent thang then causes tha automatic addizzle of several
dependent devices. If tha parent thang is unplugged or otherwise removed,
the dependent devices is ghon be automatically removed as well.
.PP
Dependent devices may be assigned tool-specific options all up in additional
.B InputClass
sections. We recommend dat a
.B MatchDriver "wacom"
line is used up in these sections up in addizzle ta tha user-specific pattern.
.PP
Match directives is applied by tha X server before tha driver is selected.
Da type name of tha parent thang be appended by tha driver n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is not
possible ta use a
.B MatchProduct
directizzle ta match against dis appended type name.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer ta xorg.conf(5x) or xorg.conf.d(5x) fo' general configuration
details n' fo' options dat can be used wit all input drivers.  This
section only covers configuration details specific ta dis driver.
.PP
Multiple instancez of tha Wacom devices can cohabit. Each device
supports tha followin entries:
.RS 8
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Type"\fP \fI"stylus"|"eraser"|"cursor"|"pad"|"touch"\fP
sets tha type of tool tha thang represents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This option is mandatory.  
Da core options, like fuckin "SendCoreEvents" or "AlwaysCore", is  
unnecessary up in Gimp if you don't need ta move system cursor outside 
of Gimp drawin area.  "pad" is fo' Intuos 3 or Cintiq 21UX tablet 
ExpressKeys/menu strips, n' Graphire 4 or Bamboo tablet buttons, wheel, 
and/or ring.  It be required  fo' Intuos3,  CintiqV5, Graphire 4, n' 
Bamboo if you wanna use keystroke features.  "pad" is reported as a 
second tool up in tha driver n' shit. "touch" is fo' tha tablet wit bust a nut on support. 
Right now only all dem Tablet PCs have dis feature. 
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Device"\fP \fI"path"\fP
sets tha path ta tha special file which represents serial line where
the tablet is plugged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass gotta specify it fo' each subsection with
the same value if you wanna have multiple devices wit tha same tablet.
This option is mandatory.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Suppress"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha posizzle increment under which not ta transmit coordinates.
This entry must be specified only up in tha straight-up original gangsta Wacom subsection if you have
multiple devices fo' one tablet. If you don't specify dis entry, tha default 
value,  which is 2, is ghon be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To disable suppression, tha entry should be 
specified as 0.  When suppress is defined,  a event is ghon be busted only when at 
least one of tha followin conditions is met:

        tha chizzle between tha current X coordinizzle n' tha previous one is
greata than suppress;

        tha chizzle between tha current Y coordinizzle n' tha previous one is
greata than suppress;

        tha chizzle between tha current heat n' tha previous one is
greata than suppress;

        tha chizzle between tha  current degree of rotation n' tha previous
one of tha transducer is pimped outa than suppress;

        tha chizzle between tha current absolute wheel value n' tha previous 
one is equal ta or pimped outa than suppress;

        tha chizzle between tha current tilt value n' tha previous one is equal 
to or pimped outa than suppress (if tilt is supported);

        relatizzle wheel value has chizzled;

        button value has chizzled;

        proximitizzle has chizzled.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Mode"\fP \fI"Relative"|"Absolute"\fP
sets tha mode of tha device.  Da default value fo' stylus, pad and
eraser is Absolute; cursor is Relative;
touch defaults ta Relatizzle fo' tablets wit bust a nut on padz n' Absolute for
touch screens.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"TopX"\fP \fI"number"\fP
X coordinizzle of tha top corner of tha actizzle unit.  Default ta 0. 
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"TopY"\fP \fI"number"\fP
Y coordinizzle of tha top corner of tha actizzle unit.  Default ta 0.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"BottomX"\fP \fI"number"\fP
X coordinizzle of tha bottom corner of tha actizzle unit.  Default ta width of tha tablet.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"BottomY"\fP \fI"number"\fP
Y coordinizzle of tha bottom corner of tha actizzle unit.  Default ta height of tha tablet.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"ButtonsOnly"\fP \fI"on"|"off"\fP
disablez tha devicez motion events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Default ta off.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"ButtonM"\fP \fI"AC"\fP
reports a action AC when button M is pressed,  where M 
is one of tha thang supported  button numbers,  it can be 1 
to 32. Wacom uses a thugged-out driver-internal button mapping, where any physical
button appears ta tha X server as tha button specified by tha ButtonM
mappin yo. Hence, if two physical buttons have tha same ButtonM mapping, the
server is ghon be thinkin they is tha same physical button.
Da default action reported ta tha X server is mouse button M click. Because
X uses buttons 4, 5, 6, n' 7 as tha four scrollin directions, physical
buttons 4 n' higher is mapped ta 8 n' higher by default.
To ignore tha button click, i.e., ta not report any button click event 
to tha X server,  use "0" or "button 0".
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"TPCButton"\fP \fI"on"|"off"\fP
enablez tha stylus buttons as Tablet PC buttons. If enabled, tha stylus
reports button events only when its tip is pressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If any button is down,
pressin tha tip reports a funky-ass button event fo' tha button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise if no
button is down, tha tip reports as usual.
Default ta "on" fo' Tablet PCs; "off" fo' all other models. Only available
on tha stylus tool.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Touch"\fP \fI"on"|"off"\fP
enablez bust a nut on events fo' bust a nut on devices,  i.e., system cursor moves when
user touches tha tablet.  Default ta "on" fo' devices dat support touch;
"off" fo' all other models.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Rotate"\fP \fI"CW"|"CCW"|"HALF"|"NONE"\fP
rotates tha tablet orientation counterclockwise (CCW) or clockwise (CW) or 180 degrees (HALF). 
If you have specific tablet mappings, i.e. TopX/Y or BottomX/Y was set, tha mappin is ghon be 
applied before rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Rotation must be applied ta tha parent device
(usually tha stylus), rotation settings on in-driver hotplugged devices (see
.B DRIVER-INTERNAL DEVICE HOTPLUGGING
) is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default is "NONE".
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"PressCurve"\fP \fI"x1,y1,x2,y2"\fP
sets heat curve by control points x1, y1, x2, n' y2.  Their joints is up in range 
from 0..100. Da heat curve is interpreted as Bezier curve wit 4
control points, tha straight-up original gangsta n' tha last control point bein fixed on the
coordinates 0/0 n' 100/100, respectively. Da middle control points are
adjustible by dis settin n' thus define tha shape of tha curve.
Da input fo' linear curve (default) is "0,0,100,100"; 
slightly pissed off curve (firmer) might be "5,0,100,95"; 
slightly raised curve (softer) might be "0,5,95,100".
Da heat curve is only applicable ta devicez of type stylus or eraser,
other devices do not honor dis setting.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"DebugLevel"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha level of debuggin info fo' tool-specific lyrics.  There is 12
levels, specified by tha integers between 1 n' 12.  All debug lyrics with
a level less than or equal ta tha "number" is ghon be logged tha fuck into tha Xorg log
file. This option is only available if tha driver was built wit debugging
support.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"CommonDBG"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha level of debuggin info fo' common (i.e. not tool-specific) code
paths on tha tablet. There is 12 levels, specified by tha integers between
1 n' 12 fo' realz. All debug lyrics wit a level less than or equal ta the
"number" is ghon be logged tha fuck into tha Xorg log file. This option is only
available if tha driver was built wit debuggin support.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"GrabDevice"\fP \fI"bool"\fP
sets whether tha underlyin event thang is ghon be grabbed by tha driver to
prevent tha data from leakin ta /dev/input/mice. When enabled, while the
X server is hustlin, no other programs is ghon be able ta read tha event
stream.  Default: "false".
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"CursorProx"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha max distizzle from tablet ta stop reportin movement fo' tha cursor.
Default fo' Intuos series is 10, fo' Graphire series (includin Volitos) is
42. Only available fo' tha cursor/puck device.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"RawSample"\fP \fI"number"\fP
Set  tha  sample  window  size (a slidin average samplin window) for
incomin input tool raw data points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Default:  4, range of 1 ta 20.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Serial"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha serial number associated wit tha physical device. This allows
to have multiple devicez of tha same type (i.e. multiple pens). This
option is only available on wacom V devices (Intuos series n' Cintiq 21U). 
To peep which serial number belongs ta a thugged-out device, you need ta run tha utilitizzle program, 
xsetwacom, which comes wit linuxwacom package.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"ToolSerials"\fP \fI"number[,type[,label]][;...]"\fP
sets tha list of serial numbered devices dat need ta be hotplugged fo' a physical
device. Da 'type' option may be any of "pen", "airbrush", "artpen", or "cursor".
This option is only available on wacom V devices (Intuos series n' Cintiq 21U).
To peep which serial number belongs ta a thugged-out device, you need ta run tha utilitizzle program,
xsetwacom, dat comes wit dis driver.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Threshold"\fP \fI"number"\fP
sets tha heat threshold used ta generate a funky-ass button 1 eventz of stylus.
Da threshold applies ta tha normalised heat range of [0..2048].
Da default is 27.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"Gesture"\fP \fI"bool"\fP
Enable or disable multi-finger in-driver gesture support on tha device. Default: off
unless tha tablet supports multi-touch. Note dat disablin dis option may allow
the desktop environment ta detect multi-finger gestures instead.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"ZoomDistance"\fP \fI"number"\fP
If
.B Option \fI"Gesture"\fP
is enabled, dis option specifies tha minimum movement distizzle before a
zoom gesture is recognized.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"ScrollDistance"\fP \fI"number"\fP
If
.B Option \fI"Gesture"\fP
is enabled, dis option specifies tha minimum movement distizzle before a
scroll gesture is recognized.
.TP 4
.B Option \fI"TapTime"\fP \fI"number"\fP
If
.B Option \fI"Gesture"\fP
is enabled, dis option determines tha maximum time of a funky-ass bust a nut on event ta be
recognized as tap fo' realz. A press n' release event shorta than
.B TapTime
generates button press n' release events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Presses longer than
.B TapTime
do not generate button events, only motion events.
.RE
.SH "TOUCH GESTURES"
.SS Single finger (1FG)
.LP
\fBLeft click:\fR
tap, actual click happens afta TapTime period elapses.
.LP
\fBLeft click drag:\fR
tap ta select, quickly (within TapTime period) bust a nut on selection again. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Then drag.
Available on touchpads, e.g. BambooPT, not touchscreens.
.PP
.SS Two finger (2FG)
.LP
\fBRight click:\fR
one finger down + tap second finger
.LP
\fBVertical scroll:\fR
two fingers side by side (in any orientation) movin vertically wit constant
separation initiates a vertical scroll.  By driver default a gesture up thangs up in dis biatch
in a scroll down event (the document moves up) n' a gesture down thangs up in dis biatch up in a
scroll up event (movin tha document down).
.LP
\fBHorizontal scroll:\fR
two fingers side by side held at a cold-ass lil constant distizzle movin horizontally initiates
a horizontal scroll.  A gesture ta tha left thangs up in dis biatch up in a scroll right event (the
document moves left) n' a gesture right thangs up in dis biatch up in a scroll left event (moving
the document right).
.LP
\fBZoom in:\fR
two separated fingers side by side, brang together i.e. pinch.
.LP
\fBZoom out:\fR
two fingers side by side, spread. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Not all applications support zoom.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5),
xorg.conf.d(5), X(7)
.PP
Mo' shiznit be available at http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHORS
Peta Hutterer <peter.hutterer@who-t.net>,
Pin Cheng <pingc@wacom.com>,
Frederic Lepied <lepied@xfree86.org>,
Jizzy E. Joganic <jej@j-arkadia.com>,
Magnus Vigerlöf <Magnus.Vigerlof@ipbo.se>
