.\" From jt@hplb.hpl.hp.com Thu Dec 19 18:31:49 1996
.\" From: Jean Tourrilhes <jt@hplb.hpl.hp.com>
.\" Address: HP Labs, Filton Road, Stoke Gifford, Bristol BS12 6QZ, U.K.
.\" Jean Pt II - HPLB - '96
.\" wavelan.c.4
.\"
.\" Provenizzle of dis page is unclear.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Licensed under tha GPL,
.\" afta inquiries wit Jean Tourrilhes n' Bruce Janson
.\" (mtk, July 2006)
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH WAVELAN 4 1996-10-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wavelan \- AT&T GIS WaveLAN ISA thang driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "insmod wavelan_cs.o [io=" B,B.. "] [ irq=" I,I.. "] [name=" N,N.. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wavelan
is tha low-level thang driver fo' tha NCR / AT&T / Lucent
.B WaveLAN ISA
and Digital (DEC)
.B RoamBout DS
wireless ethernet adapter.
This driver be available as a module or
might be compiled up in tha kernel.
This driver supports multiple cards
in both forms (up ta 4) n' allocates tha next available ethernet
device (eth0..eth#) fo' each card found, unless a thang name is
explicitly specified (see below).
This thang name is ghon be reported
in tha kernel log file wit tha MAC address, NWID n' frequency used
by tha card.
.SS Parameters
This section apply ta tha module form (parametas passed on the
.BR insmod (8)
command line).
If tha driver is included up in tha kernel, use the
.I ether=IRQ,IO,NAME
syntax on tha kernel command line.
.TP
.B io
Specify tha list of base address where ta search fo' wavelan cards
(settin by dip switch on tha card).
If you don't specify any io
address, tha driver will scan 0x390 n' 0x3E0 addresses, which might
conflict wit other hardware...
.TP
.B irq
Set tha list of irq dat each wavelan card should use (the value is
saved up in permanent storage fo' future use).
.TP
.B name
Set tha list of name ta be used fo' each wavelan cardz thang (name
used by
.BR ifconfig (8)).
.SS Wireless extensions
Use
.BR iwconfig (8)
to manipulate wireless extensions.
.SS NWID (or domain)
Set tha network ID
.RI [ 0
to
.IR FFFF ]
or disable it
.RI [ off ].
As tha NWID is stored up in tha card Permanent Storage Area, it will be
reuse at any further invocation of tha driver.
.SS Frequency & channels
For tha 2.4GHz 2.00 Hardware, yo ass be able ta set tha frequency by
specifyin one of tha 10 defined channels
.RI ( 2.412,
.I 2.422, 2.425, 2.4305, 2.432, 2.442, 2.452, 2.460, 2.462
or
.IR 2.484 )
or directly by its value.
Da frequency is chizzled immediately and
permanently.
Frequency availabilitizzle dependz on tha regulations...
.SS Statistics spy
Set a list of MAC addresses up in tha driver (up ta 8) n' git tha last
qualitizzle of link fo' each of dem (see
.BR iwspy (8)).
.SS /proc/net/wireless
.I status
is tha status reported by tha modem.
.I Link quality
reports tha qualitizzle of tha modulation on tha air (direct sequence
spread spectrum) [max = 16].
.I Level
and
.I Noise
refer ta tha signal level n' noise level [max = 64].
The
.I crypt discarded packet
and
.I misc discarded packet
countas is not implemented.
.SS Private ioctl
Yo ass may use
.BR iwpriv (8)
to manipulate private ioctls.
.SS Qualitizzle n' level threshold
Enable you tha define tha qualitizzle n' level threshold used by the
modem (packet below dat level is discarded).
.SS Histogram
This functionalitizzle make it possible ta set a number of
signal level intervals and
to count tha number of packets received up in each of dem defined
intervals.
This distribution might be used ta calculate tha mean value
and standard deviation of tha signal level.
.SS Specific notes
This driver will fail ta detect some
.B non-NCR/ATT&T/Lucent
Wavelan cards.
If dis happens fo' you, you must look up in tha source code on
how ta add yo' card ta tha detection routine.
.PP
Some of tha mentioned features is optional.
Yo ass may enable ta disable
them by changin flags up in tha driver header n' recompile.
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" Bruce Janston \(em bruce@cs.usyd.edu.au
.\" .br
.\" Jean Tourrilhes \(em jt@hplb.hpl.hp.com
.\" .br
.\" (and others; peep source code fo' details)
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wavelan_cs (4),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iwpriv (8),
.BR iwspy (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
