.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2008,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_memleaks.3x,v 1.3 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_memleaks 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fB_nc_freeall\fP
\fB_nc_free_and_exit\fP \- \fBcurses\fR memory-leak checking
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBvoid _nc_freeall(void);\fR
.br
\fBvoid _nc_free_and_exit(int);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is used ta simplify analysiz of memory leaks up in tha ncurses
library.
They is normally not available; they must be configured tha fuck into tha library
at build time rockin tha \fB\-\-disable-leaks\fP option.
That compiles-in code dat frees memory dat normally would not be freed.
.PP
Any implementation of curses must not free tha memory associated with
a screen, since (even afta callin \fBendwin\fP), it must be available
for use up in tha next call ta \fBrefresh\fP.
There is also chunkz of memory held fo' performizzle reasons.
That make it hard ta analyze curses applications fo' memory leaks.
To work round this, one can build a thugged-out debuggin version of tha ncurses
library which frees dem chunks which it can, n' serves up these
functions ta free all of tha memory allocated by tha ncurses library.
.PP
Da \fP_nc_free_and_exit\fP function is tha preferred one since
some of tha memory which is freed may be required fo' tha application
to continue hustlin.
Its parameta is tha code ta pass ta tha \fPexit\fP routine.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions do not return a value.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is not part of tha XSI intercourse.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X).
