.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2009,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_trace.3x,v 1.12 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_trace 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fB_tracef\fR,
\fB_tracedump\fR,
\fB_traceattr\fR,
\fB_traceattr2\fR,
\fB_nc_tracebits\fR,
\fB_tracecchar_t\fR,
\fB_tracecchar_t2\fR,
\fB_tracechar\fR,
\fB_tracechtype\fR,
\fB_tracechtype2\fR,
\fB_tracemouse\fR,
\fBtrace\fR \- \fBcurses\fR debuggin routines
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBvoid _tracef(const char *format, ...);\fR
.br
\fBvoid _tracedump(const char *label, WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_traceattr(attr_t attr);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_traceattr2(int buffer, chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_nc_tracebits(void);\fR
.br
\fBchar * _tracecchar_t(const cchar_t *string);\fR
.br
\fBchar * _tracecchar_t2(int buffer, const cchar_t *string);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_tracechar(int ch);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_tracechtype(chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_tracechtype2(int buffer, chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBchar *_tracemouse(const MEVENT *event);\fR
.br
\fBvoid trace(const unsigned int param);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBtrace\fR routines is used fo' debuggin tha ncurses libraries,
as well as applications which use tha ncurses libraries.
These functions is normally available only wit tha debuggin library
\fIlibncurses_g.a\fR yo, but may be compiled tha fuck into any model (shared, static,
profile) by definin tha symbol \fBTRACE\fR.
Additionally, some functions is only available wit tha wide-character
configuration of tha libraries.
.PP
Da principal partz of dis intercourse is tha \fBtrace\fR routine which
selectively enablez different tracin features, n' tha \fB_tracef\fR
routine which writes formatted data ta tha \fItrace\fR file.
.PP
Callin \fBtrace\fR wit a nonzero parameta opens tha file \fBtrace\fR
in tha current directory fo' output.  Da parameta is formed by OR'ing
values from tha list of \fBTRACE_\fP\fIxxx\fR definitions up in \fB<curses.h>\fR.
These include:
.TP 5
TRACE_DISABLE
turn off tracing.
.TP 5
TRACE_TIMES
trace user n' system timez of thugged-out shit.
.TP 5
TRACE_TPUTS
trace tputs calls.
.TP 5
TRACE_UPDATE
trace update actions, oldschool & freshly smoked up screens.
.TP 5
TRACE_MOVE
trace cursor movement n' scrolling.
.TP 5
TRACE_CHARPUT
trace all characta outputs.
.TP 5
TRACE_ORDINARY
trace all update actions.
Da oldschool n' freshly smoked up screen contents is freestyled ta tha trace file
for each refresh.
.TP 5
TRACE_CALLS
trace all curses calls.
Da parametas fo' each call is traced, as well as return joints.
.TP 5
TRACE_VIRTPUT
trace virtual characta puts, i.e., calls ta \fBaddch\fR.
.TP 5
TRACE_IEVENT
trace low-level input processing, includin timeouts.
.TP 5
TRACE_BITS
trace state of TTY control bits.
.TP 5
TRACE_ICALLS
trace internal/nested calls.
.TP 5
TRACE_CCALLS
trace per-characta calls.
.TP 5
TRACE_DATABASE
trace read/write of terminfo/termcap data.
.TP 5
TRACE_ATTRS
trace chizzlez ta vizzle attributes n' colors.
.TP 5
TRACE_MAXIMUM
maximum trace level, enablez all of tha separate trace features.
.PP
Some tracin features is enabled whenever tha \fBtrace\fR parameter
is nonzero.  Some features overlap.
Da specific names is used as a guideline.
.PP
These functions check tha \fBNCURSES_TRACE\fP environment variable,
to set tha tracin feature as if \fBtrace\fP was called:
.RS
filter,
initscr,
new_prescr,
newterm,
nofilter,
ripoffline,
setupterm,
slk_init,
tgetent
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines which return a value is designed ta be used as parameters
to tha \fB_tracef\fR routine.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is not part of tha XSI intercourse.
Some other curses implementations is known to
have similar, undocumented features,
but they is not compatible wit ncurses.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X).
