
.\" some parts Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:46:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug  4 10:51:53 2000 - patch from Joseph S. Myers
.\" 2007-12-15, mtk, Mostly rewritten
.\"
.TH ABORT 3  2007-12-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
abort \- cause abnormal process termination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.B void abort(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR abort ()
first unblocks the
.B SIGABRT
signal, n' then raises dat signal fo' tha callin process.
This thangs up in dis biatch up in tha abnormal termination of tha process unless the
.B SIGABRT
signal is caught n' tha signal handlez do not return
(see
.BR longjmp (3)).
.PP
If the
.BR abort ()
function causes process termination,
all open streams is closed n' flushed.
.PP
If the
.B SIGABRT
signal is ignored, or caught by a handlez dat returns, the
.BR abort ()
function will still terminizzle tha process.
It do dis by restorin tha default disposizzle for
.B SIGABRT
and then raisin tha signal fo' a second time.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR abort ()
function never returns.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gdb (1),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR exit (3),
.BR longjmp (3),
.BR raise (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
