.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:31:13 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sun Jun  6 23:27:50 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:45:37 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat Dec 16 15:02:59 2000, Joseph S. Myers
.\"
.TH ABS 3  2013-06-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
abs, labs, llabs, imaxabs \- compute tha absolute value of a integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int abs(int " j );
.br
.BI "long int labs(long int " j );
.br
.BI "long long int llabs(long long int " j );
.sp
.B #include <inttypes.h>
.sp
.BI "intmax_t imaxabs(intmax_t " j );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR llabs ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR abs ()
function computes tha absolute value of tha integer
argument \fIj\fP.
The
.BR labs (),
.BR llabs ()
and
.BR imaxabs ()
functions compute tha absolute value of tha argument \fIj\fP of the
appropriate integer type fo' tha function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns tha absolute value of tha integer argument, of tha appropriate
integer type fo' tha function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR abs (),
.BR labs (),
.BR llabs (),
and
.BR imaxabs ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD, C99.
.\" POSIX.1 (1996 edition) requires only the
.\" .BR abs ()
.\" function.
C89 only
includes the
.BR abs ()
and
.BR labs ()
functions; tha functions
.BR llabs ()
and
.BR imaxabs ()
were added up in C99.
.SH NOTES
Tryin ta take tha absolute value of da most thugged-out wack integer
is not defined.
.PP
The
.BR llabs ()
function is included up in glibc since version 2.0 yo, but
is not up in libc5 or libc4.
The
.BR imaxabs ()
function is included in
glibc since version 2.1.1.
.PP
For
.BR llabs ()
to be declared, it may be necessary ta define
\fB_ISOC99_SOURCE\fP or \fB_ISOC9X_SOURCE\fP (dependin on the
version of glibc) before includin any standard headers.
.PP
GCC handles
.BR abs ()
and
.BR labs ()
as built-in functions.
GCC 3.0 also handles
.BR llabs ()
and
.BR imaxabs ()
as built-ins.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cabs (3),
.BR ceil (3),
.BR fabs (3),
.BR floor (3),
.BR rint (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
