.\"  Copyright 2002 walta harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"  adapted glibc info page
.\"
.\"  polished a lil, aeb
.TH ADDSEVERITY 3 2008-06-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
addseveritizzle \- introduce freshly smoked up severitizzle classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sp
.B #include <fmtmsg.h>
.sp
.BI "int addseverity(int " severitizzle ", const char *" s );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR addseveritizzle ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function allows tha introduction of freshly smoked up severitizzle classes
which can be addressed by the
.I severity
argument of the
.BR fmtmsg (3)
function.
By default dat latta function only knows how tha fuck to
print lyrics fo' severitizzle 0-4 (with strings (none), HALT,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO).
This call attaches tha given string
.I s
to tha given value
.IR severitizzle .
If
.I s
is NULL, tha severitizzle class wit tha numeric value
.I severity
is removed.
It aint possible ta overwrite or remove one of tha default
severitizzle classes.
Da severitizzle value must be nonnegative.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon success, tha value
.B MM_OK
is returned.
Upon error, tha return value is
.BR MM_NOTOK .
Possible errors include: outta memory, attempt ta remove a
nonexistent or default severitizzle class.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR addseveritizzle ()
is provided up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function aint specified up in tha X/Open Portabilitizzle Guide
although the
.BR fmtmsg (3)
function is.
It be available on System V
systems.
.SH NOTES
New severitizzle classes can also be added by settin tha environment variable
.BR SEV_LEVEL .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fmtmsg (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
