.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_RETURN 3 2013-07-04  "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_return \- git return statuz of asynchronous I/O operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "ssize_t aio_return(struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_return ()
function returns tha final return status fo' tha asynchronous I/O request
with control block pointed ta by
.IR aiocbp .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a thugged-out description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.LP
This function should be called only once fo' any given request, after
.BR aio_error (3)
returns suttin' other than
.BR EINPROGRESS .
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha asynchronous I/O operation has completed, dis function returns
the value dat would done been returned up in case of a synchronous
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fsync (2)
or
.BR fdatasync (2),
call.

If tha asynchronous I/O operation has not yet completed,
the return value n' effect of
.BR aio_return ()
are undefined.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I aiocbp
does not point at a cold-ass lil control block fo' a asynchronous I/O request
of which tha return status has not been retrieved yet.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_return ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_return ()
function be available since glibc 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR aio_return ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR aio (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
