.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2010 Mike kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_SUSPEND 3 2012-05-08  "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_suspend \- wait fo' asynchronous I/O operation or timeout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sp
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_suspend(const struct aiocb * const " aiocb_list [],
.br
.BI "                int " nitems ", const struct timespec *" timeout );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_suspend ()
function suspendz tha callin thread until one of tha followin occurs:
.IP * 3
One or mo' of tha asynchronous I/O requests up in tha list
.I aiocb_list
has completed.
.IP *
A signal is delivered.
.IP *
.I timeout
is not NULL n' tha specified time interval has passed.
(For detailz of the
.I timespec
structure, see
.BR nanosleep (2).)
.LP
The
.I nitems
argument specifies tha number of shit in
.IR aiocb_list .
Each item up in tha list pointed ta by
.I aiocb_list
must be either NULL (and then is ignored),
or a pointa ta a cold-ass lil control block on which I/O was initiated using
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
or
.BR lio_listio (3).
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a thugged-out description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.LP
If
.B CLOCK_MONOTONIC
is supported, dis clock is used ta measure
the timeout interval (see
.BR clock_gettime (3)).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If dis function returns afta completion of one of tha I/O
requests specified in
.IR aiocb_list ,
0 is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Da call timed up before any of tha indicated operations
had completed.
.TP
.B EINTR
Da call was ended by signal
(possibly tha completion signal of one of tha operations we were
waitin for); see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_suspend ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_suspend ()
function be available since glibc 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
One can big up pollin by rockin a non-NULL
.I timeout
that specifies a zero time interval.

If one or mo' of tha asynchronous I/O operations specified in
.IR aiocb_list
has already completed all up in tha time of tha call to
.BR aio_suspend (),
then tha call returns immediately.

To determine which I/O operations have completed
afta a successful return from
.BR aio_suspend (),
use
.BR aio_error (3)
to scan tha list of
.I aiocb
structures pointed ta by
.IR aiocb_list .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
