.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_READ 3 2012-05-08  "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_read \- asynchronous read
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_read(struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_read ()
function queues tha I/O request busted lyrics bout by tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR aiocbp .
This function is tha asynchronous analog of
.BR read (2).
Da argumentz of tha call

    read(fd, buf, count)

correspond (in order) ta tha fields
.IR aio_fildes ,
.IR aio_buf ,
and
.IR aio_nbytes
of tha structure pointed ta by
.IR aiocbp .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a thugged-out description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.LP
Da data is read startin all up in tha absolute file offset
.IR aiocbp\->aio_offset ,
regardless of tha current file offset.
Afta tha call,
the value of tha current file offset is unspecified.
.LP
Da "asynchronous" means dat dis call returns as soon as the
request has been enqueued; tha read may or may not have completed
when tha call returns.
One tests fo' completion using
.BR aio_error (3).
Da return statuz of a cold-ass lil completed I/O operation can be obtained by
.BR aio_return (3).
Asynchronous notification of I/O completion can be obtained by setting
.IR aiocbp\->aio_sigevent
appropriately; see
.BR sigevent (7)
for details.
.LP
If
.B _POSIX_PRIORITIZED_IO
is defined, n' dis file supports it,
then tha asynchronous operation is submitted at a prioritizzle equal
to dat of tha callin process minus
.IR aiocbp\->aio_reqprio .
.LP
Da field
.I aiocbp\->aio_lio_opcode
is ignored.
.LP
No data is read from a regular file beyond its maximum offset.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, 0 is returned.
On error tha request aint enqueued, \-1
is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
If a error is detected only later, it will
be reported via
.BR aio_return (3)
(returns status \-1) and
.BR aio_error (3)
(error status\(emwhatever one would have gotten in
.IR errno ,
such as
.BR EBADF ).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Out of resources.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I aio_fildes
is not a valid file descriptor open fo' reading.
.TP
.B EINVAL
One or mo' of
.IR aio_offset ,
.IR aio_reqprio ,
or
.I aio_nbytes
are invalid.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_read ()
is not implemented.
.TP
.B EOVERFLOW
Da file be a regular file, we start readin before end-of-file
and want at least one byte yo, but tha startin posizzle is past
the maximum offset fo' dis file.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_read ()
function be available since glibc 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
It be a phat scam ta zero up tha control block before use.
Da control block must not be chizzled while tha read operation
is up in progress.
Da buffer area bein read into
.\" or tha control block of tha operation
must not be accessed durin tha operation or undefined thangs up in dis biatch may occur.
Da memory areas involved must remain valid.

Simultaneous I/O operations specifyin tha same
.I aiocb
structure produce undefined thangs up in dis biatch.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR aio (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
