.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_FSYNC 3 2012-05-08  "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_fsync \- asynchronous file synchronization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_fsync(int " op ", struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_fsync ()
function do a sync on all outstandin asynchronous I/O operations
associated with
.IR aiocbp\->aio_fildes .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a thugged-out description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.LP
Mo' precisely, if
.I op
is
.BR O_SYNC ,
then all currently queued I/O operations shall be
completed as if by a cold-ass lil call of
.BR fsync (2),
and if
.I op
is
.BR O_DSYNC ,
this call is tha asynchronous analog of
.BR fdatasync (2).

Note dat dis be a request only; it do not wait fo' I/O completion.
.LP
Apart from
.IR aio_fildes ,
the only field up in tha structure pointed ta by
.I aiocbp
that is used by dis call is the
.I aio_sigevent
field (a
.I sigevent
structure, busted lyrics bout in
.BR sigevent (7)),
which indicates tha desired type of asynchronous notification at completion.
All other fieldz is ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success (the sync request was successfully queued)
this function returns 0.
On error \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Out of resources.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I aio_fildes
is not a valid file descriptor open fo' writing.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Synchronized I/O aint supported fo' dis file, or
.I op
is not
.B O_SYNC
or
.BR O_DSYNC .
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_fsync ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_fsync ()
function be available since glibc 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7),
.BR sigevent (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
