.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_ERROR 3 2013-07-04  "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_error \- git error statuz of asynchronous I/O operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_error(const struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_error ()
function returns tha error status fo' tha asynchronous I/O request
with control block pointed ta by
.IR aiocbp .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a thugged-out description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of tha following:
.IP * 3
.BR EINPROGRESS ,
if tha request has not been
completed yet.
.IP *
.BR ECANCELED ,
if tha request was canceled.
.IP *
0, if tha request completed successfully.
.IP *
A positizzle error number, if tha asynchronous I/O operation failed.
This is tha same ol' dirty value dat would done been stored up in the
.I errno
variable up in tha case of a synchronous
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fsync (2),
or
.BR fdatasync (2)
call.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I aiocbp
does not point at a cold-ass lil control block fo' a asynchronous I/O request
of which tha return status (see
.BR aio_return (3))
has not been retrieved yet.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_error ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_error ()
function be available since glibc 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR aio_error ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR aio (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
