.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH AllPlanes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
AllPlanes, BlackPixel, WhitePixel, ConnectionNumber, DefaultColormap, DefaultDepth, XListDepths, DefaultGC, DefaultRootWindow, DefaultScreenOfDisplay, DefaultScreen, DefaultVisual, DisplayCells, DisplayPlanes, DisplayString, XMaxRequestSize, XExtendedMaxRequestSize, LastKnownRequestProcessed, NextRequest, ProtocolVersion, ProtocolRevision, QLength, RootWindow, ScreenCount, ScreenOfDisplay, ServerVendor, VendorRelease \- Display macros n' functions
.SH SYNTAX
unsigned long AllPlanes; 
.HP
unsigned long BlackPixel\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.HP
unsigned long WhitePixel\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int ConnectionNumber\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
Colormap DefaultColormap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
\^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int DefaultDepth\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int *XListDepths\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int \fIscreen_number\fP, int
\fIcount_return\fP\^); 
.HP
GC DefaultGC\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
Window DefaultRootWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
Screen *DefaultScreenOfDisplay\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int DefaultScreen\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
Visual *DefaultVisual\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int
\fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int DisplayCells\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int DisplayPlanes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.HP
char *DisplayString\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
long XMaxRequestSize(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.HP
long XExtendedMaxRequestSize(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.HP
unsigned long LastKnownRequestProcessed\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
unsigned long NextRequest\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int ProtocolVersion\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int ProtocolRevision\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int QLength\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
Window RootWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
int ScreenCount\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
Screen *ScreenOfDisplay\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int
\fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
char *ServerVendor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.HP
int VendorRelease\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIscreen_number\fP 1i
Specifies tha appropriate screen number on tha host server.
.ds Cn depths
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of \*(Cn.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN AllPlanes
macro returns a value wit all bits set ta 1 suitable fo' use up in a plane 
argument ta a procedure.
.LP
The
.ZN BlackPixel
macro returns tha black pixel value fo' tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN WhitePixel
macro returns tha white pixel value fo' tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN ConnectionNumber
macro returns a cold-ass lil connection number fo' tha specified display.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultColormap
macro returns tha default colormap ID fo' allocation on tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultDepth
macro returns tha depth (number of planes) of tha default root window fo' the
specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN XListDepths
function returns tha array of depths 
that is available on tha specified screen.
If tha specified screen_number is valid n' sufficient memory fo' tha array
can be allocated,
.ZN XListDepths
sets count_return ta tha number of available depths.
Otherwise, it do not set count_return n' returns NULL.
To release tha memory allocated fo' tha array of depths, use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultGC
macro returns tha default GC fo' tha root window of the
specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultRootWindow
macro returns tha root window fo' tha default screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultScreenOfDisplay
macro returns tha default screen of tha specified display.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultScreen
macro returns tha default screen number referenced up in the
.ZN XOpenDisplay
routine.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultVisual
macro returns tha default visual type fo' tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayCells
macro returns tha number of entries up in tha default colormap.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayPlanes
macro returns tha depth of tha root window of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayString
macro returns tha strang dat was passed to
.ZN XOpenDisplay
when tha current display was opened.
.LP
The
.ZN XMaxRequestSize
function returns tha maximum request size (in 4-byte units) supported
by tha server without rockin a extended-length protocol encoding.
Single protocol requests ta tha server can be no larger than dis size
unless a extended-length protocol encodin is supported by tha server.
Da protocol guarantees tha size ta be no smalla than 4096 units
(16384 bytes).
Xlib automatically breaks data up tha fuck into multiple protocol requests
as necessary fo' tha followin functions:
.ZN XDrawPoints ,
.ZN XDrawRectanglez ,
.ZN XDrawSegments ,
.ZN XFillArcs ,
.ZN XFillRectanglez ,
and 
.ZN XPutImage .
.LP
The
.ZN XExtendedMaxRequestSize
function returns zero if tha specified display do not support an
extended-length protocol encoding; otherwise,
it returns tha maximum request size (in 4-byte units) supported
by tha server rockin tha extended-length encoding.
Da Xlib functions
.ZN XDrawLines ,
.ZN XDrawArcs ,
.ZN XFillPolygon ,
.ZN XChangeProperty ,
.ZN XSetClipRectanglez ,
and
.ZN XSetRegion
will use tha extended-length encodin as necessary, if supported
by tha server n' shit.  Use of tha extended-length encodin up in other Xlib
functions (for example,
.ZN XDrawPoints ,
.ZN XDrawRectanglez ,
.ZN XDrawSegments ,
.ZN XFillArcs ,
.ZN XFillRectanglez ,
.ZN XPutImage )
is permitted but not required; a Xlib implementation may chizzle to
split tha data across multiple smalla requests instead.
.LP
The
.ZN LastKnownRequestProcessed
macro extracts tha full serial number of tha last request known by Xlib
to done been processed by tha X server.
.LP
The
.ZN NextRequest
macro extracts tha full serial number dat is ta be used fo' tha next request.
.LP
The
.ZN ProtocolVersion
macro returns tha major version number (11) of tha X protocol associated with
the connected display.
.LP
The
.ZN ProtocolRevision
macro returns tha minor protocol revision number of tha X server.
.LP
The
.ZN QLength
macro returns tha length of tha event queue fo' tha connected display.
.LP
The
.ZN RootWindow
macro returns tha root window.
.LP
The
.ZN ScreenCount
macro returns tha number of available screens.
.LP
The
.ZN ScreenOfDisplay
macro returns a pointa ta tha screen of tha specified display.
.LP
The
.ZN ServerVendor
macro returns a pointa ta a null-terminated strang dat provides
some identification of tha balla of tha X server implementation.
.LP
The
.ZN VendorRelease
macro returns a number related ta a vendorz release of tha X server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
BlackPixelOfScreen(3),
ImageByteOrder(3),
IsCursorKey(3),
XOpenDisplay(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
