.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_READ_DATA 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_read_data
.Nm archive_read_data_block ,
.Nm archive_read_data_skip ,
.Nm archive_read_data_into_fd
.Nd functions fo' readin streamin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft ssize_t
.Fn archive_read_data "struct archive *" "void *buff" "size_t len"
.Ft int
.Fo archive_read_data_block
.Fa "struct archive *"
.Fa "const void **buff"
.Fa "size_t *len"
.Fa "off_t *offset"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_data_skip "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_data_into_fd "struct archive *" "int fd"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -compact -width indent
.It Fn archive_read_data
Read data associated wit tha header just read.
Internally, dis be a cold-ass lil convenience function dat calls
.Fn archive_read_data_block
and fills any gaps wit nulls so dat callaz peep a single
continuous stream of data.
.It Fn archive_read_data_block
Return tha next available block of data fo' dis entry.
Unlike
.Fn archive_read_data ,
the
.Fn archive_read_data_block
function avoidz copyin data n' allows you ta erectly handle
sparse files, as supported by some archive formats.
Da library guarantees dat offsets will increase n' dat blocks
will not overlap.
Note dat tha blocks returned from dis function can be much larger
than tha block size read from disk, cuz of compression
and internal buffer optimizations.
.It Fn archive_read_data_skip
A convenience function dat repeatedly calls
.Fn archive_read_data_block
to skip all of tha data fo' dis archive entry.
Note dat dis function is invoked automatically by
.Fn archive_read_next_header2
if tha previous entry was not straight-up consumed.
.It Fn archive_read_data_into_fd
A convenience function dat repeatedly calls
.Fn archive_read_data_block
to copy tha entire entry ta tha provided file descriptor.
.El
.\"
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Most functions return zero on success, non-zero on error.
Da possible return codes include:
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
(the operation succeeded),
.Cm ARCHIVE_WARN
(the operation succeeded but a non-critical error was encountered),
.Cm ARCHIVE_EOF
(end-of-archive was encountered),
.Cm ARCHIVE_RETRY
(the operation failed but can be retried),
and
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL
(there was a gangbangin' fatal error; tha archive should be closed immediately).
.Pp
.Fn archive_read_data
returns a cold-ass lil count of bytes straight-up read or zero all up in tha end of tha entry.
On error, a value of
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL ,
.Cm ARCHIVE_WARN ,
or
.Cm ARCHIVE_RETRY
is returned.
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_read 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_extract 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_filta 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_format 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_header 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_open 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_set_options 3 ,
.Xr archive_util 3 ,
.Xr tar 5
