.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_WRITE_FILTER 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_bzip2 ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_compress ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_gzip ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_lzip ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_lzma ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_none ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_program ,
.Nm archive_write_add_filter_xz
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_bzip2 "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_compress "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_gzip "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_lzip "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_lzma "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_none "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_program "struct archive *" "const char * cmd"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_xz "struct archive *"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Xo
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_bzip2 ,
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_compress ,
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_gzip ,
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_lzip ,
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_lzma ,
.Fn archive_write_add_filter_xz ,
.Xc
Da resultin archive is ghon be compressed as specified.
Note dat tha compressed output be always properly blocked.
.It Fn archive_write_add_filter_none
This is never necessary.
It be provided only fo' backwardz compatibility.
.It Fn archive_write_add_filter_program
Da archive is ghon be fed tha fuck into tha specified compression program.
Da output of dat program is blocked n' freestyled ta tha client
write callbacks.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_write 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_format 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_set_options 3 ,
.Xr cpio 5 ,
.Xr mtree 5 ,
.Xr tar 5
