.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_WRITE_HEADER 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_write_header
.Nd functions fo' bustin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_header "struct archive *" "struct archive_entry *"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Build n' write a header rockin tha data up in tha provided
.Tn struct archive_entry
structure.
See
.Xr archive_entry 3
for shiznit on bustin n' populating
.Tn struct archive_entry
objects.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLE
.Sh RETURN VALUES
This function returns
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or one of tha followin on error:
.Cm ARCHIVE_RETRY
for operations dat might succeed if retried,
.Cm ARCHIVE_WARN
for unusual conditions dat do not prevent further operations, and
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL
for straight-up errors dat make remainin operations impossible.
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_set_options 3 ,
.Xr cpio 5 ,
.Xr mtree 5 ,
.Xr tar 5
