.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_WRITE_FREE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_write_fail ,
.Nm archive_write_close ,
.Nm archive_write_finish ,
.Nm archive_write_free
.Nd functions fo' bustin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_fail "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_close "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_finish "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_free "struct archive *"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fn archive_write_fail
Always returns
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
This marks tha archive object as bein unusable;
afta callin dis function, tha only call dat can succeed is
.Fn archive_write_free
to release tha resources.
This can be used ta speed recovery when tha archive creation
must be aborted.
Note dat tha pimped archive is likely ta be malformed up in dis case; 
.It Fn archive_write_close
Complete tha archive n' invoke tha close callback.
.It Fn archive_write_finish
This be a thugged-out deprecated synonym for
.Fn archive_write_free .
.It Fn archive_write_free
Invokes
.Fn archive_write_close
if necessary, then releases all resources.
If you need detailed shiznit about
.Fn archive_write_close
failures, you should be careful ta booty-call it separately, as
you cannot obtain error shiznit after
.Fn archive_write_free
returns.
.El
.\" .Sh EXAMPLE
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_set_options 3 ,
.Xr cpio 5 ,
.Xr mtree 5 ,
.Xr tar 5
