.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_WRITE_FORMAT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_write_set_format_cpio ,
.Nm archive_write_set_format_pax ,
.Nm archive_write_set_format_pax_restricted ,
.Nm archive_write_set_format_shar ,
.Nm archive_write_set_format_shar_dump ,
.Nm archive_write_set_format_ustar
.Nd functions fo' bustin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_cpio "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_pax "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_pax_restricted "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_shar "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_shar_dump "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_write_set_format_ustar "struct archive *"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions set tha format dat is ghon be used fo' tha archive.
.Pp
Da library can write
POSIX octet-oriented cpio format archives,
POSIX-standard
.Dq pax interchange
format archives,
traditional
.Dq shar
archives,
enhanced
.Dq dump
shar archives dat store a variety of file attributes n' handle binary files,
and
POSIX-standard
.Dq ustar
archives.
Da pax interchange format be a funky-ass backwards-compatible tar format that
addz key/value attributes ta each entry n' supports arbitrary
filenames, linknames, uids, sizes, etc.
.Dq Restricted pax interchange format
is tha library default; dis is tha same ol' dirty as pax format yo, but suppresses
the pax extended header fo' most aiiight files.
In most cases, dis will result up in ordinary ustar archives.
.\"
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_write 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_set_options 3 ,
.Xr cpio 5 ,
.Xr mtree 5 ,
.Xr tar 5
