.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_READ_EXTRACT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_read_extract ,
.Nm archive_read_extract2 ,
.Nm archive_read_extract_set_progress_callback
.Nd functions fo' readin streamin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fo archive_read_extract
.Fa "struct archive *"
.Fa "struct archive_entry *"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo archive_read_extract2
.Fa "struct archive *src"
.Fa "struct archive_entry *"
.Fa "struct archive *dest"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo archive_read_extract_set_progress_callback
.Fa "struct archive *"
.Fa "void (*func)(void *)"
.Fa "void *user_data"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -compact -width indent
.It Fn archive_read_extract , Fn archive_read_extract_set_skip_file
A convenience function dat wraps tha corresponding
.Xr archive_write_disk 3
interfaces.
Da first call to
.Fn archive_read_extract
creates a restore object using
.Xr archive_write_disk_new 3
and
.Xr archive_write_disk_set_standard_lookup 3 ,
then transparently invokes
.Xr archive_write_disk_set_options 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_header 3 ,
.Xr archive_write_data 3 ,
and
.Xr archive_write_finish_entry 3
to create tha entry on disk n' copy data tha fuck into dat shit.
The
.Va flags
argument is passed unmodified to
.Xr archive_write_disk_set_options 3 .
.It Fn archive_read_extract2
This be another version of
.Fn archive_read_extract
that allows you ta provide yo' own restore object.
In particular, dis allows you ta override tha standard lookup functions
using
.Xr archive_write_disk_set_group_lookup 3 ,
and
.Xr archive_write_disk_set_user_lookup 3 .
Note that
.Fn archive_read_extract2
does not accept a
.Va flags
argument; you should use
.Fn archive_write_disk_set_options
to set tha restore options yo ass.
.It Fn archive_read_extract_set_progress_callback
Sets a pointa ta a user-defined callback dat can be used
for uppimpin progress displays durin extraction.
Da progress function is ghon be invoked durin tha extraction of large
regular files.
Da progress function is ghon be invoked wit tha pointa provided ta dis call.
Generally, tha data pointed ta should include a reference ta tha archive
object n' tha archive_entry object so dat various statistics
can be retrieved fo' tha progress display.
.El
.\"
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Most functions return zero on success, non-zero on error.
Da possible return codes include:
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
(the operation succeeded),
.Cm ARCHIVE_WARN
(the operation succeeded but a non-critical error was encountered),
.Cm ARCHIVE_EOF
(end-of-archive was encountered),
.Cm ARCHIVE_RETRY
(the operation failed but can be retried),
and
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL
(there was a gangbangin' fatal error; tha archive should be closed immediately).
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_read 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_data 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_filta 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_format 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_open 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_set_options 3 ,
.Xr archive_util 3 ,
.Xr tar 5
