.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_READ_FORMAT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_read_support_format_7zip ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_all ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_ar ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_by_code ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_cab ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_cpio ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_empty ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_iso9660 ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_lha ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_mtree,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_rar,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_raw,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_tar ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_xar ,
.Nm archive_read_support_format_zip
.Nd functions fo' readin streamin archives
.\"
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_7zip "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_all "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_ar "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_by_code "struct archive *" "int"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_cab "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_cpio "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_empty "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_iso9660 "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_lha "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_mtree "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_rar "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_raw "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_tar "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_xar "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_support_format_zip "struct archive *"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -compact -width indent
.It Xo
.Fn archive_read_support_format_7zip ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_ar ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_cab ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_cpio ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_iso9660 ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_lha ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_mtree ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_rar ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_raw ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_tar ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_xar ,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_zip
.Xc
Enablez support---includin auto-detection code---for the
specified archive format.
For example,
.Fn archive_read_support_format_tar
enablez support fo' a variety of standard tar formats, old-style tar,
ustar, pax interchange format, n' nuff common variants.
.It Fn archive_read_support_format_all 
Enablez support fo' all available formats except the
.Dq raw
format (see below).
.It Fn archive_read_support_format_by_code
Enablez a single format specified by tha format code.
This can be useful when readin a single archive twice;
use
.Fn archive_format
afta readin tha last time n' pass tha resultin code
to dis function ta selectively enable only tha necessary
format support.
Note:  In statically-linked executables, dis will cause
your program ta include support fo' every last muthafuckin format.
If executable size be a cold-ass lil concern, you may wish ta avoid
usin dis function.
.It Fn archive_read_support_format_empty
Enablez support fo' treatin empty filez as empty archives.
Because empty filez is valid fo' nuff muthafuckin different formats,
it aint possible ta accurately determine a gangbangin' format for
an empty file based purely on contents.
So empty filez is treated by libarchive as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distinct
format.
.It Fn archive_read_support_format_raw 
The
.Dq raw
format handlez allows libarchive ta be used ta read arbitrary data.
It treats any data stream as a archive wit a single entry.
Da pathname of dis entry is
.Dq data ;
all other entry fieldz is unset.
This aint enabled by
.Fn archive_read_support_format_all
in order ta avoid erroneous handlin of damaged archives.
.El
.\" .Sh EXAMPLE
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_data 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_filta 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_set_options 3 ,
.Xr archive_util 3 ,
.Xr tar 5
.Sh BUGS
Many traditionizzle archiver programs treat
empty filez as valid empty archives.
For example, nuff implementations of
.Xr tar 1
allow you ta append entries ta a empty file.
Of course, it is impossible ta determine tha format of a empty file
by inspectin tha contents, so dis library treats empty filez as
havin a special
.Dq empty
format.
.Pp
Usin the
.Dq raw
handlez together wit any other handlez will often work
but can produce surprisin thangs up in dis biatch.
