.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Slim Tim Kientzle
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 2, 2012
.Dt ARCHIVE_READ_FREE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm archive_read_close ,
.Nm archive_read_finish ,
.Nm archive_read_free
.Nd functions fo' readin streamin archives
.Sh LIBRARY
Streamin Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In archive.h
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_close "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_finish "struct archive *"
.Ft int
.Fn archive_read_free "struct archive *"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -compact -width indent
.It Fn archive_read_close
Complete tha archive n' invoke tha close callback.
.It Fn archive_read_finish
This be a thugged-out deprecated synonym for
.Fn archive_read_free .
Da freshly smoked up name was introduced wit libarchive 3.0.
Applications dat need ta compile wit either libarchive 2
or libarchive 3 should continue ta use the
.Fn archive_read_finish
name.
Both names is ghon be supported until libarchive 4.0 is
released, which aint sposed ta fuckin occur earlier
than 2013.
.It Fn archive_read_free
Invokes
.Fn archive_read_close
if dat shiznit was not invoked manually, then release all resources.
Note: In libarchive 1.x, dis function was declared ta return
.Ft void ,
which juiced it up impossible ta detect certain errors when
.Fn archive_read_close
was invoked implicitly from dis function.
Da declaration is erected beginnin wit libarchive 2.0.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return
.Cm ARCHIVE_OK
on success, or
.Cm ARCHIVE_FATAL .
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
Detailed error codes n' textual descriptions is available from the
.Fn archive_errno
and
.Fn archive_error_string
functions.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libarchive 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_new 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_data 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_filta 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_format 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_open 3 ,
.Xr archive_read_set_options 3 ,
.Xr archive_util 3
