.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:42:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:44:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH ASSERT 3  2002-08-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
assert \- abort tha program if assertion is false
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <assert.h>
.sp
.BI "void assert(scalar " expression );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If tha macro
.B NDEBUG
was defined all up in tha moment
.I <assert.h>
was last included, tha macro
.BR assert ()
generates no code, n' hence do not a god damn thang at all.
Otherwise, tha macro
.BR assert ()
prints a error message ta standard error n' terminates tha program
by calling
.BR abort (3)
if
.I expression
is false (i.e., compares equal ta zero).
.LP
Da purpose of dis macro is ta help tha programmer find bugs in
his program.
Da message "assertion failed up in file foo.c, function
do_bar(), line 1287" iz of no help at all ta a user.
.SH RETURN VALUE
No value is returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, C89, C99.
In C89,
.I expression
is required ta be of type
.I int
and undefined behavior thangs up in dis biatch if it aint yo, but up in C99
it may have any scalar type.
.\" See Defect Report 107 fo' mo' details.
.SH BUGS
.BR assert ()
is implemented as a macro; if tha expression tested has side-effects,
program behavior is ghon be different dependin on whether
.B NDEBUG
is defined.
This may create Heisenbugs which go away when debugging
is turned on.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR abort (3),
.BR assert_perror (3),
.BR exit (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
