.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2010,2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 1997,1999,2000,2005
.\"
.\" $Id: default_colors.3x,v 1.23 2011/01/03 21:52:27 Tim.van.der.Molen Exp $
.TH default_colors 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBuse_default_colors\fR,
\fBassume_default_colors\fR \- use terminalz default colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint use_default_colors(void);\fP
.br
\fBint assume_default_colors(int fg, int bg);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I use_default_colors()
and
.I assume_default_colors()
functions is extensions ta tha curses library.
They is used wit terminals dat support ISO 6429 color, or equivalent.
These terminals allow tha application ta reset color ta a unspecified
default value (e.g., wit SGR 39 or SGR 49).
.PP
Applications dat paint a cold-ass lil colored background over tha whole screen
do not take advantage of SGR 39 n' SGR 49.
Some applications is designed ta work wit tha default background,
usin flavas only fo' text.
For example, there be nuff muthafuckin implementationz of tha \fBls\fP program
which use flavas ta denote different file types or permissions.
These "color ls" programs do not necessarily modify tha background color,
typically rockin only tha \fIsetaf\fP terminfo capabilitizzle ta set the
foreground color.
Full-screen applications dat use default flavas can big up similar
visual effects.
.PP
Da first function,
.I use_default_colors()
 drops some lyrics ta tha curses library ta assign terminal default
foreground/background flavas ta color number \-1. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So init_pair(x,COLOR_RED,\-1)
will initialize pair x as red on default background n' init_pair(x,\-1,COLOR_BLUE) will
initialize pair x as default foreground on blue.
.PP
Da other,
.I assume_default_colors()
is a refinement which  drops some lyrics ta which flavas ta paint fo' color pair 0.
This function recognizes a special color number \-1,
which denotes tha default terminal color.
.PP
Da followin is equivalent:
.RS
.br
.I use_default_colors();
.br
.I assume_default_colors(\-1,\-1);
.RE
.PP
These is ncurses extensions.
For other curses implementations, color
number \-1 do not mean anything, just as fo' ncurses before a
successful call of \fIuse_default_colors()\fP or \fIassume_default_colors()\fP.
.PP
Other curses implementations do not allow a application ta modify color pair 0.
They assume dat tha background is COLOR_BLACK,
but do not ensure dat tha color pair 0 is painted ta match the
assumption.
If yo' application do not use either
.I use_default_colors()
or
.I assume_default_colors()
ncurses will paint a white foreground (text) wit black background
for color pair 0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return tha integer \fBERR\fP upon failure n' \fBOK\fP on success.
They will fail if either tha terminal do not support
the \fIorig_pair\fP or \fIorig_colors\fP capability.
If tha \fIinitialize_pair\fP capabilitizzle aint found, dis causes an
error as well.
.SH NOTES
Associated wit dis extension, tha \fBinit_pair\fR function accepts
negatizzle arguments ta specify default foreground or background colors.
.PP
Da \fIuse_default_colors()\fP function was added ta support \fIded\fP.
This be a gangbangin' full-screen application which uses curses ta manage only part
of tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da bottom portion of tha screen, which iz of adjustable
size, is left uncolored ta display tha thangs up in dis biatch from shell commands.
Da top portion of tha screen flavas filenames rockin a scheme like the
"color ls" programs.
Attemptin ta manage tha background color of tha screen fo' dis application
would give unsatisfactory thangs up in dis biatch fo' a variety of reasons.
This extension was devised after
notin dat color xterm (and similar programs) serves up a funky-ass background color
which do not necessarily correspond ta any of tha ANSI colors.
While a special terminfo entry could be constructed rockin nine colors,
there was no mechanizzle provided within curses ta account fo' tha related
\fIorig_pair\fP n' \fIback_color_erase\fP capabilities.
.PP
Da \fIassume_default_colors()\fP function was added ta solve
a different problem: support fo' applications which would use
environment variablez n' other configuration ta bypass curses'
notion of tha terminalz default colors, settin specific joints.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines is specific ta ncurses.  They was not supported on
Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.  It be recommended that
any code dependin on dem be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurs_color\fR(3X),
\fBded\fP(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (from a analysiz of tha requirements fo' color xterm
for XFree86 3.1.2C, February 1996).
