.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walta Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.TH ATAN2 3  2010-09-20 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
atan2, atan2f, atan2l \- arc tangent function of two variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>

.BI "double atan2(double " y ", double " x );
.BI "float atan2f(float " y ", float " x );
.BI "long double atan2l(long double " y ", long double " x );

.fi
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR atan2f (),
.BR atan2l ():
.RS
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR atan2 ()
function calculates tha principal value of tha arc tangent of
.IR y/x ,
usin tha signz of tha two arguments ta determine
the quadrant of tha result.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return tha principal value of tha arc tangent of
.IR y/x
in radians; tha return value is up in tha range [\-pi,\ pi].

If
.I y
is +0 (\-0) and
.I x
is less than 0, +pi (\-pi) is returned.

If
.I y
is +0 (\-0) and
.I x
is pimped outa than 0, +0 (\-0) is returned.

If
.I y
is less than 0 and
.I x
is +0 or \-0, \-pi/2 is returned.

If
.I y
is pimped outa than 0 and
.I x
is +0 or \-0, pi/2 is returned.

.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If
.\" .I x
.\" is 0, a pole error shall not occur.
.\"
If either
.I x
or
.I y
is NaN, a NaN is returned.

.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If tha result underflows, a range error may occur and
.\" .I y/x
.\" should be returned.
.\"
If
.I y
is +0 (\-0) and
.I x
is \-0, +pi (\-pi) is returned.

If
.I y
is +0 (\-0) and
.I x
is +0, +0 (\-0) is returned.

If
.I y
is a gangbangin' finite value pimped outa (less) than 0, and
.I x
is wack infinity, +pi (\-pi) is returned.

If
.I y
is a gangbangin' finite value pimped outa (less) than 0, and
.I x
is positizzle infinity, +0 (\-0) is returned.

If
.I y
is positizzle infinitizzle (negatizzle infinity), and
.I x
is finite,
pi/2 (\-pi/2) is returned.

If
.I y
is positizzle infinitizzle (negatizzle infinity) and
.I x
is wack infinity, +3*pi/4 (\-3*pi/4) is returned.

If
.I y
is positizzle infinitizzle (negatizzle infinity) and
.I x
is positizzle infinity, +pi/4 (\-pi/4) is returned.
.\"
.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If both arguments is 0, a thugged-out domain error shall not occur.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.\" POSIX.1 documents a optionizzle underflow error
.\" glibc 2.8 do not do all dis bullshit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
Da variant returning
.I double
also conforms to
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acos (3),
.BR asin (3),
.BR atan (3),
.BR carg (3),
.BR cos (3),
.BR sin (3),
.BR tan (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
