.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2008
.TH "avc_open" "3" "12 Jun 2008" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
avc_open, avc_destroy, avc_reset, avc_cleanup \- userspace SELinux AVC setup n' teardown
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/avc.h>
.sp
.BI "int avc_open(struct selinux_opt *" options ", unsigned " nopt ");"
.sp
.BI "void avc_destroy(void);"
.sp
.BI "int avc_reset(void);"
.sp
.BI "void avc_cleanup(void);"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR avc_open ()
initializes tha userspace AVC n' must be called before any other AVC operation can be performed.

.BR avc_destroy ()
destroys tha userspace AVC, freein all internal memory structures.  Afta dis call has been made, 
.BR avc_open ()
must be called again n' again n' again before any AVC operations can be performed.

.BR avc_reset ()
flushes tha userspace AVC, causin it ta forget any cached access decisions.  Da userspace AVC normally calls dis function automatically when needed, see
.B NETLINK NOTIFICATION
below.

.BR avc_cleanup ()
attempts ta free unused memory within tha userspace AVC yo, but do not flush any cached access decisions.  Under aiiight operation, callin dis function should not be necessary.
.SH "OPTIONS"
Da userspace AVC obeys callbacks set via
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
in particular tha loggin n' audit callbacks.

Da options which may be passed to
.BR avc_open ()
include tha following:
.TP
.B AVC_OPT_SETENFORCE
This option forces tha userspace AVC tha fuck into enforcin mode if tha option value is non-NULL; permissive mode otherwise.  Da system enforcin mode is ghon be ignored.
.
.SH "NETLINK NOTIFICATION"
Beginnin wit version 2.6.4, tha Linux kernel supports SELinux status chizzle notification via netlink.  Two message types is currently implemented, indicatin chizzlez ta tha enforcin mode n' ta tha loaded policy up in tha kernel, respectively.  Da userspace AVC listens fo' these lyrics n' takes tha appropriate action, modifyin tha behavior of
.BR avc_has_perm (3)
to reflect tha current enforcin mode n' flushin tha cache on receipt of a policy load notification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Audit lyrics is produced when netlink notifications is processed.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Functions wit a return value return zero on success.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux (8),
.BR avc_has_perm (3),
.BR avc_context_to_sid (3),
.BR avc_cache_stats (3),
.BR avc_add_callback (3),
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
.BR security_compute_av (3)
