.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: KaiGai Kohei (kaigai@ak.jp.nec.com) 2009
.TH "avc_netlink_loop" "3" "30 Mar 2009" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
avc_netlink_open, avc_netlink_close, avc_netlink_acquire_fd,
avc_netlink_release_fd, avc_netlink_check_nb, avc_netlink_loop \- SELinux
netlink processing
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/avc.h>
.sp
.BI "int avc_netlink_open(int " blockin ");"
.sp
.B void avc_netlink_close(void);
.sp
.B int avc_netlink_acquire_fd(void);
.sp
.B void avc_netlink_release_fd(void);
.sp
.B void avc_netlink_loop(void);
.sp
.B int avc_netlink_check_nb(void);
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These functions enable applications ta handle notification of SELinux events
via netlink.  Da userspace AVC normally checks fo' netlink lyrics on each
call to
.BR avc_has_perm (3).
Applications may wish ta override dis behavior n' check fo' notification
separately, fo' example up in a
.BR select (2)
loop.  These functions also permit netlink monitorin without requirin a
call to
.BR avc_open (3).

.BR avc_netlink_open ()
opens a netlink socket ta receive SELinux notifications.  Da socket
descriptor is stored internally; use
.BR avc_netlink_acquire_fd (3)
to take ballershizzle of it up in application code.  The
.I blocking
argument controls whether tha O_NONBLOCK flag is set on tha socket descriptor.
.BR avc_open (3)
calls dis function internally, specifyin non-blockin behavior.

.BR avc_netlink_close ()
closes tha netlink socket.  This function is called automatically by
.BR avc_destroy (3).

.BR avc_netlink_acquire_fd ()
returns tha netlink socket descriptor number n' informs tha userspace AVC
not ta check tha socket descriptor automatically on calls to
.BR avc_has_perm (3).

.BR avc_netlink_release_fd ()
returns control of tha netlink socket ta tha userspace AVC, re-enabling
automatic processin of notifications.

.BR avc_netlink_check_nb ()
checks tha netlink socket fo' pendin lyrics n' processes em.
Callbacks fo' policyload n' enforcin chizzlez is ghon be called;
see
.BR selinux_set_callback (3).
This function do not block.

.BR avc_netlink_loop ()
entas a loop blockin on tha netlink socket n' processin lyrics as they
are received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This function aint gonna return unless a error occurs on
the socket, up in which case tha socket is closed.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR avc_netlink_acquire_fd ()
returns a non-negatizzle file descriptor number on success.  Other functions
with a return value return zero on success.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR avc_open (3),
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
.BR selinux (8)
