.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2004
.TH "avc_context_to_sid" "3" "27 May 2004" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
avc_context_to_sid, avc_sid_to_context, avc_get_initial_sid \- obtain n' manipulate SELinux securitizzle ID's
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/avc.h>
.sp
.BI "int avc_context_to_sid(security_context_t " ctx ", security_id_t *" sid ");"
.sp
.BI "int avc_sid_to_context(security_id_t " sid ", security_context_t *" ctx ");"
.sp
.BI "int avc_get_initial_sid(const char *" name ", security_id_t *" sid ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Securitizzle IDz (SID's) is opaque representationz of securitizzle contexts, managed by tha userspace AVC.

.BR avc_context_to_sid ()
returns a SID fo' tha given
.I context
in tha memory referenced by
.IR sid .

.BR avc_sid_to_context ()
returns a cold-ass lil copy of tha context represented by
.I sid
in tha memory referenced by
.IR ctx .
Da user must free tha copy with
.BR freecon (3).

.BR avc_get_initial_sid ()
returns a SID fo' tha kernel initial securitizzle identifier specified by 
.IR name .
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR avc_context_to_sid ()
and
.BR avc_sid_to_context ()
return zero on success.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOMEM
An attempt ta allocate memory failed.
.SH "NOTES"
Az of libselinux version 2.0.86, SIDz is no longer reference counted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  A SID is ghon be valid from tha time it is first obtained until tha next call to
.BR avc_destroy (3).
The
.BR sidget (3)
and
.BR sidput (3)
functions, formerly used ta adjust tha reference count, is no-ops n' is deprecated.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR avc_init (3),
.BR avc_has_perm (3),
.BR avc_cache_stats (3),
.BR avc_add_callback (3),
.BR getcon (3),
.BR freecon (3),
.BR selinux (8)
