.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2004
.TH "avc_cache_stats" "3" "27 May 2004" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
avc_cache_stats, avc_av_stats, avc_sid_stats \- obtain userspace SELinux AVC statistics
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/avc.h>
.sp
.BI "void avc_av_stats(void);"
.sp
.BI "void avc_sid_stats(void);"
.sp
.BI "void avc_cache_stats(struct avc_cache_stats *" stats ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da userspace AVC maintains two internal hash tables, one ta store securitizzle IDz n' one ta cache access decisions.

.BR avc_av_stats ()
and
.BR avc_sid_stats ()
produce log lyrics indicatin tha statuz of tha access decision n' SID tables, respectively.  Da lyrics contain tha number of entries up in tha table, number of hash buckets n' number of buckets used, n' maximum number of entries up in a single bucket.

.BR avc_cache_stats ()
populates a structure whose fieldz reflect cache activity:

.RS
.ta 4n 14n
.nf
struct avc_cache_stats {
	unsigned	entry_lookups;
	unsigned	entry_hits;
	unsigned	entry_misses;
	unsigned	entry_discards;
	unsigned	cav_lookups;
	unsigned	cav_hits;
	unsigned	cav_probes;
	unsigned	cav_misses;
};
.fi
.ta
.RE

.TP
.I entry_lookups
Number of queries made.
.TP
.I entry_hits
Number of times a thugged-out decision was found up in the
.I aeref
argument.
.TP
.I entry_misses
Number of times a thugged-out decision was not found up in the
.I aeref
argument.
.TP
.I entry_discards
Number of times a thugged-out decision was not found up in the
.I aeref
argument n' the
.I aeref
argument was non-NULL.
.TP
.I cav_lookups
Number of cache lookups.
.TP
.I cav_hits
Number of cache hits.
.TP
.I cav_misses
Number of cache misses.
.TP
.I cav_probes
Number of entries examined while searchin tha cache.
.
.SH "NOTES"
When tha cache is flushed as a result of a cold-ass lil call to
.BR avc_reset ()
or a policy chizzle notification,
the statistics returned by
.BR avc_cache_stats ()
are reset ta zero.  Da SID table, however, is left
unchanged.

When a policy chizzle notification is received, a cold-ass lil call to
.BR avc_av_stats ()
is made before tha cache is flushed.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR avc_init (3),
.BR avc_has_perm (3),
.BR avc_context_to_sid (3),
.BR avc_add_callback (3),
.BR selinux (8)
