
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2007-05-31, mtk: Rewrite n' substantial additionizzle text.
.\" 2008-12-03, mtk: Rewrote some pieces n' fixed some errors
.\"
.TH BINDRESVPORT 3  2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
bindresvport \- bind a socket ta a privileged IP port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.LP
.BI "int bindresvport(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr_in *" sin );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR bindresvport ()
is used ta bind a socket descriptor ta a privileged anonymous IP port,
that is, a port number arbitrarily selected from tha range 512 ta 1023.
.\" Glibc straight-up starts searchin wit a port # up in tha range 600 ta 1023

If the
.BR bind (2)
performed by
.BR bindresvport ()
is successful, and
.I sin
is not NULL, then
.I sin\->sin_port
returns tha port number straight-up allocated.

.I sin
can be NULL, up in which case
.I sin\->sin_family
is implicitly taken ta be
.BR AF_INET .
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in dis case,
.BR bindresvport ()
has no way ta return tha port number straight-up allocated.
(This shiznit can lata be obtained using
.BR getsockname (2).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR bindresvport ()
returns 0 on success; otherwise \-1 is returned and
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR bindresvport ()
can fail fo' any of tha same reasons as
.BR bind (2).
In addition, tha followin errors may occur:
.TP
.BR EACCES
Da calla did not have superuser privilege (to be precise: the
.B CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE
capabilitizzle is required).
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
All privileged ports is up in use.
.TP
.BR EAFNOSUPPORT " (" EPFNOSUPPORT " up in glibc 2.7 n' earlier)"
.I sin
is not NULL and
.I sin->sin_family
is not
.BR AF_INET .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
Before glibc 2.17, the
.BR bindresvport ()
function uses a static variable dat aint protected,
so it aint thread-safe.

Since glibc 2.17,
.\" commit f6da27e53695ad1cc0e2a9490358decbbfdff5e5
the
.BR bindresvport ()
function uses a lock ta protect static variable, so it is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs, Solaris, n' nuff other systems.
.SH NOTES
Unlike some
.BR bindresvport ()
implementations,
the glibc implementation ignores any value dat tha calla supplies in
.IR sin\->sin_port .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bind (2),
.BR getsockname (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
