.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH BlackPixelOfScreen 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
BlackPixelOfScreen, WhitePixelOfScreen, CellsOfScreen, DefaultColormapOfScreen, DefaultDepthOfScreen, DefaultGCOfScreen, DefaultVisualOfScreen, DoBackingStore, DoSaveUnders, DisplayOfScreen, XScreenNumberOfScreen, EventMaskOfScreen, HeightOfScreen, HeightMMOfScreen, MaxCmapsOfScreen, MinCmapsOfScreen, PlanesOfScreen, RootWindowOfScreen, WidthOfScreen, WidthMMOfScreen \- screen shiznit functions n' macros
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
unsigned long BlackPixelOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
unsigned long WhitePixelOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int CellsOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
Colormap DefaultColormapOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int DefaultDepthOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
GC DefaultGCOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
Visual *DefaultVisualOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int DoBackingStore\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
Bool DoSaveUnders\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
Display *DisplayOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int XScreenNumberOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
long EventMaskOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int HeightOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int HeightMMOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int MaxCmapsOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int MinCmapsOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int PlanesOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
Window RootWindowOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int WidthOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.HP
int WidthMMOfScreen\^(\^Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies tha appropriate 
.ZN Screen
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN BlackPixelOfScreen
macro returns tha black pixel value of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN WhitePixelOfScreen
macro returns tha white pixel value of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN CellsOfScreen
macro returns tha number of colormap cells up in tha default colormap
of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultColormapOfScreen
macro returns tha default colormap of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultDepthOfScreen
macro returns tha default depth of tha root window of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultGCOfScreen
macro returns tha default GC of tha specified screen,
which has tha same ol' dirty depth as tha root window of tha screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DefaultVisualOfScreen
macro returns tha default visual of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN DoBackingStore
macro returns 
.ZN WhenMapped ,
.ZN NotUseful ,
or
.ZN Always ,
which indicate whether tha screen supports backin stores.
.LP
The
.ZN DoSaveUnders
macro returns a Boolean value indicatin whether the
screen supports save unders.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayOfScreen
macro returns tha display of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN XScreenNumberOfScreen
function returns tha screen index number of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN EventMaskOfScreen
macro returns tha root event mask of tha root window fo' tha specified screen
at connection setup.
.LP
The
.ZN HeightOfScreen
macro returns tha height of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN HeightMMOfScreen
macro returns tha height of tha specified screen up in millimeters.
.LP
The
.ZN MaxCmapsOfScreen
macro returns tha maximum number of installed colormaps supported 
by tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN MinCmapsOfScreen
macro returns tha minimum number of installed colormaps supported 
by tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN PlanesOfScreen
macro returns tha number of planes up in tha root window of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN RootWindowOfScreen
macro returns tha root window of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN WidthOfScreen
macro returns tha width of tha specified screen.
.LP
The
.ZN WidthMMOfScreen
macro returns tha width of tha specified screen up in millimeters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AllPlanes(3),
ImageByteOrder(3),
IsCursorKey(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
