.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2010,2011 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: term_variables.3x,v 1.3 2011/12/17 23:31:50 tom Exp $
.TH term_variablez 3X ""
.ds n 5
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBSP\fP,
\fBacs_map\fP,
\fBboolcodes\fP,
\fBboolfnames\fP,
\fBboolnames\fP,
\fBcur_term\fP,
\fBnumcodes\fP,
\fBnumfnames\fP,
\fBnumnames\fP,
\fBstrcodes\fP,
\fBstrfnames\fP,
\fBstrnames\fP,
\fBttytype\fP
\- \fBcurses\fR terminfo global variables
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <term.h>\fR
.PP
\fBchtype acs_map[];\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * boolcodes;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * boolfnames;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * boolnames;\fR
.br
\fBTERMINAL * cur_term;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * numcodes;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * numfnames;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * numnames;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * strcodes;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * strfnames;\fR
.br
\fBNCURSES_CONST char * const * strnames;\fR
.br
\fBchar ttytype[];\fR
.br
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page summarizes variablez provided by tha \fBcurses\fP library's
low-level terminfo intercourse.
A mo' complete description is given up in tha \fBcurs_terminfo\fP(3X) manual page.
.PP
Dependin on tha configuration, these may be actual variables,
or macros (see \fBcurs_threads\fR(3X))
which provide read-only access ta \fIcurses\fPz state.
In either case, applications should treat dem as read-only ta avoid
confusin tha library.
.SS Alternate Characta Set Mapping
Afta initializin tha curses or terminfo intercourses,
the \fBacs_map\fP array holdz shiznit used ta translate cells
with tha \fBA_ALTCHARSET\fP vizzle attribute tha fuck into line-drawin characters.
.PP
Da encodin of tha shiznit up in dis array has chizzled periodically.
Application pimpers need only know dat it is used fo' tha "ACS_"
constants up in <curses.h>.
.PP
Da comparable data fo' tha wide-characta library be a private variable.
.SS Current Terminal Data
Afta initializin tha curses or terminfo intercourses,
the \fBcur_term\fP gotz nuff data describin tha current terminal.
This variable be also set as a side-effect of \fBset_term\fP(3X)
and \fBdelscreen\fP(3X).
.PP
It be possible ta save a value of \fBcur_term\fP fo' subsequent
use as a parameta ta \fBset_term\fP, fo' switchin between screens.
Alternatively, one can save tha return value from \fBnewterm\fP
or \fBsetupterm\fP ta reuse up in \fBset_term\fP.
.SS Terminfo Names
Da \fBtic\fP(1) n' \fBinfocmp\fP(1) programs use lookup tablez for
the long n' short namez of terminfo capabilities,
as well as tha correspondin names fo' termcap capabilities.
These is available ta other applications,
though tha hash-tablez is not available.
.PP
Da long terminfo capabilitizzle names bust a "l" (ell) up in they names:
boolfnames
numfnames
strfnames
.PP
These is tha short names fo' terminfo capabilities:
boolnames,
numnames, and
strnames.
.PP
These is tha correspondin names used fo' termcap descriptions:
boolcodes,
numcodes, and
strcodes.
.SS Terminal Type
On initialization of tha curses or terminfo intercourses,
\fBsetupterm\fP copies tha terminal name ta tha array \fBttytype\fP.
.SH NOTES
Da low-level terminfo intercourse is initialized rockin \fBsetupterm\fR(3X).
Da upper-level curses intercourse uses tha low-level terminfo intercourse,
internally.
.SH PORTABILITY
X/Open Curses do not describe any of these except fo' \fBcur_term\fP.
(Da inclusion of \fBcur_term\fP appears ta be a oversight,
since other comparable low-level shiznit is omitted by X/Open).
.PP
Other implementations may have comparable variables.
Some implementations provide tha variablez up in they libraries,
but omit dem from tha header files.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_terminfo\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_threads\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
