
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH BSD_SIGNAL 3 2009-03-15 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
bsd_signal \- signal handlin wit BSD semantics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE" "       /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.B typedef void (*sighandlez_t)(int);
.sp
.BI "sighandlez_t bsd_signal(int " signum ", sighandlez_t " handlez );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR bsd_signal ()
function takes tha same ol' dirty arguments, n' performs tha same ol' dirty task, as
.BR signal (2).

Da difference between tha two is that
.BR bsd_signal ()
is guaranteed ta provide reliable signal semantics, dat is:
a) tha disposizzle of tha signal aint reset ta tha default
when tha handlez is invoked;
b) delivery of further instancez of tha signal is blocked while
the signal handlez is executing; and
c) if tha handlez interrupts a funky-ass blockin system call,
then tha system call be automatically restarted.
A portable application cannot rely on
.BR signal (2)
to provide these guarantees.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR bsd_signal ()
function returns tha previous value of tha signal handlez, or
.B SIG_ERR
on error.
.SH ERRORS
As for
.BR signal (2).
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.2BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justification of
.BR bsd_signal (),
recommendin tha use of
.BR sigaction (2)
instead.
.SH NOTES
Use of
.BR bsd_signal ()
should be avoided; use
.BR sigaction (2)
instead.

On modern Linux systems,
.BR bsd_signal ()
and
.BR signal (2)
are equivalent.
But on olda systems,
.BR signal (2)
provided unreliable signal semantics; see
.BR signal (2)
for details.

Da use of
.I sighandlez_t
is a GNU extension;
this type is defined only if the
.B _GNU_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sysv_signal (3),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
