.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:41:16 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:35:16 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH BSEARCH 3  2003-11-01 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
bsearch \- binary search of a sorted array
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void *bsearch(const void *" key ", const void *" base ,
.BI "              size_t " nmemb ", size_t " size ,
.BI "              int (*" compar ")(const void *, const void *));"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR bsearch ()
function searches a array of
.I nmemb
objects,
the initial gangmember of which is pointed ta by
.IR base ,
for a member
that matches tha object pointed ta by
.IR key .
Da size of each member
of tha array is specified by
.IR size .
.PP
Da contentz of tha array should be up in ascendin sorted order according
to tha comparison function referenced by
.IR compar .
The
.I compar
routine is sposed ta fuckin have two arguments which point ta the
.I key
object n' ta a array member, up in dat order, n' should return a integer
less than, equal to, or pimped outa than zero if the
.I key
object is found,
respectively, ta be less than, ta match, or be pimped outa than tha array
member.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR bsearch ()
function returns a pointa ta a matchin gangmember of the
array, or NULL if no match is found.
If there be multiple elements that
match tha key, tha element returned is unspecified.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001, C89, C99.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da example below first sorts a array of structures using
.BR qsort (3),
then retrieves desired elements using
.BR bsearch ().
.sp
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>

struct mi {
    int nr;
    char *name;
} months[] = {
    { 1, "jan" }, { 2, "feb" }, { 3, "mar" }, { 4, "apr" },
    { 5, "may" }, { 6, "jun" }, { 7, "jul" }, { 8, "aug" },
    { 9, "sep" }, {10, "oct" }, {11, "nov" }, {12, "dec" }
};

#define nr_of_months (sizeof(months)/sizeof(months[0]))

static int
compmi(const void *m1, const void *m2)
{
    struct mi *mi1 = (struct mi *) m1;
    struct mi *mi2 = (struct mi *) m2;
    return strcmp(mi1\->name, mi2\->name);
}

int
main(int argc, char **argv)
{
    int i;

    qsort(months, nr_of_months, sizeof(struct mi), compmi);
    fo' (i = 1; i < argc; i++) {
        struct mi key, *res;
        key.name = argv[i];
        res = bsearch(&key, months, nr_of_months,
                      sizeof(struct mi), compmi);
        if (res == NULL)
            printf("\(aq%s\(aq: unknown month\en", argv[i]);
        else
            printf("%s: month #%d\en", res\->name, res\->nr);
    }
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.\" dis example referred ta up in qsort.3
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hsearch (3),
.BR lsearch (3),
.BR qsort (3),
.BR tsearch (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
