.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-04-12, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-24, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-01-20, Walta Harms
.TH BSTRING 3  2002-01-20 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
bcmp, bcopy, bzero, memccpy, memchr, memcmp, memcpy, memfrob, memmem,
memmove, memset \- byte strang operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int bcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void bcopy(const void *" src ", void *" dest ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void bzero(void *" s ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memccpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "int memcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memcpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memfrob(void *" s ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memmem(const void *" needle ", size_t " needlelen ,
.BI "             const void *" haystack ", size_t " haystacklen );
.sp
.BI "void *memmove(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memset(void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da byte strang functions big-ass up operations on strings (byte arrays)
that is not necessarily null-terminated.
See tha individual playa pages
for descriptionz of each function.
.SH NOTES
Da functions
.BR bcmp (),
.BR bcopy ()
and
.BR bzero ()
are obsolete.
Use
.BR memcmp (),
.BR memcpy ()
and
.BR memset ()
instead.
.\" Da oldschool functions is not even available on some non-GNU/Linux systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR bzero (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memfrob (3),
.BR memmem (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR memset (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
