
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH BTOWC 3 2011-09-22 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
btowc \- convert single byte ta wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t btowc(int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR btowc ()
function converts \fIc\fP,
interpreted as a multibyte sequence
of length 1, startin up in tha initial shift state, ta a wide characta and
returns dat shit.
If \fIc\fP is
.B EOF
or not a valid multibyte sequence of length 1,
the
.BR btowc ()
function returns
.BR WEOF .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR btowc ()
function returns tha wide character
converted from tha single byte \fIc\fP.
If \fIc\fP is
.B EOF
or not a valid multibyte sequence of length 1,
it returns
.BR WEOF .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR btowc ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
This function should never be used.
It do not work fo' encodings which have
state, n' unnecessarily treats single bytes differently from multibyte
sequences.
Use either
.BR mbtowc (3)
or tha thread-safe
.BR mbrtowc (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mbrtowc (3),
.BR mbtowc (3),
.BR wctob (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
