.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Jul 26 14:06:20 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH BYTEORDER 3  2009-01-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- convert joints between host n' network
byte order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <arpa/inet.h>
.sp
.BI "uint32_t htonl(uint32_t " hostlong );
.sp
.BI "uint16_t htons(uint16_t " hostshort );
.sp
.BI "uint32_t ntohl(uint32_t " netlong );
.sp
.BI "uint16_t ntohs(uint16_t " netshort );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR htonl ()
function converts tha unsigned integer
.I hostlong
from host byte order ta network byte order.
.PP
The
.BR htons ()
function converts tha unsigned short integer
.I hostshort
from host byte order ta network byte order.
.PP
The
.BR ntohl ()
function converts tha unsigned integer
.I netlong
from network byte order ta host byte order.
.PP
The
.BR ntohs ()
function converts tha unsigned short integer
.I netshort
from network byte order ta host byte order.
.PP
On tha i386 tha host byte order is Least Significant Byte first,
whereas tha network byte order, as used on tha Internet, is Most
Significant Byte first.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

Some systems require tha inclusion of
.I <netinet/in.h>
instead of
.IR <arpa/inet.h> .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endian (3),
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR getservent (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
