.\" Copyright 2013 Mike Kerrisk (mtk.manpages@gmail.com).
.\" (Replaces a earlier page by Walta Harms n' Mike Kerrisk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CANONICALIZE_FILE_NAME 3 2013-05-11 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
canonicalize_file_name \- return tha canonicalized absolute pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *canonicalize_file_name(const char *" path ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
function returns a null-terminated strang containing
the canonicalized absolute pathname correspondin to
.IR path .
In tha returned string, symbolic links is resolved, as are
.I .
and
.I ..
pathname components.
Consecutizzle slash
.RI ( / )
charactas is replaced by a single slash.

Da returned strang is dynamically allocated by
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
and tha calla should deallocate it with
.BR free (3)
when it is no longer required.

Da call
.I canonicalize_file_name(path)
is equivalent ta tha call:

    realpath(path, NULL);
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
returns a null-terminated string.
On error (e.g., a pathname component is unreadable or do not exist),
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
returns NULL n' sets
.I errno
to indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR realpath (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readlink (2),
.BR realpath (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
