
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980809
.TH CATGETS 3 2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
catgets \- git message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nl_types.h>

.BI "char *catgets(nl_catd " catalog ", int " set_number \
", int " message_number ,
.BI "              const char *" message );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR catgets ()
readz tha message
.IR message_number ,
in set
.IR set_number ,
from tha message catalog identified by
.IR catalog ,
where
.I catalog
is a cold-ass lil catalog descriptor returned from a earlier call to
.BR catopen (3).
Da fourth argument,
.IR message ,
points ta a thugged-out default message strang which is ghon be returned by
.BR catgets ()
if tha identified message catalog aint currently available.
The
message-text is contained up in a internal buffer area n' should be copied by
the application if it is ta be saved or modified.
Da return strang is
always terminated wit a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success,
.BR catgets ()
returns a pointa ta a internal buffer area
containin tha null-terminated message string.
On failure,
.BR catgets ()
returns tha value
.IR message .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
These functions is available only up in libc.so.4.4.4c n' above.
Da Jan 1987 X/Open Portabilitizzle Guide specifies a mo' subtle
error return:
.I message
is returned if tha message catalog specified by
.I catalog
is not available, while a empty strang is returned
when tha message catalog be available but do not contain
the specified message.
These two possible error returns seem ta be discarded up in SUSv2
in favor of always returning
.IR message .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catopen (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
