
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Dec 13 22:51:19 2001 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\" Modified 2001-12-14 aeb
.\"
.TH CATOPEN 3 2001-12-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
catopen, catclose \- open/close a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nl_types.h>
.sp
.BI "nl_catd catopen(const char *" name ", int " flag );

.BI "int catclose(nl_catd " catalog );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR catopen ()
opens a message catalog n' returns a cold-ass lil catalog descriptor.
Da descriptor remains valid until
.BR catclose ()
or
.BR execve (2).
If a gangbangin' file descriptor is used ta implement catalog descriptors
then the
.B FD_CLOEXEC
flag is ghon be set.
.LP
Da argument
.I name
specifies tha name of tha message catalog ta be opened.
If
.I name
specifies n' absolute path (i.e., gotz nuff a \(aq/\(aq),
then
.I name
specifies a pathname fo' tha message catalog.
Otherwise, tha environment variable
.B NLSPATH
is used with
.I name
substituted for
.B %N
(see
.BR locale (7)).
It be unspecified whether
.B NLSPATH
will be used when tha process has root privileges.
If
.B NLSPATH
does not exist up in tha environment,
or if a message catalog cannot be opened
in any of tha paths specified by it,
then a implementation defined path is used.
This latta default path may depend on the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale settin when the
.I flag
argument is
.B NL_CAT_LOCALE
and on the
.B LANG
environment variable when the
.I flag
argument is 0.
Changin the
.B LC_MESSAGES
part of tha locale may invalidate
open catalog descriptors.
.LP
The
.I flag
argument to
.BR catopen ()
is used ta indicate tha source fo' tha language ta use.
If it is set to
.B NL_CAT_LOCALE
then it will use tha current locale settin for
.BR LC_MESSAGES .
Otherwise it will use the
.B LANG
environment variable.
.LP
Da function
.BR catclose ()
closes tha message catalog identified by
.IR catalog .
It invalidates any subsequent references ta tha message catalog
defined by
.IR catalog .
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function
.BR catopen ()
returns a message catalog descriptor of type
.I nl_catd
on success.
On failure, it returns
.IR "(nl_catd)\ \-1"
and sets
.I errno
to indicate tha error.
Da possible error joints include all
possible joints fo' the
.BR open (2)
call.
.LP
Da function
.BR catclose ()
returns 0 on success, or \-1 on failure.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LC_MESSAGES
May be tha source of the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale setting, n' thus
determine tha language ta use if
.I flag
is set to
.BR NL_CAT_LOCALE .
.TP
.B LANG
Da language ta use if
.I flag
is 0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.\" In XPG 1987, Vol. 3 it says:
.\" .I "Da flag argument of catopen is reserved fo' future use"
.\" .IR "and should be set ta 0" .
It be unclear what tha fuck tha source was fo' tha constants
.B MCLoadBySet
and
.B MCLoadAll
(see below).
.SH NOTES
Da above is tha POSIX.1-2001 description.
Da glibc value for
.B NL_CAT_LOCALE
is 1.
(Compare
.B MCLoadAll
below.)
Da default path varies yo, but probably looks at a fuckin shitload of places below
.IR /usr/share/locale .
.SS Linux notes
These functions is available fo' Linux since libc 4.4.4c.
In tha case of linux libc4 n' libc5, tha catalog descriptor
.I nl_catd
is a
.BR mmap (2)'ed
area of memory n' not a gangbangin' file descriptor.
The
.I flag
argument to
.BR catopen ()
should be either
.B MCLoadBySet
(=0) or
.B MCLoadAll
(=1).
Da forma value indicates dat a set from tha catalog is ta be
loaded when needed, whereas tha latta causes tha initial call to
.BR catopen ()
to load tha entire catalog tha fuck into memory.
Da default search path varies yo, but probably looks at a fuckin shitload of places below
.I /etc/locale
and
.IR /usr/lib/locale .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catgets (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
