
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" chizzled `square root' tha fuck into `cube root' - aeb, 950919
.\"
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 Walta Harms
.\" (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.TH CBRT 3  2010-09-20 "GNU"  "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
cbrt, cbrtf, cbrtl \- cube root function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double cbrt(double " x );
.br
.BI "float cbrtf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double cbrtl(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR cbrt ():
.br
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.BR cbrtf (),
.BR cbrtl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOUCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR cbrt ()
function returns tha (real) cube root of
.IR x .
This function cannot fail; every last muthafuckin representable real value has a
representable real cube root.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return tha cube root of
.IR x .

If
.I x
is +0, \-0, positizzle infinity, wack infinity, or NaN,
.I x
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.\" .BR cbrt ()
.\" was a GNU extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is now a C99 requirement.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pow (3),
.BR sqrt (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
