.TH "cfg_t" 3 "21 Feb 2010" "Version 2.7" "confuse" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
cfg_t \- Data structure holdin shiznit on some 'section'.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <confuse.h>\fP
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "cfg_flag_t \fBflags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAny flags passed ta \fBcfg_init()\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDa name of dis section, tha root section returned from \fBcfg_init()\fP be always named 'root'. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_opt_t\fP * \fBopts\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArray of options. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBtitle\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIOptionizzle title fo' dis section, only set if CFGF_TITLE flag is set. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBfilename\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIName of tha file bein parsed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBline\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILine number up in tha config file. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_errfunc_t\fP \fBerrfunc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThis function (if set wit cfg_set_error_function) is called fo' any error message. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Data structure holdin shiznit on some 'section'. 

Sections can be nested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time fo' realz. A section has a list of options (strings, numbers, booleans or other sections) grouped together n' shit. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBftpconf.c\fP, \fBreread.c\fP, n' \fBsimple.c\fP.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBcfg_errfunc_t\fP \fBcfg_t::errfunc\fP"
.PP
This function (if set wit cfg_set_error_function) is called fo' any error message. 
.PP

.PP
Referenced by cfg_error(), cfg_init(), cfg_set_error_function(), n' cfg_setopt().

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen fo' confuse from tha source code.
