.TH "cfg_opt_t" 3 "21 Feb 2010" "Version 2.7" "confuse" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
cfg_opt_t \- Data structure holdin shiznit bout a option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <confuse.h>\fP
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDa name of tha option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_type_t\fP \fBtype\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType of option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned int \fBnvalues\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber of joints parsed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_value_t\fP ** \fBvalues\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArray of found joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "cfg_flag_t \fBflags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlags. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_opt_t\fP * \fBsubopts\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISuboptions (only applies ta sections). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_defvalue_t\fP \fBdef\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDefault value. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_func_t\fP \fBfunc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFunction callback fo' CFGT_FUNC options. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBsimple_value\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointa ta user-specified variable ta store simple joints (created wit tha CFG_SIMPLE_* initializers). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_callback_t\fP \fBparsecb\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIValue parsin callback function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_validate_callback_t\fP \fBvalidcb\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIValue valipimpin callback function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcfg_print_func_t\fP \fBpf\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIprint callback function \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Data structure holdin shiznit bout a option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

Da value(s) is stored as a array of fundamenstrual joints (strings, numbers, etc). 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBftpconf.c\fP, \fBreread.c\fP, n' \fBsimple.c\fP.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen fo' confuse from tha source code.
