
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Additions, aeb, 2001-10-17.
.TH CLEARENV 3  2010-10-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
clearenv \- clear tha environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.B "int clearenv(void);"
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR clearenv ():
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR clearenv ()
function clears tha environment of all name-value
pairs n' sets tha value of tha external variable
.I environ
to NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR clearenv ()
function returns zero on success, n' a nonzero
value on failure.
.\" Most versionz of UNIX return -1 on error, or do not even have errors.
.\" Glibc info n' tha Watcom C library document "a nonzero value".
.SH VERSIONS
Not up in libc4, libc5.
In glibc since glibc 2.0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Various UNIX variants (DG/UX, HP-UX, QNX, ...).
POSIX.9 (bindings fo' FORTRAN77).
POSIX.1-1996 did not accept
.BR clearenv ()
and
.BR putenv (3),
but chizzled its mind n' scheduled these functions fo' some
lata issue of dis standard (cf. B.4.6.1).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat POSIX.1-2001
addz only
.BR putenv (3),
and rejected
.BR clearenv ().
.SH NOTES
Used up in security-conscious applications.
If it is unavailable
the assignment
.nf

    environ = NULL;

.fi
will probably do.
.LP
Da DG/UX n' Tru64 playa pages write: If
.I environ
has been modified by anythang other than the
.BR putenv (3),
.BR getenv (3),
or
.BR clearenv ()
functions, then
.BR clearenv ()
will return a error n' tha process environment will remain unchanged.
.\" .LP
.\" HP-UX has a ENOMEM error return.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR environ (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
