.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                        *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_variables.3x,v 1.4 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_variablez 3X ""
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.ds n 5
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBCOLORS\fR,
\fBCOLOR_PAIRS\fR,
\fBCOLS\fR,
\fBESCDELAY\fR,
\fBLINES\fR,
\fBTABSIZE\fR,
\fBcurscr\fR,
\fBnewscr\fR,
\fBstdscr\fR
\- \fBcurses\fR global variables
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.PP
\fBint COLOR_PAIRS;\fR
.br
\fBint COLORS;\fR
.br
\fBint COLS;\fR
.br
\fBint ESCDELAY;\fR
.br
\fBint LINES;\fR
.br
\fBint TABSIZE;\fR
.br
\fBWINDOW * curscr;\fR
.br
\fBWINDOW * newscr;\fR
.br
\fBWINDOW * stdscr;\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page summarizes variablez provided by tha \fBcurses\fP library.
A mo' complete description is given up in tha \fBcurses\fP(3X) manual page.
.PP
Dependin on tha configuration, these may be actual variables,
or macros (see \fBcurs_threads\fR(3X))
which provide read-only access ta \fIcurses\fPz state.
In either case, applications should treat dem as read-only ta avoid
confusin tha library.
.SS COLOR_PAIRS
Afta initializin curses, dis variable gotz nuff tha number of color pairs
which tha terminal can support.
Usually tha number of color pairs is ghon be tha thang \fBCOLORS\fP*\fBCOLORS\fP,
however dis aint always true:
.bP
a few terminals use HLS colors, which do not follow dis rule
.bP
terminals supportin a big-ass number of flavas is limited by tha number
of color pairs dat can be represented up in a \fIsigned short\fP value.
.SS COLORS
Afta initializin curses, dis variable gotz nuff tha number of colors
which tha terminal can support.
.SS COLS
Afta initializin curses, dis variable gotz nuff tha width of tha screen,
i.e., tha number of columns.
.SS ESCDELAY
This variable holdz tha number of millisecondz ta wait afta readin an
escape character,
to distinguish between a individual escape characta entered on the
keyboard from escape sequences busted by cursor- n' function-keys
(see curses(3X).
.SS LINES
Afta initializin curses, dis variable gotz nuff tha height of tha screen,
i.e., tha number of lines.
.SS TABSIZE
This variable holdz tha number of columns used by tha \fIcurses\fP library
when convertin a tab characta ta spaces as it addz tha tab ta a window
(see curs_addch(3X).
.SS Da Current Screen
This implementation of curses uses a special window \fBcurscr\fP to
record its thugged-out shiznit ta tha terminal screen.
.SS Da New Screen
This implementation of curses uses a special window \fBnewscr\fP to
hold thugged-out shiznit ta tha terminal screen before applyin dem ta \fBcurscr\fP.
.SS Da Standard Screen
Upon initializin curses,
a default window called \fBstdscr\fP,
which is tha size of tha terminal screen, is pimped.
Many curses functions use dis window.
.SH NOTES
Da curses library is initialized rockin either \fBinitscr\fR(3X),
or \fBnewterm\fR(3X).
.PP
If \fBcurses\fP is configured ta use separate curses/terminfo libraries,
most of these variablez reside up in tha curses library.
.SH PORTABILITY
ESCDELAY n' TABSIZE is extensions,
not provided up in most other implementationz of curses.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_threads\fR(3X),
\fBterm_variables\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(3X),
\fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
