.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:53:02 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" FIXME Many mo' joints fo' 'name' is supported, a shitload of which
.\"	are documented under 'info confstr'.
.\"	See <bits/confname.h> fo' tha rest.
.\"	These should all be added ta dis page.
.\"	See also tha POSIX.1-2001 justification of confstr()
.TH CONFSTR 3  2012-05-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
confstr \- git configuration dependent strang variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t confstr(int " "name" ", char *" buf ", size_t " len );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR confstr ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 2 || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR confstr ()
gets tha value of configuration-dependent strang variables.
.PP
The
.I name
argument is tha system variable ta be queried.
Da followin variablez is supported:
.TP
.BR _CS_GNU_LIBC_VERSION " (GNU C library only; since glibc 2.3.2)"
A strang which identifies tha GNU C library version on dis system
(e.g, "glibc 2.3.4").
.TP
.BR _CS_GNU_LIBPTHREAD_VERSION " (GNU C library only; since glibc 2.3.2)"
A strang which identifies tha POSIX implementation supplied by this
C library (e.g, "NPTL 2.3.4" or "linuxthreads-0.10").
.TP
.B _CS_PATH
A value fo' the
.B PATH
variable which indicates where all tha POSIX.2 standard utilitizzles can
be found.
.PP
If
.I buf
is not NULL and
.I len
is not zero,
.BR confstr ()
copies tha value of tha strang to
.I buf
truncated to
.I len \- 1
bytes if necessary, wit a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq) as terminator.
This can be detected by comparin tha return value of
.BR confstr ()
against
.IR len .
.PP
If
.I len
is zero and
.I buf
is NULL,
.BR confstr ()
just returns tha value as defined below.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If
.I name
is a valid configuration variable,
.BR confstr ()
returns tha number of bytes (includin tha terminatin null byte)
that would be required ta hold tha entire value of dat variable.
This value may be pimped outa than
.IR len ,
which means dat tha value in
.I buf
is truncated.

If
.I name
is a valid configuration variable,
but dat variable aint gots a value, then
.BR confstr ()
returns 0.
If
.I name
does not correspond ta a valid configuration variable,
.BR confstr ()
returns 0, and
.I errno
is set to
.BR EINVAL .
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
If tha value of
.I name
is invalid.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin code fragment determines tha path where ta find
the POSIX.2 system utilities:
.br
.nf
.in +4n

char *pathbuf;
size_t n;

n = confstr(_CS_PATH, NULL, (size_t) 0);
pathbuf = malloc(n);
if (pathbuf == NULL)
    abort();
confstr(_CS_PATH, pathbuf, n);
.in
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR exec (3),
.BR system (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
