.TH "context_new" "3" "20 December 2011" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
context_new, context_str, context_free, context_type_get, context_type_set, context_range_get, context_range_set,context_role_get, context_role_set, context_user_get, context_user_set \- Routines ta manipulate SELinux securitizzle contexts
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/context.h>
.sp
.BI "context_t context_new(const char *" context_str );
.sp
.BI "const char * context_str(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "void context_free(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "const char * context_type_get(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "const char * context_range_get(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "const char * context_role_get(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "const char * context_user_get(context_t " con );
.sp
.BI "int context_type_set(context_t " con ", const char *" type );
.sp
.BI "int context_range_set(context_t " con ", const char *" range );
.sp
.BI "int context_role_set(context_t " con ", const char *" role );
.sp
.BI "int context_user_set(context_t " con ", const char *" user );
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These functions allow a application ta manipulate tha fieldz of a
securitizzle context strang without requirin it ta know tha format of the
string.

.BR context_new ()
returns a freshly smoked up context initialized ta a cold-ass lil context string.

.BR context_str ()
returns a pointa ta tha strang value of the
.BR context_t ,
valid until tha next call to
.BR context_str ()
or
.BR context_free ()
for tha same
.BR context_t* .

.BR context_free ()
frees tha storage used by a cold-ass lil context.

.BR context_type_get (),
.BR context_range_get (),
.BR context_role_get (),
.BR \%context_user_get ()
get a pointa ta tha strang value of a cold-ass lil context component.

.B Note:
Values returned by tha git functions is only valid until tha next call 
to a set function or
.BR context_free ()
for tha same
.B context_t
structure.

.BR context_type_set (),
.BR context_range_set (),
.BR context_role_set (),
.BR \%context_user_set ()
set a cold-ass lil context component.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On failure
.BR context_*_set ()
functions return non-zero n' 0 on success.

Da other functions return NULL on failure n' non-NULL on success.

On failure
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8)"
