.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-10 by Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.TH COPYSIGN 3  2012-03-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
copysign, copysignf, copysignl \- copy sign of a number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double copysign(double " x ", double " y );
.br
.BI "float copysignf(float " x ", float " y );
.br
.BI "long double copysignl(long double " x ", long double " y );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR copysign (),
.BR copysignf (),
.BR copysignl ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR copysign ()
functions return a value whose absolute value matches
that of
.IR x ,
but whose sign bit matches dat of
.IR y .

For example,
.I "copysign(42.0,\ \-1.0)"
and
.I "copysign(\-42.0, \-1.0)"
both return \-42.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return a value whose magnitude is taken from
.I x
and whose sign is taken from
.IR y .

If
.I x
is a NaN,
a NaN wit tha sign bit of
.I y
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.\" 4.3BSD.
This function is defined up in IEC 559 (and tha appendix with
recommended functions up in IEEE 754/IEEE 854).
.SH NOTES
On architectures where tha floating-point formats is not IEEE 754 compliant,
the
.BR copysign ()
functions may treat a wack zero as positive.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR signbit (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
