.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:51:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH CTERMID 3  2013-07-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ctermid \- git controllin terminal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.\" POSIX also requires dis function ta be declared up in <unistd.h>,
.\" n' glibc do so if suitable feature test macros is defined.
.sp
.BI "char *ctermid(char *" "s" );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR ctermid ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.\" From <unistd.h>: _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ctermid ()
returns a strang which is tha pathname fo' tha current
controllin terminal fo' dis process.
If
.I s
is NULL,
a static buffer is used, otherwise
.I s
points ta a funky-ass buffer used ta hold tha terminal pathname.
Da symbolic constant
.B L_ctermid
is tha maximum number of charactas up in tha returned pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da pointa ta tha pathname.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR ctermid ()
function is thread-safe wit exceptions.
It aint thread-safe if called wit a NULL parameter.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Svr4, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
Da path returned may not uniquely identify tha controlling
terminal; it may, fo' example, be
.IR /dev/tty .
.PP
It aint assured dat tha program can open tha terminal.
.\" up in glibc 2.3.x, x >= 4, tha glibc headaz threw a error
.\" if ctermid() was given a argument; fixed up in 2.4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttyname (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
