.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_getcchar.3x,v 1.16 2012/11/03 23:03:59 tom Exp $
.TH curs_getcchar 3X ""
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.SH NAME
\fBgetcchar\fP,
\fBsetcchar\fP \- Git a wide characta strang n' rendizzle from a \fBcchar_t\fP or set a \fBcchar_t\fP from a wide-characta string
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint getcchar(\fP
.br
.B "        const cchar_t *\fIwcval\fP,"
.br
.B "        wchar_t *\fIwch\fP,"
.br
.B "        attr_t *\fIattrs\fP,"
.br
.B "        short *\fIcolor_pair\fP,"
.br
.B "        void *\fIopts\fP );"
.sp
.B "int setcchar("
.br
.B "        cchar_t *\fIwcval\fP,"
.br
.B "        const wchar_t *\fIwch\fP,"
.br
.B "        const attr_t \fIattrs\fP,"
.br
.B "        short \fIcolor_pair\fP,"
.br
.B "        void *\fIopts\fP );"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da \fBgetcchar\fP function gets a wide-characta string
and rendizzle from a \fBcchar_t\fP argument.
When \fIwch\fP aint a null pointer,
the \fBgetcchar\fP function do tha following:
.bP
Extracts shiznit from a \fBcchar_t\fP value \fIwcval\fP
.bP
Stores tha characta attributes up in tha location pointed ta by \fIattrs\fP
.bP
Stores tha color-pair up in tha location pointed ta by \fIcolor_pair\fP
.bP
Stores tha wide-characta string,
charactas referenced by \fIwcval\fP, tha fuck into tha array pointed ta by \fIwch\fP.
.PP
When
\fIwch\fP
is a null pointer, the
\fBgetcchar\fP
function do tha following:
.bP
Obtains tha number of wide charactas pointed ta by \fIwcval\fP
.bP
Do not chizzle tha data referenced by
\fIattrs\fP
or
\fIcolor_pair\fP
.PP
Da \fBsetcchar\fP function initializes tha location pointed ta by \fIwcval\fP
by using:
.bP
Da characta attributes in
\fIattrs\fP
.bP
Da color pair in
\fIcolor_pair\fP
.bP
Da wide-characta strang pointed ta by \fIwch\fP.
Da strang must be L'\\0' terminated,
contain at most one spacin character,
which must be tha first.
.IP
Up ta \fBCCHARW_MAX\fP\-1 nonspacin charactas may follow.
Additionizzle nonspacin charactas is ignored.
.IP
Da strang may contain a single control characta instead.
In dat case, no nonspacin charactas is allowed.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Da \fIopts\fP argument is reserved fo' future use.
Currently, a application must provide a null pointa as \fIopts\fP.
.PP
Da \fIwcval\fP argument may be a value generated by a cold-ass lil call to
\fBsetcchar\fP or by a gangbangin' function dat has a \fBcchar_t\fP output argument.
If \fIwcval\fP is constructed by any other means, tha effect is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
When \fIwch\fP be a null pointer,
\fBgetcchar\fP returns tha number of wide charactas referenced by
\fIwcval\fP,
includin one fo' a trailin null.
.PP
When \fIwch\fP aint a null pointer,
\fBgetcchar\fP returns \fBOK\fP upon successful completion,
and \fBERR\fP otherwise.
.PP
Upon successful completion, \fBsetcchar\fP returns \fBOK\fP.
Otherwise, it returns \fBERR\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Functions:
\fBcurs_attr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_color\fR(3X),
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBwcwidth\fR(3).
