.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_get_wch.3x,v 1.8 2012/11/03 23:03:59 tom Exp $
.TH curs_get_wch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBget_wch\fR,
\fBwget_wch\fR,
\fBmvget_wch\fR,
\fBmvwget_wch\fR,
\fBunget_wch\fR \- git (or push back) a wide characta from curses terminal keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint get_wch(wint_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint wget_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, wint_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvget_wch(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wint_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwget_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wint_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint unget_wch(const wchar_t \fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fBget_wch\fR,
\fBwget_wch\fR,
\fBmvget_wch\fR, and
\fBmvwget_wch\fR
functions read a cold-ass lil character
from tha terminal associated wit tha current or specified window.
In no-delay mode,
if no input is waiting, tha value \fBERR\fR is returned.
In delay mode,
the program waits until tha system passes text all up in ta tha program.
Dependin on tha settin of \fBcbreak\fR,
this be afta one characta (cbreak mode),
or afta tha straight-up original gangsta newline (nocbreak mode).
In half-delay mode,
the program waits until tha user types a cold-ass lil characta or tha specified
timeout interval has elapsed.
.PP
Unless \fBnoecho\fR has been set,
these routines echo tha characta tha fuck into tha designated window.
.PP
If tha window aint a pad n' has been moved or modified since the
last call ta \fBwrefresh\fR,
\fBwrefresh\fR is ghon be called before another characta is read.
.PP
If \fBkeypad\fR is enabled,
these functions respond to
the pressin of a gangbangin' function key by settin tha object pointed ta by
\fIwch\fR
to tha corresponding
\fBKEY_\fR
value defined
in
\fB<curses.h>\fR
and returning
\fBKEY_CODE_YES\fR.
If a cold-ass lil characta (like fuckin escape) dat could be the
beginnin of a gangbangin' function key is received, curses sets a timer.
If tha remainder
of tha sequence do arrive within tha designated time, curses passes through
the character; otherwise, curses returns tha function key value.
For this
reason, nuff terminals experience a thugged-out delay between tha time a user presses
the escape key n' tha time tha escape is moonwalked back ta tha program.
.PP
The
\fBunget_wch\fR
function pushes tha wide character
\fIwch\fR
back onto tha head of tha input queue, so tha wide character
is returned by tha next call to
\fBget_wch\fR.
Da pushback of
one characta is guaranteed.
If tha program calls
\fBunget_wch\fR
too nuff times without a intervenin call to
\fBget_wch\fR,
the operation may fail.
.SH NOTES
Da header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR
automatically
includes tha header file
\fB<stdio.h>\fR.
.PP
Applications should not define tha escape key by itself as a single-character
function.
.PP
When using
\fBget_wch\fR,
\fBwget_wch\fR,
\fBmvget_wch\fR, or
\fBmvwget_wch\fR, applications should
not use
\fBnocbreak\fR
mode and
\fBecho\fR
mode
at tha same time.
Dependin on tha state of tha tty driver when each character
is typed, tha program may produce undesirable thangs up in dis biatch.
.PP
All functions except \fBwget_wch\fR n' \fBunget_wch\fR
may be macros.
.SH RETURN VALUE
When
\fBget_wch\fR,
\fBwget_wch\fR,
\fBmvget_wch\fR, and
\fBmvwget_wch\fR
functions successfully
report tha pressin of a gangbangin' function key, they return
\fBKEY_CODE_YES\fR.
When they successfully report a wide character, they return
\fBOK\fR.
Otherwise, they return
\fBERR\fR.
.PP
Upon successful completion,
\fBunget_wch\fR
returns
\fBOK\fR.
Otherwise, tha function returns
\fBERR\fR.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_getch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_ins_wch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_inopts\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_move\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X)
