.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_deleteln.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_deleteln 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBdeleteln\fR,
\fBwdeleteln\fR,
\fBinsdelln\fR,
\fBwinsdelln\fR,
\fBinsertln\fR,
\fBwinsertln\fR \- delete n' bang lines up in a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint deleteln(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wdeleteln(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint insdelln(int n);\fR
.br
\fBint winsdelln(WINDOW *win, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint insertln(void);\fR
.br
\fBint winsertln(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBdeleteln\fR n' \fBwdeleteln\fR routines delete tha line under the
cursor up in tha window; all lines below tha current line is moved up one line.
Da bottom line of tha window is cleared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da cursor posizzle do not chizzle.
.PP
Da \fBinsdelln\fR n' \fBwinsdelln\fR routines, fo' positizzle \fIn\fR, insert
\fIn\fR lines tha fuck into tha specified window above tha current line.  Da \fIn\fR
bottom lines is lost.  For wack \fIn\fR, delete \fIn\fR lines (starting
with tha one under tha cursor), n' move tha remainin lines up.  Da bottom
\fIn\fR lines is cleared. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da current cursor posizzle remains tha same.
.PP
Da \fBinsertln\fR n' \fBwinsertln\fR routines bang a funky-ass blank line above the
current line n' tha bottom line is lost.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' a \fBOK\fR (SVr4
specifies only "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
if tha window parameta is null, a error is returned.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.  The
standard specifies dat they return \fBERR\fR on failure yo, but specifies no
error conditions.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all but \fBwinsdelln\fR may be macros.
.PP
These routines do not require a hardware line delete or bang feature up in the
terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  In fact, they aint gonna use hardware line delete/insert unless
\fBidlok(..., TRUE)\fR has been set on tha current window.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X)
