.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_beep.3x,v 1.12 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_beep 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBbeep\fR, \fBflash\fR \- \fBcurses\fR bell n' screen flash routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.PP
\fBint beep(void);\fR
.br
\fBint flash(void);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBbeep\fR n' \fBflash\fR routines is used ta alert tha terminal user.
Da routine \fBbeep\fR soundz a audible alarm on tha terminal, if possible;
otherwise it flashes tha screen (visible bell).  Da routine \fBflash\fR
flashes tha screen, n' if dat aint possible, soundz tha alert.  If neither
alert is possible, not a god damn thang happens.  Nearly all terminals have a audible alert
(bell or beep) yo, but only some can flash tha screen.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return \fBOK\fR if they succeed up in beepin or flashing,
\fBERR\fR otherwise.
.SH EXTENSIONS
SVr4z beep n' flash routines always returned \fBOK\fR, so dat shiznit was not
possible ta tell when tha beep or flash failed.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
Like SVr4, it specifies dat they always return \fBOK\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X)
