.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 1999-on
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_extend.3x,v 1.19 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_extend 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBcurses_version\fP,
\fBuse_extended_names\fP \- miscellaneous curses extensions
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBconst char * curses_version(void);\fP
.br
\fBint use_extended_names(bool enable);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is extensions ta tha curses library
which do not fit easily tha fuck into other categories.
.PP
Use
.I curses_version()
to git tha version number, includin patch level of tha library, e.g.,
.B 5.0.19991023
.PP
The
.I use_extended_names()
function controls whether tha callin application
is able ta use user-defined or nonstandard names
which may be compiled tha fuck into tha terminfo
description, i.e., via tha terminfo or termcap intercourses.
Normally these names is available fo' use, since tha essential decision
is made by rockin tha \fB\-x\fP option of \fBtic\fP ta compile
extended terminal definitions.
However you can disable dis feature
to ensure compatibilitizzle wit other implementationz of curses.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines is specific ta ncurses.  They was not supported on
Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.  It be recommended that
any code dependin on dem be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurs_getch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_mouse\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_print\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_util\fR(3X),
\fBdefault_colors\fR(3X),
\fBdefine_key\fR(3X),
\fBkeybound\fR(3X),
\fBkeyok\fR(3X),
\fBresizeterm\fR(3X),
\fBwresize\fR(3X).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey.
