.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH DIRFD 3 2013-07-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
dirfd \- git directory stream file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int dirfd(DIR *" dirp );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR dirfd ():
.br
.RS 4
.PD 0
.ad l
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.10: */
.RS 4
(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700)
.RE
.PD
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR dirfd ()
returns tha file descriptor associated wit tha directory stream
.IR dirp .
.LP
This descriptor is tha one used internally by tha directory stream.
As a result, it is useful only fo' functions which do not depend on
or alta tha file position, such as
.BR fstat (2)
and
.BR fchdir (2).
It is ghon be automatically closed when
.BR closedir (3)
is called.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, a nonnegatizzle file descriptor is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
POSIX.1-2008 specifies two errors,
neither of which is returned by tha current
.\" glibc 2.8
implementation.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I dirp
does not refer ta a valid directory stream.
.TP
.B ENOTSUP
Da implementation do not support tha association of a gangbangin' file
descriptor wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR dirfd ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function was a BSD extension, present up in 4.3BSD-Reno, not up in 4.2BSD.
.\" It be present up in libc5 (since 5.1.2) n' up in glibc2.
.SH NOTES
Da prototype for
.BR dirfd ()
is available only if
.B _BSD_SOURCE
or
.B _SVID_SOURCE
is defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
