.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-03-29, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-24, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-10, 2003-11-01 Walta Harms, aeb
.\"
.TH DIV 3 2013-07-05 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
div, ldiv, lldiv, imaxdiv \- compute quotient n' remainder of
an integer division
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "div_t div(int " numerator ", int " denominator );
.br
.BI "ldiv_t ldiv(long " numerator ", long " denominator );
.br
.BI "lldiv_t lldiv(long long " numerator ", long long " denominator );
.sp
.B #include <inttypes.h>
.sp
.BI "imaxdiv_t imaxdiv(intmax_t " numerator ", intmax_t " denominator );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.ad l
.sp
.BR lldiv ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR div ()
function computes tha value
\fInumerator\fP/\fIdenominator\fP and
returns tha quotient n' remainder up in a structure
named \fIdiv_t\fP dat gotz nuff
two integer thugz (in unspecified order) named \fIquot\fP n' \fIrem\fP.
Da quotient is rounded toward zero.
Da result satisfies \fIquot\fP*\fIdenominator\fP+\fIrem\fP = \fInumerator\fP.
.LP
The
.BR ldiv (),
.BR lldiv (),
and
.BR imaxdiv ()
functions do tha same,
dividin numberz of tha indicated type and
returnin tha result up in a structure
of tha indicated name, up in all cases wit fieldz \fIquot\fP n' \fIrem\fP
of tha same type as tha function arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da \fIdiv_t\fP (etc.) structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR div (),
.BR ldiv (),
.BR lldiv (),
and
.BR imaxdiv ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89. C99.
Da functions
.BR lldiv ()
and
.BR imaxdiv ()
were added up in C99.
.SH EXAMPLE
After
.nf

        div_t q = div(\-5, 3);

.fi
the joints \fIq.quot\fP n' \fIq.rem\fP is \-1 n' \-2, respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR abs (3),
.BR remainder (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
