.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSQueryExtension 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSQueryExtension \- queries tha X server ta determine tha availability
of tha DPMS Extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.B Bool DPMSQueryExtension
(
.br
      Display \fI*display\fP\^,
.br
      int \fI*event_base\fP\^,
.br
      int \fI*error_base\fP\^
);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I event_base
Specifies tha return location fo' tha assigned base event
.TP
.I error_base
Specifies tha return location fo' tha assigned base error
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I DPMSQueryExtension
function queries tha X server ta determine tha availabilitizzle of the
Display Juice Management Signalin (DPMS)
Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha extension be available, it returns TRUE, n' the
.I event_base
and
.I error_base
are set ta tha base event n' error numbers, respectively.  Otherwise, the
return value is FALSE, n' the
values of
.I event_base
and
.I error_base
are undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The
.I DPMSQueryExtension
function returns TRUE if tha extension be available,
and
.I event_base
and
.I error_base
are set ta tha base event number n' base error number fo' tha extension,
respectively.
.TP 15
FALSE
The
.I DPMSQueryExtension
function returns FALSE if extension aint available, n' tha joints of
.I event_base
and
.I error_base
are undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSGetVersion (3)
