.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSSetTimeouts 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSSetTimeouts \- permits applications ta set tha timeout joints
used by tha X server fo' DPMS timings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.B Status DPMSSetTimeouts
(
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 \fIstandby\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 \fIsuspend\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 \fIoff\fP\^
);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I standby
Specifies tha freshly smoked up standby timeout up in seconds
.TP
.I suspend
Specifies tha freshly smoked up suspend timeout up in seconds
.TP
.I off
Specifies tha freshly smoked up off timeout up in seconds
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da DPMSSetTimeouts function permits applications ta set tha timeout joints
used by tha X server fo' Display Juice Management Signalin (DPMS) timings.
.LP
Da value \fIstandby\fP is tha amount of inactivitizzle time, up in seconds, before
standby mode is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da actual
effectz of dis mode is dependent on tha characteristics of tha monitor and
frame buffer card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Standby mode is
implemented by shuttin off tha horizontal sync signal, n' pulsin tha vertical
sync signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Standby mode
provides tha quickest monitor recovery time.  Note also dat nuff monitors
implement dis mode identical to
suspend mode.  A value of zero disablez tha standby mode.
.LP
Da value \fIsuspend\fP is tha amount of time of inactivity, up in seconds, before
the second level of power
savings is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Suspend modez physical n' electrical characteristics are
implementation defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For DPMS
compliant hardware, settin tha suspend mode is implemented by pulsin the
horizontal sync signal and
shuttin off tha vertical sync signal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  In general, suspend mode recovery is
considered ta be slower than
standby mode yo, but fasta than off mode yo. However it may vary from monitor to
monitor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  As noted above, many
monitors implement dis mode identical ta tha standby mode.  A value of zero
disablez dis mode.
.LP
Da value \fIoff\fP is tha amount of time of inactivity,in seconds, before the
third n' final level of power
savings is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Off modez physical n' electrical characteristics are
implementation defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In DPMS
compliant hardware, it is implemented by shuttin off both horizontal and
vertical sync signals, resultin in
powerin down of tha monitor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Recovery time is implementation dependent.
Usually tha recovery time is hella
close ta tha power-up time of tha monitor fo' realz. A value of zero disablez dis mode.
.LP
Chronologically, \fIstandby\fP mode occurs before or simultaneously with
\fIsuspend\fP mode, and
\fIsuspend\fP mode must occur before or simultaneously wit \fIoff\fP mode.
Therefore, non-zero mode timeout
values must be pimped outa than or equal ta tha timeout jointz of earlier modes.  If
inconsistent joints are
supplied, a BadValue error will result.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The
.I DPMSSetTimeouts
function returns TRUE when tha function has succeeded.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
An argument is outta range.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSCapable (3),
.BR DPMSInfo (3),
.BR DPMSGetTimeouts (3)
