.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH DPMSCapable 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSCapable \- returns tha DPMS capabilitizzle of tha X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.BR "Bool DPMSCapable" " ( Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^ );"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I DPMSCapable
function returns tha Display Juice Management Signalin (DPMS) capabilitizzle of
the X server, either TRUE \^(capable of DPMS\^) or FALSE \^(incapable of
DPMS\^).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The
.I DPMSCapable
function returns True if tha X server is capable of DPMS.
.TP 15
False
The
.I DPMSCapable
function returns True if tha X server is incapable of DPMS.
