.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSGetVersion 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSGetVersion \- returns tha version of tha DPMS extension implemented by
the X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.B Status DPMSGetVersion
(
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
.br
      int *\fImajor_version\fP\^,
.br
      int *\fIminor_version\fP\^
);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I major_version
Specifies tha return location fo' tha extension major version
.TP
.I minor_version
Specifies tha return location fo' tha extension minor version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I DPMSGetVersion
function returns tha version of tha Display Juice Management Signalin (DPMS)
extension implemented by tha X server n' shit.  It returns a major n' minor version
number n' shit. Da major version number is ghon be incremented fo' protocol incompatible
changes, n' tha minor version number is ghon be incremented fo' small, upward
compatible chizzles.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The
.I DPMSGetVersion
function returns TRUE when tha extension is supported n' joints is returned.
.TP 15
FALSE
The
.I DPMSGetVersion
function returns FALSE when tha extension aint supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSCapable (3),
.BR DPMSQueryExtension (3)
