.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSForceLevel 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSForceLevel \- forces a DPMS capable display tha fuck into the
specified juice level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.BR "Status DPMSForceLevel" " ( Display \fI*display\fP\^, CARD16 \fIlevel\fP\^ );"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I level
Specifies tha level ta force juice to
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I DPMSForceLevel
function forces a DPMS capable display tha fuck into tha specified juice level.  The
\fIlevel\fP must be one of followin four states: DPMSModeOn, DPMSModeStandby,
DPMSModeSuspend, or DPMSModeOff. Values other than these will result up in a
BadValue error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  If DPMS
is disabled on tha display, tryin ta set tha juice level on tha display will
result up in a BadMatch
protocol error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The
.I DPMSForceLevel
function always returns TRUE.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
BadValue
A level other than DPMSModeOn, DPMSModeStandby, DPMSModeSuspend, or DPMSModeOff
was specified.
.TP 15
.SM BadMatch
DPMS is disabled on tha specified display.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSCapable (3),
.BR DPMSInfo (3),
.BR DPMSGetTimeouts (3),
.BR DPMSSetTimeouts (3)
