.\" Copyright \(co Digital Weapons Corporation, 1996
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push this
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis permission
.\" notice step tha fuck up in all copies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Digital Weapons Corporation
.\" make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.TH DPMSGetTimeouts 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSGetTimeouts \- retrieves tha timeout joints used by tha X server fo' DPMS
timings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.B Bool DPMSGetTimeouts
(
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 *\fIstandby\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 *\fIsuspend\fP\^,
.br
      CARD16 *\fIoff\fP\^
);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I standby
Specifies tha current standby timeout up in seconds
.TP
.I suspend
Specifies tha current suspend timeout up in seconds
.TP
.I off
Specifies tha current off timeout up in seconds
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I DPMSGetTimeouts
function retrieves tha timeout joints used by tha X server fo' DPMS timings.
.LP
Da value
.I standby
is tha amount of time of inactivitizzle up in secondz before standby mode is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A
value of zero indicates dat dis mode has been disabled.
.LP
Da value \fIsuspend\fP is tha amount of time of inactivitizzle up in secondz before
the second level of juice savings is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A value of zero indicates that
this mode has been disabled.
.LP
Da value \fIoff\fP is tha amount of time of inactivitizzle up in secondz before the
third n' final level of juice savings is invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A value of zero indicates
that dis mode has been disabled.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The
.I DPMSGetTimeouts
function returns TRUE when joints is returned.
.TP 15
FALSE
The
.I DPMSGetTimeouts
function returns FALSE when no joints returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSCapable (3),
.BR DPMSInfo (3),
.BR DPMSSetTimeouts (3)
