
.\" Text fragments inspired by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH DPRINTF 3 2010-09-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
dprintf, vdprintf \- print ta a gangbangin' file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int dprintf(int " fd ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.sp
.BI "int vdprintf(int " fd ", const char *" format ", va_list " ap );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR dprintf (),
.BR vdprintf ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da functions
.BR dprintf ()
and
.BR vdprintf ()
(as found up in tha glibc2 library) is exact analogs of
.BR fprintf (3)
and
.BR vfprintf (3),
except dat they output ta a gangbangin' file descriptor
.I fd
instead of ta a
.I stdio
stream.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is GNU extensions dat is nowadays specified in
POSIX.1-2008.
.\" .SH NOTES
.\" These functions is GNU extensions, not up in C or POSIX.
.\" Clearly, tha names was badly chosen.
.\" Many systems (like MacOS) have incompatible functions called
.\" .BR dprintf (),
.\" probably some debuggin version of
.\" .BR printf (3),
.\" like wit a prototype like
.\"
.\" .BI "void dprintf(int level, const char *" format ", ...);"
.\"
.\" where tha straight-up original gangsta argument be a thugged-out debuggin level (and output is to
.\" .IR stderr ).
.\" Mo'over,
.\" .BR dprintf ()
.\" (or
.\" .BR DPRINTF )
.\" be also a ghettofab macro name fo' a thugged-out debuggin printf.
.\" So, probably, it is betta ta avoid dis function up in programs
.\" intended ta be portable.
.\"
.\" A betta name would have been
.\" .BR fdprintf ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR printf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
