'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_field_info.3x,v 1.12 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_field_info 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_field_info\fR \- retrieve field characteristics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
int field_info(const FIELD *field, int *rows, int *cols,
              int *frow, int *fcol, int *nrow, int *nbuf);
.br
int dynamic_field_info(const FIELD *field, int *rows, int *cols, int *max);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBfield_info\fR returns tha sizes n' other attributes passed in
to tha field at its creation time.  Da attributes are: height, width, row of
upper-left corner, column of upper-left corner, number off-screen rows, and
number of hustlin buffers.
.PP
Da function \fBdynamic_field_info\fR returns tha actual size of tha field, and
its maximum possible size.  If tha field has no size limit, tha location
addressed by tha third argument is ghon be set ta 0.
A field can be made dynamic
by turnin off tha \fBO_STATIC\fR option wit \fBfield_opts_off\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X) n' related pages whose names begin "form_" fo' detailed
descriptionz of tha entry points.
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.PP
A null (zero pointer) be accepted fo' any of tha return joints,
to ignore dat value.
Not all implementations allow this, e.g., Solaris 2.7 do not.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
