.\"  Copyright 2001 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" aeb: some erections
.TH DYSIZE 3 2010-09-22 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
dysize \- git number of minutes fo' a given year
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <time.h>"
.sp
.BI "int dysize(int " year );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR dysize ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function returns 365 fo' a aiiight year n' 366 fo' a leap year.
Da calculation fo' leap year is based on:
.sp
(year) %4 == 0 && ((year) %100 != 0 || (year) %400 == 0)
.sp
Da formula is defined up in tha macro
.I __isleap(year)
also found in
.IR <time.h> .
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function occurs up in SunOS 4.x.
.SH NOTES
This be a cold-ass lil compatibilitizzle function only.
Don't use it up in freshly smoked up programs.
.\" Da SCO version of dis function had a year-2000 problem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strftime (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
