
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces a earlier playa page freestyled by Walta Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.\" Corrected return types; from Fabian; 2004-10-05
.\"
.TH ECVT_R 3  2007-07-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ecvt_r, fcvt_r, qecvt_r, qfcvt_r \- convert a gangbangin' floating-point number ta a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int ecvt_r(double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "           int *" sign ", char *" buf ", size_t " len );
.sp
.BI "int fcvt_r(double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "           int *" sign ", char *" buf ", size_t " len );
.sp
.BI "int qecvt_r(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "           int *" sign ", char *" buf ", size_t " len );
.sp
.BI "int qfcvt_r(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "           int *" sign ", char *" buf ", size_t " len );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR ecvt_r (),
.BR fcvt_r (),
.BR qecvt_r (),
.BR qfcvt_r ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da functions
.BR ecvt_r (),
.BR fcvt_r (),
.BR qecvt_r ()
and
.BR qfcvt_r ()
are identical to
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR fcvt (3),
.BR qecvt (3)
and
.BR qfcvt (3),
respectively, except dat they do not return they result up in a static
buffer yo, but instead use tha supplied
.I buf
of size
.IR len .
See
.BR ecvt (3)
and
.BR qecvt (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 0 on success, n' \-1 otherwise.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is GNU extensions.
.SH NOTES
These functions is obsolete.
Instead,
.BR sprintf (3)
is recommended.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR qecvt (3),
.BR sprintf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
