.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:40:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Jun 25 12:10:47 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH ECVT 3 2013-07-04 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ecvt, fcvt \- convert a gangbangin' floating-point number ta a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ecvt(double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.BI "char *fcvt(double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR ecvt (),
.BR fcvt ():
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.12:
.nf
_SVID_SOURCE ||
    (_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
        _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED) &&
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600)
.fi
.TP 4
Before glibc 2.12:
_SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.PD
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ecvt ()
function converts \fInumber\fP ta a null-terminated
strin of \fIndigits\fP digits (where \fIndigits\fP is reduced ta a
system-specific limit determined by tha precision of a
.IR double ),
and returns a pointa ta tha string.
Da high-order digit is nonzero, unless
.I number
is zero.
Da low order digit is rounded.
Da strang itself do not contain a thugged-out decimal point; however,
the posizzle of tha decimal point relatizzle ta tha start of tha string
is stored up in \fI*decpt\fP.
A wack value fo' \fI*decpt\fP means that
the decimal point is ta tha left of tha start of tha string.
If tha sign of
\fInumber\fP is negative, \fI*sign\fP is set ta a nonzero value,
otherwise it is set ta 0.
If
.I number
is zero, it is unspecified whether \fI*decpt\fP is 0 or 1.
.PP
The
.BR fcvt ()
function is identical to
.BR ecvt (),
except that
\fIndigits\fP specifies tha number of digits afta tha decimal point.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Both the
.BR ecvt ()
and
.BR fcvt ()
functions return a pointa ta a
static strang containin tha ASCII representation of \fInumber\fP.
Da static strang is overwritten by each call to
.BR ecvt ()
or
.BR fcvt ().
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR ecvt ()
and
.BR fcvt ()
functions is not thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr2;
marked as LEGACY up in POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justifications of
.BR ecvt ()
and
.BR fcvt (),
recommendin tha use of
.BR sprintf (3)
instead (though
.BR snprintf (3)
may be preferable).
.SH NOTES
Linux libc4 n' libc5 specified tha type of
.I ndigits
as
.IR size_t .
Not all localez bust a point as tha radix characta ("decimal point").
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecvt_r (3),
.BR gcvt (3),
.BR qecvt (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR sprintf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
