.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995-08-14 by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walta Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.TH EXP10 3  2008-08-11  "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
exp10, exp10f, exp10l \- base-10 exponential function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double exp10(double " x );
.br
.BI "float exp10f(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double exp10l(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR exp10 ()
function returns tha value of 10
raised ta tha juice of
.IR x .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return tha base-10 exponential value of
.IR x .

For various special cases, includin tha handlin of infinitizzle n' NaN,
as well as overflows n' underflows, see
.BR exp (3).
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.

For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of tha errors dat can occur fo' these functions, see
.BR exp (3).
.\" FIXME . exp10 don't give ERANGE fo' a underflow, unlike exp() n' exp2()
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6787
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is GNU extensions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cbrt (3),
.BR exp (3),
.BR exp2 (3),
.BR log10 (3),
.BR sqrt (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
