
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FCLOSEALL 3  2013-06-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fcloseall \- close all open streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.B int fcloseall(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fcloseall ()
function closes all of tha callin processs open streams.
Buffered output fo' each stream is freestyled before it is closed
(as for
.BR fflush (3));
buffered input is discarded.

Da standard streams,
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.I stderr
are also closed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns 0 if all filez was successfully closed;
on error,
.B EOF
is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR fcloseall ()
function do not lock tha streams, so it aint thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR close (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
