.\" Copyright 2003 Walta Harms, Andries Brouwer
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FDIM 3 2013-07-15 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fdim, fdimf, fdiml \- positizzle difference
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double fdim(double " x ", double " y );
.br
.BI "float fdimf(float " x ", float " y );
.br
.BI "long double fdiml(long double " x ", long double " y );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR fdimf (),
.BR fdiml ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return tha positizzle difference, max(\fIx\fP-\fIy\fP,0),
between they arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return tha positizzle difference.

If
.I x
or
.I y
is a NaN, a NaN is returned.

If tha result overflows,
a range error occurs,
and tha functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.
.PP
Da followin errors can occur:
.TP
Range error: result overflow
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
An overflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_OVERFLOW )
is raised.
.PP
These functions do not set
.IR errno .
.\" FIXME . Is it intentionizzle dat these functions do not set errno?
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6796
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR fdim (),
.BR fdimf (),
and
.BR fdiml ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fmax (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
