.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek n' tha Gangsta Nationizzle Standardz Committee X3,
.\" on Hype Processin Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)ferror.3	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\"
.\" Converted fo' Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:24:40 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Added remark on EBADF fo' fileno, aeb, 2001-03-22
.\"
.TH FERROR 3  2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
clearerr, feof, ferror, fileno \- check n' reset stream status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void clearerr(FILE *" stream );

.BI "int feof(FILE *" stream );

.BI "int ferror(FILE *" stream );

.BI "int fileno(FILE *" stream );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fileno ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR clearerr ()
clears tha end-of-file n' error indicators fo' tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream .
.PP
Da function
.BR feof ()
tests tha end-of-file indicator fo' tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream ,
returnin nonzero if it is set.
Da end-of-file indicator can be cleared only by tha function
.BR clearerr ().
.PP
Da function
.BR ferror ()
tests tha error indicator fo' tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream ,
returnin nonzero if it is set.
Da error indicator can be reset only by the
.BR clearerr ()
function.
.PP
Da function
.BR fileno ()
examines tha argument
.I stream
and returns its integer descriptor.
.PP
For nonlockin counterparts, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH ERRORS
These functions should not fail n' do not set tha external variable
.IR errno .
(But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in case
.BR fileno ()
detects dat its argument aint a valid stream, it must
return \-1 n' set
.I errno
to
.BR EBADF .)
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR clearerr (),
.BR feof (),
.BR ferror (),
and
.BR fileno ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da functions
.BR clearerr (),
.BR feof (),
and
.BR ferror ()
conform ta C89 n' C99.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR fdopen (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
