.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FEXECVE 3 2010-09-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fexecve \- execute program specified via file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int fexecve(int " fd ", char *const " argv "[], char *const " envp []);
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fexecve ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fexecve ()
performs tha same ol' dirty task as
.BR execve (2),
with tha difference dat tha file ta be executed
is specified via a gangbangin' file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
rather than via a pathname.
Da file descriptor
.I fd
must be opened read-only,
and tha calla must have permission ta execute tha file dat it refers to.
.\" POSIX.1-2008 specifies tha O_EXEC flag fo' open as a alternative,
.\" but Linux don't support dis flag yet.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A successful call to
.BR fexecve ()
never returns.
On error, tha function returns, wit a result value of \-1, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Errors is as for
.BR execve (2),
with tha followin additions:
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor, or
.I argv
is NULL, or
.I envp
is NULL.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The
.I /proc
file system could not be accessed.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR fexecve ()
is implemented since glibc 2.3.2.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function aint specified up in POSIX.1-2001,
and aint widely available on other systems.
.SH NOTES
On Linux,
.BR fexecve ()
is implemented rockin the
.BR proc (5)
file system, so
.I /proc
needz ta be mounted n' available all up in tha time of tha call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execve (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
