.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek n' tha Gangsta Nationizzle Standardz Committee X3,
.\" on Hype Processin Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)fflush.3	5.4 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted fo' Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified 2001-10-16 by Jizzy Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\"
.TH FFLUSH 3  2013-07-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fflush \- flush a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fflush(FILE *" stream );
.SH DESCRIPTION
For output streams,
.BR fflush ()
forces a write of all user-space buffered data fo' tha given output or update
.I stream
via tha streamz underlyin write function.
For input streams,
.BR fflush ()
discardz any buffered data dat has been fetched from tha underlyin file,
but has not been consumed by tha application.
Da open statuz of tha stream is unaffected.
.PP
If the
.I stream
argument is NULL,
.BR fflush ()
flushes
.I all
open output streams.
.PP
For a nonlockin counterpart, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion 0 is returned.
Otherwise,
.B EOF
is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I Stream
is not a open stream, or aint open fo' writing.
.PP
Da function
.BR fflush ()
may also fail n' set
.I errno
for any of tha errors specified for
.BR write (2).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR fflush ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.

Da standardz do not specify tha behavior fo' input streams.
Most other implementations behave tha same as Linux.
.\" Verified on: Solaris 8.
.SH NOTES
Note that
.BR fflush ()
only flushes tha user-space buffers provided by tha C library.
To ensure dat tha data is physically stored on disk
the kernel buffers must be flushed too, fo' example, with
.BR sync (2)
or
.BR fsync (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsync (2),
.BR sync (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
