.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:39:35 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Modified 2003 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.TH FFS 3 2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ffs, ffsl, ffsll \- find first bit set up in a word
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <strings.h>
.sp
.BI "int ffs(int " i );
.sp
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int ffsl(long int " i );
.sp
.BI "int ffsll(long long int " i );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.PD 0
.ad l
.sp
.BR ffs ():
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.12:
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 ||
.TP
Before glibc 2.12:
none
.RE
.PP
.BR ffsl (),
.BR ffsll ():
.RS 4
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ffs ()
function returns tha posizzle of tha first
(least significant) bit set up in tha word \fIi\fP.
Da least dope bit is posizzle 1 n' the
most dope posizzle is, fo' example, 32 or 64.
Da functions
.BR ffsll ()
and
.BR ffsl ()
do tha same but take
argumentz of possibly different size.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return tha posizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta bit set,
or 0 if no bits is set in
.IR i .
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR ffs ():
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

The
.BR ffsl ()
and
.BR ffsll ()
functions is glibc extensions.
.SH NOTES
BSD systems gotz a prototype in
.IR <string.h> .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memchr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
