.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:38:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH FGETGRENT 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fgetgrent \- git crew file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "struct crew *fgetgrent(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fgetgrent ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fgetgrent ()
function returns a pointa ta a structure containing
the crew shiznit from tha file referred ta by
.IR stream .
Da last time it is called
it returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry; thereafter, it returns successive entries.
Da file referred ta by
.I stream
must have tha same format as
.I /etc/group
(see
.BR crew (5)).
.PP
Da \fIgroup\fP structure is defined up in \fI<grp.h>\fP as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct crew {
    char   *gr_name;        /* crew name */
    char   *gr_passwd;      /* crew password */
    gid_t   gr_gid;         /* crew ID */
    char  **gr_mem;         /* crew thugz */
};
.fi
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR fgetgrent ()
function returns a pointa ta a
.I group
structure,
or NULL if there be no mo' entries or a error occurs.
In tha event of a error,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta allocate
.I group
structure.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endgrent (3),
.BR fgetgrent_r (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getgrgid (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR putgrent (3),
.BR setgrent (3),
.BR crew (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
