
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification
.\"     http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 16 23:18:40 BST 2001 by Jizzy Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.TH FGETWS 3  2011-09-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fgetws \- read a wide-characta strang from a FILE stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wchar_t *fgetws(wchar_t *" ws ", int " n ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fgetws ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent
of the
.BR fgets (3)
function.
It readz a strang of at most \fIn\-1\fP wide charactas tha fuck into the
wide-characta array pointed ta by \fIws\fP,
and addz a terminatin null wide characta (L\(aq\\0\(aq).
It stops readin wide charactas afta it has encountered and
stored a newline wide character.
It also stops when end of stream is reached.
.PP
Da programmer must ensure dat there is room fo' at least \fIn\fP wide
charactas at \fIws\fP.
.PP
For a nonlockin counterpart, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR fgetws ()
function, if successful, returns \fIws\fP.
If end of stream
was already reached or if a error occurred, it returns NULL.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR fgetws ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
In tha absence of additionizzle shiznit passed ta the
.BR fopen (3)
call, it is
reasonable ta expect that
.BR fgetws ()
will straight-up read a multibyte string
from tha stream n' then convert it ta a wide-characta string.
.PP
This function is unreliable,
because it do not permit ta deal properly with
null wide charactas dat may be present up in tha input.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetwc (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
