
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification
.\"      http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 16 23:18:40 BST 2001 by Jizzy Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.TH FGETWC 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fgetwc, getwc \- read a wide characta from a FILE stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t fgetwc(FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t getwc(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fgetwc ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent
of the
.BR fgetc (3)
function.
It readz a wide characta from \fIstream\fP n' returns dat shit.
If tha end of stream is reached, or if \fIferror(stream)\fP becomes true,
it returns
.BR WEOF .
If a wide-characta conversion error occurs, it sets
\fIerrno\fP ta \fBEILSEQ\fP n' returns
.BR WEOF .
.PP
The
.BR getwc ()
function or macro functions identically to
.BR fgetwc ().
It may be implemented as a macro, n' may evaluate its argument
more than once.
There is no reason eva ta use dat shit.
.PP
For nonlockin counterparts, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR fgetwc ()
function returns tha next wide-character
from tha stream, or
.BR WEOF .
In tha event of a error,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
Apart from tha usual ones, there is
.TP
.B EILSEQ
Da data obtained from tha input stream do not
form a valid character.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR fgetwc ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
In tha absence of additionizzle shiznit passed ta the
.BR fopen (3)
call, it is
reasonable ta expect that
.BR fgetwc ()
will straight-up read a multibyte sequence
from tha stream n' then convert it ta a wide character.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetws (3),
.BR fputwc (3),
.BR ungetwc (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
