.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_field_validation.3x,v 1.20 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH form_field_validation 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_field_validation\fR \- data type validation fo' fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
int set_field_type(FIELD *field, FIELDTYPE *type, ...);
.br
FIELDTYPE *field_type(const FIELD *field);
.br
void *field_arg(const FIELD *field);
.sp
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_ALNUM;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_ALPHA;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_ENUM;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_INTEGER;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_NUMERIC;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_REGEXP;
.br
FIELDTYPE *TYPE_IPV4;
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBset_field_type\fR declares a thugged-out data type fo' a given form field.
This is tha type checked by validation functions.
Da predefined types is as bigs up:
.TP 5
TYPE_ALNUM
Alphanumeric data.  Requires a third \fBint\fR argument, a minimum field width.
.TP 5
TYPE_ALPHA
Characta data.  Requires a third \fBint\fR argument, a minimum field width.
.TP 5
TYPE_ENUM
Accept one of a specified set of strings.  Requires a third \fB(char **)\fR
argument pointin ta a strang list; a gangbangin' fourth \fBint\fR flag argument ta enable
case-sensitivity; n' a gangbangin' fifth \fBint\fR flag argument specifyin whether a partial
match must be a unique one (if dis flag is off, a prefix matches tha first
of any set of mo' than one list elements wit dat prefix). Please notice
that tha strang list is copied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! So you may bust a list dat lives up in automatic variablez on tha stack.
.TP 5
TYPE_INTEGER
Integer data, parsable ta a integer by \fBatoi(3)\fR.  Requires a third
\fBint\fR argument controllin tha precision, a gangbangin' fourth \fBlong\fR argument
constrainin minimum value, n' a gangbangin' fifth \fBlong\fR constrainin maximum value.
If tha maximum value is less than or equal ta tha minimum value, tha range is
simply ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! On return tha field buffer is formatted accordin ta the
\fBprintf\fR format justification ".*ld", where tha '*' is replaced by the
precision argument.
For detailz of tha precision handlin peep \fBprintf's\fR man-page.
.TP 5
TYPE_NUMERIC
Numeric data (may gotz a thugged-out decimal-point part). Requires a third
\fBint\fR argument controllin tha precision, a gangbangin' fourth \fBdouble\fR
argument constrainin minimum value, n' a gangbangin' fifth \fBdouble\fR constraining
maximum value. If yo' system supports locales, tha decimal point character
to be used must be tha one specified by yo' locale.
If tha maximum value is less than or equal ta tha minimum value, tha range is
simply ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! On return tha field buffer is formatted accordin ta the
\fBprintf\fR format justification ".*f", where tha '*' is replaced by the
precision argument.
For detailz of tha precision handlin peep \fBprintf's\fR man-page.
.TP 5
TYPE_REGEXP
Regular expression data.  Requires a regular expression \fB(char *)\fR third argument;
the data is valid if tha regular expression matches dat shit.  Regular expressions
are up in tha format of \fBregcomp\fR n' \fBregexec\fR. Please notice
that tha regular expression must match tha whole field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If you have for
example a eight characta wide field, a regular expression "^[0\-9]*$" always
means dat you gotta fill all eight positions wit digits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If you want to
allow fewer digits, you may use fo' example "^[0\-9]* *$" which is phat for
trailin spaces (up ta a empty field), or "^ *[0\-9]* *$" which is phat for
leadin n' trailin spaces round tha digits.
.TP 5
TYPE_IPV4
An Internizzle Protocol Version 4 address. This requires no additionizzle argument. It
is checked whether or not tha buffer has tha form a.b.c.d, where a,b,c n' d are
numbers between 0 n' 255. Trailin blanks up in tha buffer is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da address
itself aint validated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please note dat dis be a ncurses extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This
field type may not be available up in other curses implementations.
.PP
It be possible ta set up freshly smoked up programmer-defined field types.  See the
\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X) manual page.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da functions \fBfield_type\fR n' \fBfield_arg\fR return \fBNULL\fR on
error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da function \fBset_field_type\fR returns one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBform\fR(3X),
\fBform_variables\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
