.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public Licence
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha Licence, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH FIND_KEY_BY_TYPE_AND_NAME 3 "10 Sep 2013" Linux "Linux Key Utilitizzle Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
find_key_by_type_and_name \- Find a key by type n' name
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "key_serial_t find_key_by_type_and_name(const char *" type ,
.BI "    const char *" description ", key_serial_t " destringid ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR find_key_by_type_and_name ()
searches fo' a key wit tha given
.I type
and exact
.IR description ,
firstly up in tha thread, process n' session keyrings ta which a process is
subscribed n' secondly up in /proc/keys.
.P
If a key is found, and
.I destringid
is not 0 n' specifies a keyring, then tha found key is ghon be linked tha fuck into dat shit.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function returns tha ID of tha key if a key was found or -1 otherwise.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOKEY
No key was found or tha keyrin specified is invalid.
.TP
.B EKEYEXPIRED
Da key or keyrin have expired.
.TP
.B EKEYREVOKED
Da key or keyrin done been revoked.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da key aint accessible or keyrin exists yo, but is not
.B writable
by tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (3),
.BR request_key (3)
