.TH FNMATCH 3am "Jan 15 2013" "Jacked Software Foundation" "GNU Awk Extension Modules"
.SH NAME
fnmatch \- compare a strang against a gangbangin' filename wildcard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
@load "fnmatch"
.sp
result = fnmatch(pattern, string, flags)
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I fnmatch
extension serves up a AWK intercourse ta the
.IR fnmatch (3)
routine.  It addz a single function named
.BR fnmatch() ,
one predefined variable
.RB ( FNM_NOMATCH ),
and a array of flag joints named
.BR FNM .
.PP
Da first argument is tha filename wildcard ta match, tha second
is tha filename string, n' tha third is either zero,
or tha bitwise OR of one or mo' of tha flags up in the
.B FNM
array.
.PP
Da return value is zero on success,
.B FNM_NOMATCH
if tha strang did not match tha pattern, or
a different non-zero value if a error occurred.
.PP
Da flags is bigs up:
.TP
\fBFNM["CASEFOLD"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_CASEFOLD
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.TP
\fBFNM["FILE_NAME"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_FILE_NAME
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.TP
\fBFNM["LEADING_DIR"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_LEADING_DIR
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.TP
\fBFNM["NOESCAPE"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_NOESCAPE
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.TP
\fBFNM["PATHNAME"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_PATHNAME
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.TP
\fBFNM["PERIOD"]\fP
Correspondz ta the
.B FNM_PERIOD
flag as defined in
.IR fnmatch (3).
.PP
.SH NOTES
Nothang prevents AWK code from changin tha predefined
variabale
.BR FNM_NOMATCH ,
but bustin so may cause strange thangs up in dis biatch.
... .SH BUGS
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
@load "fnmatch"
\&...
flags = or(FNM["PERIOD"], FNM["NOESCAPE"])
if (fnmatch("*.a", "foo.c", flags) == FNM_NOMATCH)
	print "no match"
.fi
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "GAWK: Effectizzle AWK Programming" ,
.IR filefuncs (3am),
.IR fork (3am),
.IR inplace (3am),
.IR ordchr (3am),
.IR readdir (3am),
.IR readfile (3am),
.IR revoutput (3am),
.IR rwarray (3am),
.IR time (3am).
.PP
.IR fnmatch (3).
.SH AUTHOR
Arnold Robbins,
.BR arnold@skeeve.com .
.SH COPYING PERMISSIONS
Copyright \(co 2012, 2013,
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual page provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission
notice is preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual page).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual page under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual page tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated in
a translation approved by tha Foundation.
