.TH FORK 3am "Jan 15 2013" "Jacked Software Foundation" "GNU Awk Extension Modules"
.SH NAME
fork, wait, waitpid \- basic process pimpment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
@load "fork"
.sp
pid = fork()
.sp
ret = waitpid(pid)
.sp
ret = wait();
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I fork
extension addz three functions, as bigs up.
.TP
.B fork()
This function creates a freshly smoked up process. Da return value is tha zero
in tha lil pimp n' tha process-id number of tha lil pimp up in tha parent,
or \-1 upon error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. In tha latta case,
.B ERRNO
indicates tha problem.
In tha child, \fBPROCINFO["pid"]\fP n' \fBPROCINFO["ppid"]\fP
are updated ta reflect tha erect joints.
.TP
.B waitpid()
This function takes a numeric argument, which is tha process-id to
wait for. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da return value is dat of the
.IR waitpid (2)
system call.
.TP
.B wait()
This function waits fo' tha straight-up original gangsta lil pimp ta take a thugged-out dirt nap.
Da return value is dat of the
.IR wait (2)
system call.
... .SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
There is no corresponding
.B exec()
function.
.PP
Da intercourses could be enhanced ta provide mo' facilities,
includin pullin up tha various bitz of tha return status.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
@load "fork"
\&...
if ((pid = fork()) == 0)
    print "wassup from tha child"
else
    print "wassup from tha parent"
.fi
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "GAWK: Effectizzle AWK Programming" ,
.IR filefuncs (3am),
.IR fnmatch (3am),
.IR inplace (3am),
.IR ordchr (3am),
.IR readdir (3am),
.IR readfile (3am),
.IR revoutput (3am),
.IR rwarray (3am),
.IR time (3am).
.PP
.IR fork (2),
.IR wait (2),
.IR waitpid (2).
.SH AUTHOR
Arnold Robbins,
.BR arnold@skeeve.com .
.SH COPYING PERMISSIONS
Copyright \(co 2012, 2013,
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual page provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission
notice is preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual page).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual page under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual page tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated in
a translation approved by tha Foundation.
