'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2008,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form.3x,v 1.24 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform\fR \- curses extension fo' programmin forms
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBform\fR library serves up terminal-independent facilitizzles fo' composing
form screens on character-cell terminals.  Da library includes: field
routines, which create n' modify form fields; n' form routines, which group
fieldz tha fuck into forms, display forms on tha screen, n' handle interaction wit the
user.
.PP
Da \fBform\fR library uses tha \fBcurses\fR libraries.
To use tha \fBform\fR library, link wit tha options
\fB\-lform \-lcurses\fR.
.PP
Yo crazy-ass program should set up tha locale, e.g.,
.sp
     \fBsetlocale(LC_ALL, "");\fP
.sp
so dat input/output processin will work.
.PP
A curses initialization routine like fuckin \fBinitscr\fR must be called
before rockin any of these functions.
.
.SS Current Default Values fo' Field Attributes
.
Da \fBform\fR library maintains a thugged-out default value fo' field attributes.  You
can git or set dis default by callin tha appropriate \fBset_\fR
or retrieval
routine wit a \fBNULL\fR field pointer n' shit.  Changin dis default wit a
\fBset_\fR function affects future field creations yo, but do not chizzle the
renderin of fieldz already pimped.
.
.SS Routine Name Index
.
Da followin table lists each \fBform\fR routine n' tha name of
the manual page on which it is busted lyrics about.
.
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBcurses\fR Routine Name	Manual Page Name
=
current_field	\fBform_page\fR(3X)
data_ahead	\fBform_data\fR(3X)
data_behind	\fBform_data\fR(3X)
dup_field	\fBform_field_new\fR(3X)
dynamic_field_info	\fBform_field_info\fR(3X)
field_arg	\fBform_field_validation\fR(3X)
field_back	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
field_buffer	\fBform_field_buffer\fR(3X)
field_count	\fBform_field\fR(3X)
field_fore	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
field_index	\fBform_page\fR(3X)
field_info	\fBform_field_info\fR(3X)
field_init	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
field_just	\fBform_field_just\fR(3X)
field_opts	\fBform_field_opts\fR(3X)
field_opts_off	\fBform_field_opts\fR(3X)
field_opts_on	\fBform_field_opts\fR(3X)
field_pad	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
field_status	\fBform_field_buffer\fR(3X)
field_term	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
field_type	\fBform_field_validation\fR(3X)
field_userptr	\fBform_field_userptr\fR(3X)
form_driver	\fBform_driver\fR(3X)
form_fields	\fBform_field\fR(3X)
form_init	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
form_opts	\fBform_opts\fR(3X)
form_opts_off	\fBform_opts\fR(3X)
form_opts_on	\fBform_opts\fR(3X)
form_page	\fBform_page\fR(3X)
form_request_by_name	\fBform_requestname\fR(3X)
form_request_name	\fBform_requestname\fR(3X)
form_sub	\fBform_win\fR(3X)
form_term	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
form_userptr	\fBform_userptr\fR(3X)
form_win	\fBform_win\fR(3X)
free_field	\fBform_field_new\fR(3X)
free_fieldtype	\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X)
free_form	\fBform_new\fR(3X)
link_field	\fBform_field_new\fR(3X)
link_fieldtype	\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X)
move_field	\fBform_field\fR(3X)
new_field	\fBform_field_new\fR(3X)
new_fieldtype	\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X)
new_form	\fBform_new\fR(3X)
new_page	\fBform_new_page\fR(3X)
pos_form_cursor	\fBform_cursor\fR(3X)
post_form	\fBform_post\fR(3X)
scale_form	\fBform_win\fR(3X)
set_current_field	\fBform_page\fR(3X)
set_field_back	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
set_field_buffer	\fBform_field_buffer\fR(3X)
set_field_fore	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
set_field_init	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
set_field_just	\fBform_field_just\fR(3X)
set_field_opts	\fBform_field_opts\fR(3X)
set_field_pad	\fBform_field_attributes\fR(3X)
set_field_status	\fBform_field_buffer\fR(3X)
set_field_term	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
set_field_type	\fBform_field_validation\fR(3X)
set_field_userptr	\fBform_field_userptr\fR(3X)
set_fieldtype_arg	\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X)
set_fieldtype_choice	\fBform_fieldtype\fR(3X)
set_form_fields	\fBform_field\fR(3X)
set_form_init	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
set_form_opts	\fBform_field_opts\fR(3X)
set_form_page	\fBform_page\fR(3X)
set_form_sub	\fBform_win\fR(3X)
set_form_term	\fBform_hook\fR(3X)
set_form_userptr	\fBform_userptr\fR(3X)
set_form_win	\fBform_win\fR(3X)
set_max_field	\fBform_field_buffer\fR(3X)
set_new_page	\fBform_new_page\fR(3X)
unpost_form	\fBform_post\fR(3X)
.TE
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return pointas return \fBNULL\fR on error,
and set errno ta tha correspondin error-code returned by functions
returnin a integer.
Routines dat return
an integer return one of tha followin error codes:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_STATE
Routine was called from a initialization or termination function.
.TP 5
.B E_CONNECTED
Da field be already connected ta a gangbangin' form.
.TP 5
.B E_INVALID_FIELD
Contentz of a gangbangin' field is not valid.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No fieldz is connected ta tha form.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_POSTED
Da form has not been posted.
.TP 5
.B E_NO_ROOM
Form is too big-ass fo' its window.
.TP 5
.B E_POSTED
Da form be already posted.
.TP 5
.B E_REQUEST_DENIED
Da form driver could not process tha request.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.TP 5
.B E_UNKNOWN_COMMAND
Da form driver code saw a unknown request code.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X) n' related pages whose names begin "form_" fo' detailed
descriptionz of tha entry points.
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header files
\fB<curses.h>\fR n' \fB<eti.h>\fR.
.PP
In yo' library list, libform.a should be before libncurses.a; dat is,
you wanna say `\-lform \-lncurses', not tha other way round (which would
give you a link error rockin most linkers).
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' ncurses by Eric
S. Raymond.
.SH SEE ALSO
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
