'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_field_new.3x,v 1.18 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_field_new 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_field_new\fR \- create n' destroy form fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
FIELD *new_field(int height, int width,
                 int toprow, int leftcol,
                 int offscreen, int nbuffers);
.br
FIELD *dup_field(FIELD *field, int toprow, int leftcol);
.br
FIELD *link_field(FIELD *field, int toprow, int leftcol);
.br
int free_field(FIELD *field);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBnew_field\fR allocates a freshly smoked up field n' initializes it from the
parametas given: height, width, row of upper-left corner, column of upper-left
corner, number off-screen rows, n' number of additionizzle hustlin buffers.
.PP
Da function \fBdup_field\fR duplicates a gangbangin' field at a freshly smoked up location. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Most
attributes (includin current contents, size, validation type, buffer count,
growth threshold, justification, foreground, background, pad character,
options, n' user pointer) is copied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Field status n' tha field page bit are
not copied.
.PP
Da function \fBlink_field\fR acts like \fBdup_field\fR yo, but tha freshly smoked up field
shares buffers wit its parent.  Attribute data is separate.
.PP
Da function \fBfree_field\fR de-allocates storage associated wit a gangbangin' field.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function, \fBnew_field\fR, \fBdup_field\fR, \fBlink_field\fR return
\fBNULL\fR on error.
They set errno accordin ta they success:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred, e.g., malloc failure.
.PP
Da function \fBfree_field\fR returns one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_CONNECTED
field is connected.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.PP
It may be unwise ta count on tha set of attributes copied by
\fBdup_field\fR bein portable; tha System V forms library documents are
not straight-up explicit bout what tha fuck gets copied n' what tha fuck do not.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
