'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_hook.3x,v 1.11 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_hook 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_hook\fR \- set hooks fo' automatic invocation by applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
int set_field_init(FORM *form, Form_Hook func);
.br
Form_Hook field_init(const FORM *form);
.br
int set_field_term(FORM *form, Form_Hook func);
.br
Form_Hook field_term(const FORM *form);
.br
int set_form_init(FORM *form, Form_Hook func);
.br
Form_Hook form_init(const FORM *form);
.br
int set_form_term(FORM *form, Form_Hook func);
.br
Form_Hook form_term(const FORM *form);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions make it possible ta set hook functions ta be called at various
points up in tha automatic processin of input event codes by \fBform_driver\fR.
.PP
Da function \fBset_field_init\fR sets a hook ta be called at form-post time
and each time tha selected field chizzlez (afta tha chizzle).  \fBfield_init\fR
returns tha current field init hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_field_term\fR sets a hook ta be called at form-unpost time
and each time tha selected field chizzlez (before tha chizzle).  \fBfield_term\fR
returns tha current field term hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_form_init\fR sets a hook ta be called at form-post time and
just afta a page chizzle once it is posted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  \fBform_init\fR returns the
current form init hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_form_term\fR sets a hook ta be called at form-unpost time
and just before a page chizzle once it is posted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  \fBform_init\fR
returns tha current form term hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return pointas return \fBNULL\fR on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Other routines
return one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
