.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 28 11:12:26 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" FIXME Probably all of tha followin should be documented:
.\"     _PC_SYNC_IO,
.\"     _PC_ASYNC_IO,
.\"     _PC_PRIO_IO,
.\"     _PC_SOCK_MAXBUF,
.\"     _PC_FILESIZEBITS,
.\"     _PC_REC_INCR_XFER_SIZE,
.\"     _PC_REC_MAX_XFER_SIZE,
.\"     _PC_REC_MIN_XFER_SIZE,
.\"     _PC_REC_XFER_ALIGN,
.\"     _PC_ALLOC_SIZE_MIN,
.\"     _PC_SYMLINK_MAX,
.\"     _PC_2_SYMLINKS
.\"
.TH FPATHCONF 3  1993-04-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fpathconf, pathconf \- git configuration joints fo' files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "long fpathconf(int " fd ", int " name );
.br
.BI "long pathconf(char *" path ", int " name );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fpathconf ()
gets a value fo' tha configuration option
.I name
for tha open file descriptor
.IR fd .
.PP
.BR pathconf ()
gets a value fo' configuration option
.I name
for tha filename
.IR path .
.PP
Da correspondin macros defined in
.I <unistd.h>
are minimum joints; if a application wants ta take advantage of joints
which may chizzle, a cold-ass lil call to
.BR fpathconf ()
or
.BR pathconf ()
can be made, which may yield mo' liberal thangs up in dis biatch.
.PP
Setting
.I name
equal ta one of tha followin constants returns tha following
configuration options:
.TP
.B _PC_LINK_MAX
returns tha maximum number of links ta tha file.
If
.I fd
or
.I path
refer ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, then tha value applies ta tha whole directory.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_LINK_MAX .
.TP
.B _PC_MAX_CANON
returns tha maximum length of a gangbangin' formatted input line, where
.I fd
or
.I path
must refer ta a terminal.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_MAX_CANON .
.TP
.B _PC_MAX_INPUT
returns tha maximum length of a input line, where
.I fd
or
.I path
must refer ta a terminal.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_MAX_INPUT .
.TP
.B _PC_NAME_MAX
returns tha maximum length of a gangbangin' filename up in tha directory
.I path
or
.IR fd
that tha process be allowed ta create.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_NAME_MAX .
.TP
.B _PC_PATH_MAX
returns tha maximum length of a relatizzle pathname when
.I path
or
.I fd
is tha current hustlin directory.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_PATH_MAX .
.TP
.B _PC_PIPE_BUF
returns tha size of tha pipe buffer, where
.I fd
must refer ta a pipe or FIFO and
.I path
must refer ta a FIFO.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_PIPE_BUF .
.TP
.B _PC_CHOWN_RESTRICTED
returns nonzero if the
.BR chown (2)
call may not be used on dis file.
If
.I fd
or
.I path
refer ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, then dis applies ta all filez up in that
directory.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED .
.TP
.B _PC_NO_TRUNC
returns nonzero if accessin filenames longer than
.B _POSIX_NAME_MAX
generates a error.
Da correspondin macro is
.BR _POSIX_NO_TRUNC .
.TP
.B _PC_VDISABLE
returns nonzero if special characta processin can be disabled, where
.I fd
or
.I path
must refer ta a terminal.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da limit is returned, if one exists.
If tha system aint gots a
limit fo' tha axed resource, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is unchanged.
If there be a error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta reflect tha nature of tha error.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Filez wit name lengths longer than tha value returned for
.I name
equal to
.B _PC_NAME_MAX
may exist up in tha given directory.
.PP
Some returned joints may be huge; they is not suitable fo' allocating
memory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getconf (1),
.BR open (2),
.BR statfs (2),
.BR sysconf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
