.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FPURGE 3  2001-12-15 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fpurge, __fpurge \- purge a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
/* unsupported */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.sp
/* supported */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <stdio_ext.h>
.sp
.BI "void  __fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR fpurge ()
clears tha bufferz of tha given stream.
For output streams dis discardz any unwritten output.
For input streams dis discardz any input read from tha underlyin object
but not yet obtained via
.BR getc (3);
this includes any text pushed back via
.BR ungetc (3).
See also
.BR fflush (3).
.LP
Da function
.BR __fpurge ()
does precisely tha same yo, but without returnin a value.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion
.BR fpurge ()
returns 0.
On error, it returns \-1 n' sets
.I errno
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I stream
is not a open stream.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is nonstandard n' not portable.
Da function
.BR fpurge ()
was introduced up in 4.4BSD n' aint available under Linux.
Da function
.BR __fpurge ()
was introduced up in Solaris, n' is present up in glibc 2.1.95 n' later.
.SH NOTES
Usually it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' fuck up ta wanna discard input buffers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR fclean (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR stdio_ext (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
