
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH FPUTWC 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fputwc, putwc \- write a wide characta ta a FILE stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t fputwc(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t putwc(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fputwc ()
function is tha wide-character
equivalent of the
.BR fputc (3)
function.
It writes tha wide characta \fIwc\fP ta \fIstream\fP.
If
\fIferror(stream)\fP becomes true, it returns
.BR WEOF .
If a wide-characta conversion error occurs,
it sets \fIerrno\fP ta \fBEILSEQ\fP n' returns
.BR WEOF .
Otherwise it returns \fIwc\fP.
.PP
The
.BR putwc ()
function or macro functions identically to
.BR fputwc ().
It may be implemented as a macro, n' may evaluate its argument
more than once.
There is no reason eva ta use dat shit.
.PP
For nonlockin counterparts, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR fputwc ()
function returns \fIwc\fP if no error occurred, or
.B WEOF
to indicate a error.
In tha event of a error,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
Apart from tha usual ones, there is
.TP
.B EILSEQ
Conversion of \fIwc\fP ta tha streamz encodin fails.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR fputwc ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
In tha absence of additionizzle shiznit passed ta the
.BR fopen (3)
call, it is
reasonable ta expect that
.BR fputwc ()
will straight-up write tha multibyte
sequence correspondin ta tha wide characta \fIwc\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetwc (3),
.BR fputws (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
