.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek n' tha Gangsta Nationizzle Standardz Committee X3,
.\" on Hype Processin Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted fo' Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return joints
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.TH FREAD 3  2012-03-30 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fread, fwrite \- binary stream input/output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t fread(void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb \
", FILE *" stream );
.sp
.BI "size_t fwrite(const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "              FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR fread ()
reads
.I nmemb
elementz of data, each
.I size
bytes long, from tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream ,
storin dem all up in tha location given by
.IR ptr .
.PP
Da function
.BR fwrite ()
writes
.I nmemb
elementz of data, each
.I size
bytes long, ta tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream ,
obtainin dem from tha location given by
.IR ptr .
.PP
For nonlockin counterparts, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR fread ()
and
.BR fwrite ()
return tha number of
.I items
read or written.
This number equals tha number of bytes transferred only when
.I size
is 1.
If a error occurs, or tha end of tha file is reached,
the return value be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short item count (or zero).
.PP
.BR fread ()
does not distinguish between end-of-file n' error, n' callaz must use
.BR feof (3)
and
.BR ferror (3)
to determine which occurred.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR feof (3),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
