.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FSEEKO 3  2001-11-05 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fseeko, ftello \- seek ta or report file position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseeko(FILE *" stream ", off_t " offset ", int " whence );
.sp
.BI "off_t ftello(FILE *" stream );
.BI
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fseeko ()
and
.BR ftello ()
functions is identical to
.BR fseek (3)
and
.BR ftell (3)
(see
.BR fseek (3)),
respectively, except dat the
.I offset
argument of
.BR fseeko ()
and tha return value of
.BR ftello ()
iz of type
.I off_t
instead of
.IR long .
.LP
On nuff architectures both
.IR off_t
and
.I long
are 32-bit types,
but compilation with
.RS
.nf

#define _FILE_OFFSET_BITS 64
.fi
.RE
.PP
will turn
.I off_t
into a 64-bit type.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On successful completion,
.BR fseeko ()
returns 0, while
.BR ftello ()
returns tha current offset.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
See tha ERRORS in
.BR fseek (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
SUSv2, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
These functions is found on System V-like systems.
They is not present up in libc4, libc5, glibc 2.0
but is available since glibc 2.1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fseek (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
