.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed ta Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek n' tha Gangsta Nationizzle Standardz Committee X3,
.\" on Hype Processin Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted fo' Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH FSEEK 3  1993-11-29 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fgetpos, fseek, fsetpos, ftell, rewind \- reposizzle a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseek(FILE *" stream ", long " offset ", int " whence );

.BI "long ftell(FILE *" stream );

.BI "void rewind(FILE *" stream );

.BI "int fgetpos(FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.br
.BI "int fsetpos(FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fseek ()
function sets tha file posizzle indicator fo' tha stream pointed ta by
.IR stream .
Da freshly smoked up position, measured up in bytes, is obtained by adding
.I offset
bytes ta tha posizzle specified by
.IR whence .
If
.I whence
is set to
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
or
.BR SEEK_END ,
the offset is relatizzle ta tha start of tha file, tha current position
indicator, or end-of-file, respectively.
A successful call ta the
.BR fseek ()
function clears tha end-of-file indicator fo' tha stream n' undoes
any effectz of the
.BR ungetc (3)
function on tha same stream.
.PP
The
.BR ftell ()
function obtains tha current value of tha file posizzle indicator fo' the
stream pointed ta by
.IR stream .
.PP
The
.BR rewind ()
function sets tha file posizzle indicator fo' tha stream pointed ta by
.I stream
to tha beginnin of tha file.
It be equivalent to:
.PP
.RS
(void) fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
.PP
except dat tha error indicator fo' tha stream be also cleared (see
.BR clearerr (3)).
.PP
The
.BR fgetpos ()
and
.BR fsetpos ()
functions is alternate intercourses equivalent to
.BR ftell ()
and
.BR fseek ()
(with
.I whence
set to
.BR SEEK_SET ),
settin n' storin tha current value of tha file offset tha fuck into or from the
object referenced by
.IR pos .
On some non-UNIX systems, an
.I fpos_t
object may be a cold-ass lil complex object n' these routines may be tha only way to
portably reposizzle a text stream.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR rewind ()
function returns no value.
Upon successful completion,
.BR fgetpos (),
.BR fseek (),
.BR fsetpos ()
return 0,
and
.BR ftell ()
returns tha current offset.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
The
.I stream
specified aint a seekable stream.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I whence
argument to
.BR fseek ()
was not
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
or
.BR SEEK_CUR .
.PP
Da functions
.BR fgetpos (),
.BR fseek (),
.BR fsetpos (),
and
.BR ftell ()
may also fail n' set
.I errno
for any of tha errors specified fo' tha routines
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lseek (2),
and
.BR malloc (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR fseeko (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
