.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:23:14 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Oct 18 17:31:43 1998 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" 2008-06-23, mtk, minor rewrites, added some details
.\"
.TH FTIME 3 2010-02-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ftime \- return date n' time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <sys/timeb.h>"
.sp
.BI "int ftime(struct timeb *" tp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns tha current time as secondz n' milliseconds
since tha Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).
Da time is returned in
.IR tp ,
which is declared as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct timeb {
    time_t         time;
    unsigned short millitm;
    short          timezone;
    short          dstflag;
};
.fi
.in
.LP
Here \fItime\fP is tha number of secondz since tha Epoch,
and \fImillitm\fP is tha number of millisecondz since \fItime\fP
secondz since tha Epoch.
Da \fItimezone\fP field is tha local timezone measured up in minutes
of time westside of Greenwich (with a wack value indicatin minutes
east of Greenwich).
Da \fIdstflag\fP field
is a gangbangin' flag that, if nonzero, indicates dat Daylight Savin time
applies locally durin tha appropriate part of tha year.
.LP
POSIX.1-2001 say dat tha contentz of tha \fItimezone\fP n' \fIdstflag\fP
fieldz is unspecified; avoid relyin on em.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function always returns 0.
(POSIX.1-2001 specifies, n' some systems document, a \-1 error return.)
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.2BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justification of
.BR ftime ().

This function is obsolete.
Don't use dat shit.
If tha time up in seconds
suffices,
.BR time (2)
can be used;
.BR gettimeofdizzle (2)
gives microseconds;
.BR clock_gettime (2)
gives nanosecondz but aint as widely available.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Under libc4 n' libc5 tha \fImillitm\fP field is meaningful.
But early glibc2 is buggy n' returns 0 there;
glibc 2.1.1 is erect again.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" .BR ftime ()
.\" function rocked up in 4.2BSD.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gettimeofdizzle (2),
.BR time (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
