.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2008, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FUTIMES 3 2013-03-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
futimes, lutimes \- chizzle file timestamps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/time.h>

.BI "int futimes(int " fd ", const struct timeval " tv [2]);

.BI "int lutimes(const char *" filename ", const struct timeval " tv [2]);
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR futimes (),
.BR lutimes ():
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR futimes ()
changes tha access n' modification timez of a gangbangin' file up in tha same way as
.BR utimes (2),
with tha difference dat tha file whose timestamps is ta be chizzled
is specified via a gangbangin' file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
rather than via a pathname.

.BR lutimes ()
changes tha access n' modification timez of a gangbangin' file up in tha same way as
.BR utimes (2),
with tha difference dat if
.I filename
refers ta a symbolic link, then tha link aint dereferenced:
instead, tha timestampz of tha symbolic link is chizzled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Errors is as for
.BR utimes (2),
with tha followin additions for
.BR futimes ():
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The
.I /proc
file system could not be accessed.
.PP
Da followin additionizzle error may occur for
.BR lutimes ():
.TP
.B ENOSYS
Da kernel do not support dis call; Linux 2.6.22 or lata is required.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR futimes ()
is available since glibc 2.3.
.BR lutimes ()
is available since glibc 2.6, n' is implemented rockin the
.BR utimensat (2)
system call, which is supported since kernel 2.6.22.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is not specified up in any standard.
Other than Linux, they is available only on tha BSDs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR utime (2),
.BR utimensat (2),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
