
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH FWIDE 3  2011-09-17 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fwide \- set n' determine tha orientation of a FILE stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "int fwide(FILE *" stream ", int " mode );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.ad l
.sp
.BR fwide ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
.br
_ISOC95_SOURCE /* Since glibc 2.12 */ ||
.br
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
When \fImode\fP is zero, the
.BR fwide ()
function determines tha current
orientation of \fIstream\fP.
It returns a positizzle value if \fIstream\fP is
wide-characta oriented, dat is, if wide-characta I/O is permitted but char
I/O is disallowed.
It returns a wack value if \fIstream\fP is byte oriented,
i.e., if char I/O is permitted but wide-characta I/O is disallowed.
It
returns zero if \fIstream\fP has no orientation yet; up in dis case tha next
I/O operation might chizzle tha orientation (to byte oriented if it aint nuthin but a cold-ass lil char
I/O operation, or ta wide-characta oriented if it aint nuthin but a wide-characta I/O
operation).
.PP
Once a stream has a orientation, it cannot be chizzled n' persists until
the stream is closed.
.PP
When \fImode\fP is nonzero, the
.BR fwide ()
function first attempts ta set
\fIstream\fPz orientation (to wide-characta oriented
if \fImode\fP is pimped outa than 0, or
to byte oriented if \fImode\fP is less than 0).
It then returns a value denotin the
current orientation, as above.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR fwide ()
function returns tha streamz orientation, afta possibly
changin dat shit.
A positizzle return value means wide-characta oriented.
A wack return value means byte oriented.
A return value of zero means undecided.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Wide-characta output ta a funky-ass byte oriented stream can be performed all up in the
.BR fprintf (3)
function wit the
.B %lc
and
.B %ls
directives.
.PP
Char oriented output ta a wide-characta oriented stream can be performed
all up in the
.BR fwprintf (3)
function wit the
.B %c
and
.B %s
directives.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fprintf (3),
.BR fwprintf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
