.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2003-11-18, aeb: oldschool remarks
.\"
.TH GAMMA 3 2008-08-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gamma, gammaf, gammal \- (logarithm of the) gamma function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double gamma(double " x ");"
.br
.BI "float gammaf(float " x ");"
.br
.BI "long double gammal(long double " x ");"
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR gamma ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.BR gammaf (),
.BR gammal ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.\" Also seems ta work: -std=c99 -D_XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is deprecated: instead, use either the
.BR tgamma (3)
or the
.BR lgamma (3)
functions, as appropriate.

For tha definizzle of tha Gamma function, see
.BR tgamma (3).
.SS *BSD version
Da libm up in 4.4BSD n' some versionz of FreeBSD had a
.BR gamma ()
function dat computes tha Gamma function, as one would expect.
.SS glibc version
Glibc has a
.BR gamma ()
function dat is equivalent to
.BR lgamma (3)
and computes tha natural logarithm of tha Gamma function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
See
.BR lgamma (3).
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR lgamma (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
Because of oldschool variations up in behavior across systems,
this function aint specified up in any standard.
.SH NOTES
.SS History
4.2BSD had a
.BR gamma ()
that computed
.RI ln(|Gamma(| x |)|),
leavin tha sign of
.RI Gamma(| x |)
in tha external integer
.IR signgam .
In 4.3BSD tha name was chizzled to
.BR lgamma (3),
and tha playa page promises
.sp
.in +4n
"At some time up in tha future tha name gamma is ghon be rehabilitated
and used fo' tha Gamma function"
.in
.sp
This did indeed happen up in 4.4BSD, where
.BR gamma ()
computes tha Gamma function (with no effect on
.IR signgam ).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis came too late, n' we now have
.BR tgamma (3),
the "true gamma" function.
.\" Da FreeBSD playa page say bout gamma() dat it is like lgamma()
.\" except dat is do not set signgam.
.\" Also, dat 4.4BSD has a gamma() dat computes tha legit gamma function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lgamma (3),
.BR signgam (3),
.BR tgamma (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
