.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Petr Benas
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2012, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.man-pages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
.\" dis manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
.\" tha entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
.\" a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume
.\" no responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resulting
.\" from tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may
.\" not have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of this
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GET_NPROCS 3   2012-03-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
get_nprocs, get_nprocs_conf \- git number of processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/sysinfo.h>
.sp
.BI "int get_nprocs(void);"
.br
.BI "int get_nprocs_conf(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
returns tha number of processors configured by tha operatin system.

Da function
.BR get_nprocs ()
returns tha number of processors currently available up in tha system.
This may be less than tha number returned by
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
because processors may be offline (e.g., on hotpluggable systems).
.SH RETURN VALUE
As given up in DESCRIPTION.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is GNU extensions.
.SH NOTES
Da current
.\" glibc 2.15
implementation of these functions is rather expensive,
since they open n' parse filez up in the
.I /sys
file system each time they is called.

Da following
.BR sysconf (3)
calls make use of tha functions documented on dis page
to return tha same shiznit.
.nf

    np = sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_CONF);     /* processors configured */
    np = sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN);     /* processors available */
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin example shows how
.BR get_nprocs ()
and
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
can be used.

.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/sysinfo.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    printf("This system has %d processors configured n' "
            "%d processors available.\\n",
            get_nprocs_conf(), get_nprocs());
    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
