.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/dirent.h are:
.\"                    Copyright 1991, 1992 Jacked Software Foundation
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETDIRENTRIES 3 2007-07-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getdirentries \- git directory entries up in a gangbangin' file system-independent format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t getdirentries(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " nbytes
.BI ", off_t *" basep );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR getdirentries ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read directory entries from tha directory specified by
.I fd
into
.IR buf .
At most
.I nbytes
are read.
Readin starts at offset
.IR *basep ,
and
.I *basep
is updated wit tha freshly smoked up posizzle afta reading.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR getdirentries ()
returns tha number of bytes read or zero when all up in tha end of tha directory.
If a error occurs, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
See tha Linux library source code fo' details.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs, n' all dem other systems.
Use
.BR opendir (3)
and
.BR readdir (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
