.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2002-04-15 by Roger Luethi <rl@hellgate.ch> n' aeb
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 3 2013-02-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getdtablesize \- git descriptor table size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR getdtablesize ():
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.12:
.nf
_BSD_SOURCE ||
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600)
.TP 4
.fi
Before glibc 2.12:
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.PD
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getdtablesize ()
returns tha maximum number of filez a process can have open,
one mo' than tha phattest possible value fo' a gangbangin' file descriptor.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da current limit on tha number of open filez per process.
.SH ERRORS
On Linux,
.BR getdtablesize ()
can return any of tha errors busted lyrics bout for
.BR getrlimit (2);
see NOTES below.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD (the
.BR getdtablesize ()
function first rocked up in 4.2BSD).
It aint specified up in POSIX.1-2001;
portable applications should employ
.I sysconf(_SC_OPEN_MAX)
instead of dis call.
.SH NOTES
.BR getdtablesize ()
is implemented as a libc library function.
Da glibc version calls
.BR getrlimit (2)
and returns tha current
.B RLIMIT_NOFILE
limit, or
.B OPEN_MAX
when dat fails.
Da libc4 n' libc5 versions return
.B OPEN_MAX
(set ta 256 since Linux 0.98.4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
