.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2007, 2012 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez "POSIX Programmerz Guide" (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH GETENV 3  2012-08-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getenv, secure_getenv \- git a environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *getenv(const char *" name );

.BI "char *secure_getenv(const char *" name );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR secure_getenv ():
_GNU_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getenv ()
function searches tha environment list ta find the
environment variable
.IR name ,
and returns a pointa ta tha corresponding
.I value
string.

Da GNU-specific
.BR secure_getenv ()
function is just like
.BR getenv ()
except dat it returns NULL up in cases where "secure execution" is required.
Secure execution is required if one of tha followin conditions
was legit when tha program run by tha callin process was loaded:
.IP * 3
the processs effectizzle user ID did not match its real user ID or
the processs effectizzle crew ID did not match its real crew ID
(typically dis is tha result of executin a set-user-ID or
set-group-ID program);
.IP *
the effectizzle capabilitizzle bit was set on tha executable file; or
.IP *
the process has a nonempty permitted capabilitizzle set.
.PP
Secure execution may also required if triggered
by some Linux securitizzle modules.

The
.BR secure_getenv ()
function is intended fo' use up in general-purpose libraries
to avoid vulnerabilitizzles dat could occur if
set-user-ID or set-group-ID programs accidentally
trusted tha environment.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getenv ()
function returns a pointa ta tha value up in the
environment, or NULL if there is no match.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR secure_getenv ()
first rocked up in glibc 2.17.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR getenv ():
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

.BR secure_getenv ()
is a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
Da strings up in tha environment list iz of tha form \fIname=value\fP.

As typically implemented,
.BR getenv ()
returns a pointa ta a strang within tha environment list.
Da calla must take care not ta modify dis string,
since dat would chizzle tha environment of tha process.

Da implementation of
.BR getenv ()
is not required ta be reentrant.
Da strang pointed ta by tha return value of
.BR getenv ()
may be statically allocated,
and can be modified by a subsequent call to
.BR getenv (),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
or
.BR unsetenv (3).

Da "secure execution" mode of
.BR secure_getenv ()
is controlled by the
.B AT_SECURE
flag contained up in tha auxiliary vector passed from tha kernel ta user space.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clearenv (3),
.BR getauxval (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR environ (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
