.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Inspired by a page freestyled by Walta Harms.
.\"
.TH GETFSENT 3 2002-02-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, setfsent, endfsent \- handle fstab entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fstab.h>
.sp
.B "void endfsent(void);"
.sp
.B "struct fstab *getfsent(void);"
.sp
.BI "struct fstab *getfsfile(const char *" mount_point );
.sp
.BI "struct fstab *getfsspec(const char *" special_file );
.sp
.B "int setfsent(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions read from tha file
.IR /etc/fstab .
The
.IR "struct fstab"
is defined by:
.LP
.in +4n
.nf
struct fstab {
    char       *fs_spec;       /* block thang name */
    char       *fs_file;       /* mount point */
    char       *fs_vfstype;    /* file-sysem type */
    char       *fs_mntops;     /* mount options */
    const char *fs_type;       /* rw/rq/ro/sw/xx option */
    int         fs_freq;       /* dump frequency, up in minutes */
    int         fs_passno;     /* pass number on parallel dump */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
Here tha field
.I fs_type
gotz nuff (on a *BSD system)
one of tha five strings "rw", "rq", "ro", "sw", "xx"
(read-write, read-write wit quota, read-only, swap, ignore).

Da function
.BR setfsent ()
opens tha file when required n' positions it all up in tha straight-up original gangsta line.
.LP
Da function
.BR getfsent ()
parses tha next line from tha file.
(Afta openin it when required.)
.LP
Da function
.BR endfsent ()
closes tha file when required.
.LP
Da function
.BR getfsspec ()
searches tha file from tha start n' returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry found
for which the
.I fs_spec
field matches the
.I special_file
argument.
.LP
Da function
.BR getfsfile ()
searches tha file from tha start n' returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry found
for which the
.I fs_file
field matches the
.I mount_point
argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon success, tha functions
.BR getfsent (),
.BR getfsfile (),
and
.BR getfsspec ()
return a pointa ta a
.IR "struct fstab" ,
while
.BR setfsent ()
returns 1.
Upon failure or end-of-file, these functions return NULL n' 0, respectively.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" .BR getfsent ()
.\" function rocked up in 4.0BSD; tha other four functions rocked up in 4.3BSD.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Several operatin systems have them,
e.g., *BSD, SunOS, Digital UNIX, AIX (which also has a
.BR getfstype ()).
HP-UX has functionz of tha same names,
that however use a
.IR "struct checklist"
instead of a
.IR "struct fstab" ,
and calls these functions obsolete, superseded by
.BR getmntent (3).
.SH NOTES
These functions is not thread-safe.
.LP
Since Linux allows mountin a funky-ass block special thang up in nuff muthafuckin places,
and since nuff muthafuckin devices can have tha same mount point, where the
last thang wit a given mount point is tha bangin-ass one,
while
.BR getfsfile ()
and
.BR getfsspec ()
only return tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence, these two functions is not suitable
for use under Linux.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getmntent (3),
.BR fstab (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
