.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2003-11-15 by aeb
.\"
.TH GETGRNAM 3 2013-07-22 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getgrnam, getgrnam_r, getgrgid, getgrgid_r \- git crew file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "struct crew *getgrnam(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct crew *getgrgid(gid_t " gid );
.sp
.BI "int getgrnam_r(const char *" name ", struct crew *" grp ,
.br
.BI "          char *" buf ", size_t " buflen ", struct crew **" result );
.sp
.BI "int getgrgid_r(gid_t " gid ", struct crew *" grp ,
.br
.BI "          char *" buf ", size_t " buflen ", struct crew **" result );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.ad l
.in
.sp
.BR getgrnam_r (),
.BR getgrgid_r ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE ||
_SVID_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getgrnam ()
function returns a pointa ta a structure containing
the broken-out fieldz of tha record up in tha crew database
(e.g., tha local crew file
.IR /etc/group ,
NIS, n' LDAP)
that matches tha crew name
.IR name .
.PP
The
.BR getgrgid ()
function returns a pointa ta a structure containing
the broken-out fieldz of tha record up in tha crew database
that matches tha crew ID
.IR gid .
.PP
Da \fIgroup\fP structure is defined up in \fI<grp.h>\fP as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct crew {
    char   *gr_name;       /* crew name */
    char   *gr_passwd;     /* crew password */
    gid_t   gr_gid;        /* crew ID */
    char  **gr_mem;        /* crew thugz */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
For mo' shiznit bout tha fieldz of dis structure, see
.BR crew (5).
.PP
The
.BR getgrnam_r ()
and
.BR getgrgid_r ()
functions obtain tha same shiznit as
.BR getgrnam ()
and
.BR getgrgid (),
but store tha retrieved
.I group
structure
in tha space pointed ta by
.IR grp .
Da strang fieldz pointed ta by tha thugz of the
.I group
structure is stored up in tha buffer
.I buf
of size
.IR buflen .
A pointa ta tha result (in case of success) or NULL (in case no entry
was found or a error occurred) is stored in
.IR *result .
.PP
Da call

    sysconf(_SC_GETGR_R_SIZE_MAX)

returns either \-1, without changing
.IR errno ,
or a initial suggested size for
.IR buf .
(If dis size is too small,
the call fails with
.BR ERANGE ,
in which case tha calla can retry wit a larger buffer.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getgrnam ()
and
.BR getgrgid ()
functions return a pointa ta a
.I group
structure, or NULL if tha matchin entry
is not found or a error occurs.
If a error occurs,
.I errno
is set appropriately.
If one wants ta check
.I errno
afta tha call, it should be set ta zero before tha call.
.LP
Da return value may point ta a static area, n' may be overwritten
by subsequent calls to
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getgrgid (),
or
.BR getgrnam ().
(Do not pass tha returned pointa to
.BR free (3).)
.LP
On success,
.BR getgrnam_r ()
and
.BR getgrgid_r ()
return zero, n' set
.IR *result
to
.IR grp .
If no matchin crew record was found,
these functions return 0 n' store NULL in
.IR *result .
In case of error, a error number is returned, n' NULL is stored in
.IR *result .
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR 0 " or " ENOENT " or " ESRCH " or " EBADF " or " EPERM " or ... "
Da given
.I name
or
.I gid
was not found.
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal was caught.
.TP
.B EIO
I/O error.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da maximum number
.RB ( OPEN_MAX )
of filez was open already up in tha callin process.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da maximum number of filez was open already up in tha system.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.\" not up in POSIX
Insufficient memory ta allocate
.I group
structure.
.\" ta allocate tha crew structure, or ta allocate buffers
.TP
.B ERANGE
Insufficient buffer space supplied.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/group
local crew database file
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR getgrnam ()
and
.BR getgrgid ()
functions is not thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR getgrnam_r ()
and
.BR getgrgid_r ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da formulation given above under "RETURN VALUE" is from POSIX.1-2001.
It do not call "not found" a error, hence do not specify what tha fuck value
.I errno
might have up in dis thang.
But dat make it impossible ta recognize
errors.
One might argue dat accordin ta POSIX
.I errno
should be left unchanged if a entry aint found.
Experiments on various
UNIX-like systems shows dat fuckin shitloadz of different joints occur up in this
situation: 0, ENOENT, EBADF, ESRCH, EWOULDBLOCK, EPERM n' probably others.
.\" mo' precisely:
.\" AIX 5.1 - gives ESRCH
.\" OSF1 4.0g - gives EWOULDBLOCK
.\" libc, glibc up ta version 2.6, Irix 6.5 - give ENOENT
.\" glibc since version 2.7 - give 0
.\" FreeBSD 4.8, OpenBSD 3.2, NetBSD 1.6 - give EPERM
.\" SunOS 5.8 - gives EBADF
.\" Tru64 5.1b, HP-UX-11i, SunOS 5.7 - give 0
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endgrent (3),
.BR fgetgrent (3),
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR setgrent (3),
.BR crew (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
