.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:29:54 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GETGRENT 3  2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getgrent, setgrent, endgrent \- git crew file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.B struct crew *getgrent(void);
.sp
.B void setgrent(void);
.sp
.B void endgrent(void);
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.PD 0
.ad l
.BR setgrent ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED ||
.br
/* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.sp
.BR getgrent (),
.BR endgrent ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.PD
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getgrent ()
function returns a pointa ta a structure containing
the broken-out fieldz of a record up in tha crew database
(e.g., tha local crew file
.IR /etc/group ,
NIS, n' LDAP).
Da last time
.BR getgrent ()
is called,
it returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry; thereafter, it returns successive entries.
.PP
The
.BR setgrent ()
function rewindz ta tha beginning
of tha crew database, ta allow repeated scans.
.PP
The
.BR endgrent ()
function is used ta close tha crew database
afta all processin has been performed.
.PP
Da \fIgroup\fP structure is defined up in \fI<grp.h>\fP as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct crew {
    char   *gr_name;       /* crew name */
    char   *gr_passwd;     /* crew password */
    gid_t   gr_gid;        /* crew ID */
    char  **gr_mem;        /* crew thugz */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
For mo' shiznit bout tha fieldz of dis structure, see
.BR crew (5).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getgrent ()
function returns a pointa ta a
.I group
structure,
or NULL if there be no mo' entries or a error occurs.
.LP
Upon error,
.I errno
may be set.
If one wants ta check
.I errno
afta tha call, it should be set ta zero before tha call.

Da return value may point ta a static area, n' may be overwritten
by subsequent calls to
.BR getgrent (),
.BR getgrgid (3),
or
.BR getgrnam (3).
(Do not pass tha returned pointa to
.BR free (3).)
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal was caught.
.TP
.B EIO
I/O error.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da callin process already has too nuff open files.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Too nuff open filez up in tha system.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.\" not up in POSIX
Insufficient memory ta allocate
.I group
structure.
.TP
.B ERANGE
Insufficient buffer space supplied.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/group
local crew database file
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR getgrent()
function aint thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR setgrent()
and
.BR endgrent()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetgrent (3),
.BR getgrent_r (3),
.BR getgrgid (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR getgrouplist (3),
.BR putgrent (3),
.BR crew (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
