.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Updated wit additions from Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETHOSTID 3 2010-09-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gethostid, sethostid \- git or set tha unique identifier of tha current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B long gethostid(void);
.br
.BI "int sethostid(long " hostid );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.br
.BR gethostid ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.BR sethostid ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR gethostid ()
and
.BR sethostid ()
respectively git or set a unique 32-bit identifier fo' tha current machine.
Da 32-bit identifier is intended ta be unique among all UNIX systems in
existence.
This normally resemblez tha Internizzle address fo' tha local
machine, as returned by
.BR gethostbyname (3),
and thus probably never need ta be set.

The
.BR sethostid ()
call is restricted ta tha superuser.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR gethostid ()
returns tha 32-bit identifier fo' tha current host as set by
.BR sethostid ().

On success,
.BR sethostid ()
returns 0; on error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR sethostid ()
can fail wit tha followin errors:
.TP
.B EACCES
Da calla did not have permission ta write ta tha file used
to store tha host ID.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin processs effectizzle user or crew ID aint tha same
as its correspondin real ID.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.2BSD; these functions was dropped up in 4.4BSD.
SVr4 includes
.BR gethostid ()
but not
.BR sethostid ().
POSIX.1-2001 specifies
.BR gethostid ()
but not
.BR sethostid ().
.SH NOTES
In tha glibc implementation, the
.I hostid
is stored up in tha file
.IR /etc/hostid .
(In glibc versions before 2.2, tha file
.I /var/adm/hostid
was used.)
.\" libc5 used /etc/hostid; libc4 didn't have these functions

In tha glibc implementation, if
.BR gethostid ()
cannot open tha file containin tha host ID,
then it obtains tha hostname using
.BR gethostname (2),
passes dat hostname to
.BR gethostbyname_r (3)
in order ta obtain tha hostz IPv4 address,
and returns a value obtained by bit-twiddlin tha IPv4 address.
(This value may not be unique.)
.SH BUGS
It be impossible ta ensure dat tha identifier is globally unique.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hostid (1),
.BR gethostbyname (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
