
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References: RFC 2553
.TH GETIPNODEBYNAME 3 2010-09-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getipnodebyname, getipnodebyaddr, freehostent \- git network
hostnames n' addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.BI "struct hostent *getipnodebyname(const char *" name ", int " af ,
.BI "                                int " flags ", int *" error_num );
.sp
.BI "struct hostent *getipnodebyaddr(const void *" addr ", size_t " len ,
.BI "                                int " af ", int *" "error_num" );
.sp
.BI "void freehostent(struct hostent *" "ip" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is deprecated (and unavailable up in glibc).
Use
.BR getaddrinfo (3)
and
.BR getnameinfo (3)
instead.
.LP
The
.BR getipnodebyname ()
and
.BR getipnodebyaddr ()
functions return tha names n' addressez of a network host.
These functions return a pointa ta the
followin structure:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct hostent {
    char  *h_name;
    char **h_aliases;
    int    h_addrtype;
    int    h_length;
    char **h_addr_list;
};
.in
.fi
.PP
These functions replace the
.BR gethostbyname (3)
and
.BR gethostbyaddr (3)
functions, which could access only tha IPv4 network address crew.
The
.BR getipnodebyname ()
and
.BR getipnodebyaddr ()
functions can access multiple network address crews.
.PP
Unlike the
.B gethostby
functions,
these functions return pointas ta dynamically allocated memory.
The
.BR freehostent ()
function is used ta release tha dynamically allocated memory
afta tha calla no longer needz the
.I hostent
structure.
.SS getipnodebyname() arguments
The
.BR getipnodebyname ()
function
looks up network addresses fo' tha host
specified by the
.I name
argument.
The
.I af
argument specifies one of tha followin joints:
.TP
.B AF_INET
The
.I name
argument points ta a thugged-out dotted-quad IPv4 address or a name
of a IPv4 network host.
.TP
.B AF_INET6
The
.I name
argument points ta a hexadecimal IPv6 address or a name
of a IPv6 network host.
.PP
The
.I flags
argument specifies additionizzle options.
Mo' than one option can be specified by bitwise OR-ing
them together.
.I flags
should be set ta 0
if no options is desired.
.TP
.B AI_V4MAPPED
This flag is used with
.B AF_INET6
to request a query fo' IPv4 addresses instead of
IPv6 addresses; tha IPv4 addresses will
be mapped ta IPv6 addresses.
.TP
.B AI_ALL
This flag is used with
.B AI_V4MAPPED
to request a query fo' both IPv4 n' IPv6 addresses.
Any IPv4 address found is ghon be mapped ta a IPv6 address.
.TP
.B AI_ADDRCONFIG
This flag is used with
.B AF_INET6
to
further request dat queries fo' IPv6 addresses should not be made unless
the system has at least one IPv6 address assigned ta a network intercourse,
and dat queries fo' IPv4 addresses should not be made unless the
system has at least one IPv4 address assigned ta a network intercourse.
This flag may be used by itself or wit the
.B AI_V4MAPPED
flag.
.TP
.B AI_DEFAULT
This flag is equivalent to
.BR "(AI_ADDRCONFIG | AI_V4MAPPED)" .
.SS getipnodebyaddr() arguments
The
.BR getipnodebyaddr ()
function
looks up tha name of tha host whose
network address is
specified by the
.I addr
argument.
The
.I af
argument specifies one of tha followin joints:
.TP
.B AF_INET
The
.I addr
argument points ta a
.I struct in_addr
and
.I len
must be set to
.IR "sizeof(struct in_addr)" .
.TP
.B AF_INET6
The
.I addr
argument points ta a
.I struct in6_addr
and
.I len
must be set to
.IR "sizeof(struct in6_addr)" .
.SH RETURN VALUE
A NULL pointa is returned if a error occurred, and
.I error_num
will contain a error code from tha followin list:
.TP
.B HOST_NOT_FOUND
Da hostname or network address was not found.
.TP
.B NO_ADDRESS
Da domain name server recognized tha network address or name,
but no answer was returned.
This can happen if tha network host has only IPv4 addresses and
a request has been made fo' IPv6 shiznit only, or vice versa.
.TP
.B NO_RECOVERY
Da domain name server returned a permanent failure response.
.TP
.B TRY_AGAIN
Da domain name server returned a temporary failure response.
Yo ass might have betta luck next time.
.PP
A successful query returns a pointa ta a
.I hostent
structure dat gotz nuff tha followin fields:
.TP
.I h_name
This is tha straight-up legit name of dis network host.
.TP
.I h_aliases
This be a array of pointas ta unstraight-up legit aliases fo' tha same host.
Da array is terminated by a NULL pointer.
.TP
.I h_addrtype
This be a cold-ass lil copy of the
.I af
argument to
.BR getipnodebyname ()
or
.BR getipnodebyaddr ().
.I h_addrtype
will always be
.B AF_INET
if the
.I af
argument was
.BR AF_INET .
.I h_addrtype
will always be
.B AF_INET6
if the
.I af
argument was
.BR AF_INET6 .
.TP
.I h_length
This field is ghon be set to
.I sizeof(struct in_addr)
if
.I h_addrtype
is
.BR AF_INET ,
and to
.I sizeof(struct in6_addr)
if
.I h_addrtype
is
.BR AF_INET6 .
.TP
.I h_addr_list
This be a array of one or mo' pointas ta network address structures fo' the
network host.
Da array is terminated by a NULL pointer.
.SH CONFORMING TO
RFC\ 2553.
.\" Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
These functions was present up in glibc 2.1.91-95 yo, but were
removed again.
Several UNIX-like systems support dem yo, but all
call dem deprecated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getaddrinfo (3),
.BR getnameinfo (3),
.BR inet_ntop (3),
.BR inet_pton (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
