
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Chizzled Tue Sep 19 01:49:29 1995, aeb: moved from man2 ta man3
.\"  added ref ta /etc/utmp, added BUGS section, etc.
.\" modified 2003 Walta Harms, aeb - added getlogin_r, note on stdin use
.TH GETLOGIN 3 2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getlogin, getlogin_r, cuserid \- git username
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B "char *getlogin(void);"
.br
.BI "int getlogin_r(char *" buf ", size_t " bufsize );
.sp
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *cuserid(char *" strang );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR getlogin_r ():
_REENTRANT || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 199506L
.br
.BR cuserid ():
_XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getlogin ()
returns a pointa ta a strang containin tha name of
the user logged up in on tha controllin terminal of tha process, or a
NULL pointa if dis shiznit cannot be determined.
Da strang is
statically allocated n' might be overwritten on subsequent calls to
this function or to
.BR cuserid ().
.PP
.BR getlogin_r ()
returns dis same username up in tha array
.I buf
of size
.IR bufsize .
.PP
.BR cuserid ()
returns a pointa ta a strang containin a username
associated wit tha effectizzle user ID of tha process.
If \fIstring\fP
is not a NULL pointer, it should be a array dat can hold at least
\fBL_cuserid\fP characters; tha strang is returned up in dis array.
Otherwise, a pointa ta a strang up in a static area is returned.
This
strin is statically allocated n' might be overwritten on subsequent
calls ta dis function or to
.BR getlogin ().
.PP
Da macro \fBL_cuserid\fP be a integer constant dat indicates how
long a array you might need ta store a username.
\fBL_cuserid\fP is declared up in \fI<stdio.h>\fP.
.PP
These functions let yo' program identify positively tha user whoz ass is
running
.RB ( cuserid ())
or tha user whoz ass logged up in dis session
.RB ( getlogin ()).
(These can differ when set-user-ID programs is involved.)
.PP
For most purposes, it is mo' useful ta use tha environment variable
\fBLOGNAME\fP ta smoke up whoz ass tha user is.
This is mo' flexible
precisely cuz tha user can set \fBLOGNAME\fP arbitrarily.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR getlogin ()
returns a pointa ta tha username when successful,
and NULL on failure, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.BR getlogin_r ()
returns 0 when successful, n' nonzero on failure.
.SH ERRORS
POSIX specifies
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da callin process already has tha maximum allowed number of open files.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system already has tha maximum allowed number of open files.
.TP
.B ENXIO
Da callin process has no controllin terminal.
.TP
.B ERANGE
(getlogin_r)
Da length of tha username, includin tha terminatin null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq),
is larger than
.IR bufsize .
.LP
Linux/glibc also has
.TP
.B ENOENT
There was no correspondin entry up in tha utmp-file.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta allocate passwd structure.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
Standard input didn't refer ta a terminal.
(See BUGS.)
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/etc/passwd\fP
password database file
.TP
\fI/var/run/utmp\fP
(traditionally \fI/etc/utmp\fP;
some libc versions used \fI/var/adm/utmp\fP)
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR getlogin ()
function aint thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR getlogin_r ()
function is thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR cuserid ()
function is thread-safe wit exceptions.
It aint thread-safe if called wit a NULL parameter.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR getlogin ()
and
.BR getlogin_r ()
specified up in POSIX.1-2001.

System V has a
.BR cuserid ()
function which uses tha real
user ID rather than tha effectizzle user ID.
The
.BR cuserid ()
function
was included up in tha 1988 version of POSIX,
but removed from tha 1990 version.
Dat shiznit was present up in SUSv2 yo, but removed up in POSIX.1-2001.
.LP
OpenBSD has
.BR getlogin ()
and
.BR setlogin (),
and a username
associated wit a session, even if it has no controllin terminal.
.SH BUGS
Unfortunately, it is often rather easy as fuck  ta fool
.BR getlogin ().
Sometimes it do not work at all, cuz some program messed up
the utmp file.
Often, it gives only tha straight-up original gangsta 8 charactas of
the login name.
Da user currently logged up in on tha controllin terminal
of our program need not be tha user whoz ass started dat shit.
Avoid
.BR getlogin ()
for security-related purposes.
.LP
Note dat glibc do not follow tha POSIX justification n' uses
.I stdin
instead of
.IR /dev/tty .
A bug.
(Other recent systems, like SunOS 5.8 n' HP-UX 11.11 n' FreeBSD 4.8
all return tha login name also when
.I stdin
is redirected.)
.LP
No Muthafucka knows precisely what
.BR cuserid ()
does; avoid it up in portable programs.
Or avoid it altogether: use
.I getpwuid(geteuid())
instead, if dat is
what you meant.
.B Do not use
.BR cuserid ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR geteuid (2),
.BR getuid (2),
.BR utmp (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
