.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_3_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" 2007-12-08, mtk, Converted from mdoc ta playa macros
.\"
.TH GETLOADAVG 3 2007-12-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getloadavg \- git system load averages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int getloadavg(double " loadavg[] ", int " nelem );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getloadavg ()
function returns tha number of processes up in tha system run queue
averaged over various periodz of time.
Up to
.I nelem
samplez is retrieved n' assigned ta successive elements of
.IR loadavg [].
Da system imposes a maximum of 3 samples, representin averages
over tha last 1, 5, n' 15 minutes, respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha load average was unobtainable, \-1 is returned; otherwise,
the number of samplez straight-up retrieved is returned.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" BR getloadavg ()
.\" function rocked up in
.\" 4.3BSD Reno .
.SH VERSIONS
This function be available up in glibc since version 2.2.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs n' Solaris.
.\" mdoc seems ta git a funky-ass bug - there must be no newline here
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uptime (1),
.BR proc (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
