.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_legacy.3x,v 1.5 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_legacy 3X ""
.SH NAME
getattrs \- git \fBcurses\fR cursor n' window coordinates, attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint getattrs(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getbegx(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getbegy(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getcurx(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getcury(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getmaxx(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getmaxy(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getparx(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint getpary(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBgetbegy\fR n' \fBgetbegx\fR functions return tha same
data as \fBgetbegyx\fR.
.PP
Da \fBgetcury\fR n' \fBgetcurx\fR functions return tha same
data as \fBgetyx\fR.
.PP
Da \fBgetmaxy\fR n' \fBgetmaxx\fR functions return tha same
data as \fBgetmaxyx\fR.
.PP
Da \fBgetpary\fR n' \fBgetparx\fR functions return tha same
data as \fBgetparyx\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return a integer,
or ERR if tha window parameta is null.
.SH NOTES
All of these intercourses is provided as macros n' functions.
Da macros is suppressed (and only tha functions provided)
when \fBNCURSES_OPAQUE\fR is defined.
Da standard forms like fuckin \fBgetyx\fP must be implemented as macros,
and (in dis implementation) is defined up in termz of tha functions
busted lyrics bout here,
to avoid reliizzle on internal detailz of tha WINDOW structure.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions was supported on Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_getyx\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_opaque\fR(3X)
