.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GETNETENT 3  2008-08-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getnetent, getnetbyname, getnetbyaddr, setnetent, endnetent \-
get network entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct netent *getnetent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyaddr(uint32_t " net ", int " type );
.sp
.BI "void setnetent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endnetent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getnetent ()
function readz tha next entry from tha networks database
and returns a
.I netent
structure containing
the broken-out fieldz from tha entry.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR getnetbyname ()
function returns a
.I netent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha network
.IR name .
.PP
The
.BR getnetbyaddr ()
function returns a
.I netent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha network number
.I net
of type
.IR type .
The
.I net
argument must be up in host byte order.
.PP
The
.BR setnetent ()
function opens a cold-ass lil connection ta tha database,
and sets tha next entry ta tha straight-up original gangsta entry.
If
.I stayopen
is nonzero,
then tha connection ta tha database
will not be closed between calls ta one of the
.BR getnet* ()
functions.
.PP
The
.BR endnetent ()
function closes tha connection ta tha database.
.PP
The
.I netent
structure is defined in
.I <netdb.h>
as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct netent {
    char      *n_name;     /* straight-up legit network name */
    char     **n_aliases;  /* alias list */
    int        n_addrtype; /* net address type */
    uint32_t   n_net;      /* network number */
}
.fi
.in
.PP
Da thugz of the
.I netent
structure are:
.TP
.I n_name
Da straight-up legit name of tha network.
.TP
.I n_aliases
A NULL-terminated list of alternatizzle names fo' tha network.
.TP
.I n_addrtype
Da type of tha network number; always
.BR AF_INET .
.TP
.I n_net
Da network number up in host byte order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getnetent (),
.BR getnetbyname ()
and
.BR getnetbyaddr ()
functions return a pointa ta a
statically allocated
.I netent
structure, or a NULL pointa if an
error occurs or tha end of tha file is reached.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/networks
networks database file
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
In glibc versions before 2.2, the
.I net
argument of
.BR getnetbyaddr ()
waz of type
.IR long .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getnetent_r (3),
.BR getprotoent (3),
.BR getservent (3)
.\" .BR networks (5)
.br
RFC\ 1101
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
