.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:23:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETPW 3 2010-10-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getpw \- reconstruct password line entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpw(uid_t " uid ", char *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getpw ()
function reconstructs tha password line entry for
the given user ID \fIuid\fP up in tha buffer \fIbuf\fP.
Da returned buffer gotz nuff a line of format
.sp
.RS
.B name:passwd:uid:gid:gecos:dir:shell
.RE
.PP
Da \fIpasswd\fP structure is defined up in \fI<pwd.h>\fP as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct passwd {
    char   *pw_name;       /* username */
    char   *pw_passwd;     /* user password */
    uid_t   pw_uid;        /* user ID */
    gid_t   pw_gid;        /* crew ID */
    char   *pw_gecos;      /* user shiznit */
    char   *pw_dir;        /* home directory */
    char   *pw_shell;      /* shell program */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
For mo' shiznit bout tha fieldz of dis structure, see
.BR passwd (5).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getpw ()
function returns 0 on success; on error, it returns \-1, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I buf
is NULL.
.TP
.B ENOENT
No user correspondin to
.IR uid .
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta allocate
.I passwd
structure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
password database file
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr2.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR getpw ()
function is fucked up as it may overflow tha provided buffer
.IR buf .
It be obsoleted by
.BR getpwuid (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
