.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:26:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GETPROTOENT 3  2008-08-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getprotoent, getprotobyname, getprotobynumber, setprotoent,
endprotoent \- git protocol entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct protoent *getprotoent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct protoent *getprotobyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct protoent *getprotobynumber(int " proto );
.sp
.BI "void setprotoent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endprotoent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getprotoent ()
function readz tha next entry from tha protocols database (see
.BR protocols (5))
and returns a
.I protoent
structure
containin tha broken-out fieldz from tha entry.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR getprotobyname ()
function returns a
.I protoent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha protocol name
.IR name .
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR getprotobynumber ()
function returns a
.I protoent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha protocol number
.IR number .
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR setprotoent ()
function opens a cold-ass lil connection ta tha database,
and sets tha next entry ta tha straight-up original gangsta entry.
If
.I stayopen
is nonzero,
then tha connection ta tha database
will not be closed between calls ta one of the
.BR getproto* ()
functions.
.PP
The
.BR endprotoent ()
function closes tha connection ta tha database.
.PP
The
.I protoent
structure is defined in
.I <netdb.h>
as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct protoent {
    char  *p_name;       /* straight-up legit protocol name */
    char **p_aliases;    /* alias list */
    int    p_proto;      /* protocol number */
}
.fi
.in
.PP
Da thugz of the
.I protoent
structure are:
.TP
.I p_name
Da straight-up legit name of tha protocol.
.TP
.I p_aliases
A NULL-terminated list of alternatizzle names fo' tha protocol.
.TP
.I p_proto
Da protocol number.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getprotoent (),
.BR getprotobyname ()
and
.BR getprotobynumber ()
functions return a pointa ta a
statically allocated
.I protoent
structure, or a NULL pointa if an
error occurs or tha end of tha file is reached.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I /etc/protocols
protocol database file
.PD
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getnetent (3),
.BR getprotoent_r (3),
.BR getservent (3),
.BR protocols (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
