.\" This page was taken from tha 4.4BSD-Lite CDROM (BSD license)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_ONELINE_CDROM)
.\" This page was taken from tha 4.4BSD-Lite CDROM (BSD license)
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" @(#)getrpcent.3n	2.2 88/08/02 4.0 RPCSRC; from 1.11 88/03/14 SMI
.TH GETRPCENT 3 2008-08-19 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getrpcent, getrpcbyname, getrpcbynumber, setrpcent, endrpcent \- get
RPC entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>

.BI "struct rpcent *getrpcent(void);"

.BI "struct rpcent *getrpcbyname(char *" name );

.BI "struct rpcent *getrpcbynumber(int " number );

.BI "void setrpcent(int " stayopen );

.BI "void endrpcent(void);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.BR getrpcent (),
.BR getrpcbyname (),
and
.BR getrpcbynumber ()
functions each return a pointa ta a object wit the
followin structure containin tha broken-out
fieldz of a entry up in tha RPC program number data base.
.in +4n
.nf

struct rpcent {
    char  *r_name;     /* name of server fo' dis RPC program */
    char **r_aliases;  /* alias list */
    long   r_number;   /* RPC program number */
};
.fi
.in
.LP
Da thugz of dis structure are:
.RS 4
.TP 12
.I r_name
Da name of tha server fo' dis RPC program.
.TP
.I r_aliases
A NULL-terminated list of alternate names fo' tha RPC program.
.TP
.I r_number
Da RPC program number fo' dis service.
.RE
.LP
The
.BR getrpcent ()
function readz tha next entry from tha database.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.LP
The
.BR setrpcent ()
function opens a cold-ass lil connection ta tha database,
and sets tha next entry ta tha straight-up original gangsta entry.
If
.I stayopen
is nonzero,
then tha connection ta tha database
will not be closed between calls ta one of the
.BR getrpc* ()
functions.
.LP
The
.BR endrpcent ()
function closes tha connection ta tha database.
.LP
The
.BR getrpcbyname ()
and
.BR getrpcbynumber ()
functions sequentially search from tha beginning
of tha file until a matchin RPC program name or
program number is found, or until end-of-file is encountered.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR getrpcent (),
.BR getrpcbyname (),
and
.BR getrpcbynumber ()
return a pointa ta a statically allocated
.I rpcent
structure.
A NULL pointa is returned on EOF or error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rpc
RPC program number database.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs, Solaris, n' nuff other systems.
.SH BUGS
All shiznit
is contained up in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getrpcent_r (3),
.BR rpc (5),
.BR rpcinfo (8),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
