.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:19:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Oct 18 20:23:54 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Apr 22 01:50:54 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" 2001-07-25 added a cold-ass lil clause bout NULL proto (Martin Michlmayr or Dizzy N. Welton)
.\"
.TH GETSERVENT 3  2008-08-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getservent, getservbyname, getservbyport, setservent, endservent \-
get steez entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct servent *getservent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyname(const char *" name ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyport(int " port ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "void setservent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endservent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getservent ()
function readz tha next entry from tha skillz database (see
.BR skillz (5))
and returns a
.I servent
structure containing
the broken-out fieldz from tha entry.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR getservbyname ()
function returns a
.I servent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha service
.I name
usin protocol
.IR proto .
If
.I proto
is NULL, any protocol is ghon be matched.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR getservbyport ()
function returns a
.I servent
structure
for tha entry from tha database
that matches tha port
.I port
(given up in network byte order)
usin protocol
.IR proto .
If
.I proto
is NULL, any protocol is ghon be matched.
A connection is opened ta tha database if necessary.
.PP
The
.BR setservent ()
function opens a cold-ass lil connection ta tha database,
and sets tha next entry ta tha straight-up original gangsta entry.
If
.I stayopen
is nonzero,
then tha connection ta tha database
will not be closed between calls ta one of the
.BR getserv* ()
functions.
.PP
The
.BR endservent ()
function closes tha connection ta tha database.
.PP
The
.I servent
structure is defined in
.I <netdb.h>
as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct servent {
    char  *s_name;       /* straight-up legit steez name */
    char **s_aliases;    /* alias list */
    int    s_port;       /* port number */
    char  *s_proto;      /* protocol ta use */
}
.fi
.in
.PP
Da thugz of the
.I servent
structure are:
.TP
.I s_name
Da straight-up legit name of tha service.
.TP
.I s_aliases
A NULL-terminated list of alternatizzle names fo' tha service.
.TP
.I s_port
Da port number fo' tha steez given up in network byte order.
.TP
.I s_proto
Da name of tha protocol ta use wit dis service.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getservent (),
.BR getservbyname ()
and
.BR getservbyport ()
functions return a pointa ta a
statically allocated
.I servent
structure, or a NULL pointa if an
error occurs or tha end of tha file is reached.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/skillz
skillz database file
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getnetent (3),
.BR getprotoent (3),
.BR getservent_r (3),
.BR skillz (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
