.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 28 11:12:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Sep  8 15:48:13 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH GETS 3  2012-01-18 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fgetc, fgets, getc, getchar, gets, ungetc \- input of charactas n' strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fgetc(FILE *" stream );

.BI "char *fgets(char *" "s" ", int " "size" ", FILE *" "stream" );

.BI "int getc(FILE *" stream );

.B "int getchar(void);"

.BI "char *gets(char *" "s" );

.BI "int ungetc(int " c ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fgetc ()
readz tha next characta from
.I stream
and returns it as an
.I unsigned char
cast ta an
.IR int ,
or
.B EOF
on end of file or error.
.PP
.BR getc ()
is equivalent to
.BR fgetc ()
except dat it may be implemented as a macro which evaluates
.I stream
more than once.
.PP
.BR getchar ()
is equivalent to
.BI "getc(" stdin ) \fR.
.PP
.BR gets ()
readz a line from
.I stdin
into tha buffer pointed ta by
.I s
until either a terminatin newline or
.BR EOF ,
which it replaces wit a null byte (\(aq\e0\(aq).
No check fo' buffer overrun is performed (see BUGS below).
.PP
.BR fgets ()
readz up in at most one less than
.I size
charactas from
.I stream
and stores dem tha fuck into tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR s .
Readin stops afta an
.B EOF
or a newline.
If a newline is read, it is stored tha fuck into tha buffer.
A terminatin null byte (\(aq\e0\(aq)
is stored afta tha last characta up in tha buffer.
.PP
.BR ungetc ()
pushes
.I c
back to
.IR stream ,
cast to
.IR "unsigned char" ,
where it be available fo' subsequent read operations.
Pushed-back characters
will be returned up in reverse order; only one pushback is guaranteed.
.PP
Calls ta tha functions busted lyrics bout here can be mixed wit each other n' with
calls ta other input functions from the
.I stdio
library fo' tha same input stream.
.PP
For nonlockin counterparts, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR fgetc (),
.BR getc ()
and
.BR getchar ()
return tha characta read as an
.I unsigned char
cast ta an
.I int
or
.B EOF
on end of file or error.
.PP
.BR gets ()
and
.BR fgets ()
return
.I s
on success, n' NULL
on error or when end of file occurs while no charactas done been read.
.PP
.BR ungetc ()
returns
.I c
on success, or
.B EOF
on error.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

LSB deprecates
.BR gets ().
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR gets ()
obsolescent.
ISO C11 removes tha justification of
.BR gets ()
from tha C language, n' since version 2.16,
glibc header filez don't expose tha function declaration if the
.B _ISOC11_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined.
.SH BUGS
Never use
.BR gets ().
Because it is impossible ta tell without knowin tha data up in advizzle how tha fuck many
characters
.BR gets ()
will read, n' cuz
.BR gets ()
will continue ta store charactas past tha end of tha buffer,
it is mad fucked up ta use.
It has been used ta break computa security.
Use
.BR fgets ()
instead.
.PP
It aint advisable ta mix calls ta input functions from the
.I stdio
library wit low-level calls to
.BR read (2)
for tha file descriptor associated wit tha input stream; tha thangs up in dis biatch
will be undefined n' straight-up probably not what tha fuck you want.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR fgetwc (3),
.BR fgetws (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR fread (3),
.BR fseek (3),
.BR getline (3),
.BR getwchar (3),
.BR puts (3),
.BR scanf (3),
.BR ungetwc (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3),
.BR feature_test_macros (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
