.\"  Copyright 2002 walta harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETTTYENT 3 2013-07-22  "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getttyent, getttynam, setttyent, endttyent \- git ttys file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <ttyent.h>"
.sp
.B "struct ttyent *getttyent(void);"
.sp
.BI "struct ttyent *getttynam(const char *" name );
.sp
.B "int setttyent(void);"
.sp
.B "int endttyent(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a intercourse ta tha file
.B _PATH_TTYS
(e.g.,
.IR /etc/ttys ).

Da function
.BR setttyent ()
opens tha file or rewindz it if already open.

Da function
.BR endttyent ()
closes tha file.

Da function
.BR getttynam ()
searches fo' a given terminal name up in tha file.
It returns a pointa ta a
.I ttyent
structure (description below).

Da function
.BR getttyent ()
opens tha file
.B _PATH_TTYS
(if necessary) n' returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry.
If tha file be already open, tha next entry.
The
.I ttyent
structure has tha form:
.in +4n
.nf

struct ttyent {
    char *ty_name;     /* terminal thang name */
    char *ty_getty;    /* command ta execute, probably getty */
    char *ty_type;     /* terminal type fo' termcap */
    int   ty_status;   /* status flags */
    char *ty_window;   /* command ta start up window manager */
    char *ty_comment;  /* comment field */
};
.fi
.in

.I ty_status
can be:
.br
.nf

#define TTY_ON     0x01  /* enable logins (start ty_getty program) */
#define TTY_SECURE 0x02  /* allow UID 0 ta login */
.fi
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR getttyent ()
function returns a pointa ta a static variable, so it aint thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR setttyent ()
and
.BR endttyent ()
functions bust a static variable, so they is not thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR getttynam ()
function calls thread-unsafe function
.BR getttyent ()
so it aint thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs, n' like other systems.
.SH NOTES
Under Linux tha file
.IR /etc/ttys ,
and tha functions busted lyrics bout above, is not used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttyname (3),
.BR ttyslot (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
