.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETUTMP 3 2010-09-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getutmp, getutmpx \- copy utmp structure ta utmpx, n' vice versa
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <utmpx.h>

.BI " void getutmp(const struct utmpx *" ux ", struct utmp *" u );
.BI " void getutmpx(const struct utmp *" u ", struct utmpx *" ux );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getutmp ()
function copies tha fieldz of the
.I utmpx
structure pointed ta by
.I ux
to tha correspondin fieldz of the
.I utmp
structure pointed ta by
.IR u .
The
.BR getutmpx ()
function performs tha converse operation.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions do not return a value.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is nonstandard yo, but step tha fuck up on all dem other systems,
like fuckin Solaris n' NetBSD.
.SH NOTES
These functions exist primarily fo' compatibilitizzle wit other
systems where the
.I utmp
and
.I utmpx
structures contain different fields,
or tha size of correspondin fieldz differs.
.\" e.g., on Solaris, tha utmpx structure is rather larger than utmp.
On Linux, tha two structures contain tha same fields,
and tha fieldz have tha same sizes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getutent (3),
.BR utmp (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
