
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces a earlier playa page freestyled by Walta Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH GETUMASK 3 2010-09-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getumask \- git file creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B "#include <sys/types.h>"
.br
.B "#include <sys/stat.h>"
.sp
.B "mode_t getumask(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns tha current file creation mask.
It be equivalent to
.in +4n
.nf

mode_t getumask(void)
{
    mode_t mask = umask( 0 );
    umask(mask);
    return mask;
}

.fi
.in
except dat it is documented ta be thread-safe (that is, shares
a lock wit the
.BR umask (2)
library call).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This be a vaporware GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
This function is documented but not implemented yet up in glibc,
as at version 2.9.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR umask (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
