
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETW 3  2010-09-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getw, putw \- input n' output of lyrics (ints)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getw(FILE *" stream );

.BI "int putw(int " w ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR getw (),
.BR putw ():
.ad l
.PD 0
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.3.3:
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE ||
.br
(_XOPEN_SOURCE &&
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600))
.TP
Before glibc 2.3.3:
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.PD
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getw ()
readz a word (that is, a \fIint\fP) from \fIstream\fP.
It aint nuthin but provided fo' compatibilitizzle wit SVr4.
We recommend you use
.BR fread (3)
instead.
.P
.BR putw ()
writes tha word \fIw\fP (that is,
an \fIint\fP) ta \fIstream\fP.
It be provided fo' compatibilitizzle wit SVr4 yo, but we recommend you use
.BR fwrite (3)
instead.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Normally,
.BR getw ()
returns tha word read, and
.BR putw ()
returns 0.
On error, they return \fBEOF\fP.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, SUSv2.  Not present up in POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
Da value returned on error be also a legitimate data value.
.BR ferror (3)
can be used ta distinguish between tha two cases.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ferror (3),
.BR fread (3),
.BR fwrite (3),
.BR getc (3),
.BR putc (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
