
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification
.\"      http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH GETWCHAR 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getwchar \- read a wide characta from standard input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.B "wint_t getwchar(void);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getwchar ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR getchar (3)
function.
It readz a wide characta from
.I stdin
and returns
it.
If tha end of stream is reached, or if
.I ferror(stdin)
becomes true, it returns
.BR WEOF .
If a wide-characta conversion error occurs, it sets
.I errno
to
.B EILSEQ
and returns
.BR WEOF .
.PP
For a nonlockin counterpart, see
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getwchar ()
function returns tha next wide-characta from
standard input, or
.BR WEOF .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR getwchar ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
It be reasonable ta expect that
.BR getwchar ()
will actually
read a multibyte sequence from standard input n' then
convert it ta a wide character.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetwc (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
