.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_getyx.3x,v 1.18 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_getyx 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBgetyx\fR,
\fBgetparyx\fR,
\fBgetbegyx\fR,
\fBgetmaxyx\fR \- git \fBcurses\fR cursor n' window coordinates
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBvoid getyx(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBvoid getparyx(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBvoid getbegyx(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBvoid getmaxyx(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBgetyx\fR macro places tha current cursor posizzle of tha given window in
the two integer variablez \fIy\fR n' \fIx\fR.
.PP
If \fIwin\fR be a subwindow, tha \fBgetparyx\fR macro places tha beginning
coordinatez of tha subwindow relatizzle ta tha parent window tha fuck into two integer
variablez \fIy\fR n' \fIx\fR.
Otherwise, \fB\-1\fR is placed tha fuck into \fIy\fR n' \fIx\fR.
.PP
Like \fBgetyx\fR, tha \fBgetbegyx\fR n' \fBgetmaxyx\fR macros store
the current beginnin coordinates n' size of tha specified window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da return jointz of these macros is undefined (i.e.,
they should not be used as tha right-hand side of assignment statements).
.SH NOTES
All of these intercourses is macros.
A "\fB&\fR" aint necessary before tha variablez \fIy\fR n' \fIx\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
The
\fBgetyx\fR,
\fBgetparyx\fR,
\fBgetbegyx\fR and
\fBgetmaxyx\fR
macros is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.PP
This implementation also serves up functions
\fBgetbegx\fR,
\fBgetbegy\fR,
\fBgetcurx\fR,
\fBgetcury\fR,
\fBgetmaxx\fR,
\fBgetmaxy\fR,
\fBgetparx\fR and
\fBgetpary\fR
for compatibilitizzle wit olda versionz of curses.
.PP
Although X/Open Curses do not address this,
many implementations provide thugz of tha WINDOW structure
containin joints correspondin ta these macros.
For dopest portability, do not rely on rockin tha data up in WINDOW,
since some implementations make WINDOW opaque (do not allow
direct use of its members).
.PP
Besides tha problem of opaque structures,
the data stored up in like-named thugz may not have like-values in
different implementations.
For example, tha WINDOW._maxx n' WINDOW._maxy joints up in ncurses
have (at least since release 1.8.1) differed by one from some
other implementations.
Da difference is hidden by meanz of tha macro \fBgetmaxyx\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_legacy\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_opaque\fR(3X)
