.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GNU_GET_LIBC_VERSION 3 2012-08-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gnu_get_libc_version, gnu_get_libc_release \- git glibc version n' release
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gnu/libc-version.h>

.B const char *gnu_get_libc_version(void);
.B const char *gnu_get_libc_release(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR gnu_get_libc_version ()
returns a strang dat identifies tha glibc version available on tha system.

Da function
.BR gnu_get_libc_release ()
returns a strang indicates tha release statuz of tha glibc version
available on tha system.
This is ghon be a strang such as
.IR "stable" .
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is glibc-specific.
.SH EXAMPLE
When run, tha program below will produce output like fuckin tha following:
.in +4n
.nf

.RB "$" " ./a.out"
GNU libc version: 2.8
GNU libc release: stable
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
\&
.nf
#include <gnu/libc-version.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    printf("GNU libc version: %s\\n", gnu_get_libc_version());
    printf("GNU libc release: %s\\n", gnu_get_libc_release());
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR confstr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
