.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This page is up in tha hood domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. - aeb
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GRANTPT 3 2008-06-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
grantpt \- grant access ta tha slave pseudoterminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE" "       /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int grantpt(int " fd ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR grantpt ()
function chizzlez tha mode n' balla of tha slave pseudoterminal device
correspondin ta tha masta pseudoterminal referred ta by
.IR fd .
Da user ID of tha slave is set ta tha real UID of tha callin process.
Da crew ID is set ta a unspecified value (e.g.,
.IR tty ).
Da mode of tha slave is set ta 0620 (crw\-\-w\-\-\-\-).
.PP
Da behavior of
.BR grantpt ()
is unspecified if a signal handlez is installed ta catch
.B SIGCHLD
signals.
.SH RETURN VALUE
When successful,
.BR grantpt ()
returns 0.
Otherwise, it returns \-1 n' sets
.I errno
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Da correspondin slave pseudoterminal could not be accessed.
.TP
.B EBADF
The
.I fd
argument aint a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I fd
argument is valid but not associated wit a masta pseudoterminal.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR grantpt ()
is provided up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
This is part of tha UNIX 98 pseudoterminal support, see
.BR pts (4).
Many systems implement dis function via a set-user-ID helper binary
called "pt_chown".
With Linux devpts no such helper binary is required.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR posix_openpt (3),
.BR ptsname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pts (4),
.BR pty (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
