
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces a earlier playa page freestyled by Walta Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.TH GSIGNAL 3  2007-07-26 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
gsignal, ssignal \- software signal facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.B typedef void (*sighandlez_t)(int);
.sp
.BI "int gsignal(int " signum );
.sp
.BI "sighandlez_t ssignal(int " signum ", sighandlez_t " action );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR gsignal (),
.BR ssignal ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Don't use these functions under Linux.
Cuz of a oldschool mistake, under Linux these functions are
aliases for
.BR raise (3)
and
.BR signal (2),
respectively.
.LP
Elsewhere, on System V-like systems, these functions implement
software signaling, entirely independent of tha classical
.BR signal (2)
and
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
functions.
Da function
.BR ssignal ()
defines tha action ta take when tha software signal with
number
.I signum
is raised rockin tha function
.BR gsignal (),
and returns tha previous such action or
.BR SIG_DFL .
Da function
.BR gsignal ()
does tha following: if no action (or tha action
.BR SIG_DFL )
was
specified for
.IR signum ,
then it do not a god damn thang n' returns 0.
If tha action
.B SIG_IGN
was specified for
.IR signum ,
then it do not a god damn thang n' returns 1.
Otherwise, it resets tha action to
.B SIG_DFL
and calls
the action function wit argument
.IR signum ,
and returns tha value returned by dat function.
Da range of possible joints
.I signum
varies (often 1-15 or 1-17).
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is available under AIX, DG/UX, HP-UX, SCO, Solaris, Tru64.
They is called obsolete under most of these systems, n' are
broken under Linux libc n' glibc.
Some systems also have
.BR gsignal_r ()
and
.BR ssignal_r ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR raise (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
