
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification
.\"     http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.\" 2007-03-31 Bruno Haible, Describe tha glibc/libiconv //TRANSLIT
.\" n' //IGNORE extensions fo' 'tocode'.
.\"
.TH ICONV_OPEN 3  2008-08-11 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iconv_open \- allocate descriptor fo' characta set conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <iconv.h>
.sp
.BI "iconv_t iconv_open(const char *" tocode ", const char *" fromcode );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iconv_open ()
function allocates a cold-ass lil conversion descriptor suitable
for convertin byte sequences from characta encoding
.I fromcode
to
characta encoding
.IR tocode .
.PP
Da joints permitted for
.IR fromcode
and
.I tocode
and tha supported
combinations is system-dependent.
For tha GNU C library, tha permitted
values is listed by the
.I "iconv \-\-list"
command, n' all combinations
of tha listed joints is supported.
Furthermore tha GNU C library n' the
GNU libiconv library support tha followin two suffixes:
.TP
//TRANSLIT
When tha strang "//TRANSLIT" be appended to
.IR tocode ,
transliteration
is activated.
This means dat when a cold-ass lil characta cannot be represented up in the
target characta set, it can be approximated all up in one or several
similarly lookin characters.
.TP
//IGNORE
When tha strang "//IGNORE" be appended to
.IR tocode ,
charactas that
cannot be represented up in tha target characta set is ghon be silently discarded.
.PP
Da resultin conversion descriptor can be used with
.BR iconv (3)
any number of times.
It remains valid until deallocated using
.BR iconv_close (3).
.PP
A conversion descriptor gotz nuff a cold-ass lil conversion state.
Afta creation using
.BR iconv_open (),
the state is up in tha initial state.
Using
.BR iconv (3)
modifies tha descriptorz conversion state.
(This implies dat a cold-ass lil conversion
descriptor can not be used up in multiple threadz simultaneously.)
To brang tha state back ta tha initial state, use
.BR iconv (3)
with NULL as
.I inbuf
argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iconv_open ()
function returns a gangbangin' freshly allocated conversion
descriptor.
In case of error, it sets
.I errno
and returns
.IR (iconv_t)\ \-1 .
.SH ERRORS
Da followin error can occur, among others:
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da conversion from
.IR fromcode
to
.I tocode
is not supported by the
implementation.
.SH VERSIONS
This function be available up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
UNIX98, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iconv (1),
.BR iconv (3),
.BR iconv_close (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
