
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2012 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
.\" dis manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
.\" tha entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
.\" a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume
.\" no responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resulting
.\" from tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may
.\" not have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of this
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH IF_NAMEINDEX 3 2012-11-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
if_nameindex, if_freenameindex \- git network intercourse names n' indexes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <net/if.h>
.sp
.BI "struct if_nameindex *if_nameindex(void);
.BI "void if_freenameindex(struct if_nameindex *" "ptr" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR if_nameindex ()
function returns a array of
.I if_nameindex
structures, each containin shiznit
about one of tha network intercourses on tha local system.
The
.I if_nameindex
structure gotz nuff at least tha followin entries:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
    unsigned int if_index; /* Index of intercourse (1, 2, ...) */
    char        *if_name;  /* Null-terminated name ("eth0", etc.) */
.fi
.in
.PP
The
.I if_index
field gotz nuff tha intercourse index.
The
.I ifa_name
field points ta tha null-terminated intercourse name.
Da end of tha array is indicated by entry with
.I if_index
set ta zero and
.I ifa_name
set ta NULL.
.PP
Da data structure returned by
.BR if_nameindex ()
is dynamically allocated n' should be freed using
.BR if_freenameindex ()
when no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR if_nameindex ()
returns pointa ta tha array;
on error, a NULL pointa is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.BR if_nameindex ()
may fail n' set
.I errno
if:
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Insufficient resources available.
.PP
.BR if_nameindex ()
may also fail fo' any of tha errors specified for
.BR socket (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR recvmsg (2),
.BR sendto (2),
or
.BR malloc (3).
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR if_nameindex ()
function first rocked up in glibc 2.1 yo, but before glibc 2.3.4,
the implementation supported only intercourses wit IPv4 addresses.
Support of intercourses dat aint gots IPv4 addresses be available only
on kernels dat support netlink.
.SH CONFORMING TO
RFC\ 3493, POSIX.1-2001.

This function first rocked up in BSDi.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da program below demonstrates tha use of tha functions busted lyrics about
on dis page.
An example of tha output dis program might produce is tha following:
.in +4n
.nf
$ \fB./a.out\fI
1: lo
2: wlan0
3: em1
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
.nf
#include <net/if.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    struct if_nameindex *if_ni, *i;

    if_ni = if_nameindex();
    if (if_ni == NULL) {
        perror("if_nameindex");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    fo' (i = if_ni; ! (i\->if_index == 0 && i\->if_name == NULL); i++)
        printf("%u: %s\\n", i\->if_index, i\->if_name);

    if_freenameindex(if_ni);

    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR getifaddrs (3),
.BR if_indextoname (3),
.BR if_nametoindex (3),
.BR ifconfig (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
