
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versions of
.\" dis manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
.\" tha entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha terms of
.\" a permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume
.\" no responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resulting
.\" from tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may
.\" not have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of this
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH IF_NAMETOINDEX 3 2012-12-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
if_nametoindex, if_indextoname \- mappings between network intercourse
names n' indexes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <net/if.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int if_nametoindex(const char *" "ifname" );
.sp
.BI "char *if_indextoname(unsigned int ifindex, char *" ifname );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR if_nametoindex ()
function returns tha index of tha network intercourse
correspondin ta tha name
.IR ifname .

The
.BR if_indextoname ()
function returns tha name of tha network intercourse
correspondin ta tha intercourse index
.IR ifindex .
Da name is placed up in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR ifname .
Da buffer must allow fo' tha storage of at least
.B IF_NAMESIZE
bytes.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR if_nametoindex ()
returns tha index number of tha network intercourse;
on error, 0 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

On success,
.BR if_indextoname ()
returns
.IR ifname ;
on error, NULL is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.BR if_indextoname ()
may fail n' set
.I errno
if:
.TP
.B ENXIO
No intercourse found fo' tha index.
.PP
.BR if_nametoindex ()
and
.BR if_indextoname ()
may also fail fo' any of tha errors specified for
.BR socket (2)
or
.BR ioctl (2).
.SH CONFORMING TO
RFC\ 3493, POSIX.1-2001.

This function first rocked up in BSDi.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getifaddrs (3),
.BR if_nameindex (3),
.BR ifconfig (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
