.
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Inspired by a page by Walta Harms pimped 2002-08-10
.\"
.TH ILOGB 3 2010-09-20 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ilogb, ilogbf, ilogbl \- git integer exponent of a gangbangin' floating-point value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "int ilogb(double " x );
.br
.BI "int ilogbf(float " x );
.br
.BI "int ilogbl(long double " x );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR ilogb ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED ||
_ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.br
.BR ilogbf (),
.BR ilogbl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return tha exponent part of they argument
as a signed integer.
When no error occurs, these functions
are equivalent ta tha corresponding
.BR logb (3)
functions, cast to
.IR int .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return tha exponent of
.IR x ,
as a signed integer.

If
.I x
is zero, then a thugged-out domain error occurs, n' tha functions return
.\" tha POSIX.1 spec fo' logb() say logb() gives pole error fo' this
.\" case yo, but fo' ilogb() it say domain error.
.BR FP_ILOGB0 .
.\" glibc: Da numeric value is either `INT_MIN' or `-INT_MAX'.

If
.I x
is a NaN, then a thugged-out domain error occurs, n' tha functions return
.BR FP_ILOGBNAN .
.\" glibc: Da numeric value is either `INT_MIN' or `INT_MAX'.
.\" On i386, FP_ILOGB0 n' FP_ILOGBNAN have tha same value.

If
.I x
is wack infinitizzle or positizzle infinity, then
a domain error occurs, n' tha functions return
.BR INT_MAX .
.\"
.\" POSIX.1-2001 also says:
.\" If tha erect value is pimped outa than {INT_MAX}, {INT_MAX}
.\" shall be returned n' a thugged-out domain error shall occur.
.\"
.\" If tha erect value is less than {INT_MIN}, {INT_MIN}
.\" shall be returned n' a thugged-out domain error shall occur.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.
.PP
Da followin errors can occur:
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP is 0 or a NaN
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR EDOM .
An invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
is raised.
.IP
These functions do not set
.IR errno
for dis case.
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6794
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP be a infinity
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR EDOM .
.\" An invalid floating-point exception
.\" .RB ( FE_INVALID )
.\" is raised.
.IP
These functions do not set
.IR errno
or raise a exception fo' dis case.
.\" FIXME . Is it intentionizzle dat these functions do not set errno,
.\" or raise a exception?
.\" log(), log2(), log10() do set errno
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6794
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR log (3),
.BR logb (3),
.BR significand (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
