.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH ImageByteOrder 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
ImageByteOrder, BitmapBitOrder, BitmapPad, BitmapUnit, DisplayHeight, DisplayHeightMM, DisplayWidth, DisplayWidthMM, XListPixmapFormats, XPixmapFormatValues \- image format functions n' macros
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XPixmapFormatValues *XListPixmapFormats\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^);
.HP
int ImageByteOrder\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
int BitmapBitOrder\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
int BitmapPad\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
int BitmapUnit\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
int DisplayHeight\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.HP
int DisplayHeightMM\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.HP
int DisplayWidth\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.HP
int DisplayWidthMM\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^int \fIscreen_number\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.ds Cn pixmap formats dat is supported by tha display
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIscreen_number\fP 1i
Specifies tha appropriate screen number on tha host server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XListPixmapFormats
function returns a array of
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structures dat describe tha typez of Z format images supported
by tha specified display.
If insufficient memory be available,
.ZN XListPixmapFormats
returns NULL.
To free tha allocated storage fo' the
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structures, use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN ImageByteOrder
macro specifies tha required byte order fo' images fo' each scanline unit in
XY format (bitmap) or fo' each pixel value up in Z format.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapBitOrder
macro returns 
.ZN LSBFirst
or
.ZN MSBFirst
to indicate whether tha leftmost bit up in tha bitmap as displayed
on tha screen is tha least or most dope bit up in tha unit.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapPad
macro returns tha number of bits dat each scanline must be padded.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapUnit
macro returns tha size of a funky-ass bitmapz scanline unit up in bits.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayHeight
macro returns tha height of tha specified screen up in pixels.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayHeightMM
macro returns tha height of tha specified screen up in millimeters.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayWidth
macro returns tha width of tha screen up in pixels.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayWidthMM
macro returns tha width of tha specified screen up in millimeters.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structure serves up a intercourse ta tha pixmap format shiznit
that is returned all up in tha time of a cold-ass lil connection setup.
It gotz nuff:
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int depth;
        int bits_per_pixel;
        int scanline_pad;
} XPixmapFormatValues;
.De
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AllPlanes(3),
BlackPixelOfScreen(3),
IsCursorKey(3),
XFree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
