.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_in_wchstr.3x,v 1.9 2012/11/03 23:03:59 tom Exp $
.TH curs_in_wchstr 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBin_wchstr\fR,
\fBin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBwin_wchstr\fR,
\fBwin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvin_wchstr\fR,
\fBmvin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvwin_wchstr\fR,
\fBmvwin_wchnstr\fR \- git a array of complex charactas n' renditions from a cold-ass lil curses window
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint in_wchstr(cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint in_wchnstr(cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint win_wchstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint win_wchnstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvin_wchstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvin_wchnstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwin_wchstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwin_wchnstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwchstr\fR, int \fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return a array of complex charactas up in \fIwchstr\fR,
startin all up in tha current cursor posizzle up in tha named window.
Attributes (rendition) is stored wit tha characters.
.PP
The
\fBin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvwin_wchnstr\fR
and
\fBwin_wchnstr\fR
fill tha array
with at most
\fIn\fR
\fBcchar_t\fR
elements.
.br
.SH NOTES
Note dat all routines except
\fBwin_wchnstr\fR
may be
macros.
.PP
Readin a line dat overflows tha array pointed ta by
\fIwchstr\fR
with
\fBin_wchstr\fR,
\fBmvin_wchstr\fR,
\fBmvwin_wchstr\fR
or
\fBwin_wchstr\fR
causes undefined thangs up in dis biatch. Therefore, tha use of
\fBin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvin_wchnstr\fR,
\fBmvwin_wchnstr\fR, or
\fBwin_wchnstr\fR
is recommended.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, these functions return
\fBOK\fR.
Otherwise, they return
\fBERR\fR.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da XSI Curses defines no error conditions.
This implementation checks fo' null pointers,
returnin ERR up in dat case.
.SH SEE ALSO
Functions:
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_in_wch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_instr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_inwstr\fR(3X)
\fBcurs_inchstr\fR(3X)
