.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_inchstr.3x,v 1.15 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_inchstr 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBinchstr\fR,
\fBinchnstr\fR,
\fBwinchstr\fR,
\fBwinchnstr\fR,
\fBmvinchstr\fR,
\fBmvinchnstr\fR,
\fBmvwinchstr\fR,
\fBmvwinchnstr\fR \- git a strang of charactas (and attributes) from a \fBcurses\fR window
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint inchstr(chtype *chstr);\fR
.br
\fBint inchnstr(chtype *chstr, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint winchstr(WINDOW *win, chtype *chstr);\fR
.br
\fBint winchnstr(WINDOW *win, chtype *chstr, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinchstr(int y, int x, chtype *chstr);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinchnstr(int y, int x, chtype *chstr, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinchstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype *chstr);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinchnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype *chstr, int n);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return a NULL-terminated array of \fBchtype\fR quantities,
startin all up in tha current cursor posizzle up in tha named window n' endin at the
right margin of tha window.  Da four functions wit \fIn\fR as
the last argument, return a leadin substrin at most \fIn\fR charactas long
(exclusive of tha trailin (chtype)0).
Constants defined up in \fB<curses.h>\fR can be used wit tha \fB&\fR (logical
AND) operator ta extract tha characta or tha attribute ridin' solo from any position
in tha \fIchstr\fR [see \fBcurs_inch\fR(3X)].
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' a integer value
other than \fBERR\fR upon successful completion (the number of characters
retrieved, exclusive of tha trailin 0).
.PP
No error conditions is defined.
If tha \fIchstr\fP parameta is null,
no data is returned,
and tha return value is zero.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all routines except \fBwinchnstr\fR may be macros.  SVr4 do not
document whether tha result strang is zero-terminated; it do not document
whether a length limit argument includes any trailin 0; n' it do not
document tha meanin of tha return value.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.  It be no
more specific than tha SVr4 documentation on tha trailin 0.  It do specify
that tha successful return of tha functions is \fBOK\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_inch\fR(3X).
.PP
Comparable functions up in tha wide-characta (ncursesw) library are
busted lyrics bout in
\fBcurs_in_wchstr\fR(3X).
