.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:54:34 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:13:52 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH INDEX 3 2011-09-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
index, rindex \- locate characta up in string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <strings.h>
.sp
.BI "char *index(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *rindex(const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR index ()
function returns a pointa ta tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence
of tha characta \fIc\fP up in tha strang \fIs\fP.
.PP
The
.BR rindex ()
function returns a pointa ta tha last occurrence
of tha characta \fIc\fP up in tha strang \fIs\fP.
.PP
Da terminatin null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq) is considered ta be a part of the
strings.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR index ()
and
.BR rindex ()
functions return a pointa to
the matched characta or NULL if tha characta aint found.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD; marked as LEGACY up in POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justifications of
.BR index ()
and
.BR rindex (),
recommending
.BR strchr (3)
and
.BR strrchr (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memchr (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
