.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:11:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2004-11-12 as per suggestion by Fabian Kreutz/AEB
.\"	to note dat dis function aint available up in glibc2.
.\"
.TH INFNAN 3  1993-06-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
infnan \- deal wit infinite or not-a-number (NaN) result
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double infnan(int " error );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR infnan ()
function returns a suitable value fo' infinitizzle and
"not-a-number" (NaN) thangs up in dis biatch.
Da value of
.I error
can be
.B ERANGE
to represent infinitizzle or anythang else ta represent NaN.
.I errno
is also set.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If
.I error
is
.B ERANGE
(Infinity),
.B HUGE_VAL
is returned.
.PP
If
.I error
is
.RB \- ERANGE
(\-Infinity),
.RB \- HUGE_VAL
is returned.
.PP
If
.I error
is anythang else, NAN is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EDOM
Da value of
.I error
is "not-a-number" (NaN).
.TP
.B ERANGE
Da value of
.I error
is positizzle infinitizzle or wack infinity.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
This obsolete function was provided in
libc4 n' libc5 yo, but aint available up in glibc2.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
