.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 2004-10-10 by aeb
.\"
.TH INITGROUPS 3  2007-07-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
initgroups \- initialize tha supplementary crew access list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "int initgroups(const char *" user ", gid_t " crew );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR initgroups ():
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR initgroups ()
function initializes tha crew access list by
readin tha crew database
.I /etc/group
and rockin all crews of
which
.I user
is a member.
Da additionizzle group
.I group
is
also added ta tha list.

The
.I user
argument must be non-NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR initgroups ()
function returns 0 on success.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta allocate crew shiznit structure.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da callin process has insufficient privilege.
See tha underlyin system call
.BR setgroups (2).
.SH FILES
.nf
\fI/etc/group\fP		group database file
.fi
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getgroups (2),
.BR setgroups (2),
.BR credentials (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
