.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_inwstr.3x,v 1.8 2012/11/03 23:03:59 tom Exp $
.TH curs_inwstr 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBinwstr\fR,
\fBinnwstr\fR,
\fBwinwstr\fR,
\fBwinnwstr\fR,
\fBmvinwstr\fR,
\fBmvinnwstr\fR,
\fBmvwinwstr\fR,
\fBmvwinnwstr\fR \- git a strang of \fBwchar_t\fR charactas from a cold-ass lil curses window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h> \fR
.sp
\fBint inwstr(\fR\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint innwstr(\fR\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint winwstr(\fR\fBWINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint winnwstr(\fR\fBWINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinwstr(\fR\fBint \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinnwstr(\fR\fBint \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinwstr(\fR\fBWINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinnwstr(\fR\fBWINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, wchar_t *\fR\fIstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return a strang of \fBwchar_t\fR charactas up in \fIwstr\fR,
extracted startin all up in tha current cursor posizzle up in tha named window.
Attributes is stripped from tha characters.
Da four functions wit \fIn\fR as tha last argument return a leadin substrin at most
\fIn\fR bytes long (exclusive of tha trailin NUL).
Transfer stops all up in tha end of tha current line, or when \fIn\fR bytes have
been stored all up in tha location referenced by \fIwstr\fR.
.PP
If tha size \fIn\fR aint big-ass enough ta store a cold-ass lil complete character,
an error is generated.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all routines except
\fBwinnwstr\fR
may be macros.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return
\fBERR\fR
upon failure. Upon
successful completion, tha *\fBinwstr\fR
routines return
\fBOK\fR, n' tha *\fBinnwstr\fR
routines return the
number of charactas read tha fuck into tha string.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_instr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_in_wchstr\fR(3X)
