.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_ins_wch.3x,v 1.5 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_ins_wch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBins_wch\fR,
\fBmvins_wch\fR,
\fBmvwins_wch\fR,
\fBwins_wch\fR \- bang a cold-ass lil complex characta n' rendizzle tha fuck into a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curses.h>
.sp
\fBint ins_wch(const cchar_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint wins_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin, const cchar_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvins_wch(int \fR\fIy, int \fR\fIx, const cchar_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwins_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin, int \fR\fIy, int \fR\fIx, const cchar_t *\fR\fIwch\fR\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines, bang tha complex characta \fIwch\fR wit rendition
before tha characta under tha cursor.
All charactas ta tha right of tha cursor is moved one space ta tha right,
with tha possibilitizzle of tha rightmost characta on tha line bein lost.
Da insertion operation do not chizzle tha cursor position.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, these functions return OK.
If not, they return ERR.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH ERRORS
No errors is defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_insch\fR(3X).
