
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2007-10-23 mtk, Nearly a cold-ass lil complete rewrite of tha earlier page.
.TH INTRO 3 2010-11-11 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction ta library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
Section 3 of tha manual raps bout all library functions excludin tha library
functions (system call wrappers) busted lyrics bout up in section 2,
which implement system calls.

Many of tha functions busted lyrics bout up in tha section is part of the
Standard C Library
.RI ( libc ).
Some functions is part of other libraries (e.g.,
the math library,
.IR libm ,
or tha real-time library,
.IR librt )
in which case tha manual page will indicate tha linker
option needed ta link against tha required library
(e.g.,
.I \-lm
and
.IR \-lrt ,
respectively,
for tha aforementioned libraries).

In some cases,
the programmer must define a gangbangin' feature test macro up in order ta obtain
the declaration of a gangbangin' function from tha header file specified
in tha playa page SYNOPSIS section.
(Where required, these feature test macros must be defined before including
.I any
header files.)
In such cases, tha required macro is busted lyrics bout up in tha playa page.
For further shiznit on feature test macros, see
.BR feature_test_macros (7).
.\"
.\" There
.\" is various function crews which can be identified by a letta which
.\" be appended ta tha chapta number:
.\" .IP (3C)
.\" These functions, tha functions from chapta 2 n' from chapta 3S are
.\" contained up in tha C standard library libc, which is ghon be used by
.\" .BR cc (1)
.\" by default.
.\" .IP (3S)
.\" These functions is partz of the
.\" .BR stdio (3)
.\" library.  They is contained up in tha standard C library libc.
.\" .IP (3M)
.\" These functions is contained up in tha arithmetic library libm.  They are
.\" used by the
.\" .BR f77 (1)
.\" FORTRAN compila by default yo, but not by the
.\" .BR cc (1)
.\" C compiler, which needz tha option \fI\-lm\fP.
.\" .IP (3F)
.\" These functions is part of tha FORTRAN library libF77.  There is no
.\" special compila flags needed ta use these functions.
.\" .IP (3X)
.\" Various special libraries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da manual pages documentin they functions
.\" specify tha library names.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Certain terms n' abbreviations is used ta indicate UNIX variants
and standardz ta which calls up in dis section conform.
See
.BR standardz (7).
.SH NOTES
.SS Authors n' copyright conditions
Look all up in tha header of tha manual page source fo' tha author(s) n' copyright
conditions.
Note dat these can be different from page ta page!
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (2),
.BR errno (3),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR environ (7),
.BR feature_test_macros (7),
.BR libc (7),
.BR math_error (7),
.BR path_resolution (7),
.BR pthreadz (7),
.BR signal (7),
.BR standardz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
