.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2009,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_opaque.3x,v 1.9 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_opaque 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBis_cleared\fR,
\fBis_idlok\fR,
\fBis_idcok\fR,
\fBis_immedok\fR,
\fBis_keypad\fR,
\fBis_leaveok\fR,
\fBis_nodelay\fR,
\fBis_notimeout\fR,
\fBis_pad\fR,
\fBis_scrollok\fR,
\fBis_subwin\fR,
\fBis_syncok\fR \- \fBcurses\fR window properties
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBbool is_cleared(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_idcok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_idlok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_immedok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_keypad(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_leaveok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_nodelay(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_notimeout(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_pad(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_scrollok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_subwin(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBbool is_syncok(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBWINDOW * wgetparent(const WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint wgetscrreg(const WINDOW *win, int *top, int *bottom);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This implementation serves up functions which return properties
set up in tha WINDOW structure, allowin it ta be ``opaque'' if
the symbol \fBNCURSES_OPAQUE\fR is defined:
.TP 5
\fBis_cleared\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBclearok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_idcok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBidcok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_idlok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBidlok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_immedok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBimmedok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_keypad\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBkeypad\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_leaveok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBleaveok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_nodelay\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBnodelay\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_notimeout\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBnotimeout\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_pad\fR
returns TRUE if tha window be a pad
i.e., pimped by \fBnewpad\fP
.TP 5
\fBis_scrollok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBscrollok\fR
.TP 5
\fBis_subwin\fR
returns TRUE if tha window be a subwindow,
i.e., pimped by \fBsubwin\fP or \fBderwin\fP
.TP 5
\fBis_syncok\fR
returns tha value set up in \fBsyncok\fR
.TP 5
\fBwgetparent\fR
returns tha parent WINDOW pointa fo' subwindows,
or NULL fo' windows havin no parent.
.TP 5
\fBwgetscrreg\fR
returns tha top n' bottom rows fo' tha scrollin margin as set up in \fBwsetscrreg\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions all return TRUE or FALSE, except as noted.
.SH NOTES
Both a macro n' a gangbangin' function is provided fo' each name.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines is specific ta ncurses.
They was not supported on Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.
It be recommended dat any code dependin on ncurses extensions
be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_inopts\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_outopts\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_window\fR(3X)
