.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 1996-2005
.\"
.\" $Id: resizeterm.3x,v 1.15 2012/07/07 18:38:21 tom Exp $
.TH resizeterm 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBis_term_resized\fR,
\fBresize_term\fR,
\fBresizeterm\fR \- chizzle tha curses terminal size
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBbool is_term_resized(int lines, int columns);\fR
.br
\fBint resize_term(int lines, int columns);\fR
.br
\fBint resizeterm(int lines, int columns);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This be a extension ta tha curses library.
It serves up callaz wit a hook tha fuck into tha \fBncurses\fR data ta resize windows,
primarily fo' use by programs hustlin up in a X Window terminal (e.g., xterm).
Da function \fBresizeterm\fR resizes tha standard n' current windows
to tha specified dimensions, n' adjusts other bookkeepin data used by
the \fBncurses\fR library dat record tha window dimensions.
.LP
Most of tha work is done by tha inner function \fBresize_term\fR.
Da outa function \fBresizeterm\fR addz bookkeepin fo' tha SIGWINCH handlez.
When resizin tha windows,
\fBresize_term\fR blank-fills tha areas dat is extended.
Da callin application should fill up in these areas wit appropriate data.
Da \fBresize_term\fR function attempts ta resize all windows.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat cuz of tha callin convention of pads,
it aint possible ta resize these
without additionizzle interaction wit tha application.
.LP
A support function \fBis_term_resized\fR is provided so dat applications
can check if tha \fBresize_term\fR function would modify tha window structures.
It returns TRUE if tha windows would be modified, n' FALSE otherwise.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Except as notes, these function return
the integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' \fBOK\fR on success.
They will fail if either of tha dimensions is less than or equal ta zero,
or if a error occurs while (re)allocatin memory fo' tha windows.
.SH NOTES
While these functions is intended ta be used ta support a signal handlez
(i.e., fo' SIGWINCH), care should be taken ta avoid invokin dem up in a
context where \fBmalloc\fR or \fBrealloc\fR may done been interrupted,
since it uses dem functions.
.PP
If ncurses is configured ta supply its own SIGWINCH handlez,
the \fBresizeterm\fR function ungetchz a \fBKEY_RESIZE\fR which
will be read on tha next call ta \fBgetch\fR.
This is used ta alert a application dat tha screen size has chizzled,
and dat it should repaint special features like fuckin padz dat cannot
be done automatically.
.PP
If tha environment variablez \fBLINES\fP or \fBCOLUMNS\fP is set,
this overrides tha libraryz use of tha window size obtained from
the operatin system.
Thus, even if a SIGWINCH is received,
no screen size chizzle may be recorded.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurs_variables\fR(3X),
\fBwresize\fR(3X).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (from a equivalent function freestyled up in 1988 fo' BSD curses).
