.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2002-07-27 Walta Harms
.\" dis was done wit tha help of tha glibc manual
.\"
.TH ISGREATER 3  2012-05-06 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
isgreater, isgreaterequal, isless, islessequal, islessgreater,
isunordered \- floating-point relationizzle tests without exception fo' NaN
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "int isgreater(" x ", " y );
.sp
.BI "int isgreaterequal(" x ", " y );
.sp
.BI "int isless(" x ", " y );
.sp
.BI "int islessequal(" x ", " y );
.sp
.BI "int islessgreater(" x ", " y );
.sp
.BI "int isunordered(" x ", " y );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
All functions busted lyrics bout here:
.RS
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da aiiight relation operations (like
.BR < ,
"less than")
will fail if one of tha operandz is NaN.
This will cause a exception.
To avoid this, C99 defines tha macros listed below.

These macros is guaranteed ta evaluate they arguments only once.
Da arguments must be of real floating-point type (note: do not pass
integer joints as arguments ta these macros, since tha arguments will
.I not
be promoted ta real-floatin types).
.TP
.BR isgreata ()
determines \fI(x)\ >\ (y)\fP without a exception
if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
.TP
.BR isgreaterequal ()
determines \fI(x)\ >=\ (y)\fP without a exception
if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
.TP
.BR isless ()
determines \fI(x)\ <\ (y)\fP without a exception
if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
.TP
.BR islessequal ()
determines \fI(x)\ <=\ (y)\fP without a exception
if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
.TP
.BR islessgreata ()
determines \fI(x)\ < (y) || (x) >\ (y)\fP
without a exception if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
This macro aint equivalent ta \fIx\ !=\ y\fP cuz dat expression is
true if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN.
.TP
.BR isunordered ()
determines whether its arguments is unordered, dat is, whether
at least one of tha arguments be a NaN.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da macros other than
.BR isunordered ()
return tha result of tha relationizzle comparison;
these macros return 0 if either argument be a NaN.

.BR isunordered ()
returns 1 if
.IR x
or
.I y
is NaN n' 0 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Not all hardware supports these functions,
and where hardware support aint provided, they is ghon be emulated by macros.
This will result up in a performizzle penalty.
Don't use these functions if NaN iz of no concern fo' yo thugged-out ass.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fpclassify (3),
.BR isnan (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
