
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWALPHA 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswalpha \- test fo' alphabetic wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswalpha(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iswalpha ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR isalpha (3)
function.
It tests whether
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "alpha".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "alpha" be a subclass of the
wide-characta class "alnum",
and therefore also a subclass of tha wide-characta class "graph" and
of tha wide-characta class "print".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "print",
the wide-characta class
"alpha" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class "cntrl".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "graph",
the wide-characta class "alpha" is disjoint from
the wide-characta class "space" n' its subclass "blank".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "alnum",
the wide-characta class "alpha" is disjoint from the
wide-characta class "punct".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "alpha" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class
"digit".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "alpha" gotz nuff tha wide-characta classes "upper"
and "lower".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "alpha" always gotz nuff at least the
lettas \(aqA\(aq ta \(aqZ\(aq n' \(aqa\(aq ta \(aqz\(aq.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswalpha ()
function returns nonzero
if
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "alpha".
Otherwise it returns zero.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswalpha ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR iswctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
