
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWBLANK 3  2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswblank \- test fo' whitespace wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswblank(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR iswblank ():
.RS
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iswblank ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR isblank (3)
function.
It tests whether \fIwc\fP be a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "blank".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "blank" be a subclass of tha wide-characta class
"space".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "space",
the wide-characta class "blank" is disjoint from the
wide-characta class "graph" n' therefore also disjoint
from its subclasses "alnum", "alpha", "upper", "lower", "digit",
"xdigit", "punct".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "blank" always gotz nuff
at least tha space character
and tha control characta \(aq\\t\(aq.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswblank ()
function returns nonzero
if \fIwc\fP be a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "blank".
Otherwise it returns zero.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswblank ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isblank (3),
.BR iswctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
