
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWCNTRL 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswcntrl \- test fo' control wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswcntrl(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iswcntrl ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR iscntrl (3)
function.
It tests whether
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "cntrl".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "cntrl" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class
"print" n' therefore also disjoint from its subclasses "graph", "alpha",
"upper", "lower", "digit", "xdigit", "punct".
.PP
For a unsigned char
.IR c ,
.I iscntrl(c)
implies
.IR iswcntrl(btowc(c)) ,
but not vice versa.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswcntrl ()
function returns nonzero if
.I wc
is a
wide characta belongin ta tha wide-characta class "cntrl".
Otherwise it returns zero.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswcntrl ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iscntrl (3),
.BR iswctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
