
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWCTYPE 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswctype \- wide-characta classification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswctype(wint_t " wc ", wctype_t " desc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I wc
is a wide characta havin tha characta property designated by
.I desc
(or up in other lyrics: belongs ta tha characta class designated by
.IR desc ),
the
.BR iswctype ()
function returns nonzero.
Otherwise it
returns zero.
If
.I wc
is
.BR WEOF ,
zero is returned.
.PP
.I desc
must be a cold-ass lil characta property descriptor
returned by the
.BR wctype (3)
function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswctype ()
function returns nonzero if
the
.I wc
has tha designated
property.
Otherwise it returns 0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswctype ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iswalnum (3),
.BR iswalpha (3),
.BR iswblank (3),
.BR iswcntrl (3),
.BR iswdigit (3),
.BR iswgraph (3),
.BR iswlower (3),
.BR iswprint (3),
.BR iswpunct (3),
.BR iswspace (3),
.BR iswupper (3),
.BR iswxdigit (3),
.BR wctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
