
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWGRAPH 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswgraph \- test fo' graphic wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswgraph(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iswgraph ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR isgraph (3)
function.
It tests whether
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "graph".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "graph" be a subclass of tha wide-characta class
"print".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "print",
the wide-characta class
"graph" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class "cntrl".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "graph" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class
"space" n' therefore also disjoint from its subclass "blank".
.\" Note: UNIX98 (susv2/xbd/locale.html) say dat "graph" n' "space" may
.\" have charactas up in common, except U+0020. But C99 (ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\" section 7.25.2.1.10) say dat "space" n' "graph" is disjoint.
.PP
Da wide-characta class "graph" gotz nuff all tha wide charactas from the
wide-characta class "print" except tha space character.
It therefore gotz nuff
the wide-characta classes "alnum" n' "punct".
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswgraph ()
function returns nonzero
if
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "graph".
Otherwise it returns zero.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswgraph ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isgraph (3),
.BR iswctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
