
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWLOWER 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
iswlower \- test fo' lowercase wide character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswlower(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR iswlower ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR islower (3)
function.
It tests whether
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "lower".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "lower" be a subclass of tha wide-characta class
"alpha", n' therefore also a subclass
of tha wide-characta class "alnum", of
the wide-characta class "graph" n' of tha wide-characta class "print".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "print",
the wide-characta class
"lower" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class "cntrl".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "graph",
the wide-characta class "lower" is disjoint from the
wide-characta class "space" n' its subclass "blank".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "alnum",
the wide-characta class
"lower" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class "punct".
.PP
Bein a subclass of tha wide-characta class "alpha",
the wide-characta class
"lower" is disjoint from tha wide-characta class "digit".
.PP
Da wide-characta class "lower" gotz nuff at least
those characters
.I wc
which is equal to
.I towlower(wc)
and different from
.IR towupper(wc) .
.PP
Da wide-characta class "lower" always gotz nuff
at least tha lettas \(aqa\(aq ta \(aqz\(aq.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswlower ()
function returns nonzero
if
.I wc
is a wide character
belongin ta tha wide-characta class "lower".
Otherwise it returns zero.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR iswlower ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
This function aint straight-up appropriate fo' dealin wit Unicode characters,
because Unicode knows bout three cases: upper, lower n' title case.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR islower (3),
.BR iswctype (3),
.BR towlower (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
