.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 2003
.\"
.\" $Id: key_defined.3x,v 1.6 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH key_defined 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBkey_defined\fP \- check if a keycode is defined
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint key_defined(const char *definition);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This be a extension ta tha curses library.
It permits a application ta determine if a strang is currently bound
to any keycode.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha strang is bound ta a keycode, its value (greata than zero) is returned.
If no keycode is bound, zero is returned.
If tha strang conflicts wit longer strings which is bound ta keys, \-1 is returned.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines is specific ta ncurses.  They was not supported on
Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.  It be recommended that
any code dependin on dem be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdefine_key\fR(3X).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey.
