.\"  Copyright 2002 walta harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"  I had no way tha check tha functions out
.\"  be careful
.TH KEY_SETSECRET 3 2002-07-18 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
key_decryptsession, key_encryptsession, key_setsecret, key_gendes,
key_secretkey_is_set \- intercourses ta rpc keyserver daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rpc/rpc.h>"
.sp
.BI "int key_decryptsession(const char *" remotename ,
.BI "des_block *" deskey );
.sp
.BI "int key_encryptsession(const char *" remotename ,
.BI "des_block *" deskey );
.sp
.BI "int key_gendes(des_block *" deskey );
.sp
.BI "int key_setsecret(const char *" key );
.sp
.B "int key_secretkey_is_set(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da functions here is used within tha RPCz secure authentication
mechanizzle (AUTH_DES).
There should be no need fo' user programs to
use dis functions.

Da function
.BR key_decryptsession ()
uses tha (remote) server netname n' takes tha DES key
for decrypting.
It uses tha hood key of tha server n' the
secret key associated wit tha effectizzle UID of tha callin process.

Da function
.BR key_encryptsession ()
is tha inverse of
.BR key_decryptsession ().
It encrypts tha DES keys wit tha hood key of tha server and
the secret key associated wit tha effectizzle UID of tha callin process.

Da function
.BR key_gendes ()
is used ta ask tha keyserver fo' a secure conversation key.

Da function
.BR key_setsecret ()
is used ta set tha key fo' tha effectizzle UID of tha callin process.

Da function
.BR key_secretkey_is_set ()
can be used ta determine whether a key has been
set fo' tha effectizzle UID of tha callin process.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 1 on success n' 0 on failure.
.SH NOTES
Note dat we rap bout two typez of encryption here.
One be asymmetric rockin a hood n' secret key.
Da other is symmetric, the
64-bit DES.
.PP
These routines was part of tha Linux/Doors-project, abandoned by now, nahmeean?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR crypt (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
