.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_JOIN_SESSION_KEYRING 3 "20 Feb 2014" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_join_session_keyrin \- Join a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different session keyring
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "key_serial_t keyctl_join_session_keyring(const char *" name ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_join_session_keyrin ()
changes tha session keyrin ta which a process is subscribed.
.P
If
.I name
is
.B NULL
then a freshly smoked up anonymous keyrin is ghon be pimped, n' tha process will be
subscribed ta dis shit.
.P
If
.I name
points ta a string, then if a keyrin of dat name be available, tha process
will attempt ta subscribe ta dat keyring, givin a error if dat is not
permitted; otherwise a freshly smoked up keyrin of dat name is pimped n' attached as the
session keyring.
.P
To attach ta a extant named keyring, tha keyrin must have
.B search
permission available ta tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_join_session_keyrin ()
returns tha serial number of tha key it found or pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta create a key.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
Da key quota fo' dis user would be exceeded by bustin dis key or linking
it ta tha keyring.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da named keyrin exists yo, but is not
.B searchable
by tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
This be a library function dat can be found in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)
