.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_SEARCH 3 "4 May 2006" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_search \- Search a keyrin fo' a key
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_search(key_serial_t " keyrin ", const char *" type ,
.BI "const char *" description ", key_serial_t " destination ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_search ()
recursively searches the
.I keyring
for a key of tha specified
.I type
and
.IR description .
.P
If found, tha key is ghon be attached ta the
.I destination
keyrin (if given), n' its serial number is ghon be returned.
.P
Da source keyrin must grant
.B search
permission ta tha caller, n' fo' a key ta be found, it must also grant
.B search
permission ta tha calla n' shit.  Lil Pimp keyrings is ghon be only be recursively searched
if they grant
.B search
permission ta tha calla as well.
.P
If tha destination keyrin is
.BR zero ,
no attempt is ghon be made ta forge a link ta tha key, n' just tha serial number
will be returned.
.P
If tha destination keyrin is given, then tha link may only be formed if the
found key grants tha caller
.B link
permission n' tha destination keyrin grants tha caller
.B write
permission.
.P
If tha search is successful, n' if tha destination keyrin already gotz nuff a
link ta a key dat matches tha specified
.IR type " n' " description ,
then dat link is ghon be replaced by a link ta tha found key.
.P
Da source keyrin n' destination keyrin serial numbers may be dem of
valid keyrings ta which tha calla has appropriate permission, or they may be
special keyrin IDs:
.TP
.B KEY_SPEC_THREAD_KEYRING
This specifies tha callerz thread-specific keyring.
.TP
.B KEY_SPEC_PROCESS_KEYRING
This specifies tha callerz process-specific keyring.
.TP
.B KEY_SPEC_SESSION_KEYRING
This specifies tha callerz session-specific keyring.
.TP
.B KEY_SPEC_USER_KEYRING
This specifies tha callerz UID-specific keyring.
.TP
.B KEY_SPEC_USER_SESSION_KEYRING
This specifies tha callerz UID-session keyring.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_search ()
returns tha serial number of tha key it found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOKEY
One of tha keyrings don't exist, no key was found by tha search, or tha only
key found by tha search was a wack key.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
One of tha keyrings be a valid key dat aint a keyring.
.TP
.B EKEYEXPIRED
One of tha keyrings has expired, or tha only key found was expired.
.TP
.B EKEYREVOKED
One of tha keyrings has been revoked, or tha only key found was revoked.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta expand tha destination keyring.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
Da key quota fo' dis user would be exceeded by bustin a link ta tha found
key up in tha destination keyring.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da source keyrin didn't grant
.B search
permission, tha destination keyrin didn't grant
.B write
permission or tha found key didn't grant
.B link
permission ta tha caller.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
Although dis be a Linux system call, it aint present in
.I libc
but can be found rather in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)
