.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_SESSION_TO_PARENT 3 "20 Feb 2014" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_session_to_parent \- Set tha parent processs session keyring
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_session_to_parent();"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_session_to_parent ()
changes tha session keyrin ta which tha callin processs parent subscribes
to be tha dat of tha callin process.
.P
Da keyrin must have
.B link
permission available ta tha callin process, tha parent process must have the
same UIDs/GIDs as tha callin process, n' tha LSM must not reject the
replacement.  Furthermore, dis may not be used ta affect init or a kernel
thread.
.P
Note dat tha replacement aint gonna take immediate effect upon tha parent
process yo, but will rather be deferred ta tha next time it returns ta userspace
from kernel space.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_session_to_parent ()
returns 0.  On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta create a key.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da credentialz of tha parent don't match dem of tha caller.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da named keyrin exists yo, but is not
.B linkable
by tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
This be a library function dat can be found in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)
