.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_CLEAR 3 "4 May 2006" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_clear \- Clear a keyring
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_clear(key_serial_t " keyrin ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_clear ()
clears tha contentz of a
.IR keyrin .
.P
Da calla must have
.B write
permission on a keyrin ta be able clear dat shit.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_clear ()
returns
.BR 0 .
On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOKEY
Da keyrin specified is invalid.
.TP
.B EKEYEXPIRED
Da keyrin specified has expired.
.TP
.B EKEYREVOKED
Da keyrin specified had been revoked.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da keyrin exists yo, but is not
.B writable
by tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
This be a library function dat can be found in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)

