.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_DESCRIBE 3 "4 May 2006" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_describe \- Describe a key
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_describe(key_serial_t " key ", char *" buffer ,
.BI "size_t" buflen ");"
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_describe_alloc(key_serial_t " key ", char **" _buffer ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_describe ()
raps bout tha attributez of a key as a NUL-terminated string.
.P
Da calla must have
.B view
permission on a key ta be able ta git a thugged-out description of dat shit.
.P
.I buffer
and
.I buflen
specify tha buffer tha fuck into which tha key description is ghon be placed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If the
buffer is too small, tha full size of tha description is ghon be returned, n' no
copy will take place.
.P
.BR keyctl_describe_alloc ()
is similar to
.BR keyctl_describe ()
except dat it allocates a funky-ass buffer big-ass enough ta hold tha description and
places tha description up in dat shit.  If successful, A pointa ta tha buffer is
placed in
.IR *_buffer .
Da calla must free tha buffer.
.P
Da description is ghon be a strang of format:
.IP
.B "\*(lq%s;%d;%d;%08x;%s\*(rq"
.P
where tha arguments are: key type name, key UID, key GID, key permissions mask
and key description.
.P
.B NOTE!
Da key description aint gonna contain any semicolons, so dat should be
separated up by hustlin backwardz from tha end of tha string.  This permits
extra shiznit ta be banged before it by lata versionz of tha kernel
simply by insertin mo' semicolon-terminated substrings.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_describe ()
returns tha amount of data placed tha fuck into tha buffer n' shit.  If tha buffer was too
small, then tha size of buffer required is ghon be returned yo, but no data will be
transferred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.P
On success
.BR keyctl_describe_alloc ()
returns tha amount of data up in tha buffer, less tha NUL terminator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOKEY
Da key specified is invalid.
.TP
.B EKEYEXPIRED
Da key specified has expired.
.TP
.B EKEYREVOKED
Da key specified had been revoked.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da key exists yo, but is not
.B viewable
by tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
This be a library function dat can be found in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)
