.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYCTL_CHOWN 3 "4 May 2006" Linux "Linux Key Management Calls"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyctl_chown \- Chizzle tha ballershizzle of a key
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.sp
.BI "long keyctl_chown(key_serial_t " key ", uid_t " uid ", gid_t " gid ");"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR keyctl_chown ()
changes tha user n' crew ballershizzle detailz of a key.
.P
A settin of
.B -1
on either
.I uid
or
.I gid
will cause dat settin ta be ignored.
.P
A process dat aint gots the
.B SysAdmin
capabilitizzle may not chizzle a keyz UID or set tha keyz GID ta a value that
does not match tha processs GID or one of its crew list.
.P
Da calla must have
.B setattr
permission on a key ta be able chizzle its ballership.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR keyctl_chown ()
returns
.B 0 .
On error, tha value
.B -1
will be returned n' errno gonna git been set ta a appropriate error.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOKEY
Da specified key do not exist.
.TP
.B EKEYEXPIRED
Da specified key has expired.
.TP
.B EKEYREVOKED
Da specified key has been revoked.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
Changin tha UID ta tha one specified would run dat UID outta quota.
.TP
.B EACCES
Da key exists yo, but do not grant
.B setattr
permission ta tha callin process.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LINKING
This be a library function dat can be found in
.IR libkeyutils .
When linking,
.B -lkeyutils
should be specified ta tha linker.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR add_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (2),
.br
.BR request_key (2),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyutils (7),
.br
.BR keyrings (7)
