.TH libxml 3 "12 April 2000"
.SH NAME
libxml \- library used ta parse XML files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I  libxml
library is used ta parse XML files. 
Its internal document representation be as close as possible ta tha 
.I DOM 
(Document Object Model) intercourse,
an API fo' accessin XML or HTML structured documents.
.LP
The
.I libxml
library also has a 
.IR SAX -like
interface, 
which is designed ta be compatible wit 
.IR expat (1).
NOTE:
.IR SAX , 
the Simple API fo' XML,
is a standard intercourse fo' event-based XML parsing,
developed collaboratively by tha thugz of tha XML-DEV mailin list, 
currently hosted by OASIS.
The
.I expat
library be a XML 1.0 parser freestyled up in C,
which aims ta be straight-up conforming. 
It be currently not a valipimpin XML processor.
.LP
The
.I libxml 
library now includes a nearly complete 
.I XPath 
implementation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
The
.I XPath
(XML Path Language) be a language fo' addressin partz of a 
XML document,
designed ta be used by both 
.I XSLT 
and 
.IR XPointa .
.LP
The
.I libxml 
library exports Push n' Pull type parser intercourses fo' both XML n' 
.IR html . 
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
.B /depot/lib/libxml_2.0.0/libxml.a
static library
.TP
.B /depot/lib/libxml_2.0.0/libxml.so
shared library
.TP
.B /depot/package/libxml_2.0.0/bin/xmllint
binary application fo' parsin XML files
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Veillard (daniel@veillard.com).
Red Hat Inc.
Manual page by Ziyin Sherwin (sherwin@nlm.nih.gov),
Lista Hill Nationizzle Centa fo' Biomedical Communications,
U.S. Nationizzle Library of Medicine.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR xmllint (1),
.IR libxslt (3),
.IR libexslt (3),
.IR xsltproc (1)
.\" end of manual page
