.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:01:20 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH LOCALECONV 3  2013-06-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
localeconv \- git numeric formattin shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locale.h>
.sp
.B struct lconv *localeconv(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR localeconv ()
function returns a pointa ta a
.I struct lconv
for tha current locale.
This structure is shown in
.BR locale (7),
and gotz nuff all joints associated wit tha locale categories
.B LC_NUMERIC
and
.BR LC_MONETARY .
Programs may also use tha functions
.BR printf (3)
and
.BR strfmon (3),
which behave accordin ta tha actual locale up in use.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR localeconv ()
function returns a pointa ta a gangbangin' filled in
.IR "struct lconv" .
This structure may be (in glibc,
.IR is )
statically allocated, n' may be overwritten by subsequent calls.
Accordin ta POSIX,
the calla should not modify tha contentz of dis structure.
The
.BR localeconv ()
function always succeeds.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR localeconv ()
function aint thread-safe, since it returns a pointa ta a structure which
might be overwritten by subsequent calls.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR printf (3)
family of functions may or may not honor tha current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locale (1),
.BR localedef (1),
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR nl_langinfo (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR strftime (3),
.BR locale (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
