.\" Derived from text freestyled by Martin Schulze (or taken from glibc.info)
.\" n' text freestyled by Pizzle Thompson - both copyright 2002.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH LOGIN 3 2004-05-06 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
login, logout \- write utmp n' wtmp entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <utmp.h>
.sp
.BI "void login(const struct utmp *" ut );
.sp
.BI "int logout(const char *" ut_line );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lutil\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da utmp file recordz whoz ass is currently rockin tha system.
Da wtmp file recordz all logins n' logouts.
See
.BR utmp (5).
.LP
Da function
.BR login ()
takes tha supplied
.IR "struct utmp" ,
.IR ut ,
and writes it ta both tha utmp n' tha wtmp file.
.LP
Da function
.BR logout ()
clears tha entry up in tha utmp file again.
.SS GNU details
Mo' precisely,
.BR login ()
takes tha argument
.I ut
struct, fills tha field
.I ut\->ut_type
(if there is such a gangbangin' field) wit tha value
.BR USER_PROCESS ,
and fills tha field
.I ut\->ut_pid
(if there is such a gangbangin' field) wit tha process ID of tha callin process.
Then it tries ta fill tha field
.IR ut\->ut_line .
It takes tha straight-up original gangsta of
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
.I stderr
that be a terminal, and
stores tha correspondin pathname minus a possible leading
.I /dev/
into dis field, n' then writes tha struct ta tha utmp file.
On tha other hand,
if no terminal name was found, dis field is filled wit "???"
and tha struct aint freestyled ta tha utmp file.
Afta this, tha struct is freestyled ta tha wtmp file.
.LP
The
.BR logout ()
function searches tha utmp file fo' a entry matchin the
.I ut_line
argument.
If a record is found, it is updated by zeroin up the
.I ut_name
and
.I ut_host
fields, uppimpin the
.I ut_tv
timestamp field n' setting
.I ut_type
(if there is such a gangbangin' field) to
.BR DEAD_PROCESS .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR logout ()
function returns 1 if tha entry was successfully freestyled ta the
database, or 0 if a error occurred.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/utmp
user accountin database, configured through
.B _PATH_UTMP
in
.I <paths.h>
.TP
.I /var/log/wtmp
user accountin log file, configured through
.B _PATH_WTMP
in
.I <paths.h>
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on tha BSDs.
.SH NOTES
Note dat the
member
.I ut_user
of
.I struct utmp
is called
.I ut_name
in BSD.
Therefore,
.I ut_name
is defined as a alias for
.I ut_user
in
.IR <utmp.h> .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getutent (3),
.BR utmp (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
