.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MAKEDEV 3 2012-05-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
makedev, major, minor \- manage a thang number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <sys/types.h>

.BI "dev_t makedev(int " maj ", int " min );

.BI "unsigned int major(dev_t " dev );
.BI "unsigned int minor(dev_t " dev );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A thang ID consistz of two parts:
a major ID, identifyin tha class of tha device,
and a minor ID, identifyin a specific instizzle of a thang up in dat class.
A thang ID is represented rockin tha type
.IR dev_t .

Given major n' minor thang IDs,
.BR makedev ()
combines these ta produce a thang ID, returned as tha function result.
This thang ID can be given to
.BR mknod (2),
for example.

The
.BR major ()
and
.BR minor ()
functions big-ass up tha converse task: given a thang ID,
they return, respectively, tha major n' minor components.
These macros can be useful to, fo' example,
decompose tha thang IDs up in tha structure returned by
.BR stat (2).
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.BR makedev (),
.BR major (),
and
.BR minor ()
functions is not specified up in POSIX.1,
but is present on nuff other systems.
.\" Da BSDs, HP-UX, Solaris, AIX, Irix
.SH NOTES
These intercourses is defined as macros.
Since glibc 2.3.3,
they done been aliases fo' three GNU-specific functions:
.BR gnu_dev_makedev (),
.BR gnu_dev_major (),
and
.BR gnu_dev_minor ().
Da latta names is exported yo, but tha traditionizzle names is mo' portable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mknod (2),
.BR stat (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
