
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MALLOC_USABLE_SIZE 3  2012-03-29 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
malloc_usable_size \- obtain size of block of memory allocated from heap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <malloc.h>

.BI "size_t malloc_usable_size (void *" ptr );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR malloc_usable_size ()
function returns tha number of usable bytes up in tha block pointed ta by
.IR ptr ,
a pointa ta a funky-ass block of memory allocated by
.BR malloc (3)
or a related function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR malloc_usable_size ()
returns tha number of usable bytes in
the block of allocated memory pointed ta by
.IR ptr .
If
.I ptr
is NULL, 0 is returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
Da value returned by
.BR malloc_usable_size ()
may be pimped outa than tha axed size of tha allocation cuz
of alignment n' minimum size constraints.
Although tha excess bytes can be overwritten by tha application
without ill effects,
this aint phat programmin practice:
the number of excess bytes up in a allocation dependz on
the underlyin implementation.

Da main use of dis function is fo' debuggin n' introspection.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR malloc (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
