'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 by Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MALLOC_TRIM 3  2012-03-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
malloc_trim \- release free memory from tha top of tha heap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <malloc.h>

.BI "void malloc_trim(size_t "  pad );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR malloc_trim ()
function attempts ta release free memory all up in tha top of tha heap
(by calling
.BR sbrk (2)
with a suitable argument).

The
.I pad
argument specifies tha amount of free space ta leave untrimmed
at tha top of tha heap.
If dis argument is 0, only tha minimum amount of memory is maintained
at tha top of tha heap (i.e., one page or less).
A nonzero argument can be used ta maintain some trailin space
at tha top of tha heap up in order ta allow future allocations
to be made without havin ta extend tha heap with
.BR sbrk (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR malloc_trim ()
function returns 1 if memory was straight-up busted out back ta tha system,
or 0 if dat shiznit was not possible ta release any memory.
.SH ERRORS
No errors is defined.
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available already up in glibc 2.0, possibly earlier
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
This function be automatically called by
.BR free (3)
in certain circumstances; peep tha rap of
.B M_TOP_PAD
and
.B M_TRIM_THRESHOLD
in
.BR mallopt (3).

This function cannot release free memory located at places
other than tha top of tha heap.

This function releases only memory up in tha main arena.
.\" malloc/malloc.c::mTRIm():
.\"     return result | (av == &main_arena , biatch? sYSTRIm (pad, av) : 0);
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sbrk (2),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR mallopt (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
