.TH "matchpathcon" "3" "21 November 2009" "sds@tycho.nsa.gov" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
matchpathcon, matchpathcon_index \- git tha default SELinux securitizzle context fo' tha specified path from tha file contexts configuration
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon_init(const char *" path ");"
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon_init_prefix(const char *" path ", const char *" subset ");"
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon_fini(void);"
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode ", security_context_t *" con ");
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon_index(const char *" name ", mode_t " mode ", security_context_t *" con ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR matchpathcon_init ()
loadz tha file contexts configuration specified by
.I path
into memory fo' use by subsequent 
.BR matchpathcon ()
calls.  If
.I path
is NULL, then tha actizzle file contexts configuration is loaded by default,
i.e. tha path returned by 
.BR selinux_file_context_path (3).
Unless tha 
.B MATCHPATHCON_BASEONLY 
flag has been set via 
.BR \%set_matchpathcon_flags (3),
filez wit tha same path prefix but a 
.B \%.homedirs
and
.B .local
suffix is also looked up n' loaded if present.  These filez provide
dynamically generated entries fo' user home directories n' fo' local
customizations.

.BR matchpathcon_init_prefix ()
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR matchpathcon_init ()
but only loadz entries wit regular expressions dat have stems prefixed
by
.I \%prefix.

.BR matchpathcon_fini ()
frees tha memory allocated by a prior call to
.BR matchpathcon_init. ()
This function can be used ta free n' reset tha internal state between multiple 
.BR matchpathcon_init ()
calls, or ta free memory when finished rockin 
.BR matchpathcon ().

.BR matchpathcon ()
matches tha specified pathname n' mode against tha file contexts
configuration n' sets tha securitizzle context 
.I con 
to refer ta the
resultin context. Da calla must free tha returned securitizzle context 
.I con
using
.BR freecon (3)
when finished rockin dat shit.
.I mode
can be 0 ta disable mode matchin yo, but
should be provided whenever possible, as it may affect tha matching.
Only tha file format bits (i.e. tha file type) of tha 
.I mode 
are used.
If 
.BR matchpathcon_init ()
has not already been called, then dis function will call it upon
its first invocation wit a NULL
.I path,
defaultin ta tha actizzle file contexts configuration.

.BR matchpathcon_index ()
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR matchpathcon ()
but returns a justification index dat can lata be used up in a
.BR matchpathcon_filespec_add (3)
call.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns zero on success or \-1 otherwise.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " set_matchpathcon_flags "(3), " set_matchpathcon_invalidcon "(3), " set_matchpathcon_printf "(3), " matchpathcon_filespec_add "(3), " matchpathcon_checkmatches "(3), " freecon "(3), " setfilecon "(3), " setfscreatecon "(3)"
