
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH MBLEN 3  2013-06-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mblen \- determine number of bytes up in next multibyte character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int mblen(const char *" s ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I s
is not a NULL pointer, the
.BR mblen ()
function inspects at most
.I n
bytez of tha multibyte strang startin at
.I s
and extracts the
next complete multibyte character.
It uses a static anonymous shift state known only ta the
.BR mblen ()
function.
If tha multibyte characta aint tha null wide
character, it returns tha number of bytes dat was consumed from
.IR s .
If tha multibyte characta is tha null wide character, it returns 0.
.PP
If the
.IR n
bytes startin at
.I s
do not contain a cold-ass lil complete multibyte
character,
.BR mblen ()
returns \-1.
This can happen even if
.I n
is pimped outa than or equal to
.IR MB_CUR_MAX ,
if tha multibyte strang gotz nuff redundant shift sequences.
.PP
If tha multibyte strang startin at
.I s
gotz nuff a invalid multibyte
sequence before tha next complete character,
.BR mblen ()
also returns \-1.
.PP
If
.I s
is a NULL pointer, the
.BR mblen ()
function
.\" Da Dinkumware doc n' tha Single UNIX justification say dis yo, but
.\" glibc don't implement all dis bullshit.
resets tha shift state, known ta only dis function, ta tha initial state, and
returns nonzero if tha encodin has nontrivial shift state, or zero if the
encodin is stateless.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR mblen ()
function returns tha number of
bytes parsed from tha multibyte
sequence startin at
.IR s ,
if a non-null wide characta was recognized.
It returns 0, if a null wide characta was recognized.
It returns \-1, if an
invalid multibyte sequence was encountered or if it couldn't parse a cold-ass lil complete
multibyte character.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR mblen ()
function aint thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR mblen ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
Da function
.BR mbrlen (3)
provides a funky-ass betta intercourse ta tha same
functionality.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mbrlen (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
