
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH MBSINIT 3  2000-11-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mbsinit \- test fo' initial shift state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "int mbsinit(const mbstate_t *" ps );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Characta conversion between tha multibyte representation n' tha wide
characta representation uses conversion state, of type
.IR mbstate_t .
Conversion of a strang uses a gangbangin' finite-state machine; when it is interrupted
afta tha complete conversion of a fuckin shitload of characters, it may need to
save a state fo' processin tha remainin characters.
Such a cold-ass lil conversion
state is needed fo' tha sake of encodings like fuckin ISO-2022 n' UTF-7.
.PP
Da initial state is tha state all up in tha beginnin of conversion of a string.
There is two kindz of state: Da one used by multibyte ta wide character
conversion functions, such as
.BR mbsrtowcs (3),
and tha one used by wide
characta ta multibyte conversion functions, such as
.BR wcsrtombs (3),
but they both fit up in a
.IR mbstate_t ,
and they both have tha same
representation fo' a initial state.
.PP
For 8-bit encodings, all states is equivalent ta tha initial state.
For multibyte encodings like UTF-8, EUC-*, BIG5 or SJIS, tha wide character
to multibyte conversion functions never produce non-initial states yo, but the
multibyte ta wide-characta conversion functions like
.BR mbrtowc (3)
do
produce non-initial states when interrupted up in tha middle of a cold-ass lil character.
.PP
One possible way ta create an
.I mbstate_t
in initial state is ta set it ta zero:
.nf

    mbstate_t state;
    memset(&state,0,sizeof(mbstate_t));
.fi
.PP
On Linux, tha followin works as well yo, but might generate compila warnings:
.nf

    mbstate_t state = { 0 };
.fi
.PP
Da function
.BR mbsinit ()
tests whether
.I *ps
correspondz ta an
initial state.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR mbsinit ()
returns nonzero if
.I *ps
is a initial state, or if
.I ps
is a NULL pointer.
Otherwise it returns 0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR mbsinit ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mbsrtowcs (3),
.BR wcsrtombs (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
