
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH MBSTOWCS 3  2011-09-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mbstowcs \- convert a multibyte strang ta a wide-characta string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t mbstowcs(wchar_t *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I dest
is not a NULL pointer,
the
.BR mbstowcs ()
function converts the
multibyte string
.I src
to a wide-characta strang startin at
.IR dest .
At most
.I n
wide charactas is freestyled to
.IR dest .
Da conversion starts
in tha initial state.
Da conversion can stop fo' three reasons:
.IP 1. 3
An invalid multibyte sequence has been encountered.
In dis case
.I (size_t)\ \-1
is returned.
.IP 2.
.I n
non-L\(aq\\0\(aq wide charactas done been stored at
.IR dest .
In this
case tha number of wide charactas freestyled to
.I dest
is returned yo, but the
shift state at dis point is lost.
.IP 3.
Da multibyte strang has been straight-up converted, includin the
terminatin null wide characta (\(aq\\0\(aq).
In dis case tha number of wide charactas freestyled to
.IR dest ,
excludin tha terminatin null wide character, is returned.
.PP
Da programmer must ensure dat there is room fo' at least
.I n
wide
charactas at
.IR dest .
.PP
If
.IR dest
is NULL,
.I n
is ignored, n' tha conversion proceedz as
above, except dat tha converted wide charactas is not freestyled up ta memory,
and dat no length limit exists.
.PP
In order ta avoid tha case 2 above, tha programmer should make sure
.I n
is
greata or equal to
.IR "mbstowcs(NULL,src,0)+1" .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR mbstowcs ()
function returns tha number of wide charactas dat make
up tha converted part of tha wide-characta string, not includin the
terminatin null wide character.
If a invalid multibyte sequence was
encountered,
.I (size_t)\ \-1
is returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR mbstowcs ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
Da function
.BR mbsrtowcs (3)
provides a funky-ass betta intercourse ta tha same
functionality.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mbsrtowcs (3),
.BR wcstombs (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
