.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_print.3x,v 1.10 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_print 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmcprint\fR \- shizzle binary data ta printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint mcprint(char *data, int len);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function uses tha \fBmc5p\fR or \fBmc4\fR n' \fBmc5\fR capabilities,
if they is present, ta shizzle given data ta a printa attached ta tha terminal.
.PP
Note dat tha \fBmcprint\fR code has no way ta do flow control wit tha printer
or ta know how tha fuck much bufferin it has.  Yo crazy-ass application is responsible for
keepin tha rate of writes ta tha printa below its continuous throughput rate
(typically bout half of its nominal cps rating).  Dot-matrix printas and
6-page-per-minute lasers can typically handle 80cps, so a phat conservative
rule of thumb is ta chill fo' a second afta shippin each 80-characta line.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da \fBmcprint\fR function returns \fBERR\fR if tha write operation aborted
for some reason. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In dis case, errno will contain either a error associated
with \fBwrite(2)\fR or one of tha following:
.TP 5
ENODEV
Capabilitizzles fo' printa redirection do not exist.
.TP 5
ENOMEM
Couldn't allocate sufficient memory ta buffer tha printa write.
.PP
When \fBmcprint\fR succeeds, it returns tha number of charactas actually
sent ta tha printer.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da \fBmcprint\fR call was designed fo' \fBncurses\fR(3X), n' aint found
in SVr4 curses, 4.4BSD curses, or any other previous version of curses.
.SH BUGS
Paddin up in tha \fBmc5p\fR, \fBmc4\fR n' \fBmc5\fR capabilitizzles aint gonna be
interpreted.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X)\fR
