.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:49:57 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:56:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Feb 20 21:09:36 2002, Ian Redfern (redferni@logica.com)
.\" 2008-07-09, mtk, add rawmemchr()
.\"
.TH MEMCHR 3  2012-04-23 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
memchr, memrchr, rawmemchr \- scan memory fo' a cold-ass lil character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>

.BI "void *memchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );

.BI "void *memrchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );

.BI "void *rawmemchr(const void *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR memrchr (),
.BR rawmemchr ():
_GNU_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR memchr ()
function scans tha initial
.I n
bytez of tha memory
area pointed ta by
.I s
for tha straight-up original gangsta instizzle of
.IR c .
Both
.I c
and tha bytez of tha memory area pointed ta by
.I s
are interpreted as
.IR "unsigned char" .
.PP
The
.BR memrchr ()
function is like the
.BR memchr ()
function,
except dat it searches backward from tha end of the
.I n
bytes pointed ta by
.I s
instead of forward from tha beginning.

The
.BR rawmemchr ()
function is similar to
.BR memchr ():
it assumes (i.e., tha programmer knows fo' certain)
that a instizzle of
.I c
lies somewhere up in tha memory area startin all up in tha location pointed ta by
.IR s ,
and so performs a optimized search for
.IR c
(i.e., no use of a cold-ass lil count argument ta limit tha range of tha search).
If a instizzle of
.I c
is not found, tha thangs up in dis biatch is unpredictable.
Da followin call be a gangbangin' fast meanz of locatin a string's
terminatin null byte:
.in +4n
.nf

char *p = rawmemchr(s,\ \(aq\\0\(aq);
.fi
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR memchr ()
and
.BR memrchr ()
functions return a pointer
to tha matchin byte or NULL if tha characta do not occur in
the given memory area.

The
.BR rawmemchr ()
function returns a pointa ta tha matchin byte, if one is found.
If no matchin byte is found, tha result is unspecified.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR rawmemchr ()
first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.

.BR memrchr ()
first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.2.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.BR memchr ()
function conforms ta SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

The
.BR memrchr ()
function be a GNU extension, available since glibc 2.1.91.

The
.BR rawmemchr ()
function be a GNU extension, available since glibc 2.1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ffs (3),
.BR index (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR wmemchr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
