.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:50:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Interchanged 'needle' n' 'haystack'; added history, aeb, 980113.
.TH MEMMEM 3  2008-12-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
memmem \- locate a substring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memmem(const void *" haystack ", size_t " haystacklen ,
.BI "             const void *" needle ", size_t " needlelen  );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR memmem ()
function findz tha start of tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence
of tha substring
.IR needle
of length
.I needlelen
in tha memory
area
.I haystack
of length
.IR haystacklen .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR memmem ()
function returns a pointa ta tha beginnin of the
substring, or NULL if tha substrin aint found.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH BUGS
This function was fucked up in Linux libraries up ta n' includin libc 5.0.9;
there the
.IR needle
and
.I haystack
arguments was interchanged,
and a pointa ta tha end of tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence of
.I needle
was returned.

Both oldschool n' freshly smoked up libcs have tha bug dat if
.I needle
is empty,
.I haystack\-1
(instead of
.IR haystack )
is returned.
And glibc 2.0 make it worse, returnin a pointa ta the
last byte of
.IR haystack .
This is fixed up in glibc 2.1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strstr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
