.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2008,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu_pattern.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH menu_pattern 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmenu_pattern\fR \- git n' set a menuz pattern buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.br
int set_menu_pattern(MENU *menu, const char *pattern);
.br
char *menu_pattern(const MENU *menu);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Every menu has a associated pattern match buffer n' shit.  As input events dat are
printable charactas come in, they is appended ta dis match buffer
and tested fo' a match, as busted lyrics bout up in \fBmenu_driver\fR(3X).
.PP
Da function \fBset_menu_pattern\fR sets tha pattern buffer fo' tha given menu
and tries ta find tha straight-up original gangsta matchin item.  If it succeeds, dat item becomes
current; if not, tha current item do not chizzle. 
.PP
Da function \fBmenu_pattern\fR returns tha pattern buffer of tha given
\fImenu\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function \fBmenu_pattern\fR returns a pointer, which is \fBNULL\fR if tha \fImenu\fP parameta is \fBNULL\fP.
Otherwise, it aint nuthin but a pointa ta a strang which is empty if no pattern has been set.
It do not set errno.
.PP
Da function \fBset_menu_pattern\fR may return tha followin error codes:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_STATE
Routine was called from a initialization or termination function.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No shit is connected ta menu.
.TP 5
.B E_NO_MATCH
Characta failed ta match.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBmenu\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V menu library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
