'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu.3x,v 1.21 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH menu 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmenu\fR \- curses extension fo' programmin menus
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBmenu\fR library serves up terminal-independent facilitizzles fo' composing
menu systems on character-cell terminals.  Da library includes: item routines,
which create n' modify menu items; n' menu routines, which crew shit into
menus, display menus on tha screen, n' handle interaction wit tha user.
.PP
Da \fBmenu\fR library uses tha \fBcurses\fR libraries, n' a cold-ass lil curses
initialization routine like fuckin \fBinitscr\fR must be called before rockin any of
these functions.  To use tha \fBmenu\fR library, link wit tha options
\fB\-lmenu \-lcurses\fR.
.
.SS Current Default Values fo' Item Attributes
.
Da \fBmenu\fR library maintains a thugged-out default value fo' item attributes.  Yo ass can
get or set dis default by callin tha appropriate \fBget_\fR or \fBset_\fR
routine wit a \fBNULL\fR item pointer n' shit.  Changin dis default wit a
\fBset_\fR function affects future item creations yo, but do not chizzle the
renderin of shit already pimped.
.
.SS Routine Name Index
.
Da followin table lists each \fBmenu\fR routine n' tha name of
the manual page on which it is busted lyrics about.
.
.TS
l l .
\fBcurses\fR Routine Name	Manual Page Name
=
current_item	\fBmitem_current\fR(3X)
free_item 	\fBmitem_new\fR(3X)
free_menu 	\fBmenu_new\fR(3X)
item_count	\fBmenu_items\fR(3X)
item_description	\fBmitem_name\fR(3X)
item_index	\fBmitem_current\fR(3X)
item_init 	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
item_name 	\fBmitem_name\fR(3X)
item_opts 	\fBmitem_opts\fR(3X)
item_opts_off	\fBmitem_opts\fR(3X)
item_opts_on	\fBmitem_opts\fR(3X)
item_term 	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
item_userptr	\fBmitem_userptr\fR(3X)
item_value	\fBmitem_value\fR(3X)
item_visible	\fBmitem_visible\fR(3X)
menu_back 	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
menu_driver	\fBmenu_driver\fR(3X)
menu_fore 	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
menu_format	\fBmenu_format\fR(3X)
menu_grey 	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
menu_init 	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
menu_items	\fBmenu_items\fR(3X)
menu_mark 	\fBmenu_mark\fR(3X)
menu_opts 	\fBmenu_opts\fR(3X)
menu_opts_off	\fBmenu_opts\fR(3X)
menu_opts_on	\fBmenu_opts\fR(3X)
menu_pad  	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
menu_pattern	\fBmenu_pattern\fR(3X)
menu_request_by_name	\fBmenu_requestname\fR(3X)
menu_request_name	\fBmenu_requestname\fR(3X)
menu_spacing	\fBmenu_spacing\fR(3X)
menu_sub  	\fBmenu_win\fR(3X)
menu_term 	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
menu_userptr	\fBmenu_userptr\fR(3X)
menu_win  	\fBmenu_win\fR(3X)
new_item  	\fBmitem_new\fR(3X)
new_menu  	\fBmenu_new\fR(3X)
pos_menu_cursor	\fBmenu_cursor\fR(3X)
post_menu 	\fBmenu_post\fR(3X)
scale_menu	\fBmenu_win\fR(3X)
set_current_item	\fBmitem_current\fR(3X)
set_item_init	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
set_item_opts	\fBmitem_opts\fR(3X)
set_item_term	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
set_item_userptr	\fBmitem_userptr\fR(3X)
set_item_value	\fBmitem_value\fR(3X)
set_menu_back	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
set_menu_fore	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
set_menu_format	\fBmenu_format\fR(3X)
set_menu_grey	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
set_menu_init	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
set_menu_items	\fBmenu_items\fR(3X)
set_menu_mark	\fBmenu_mark\fR(3X)
set_menu_opts	\fBmitem_opts\fR(3X)
set_menu_pad	\fBmenu_attributes\fR(3X)
set_menu_pattern	\fBmenu_pattern\fR(3X)
set_menu_spacing	\fBmenu_spacing\fR(3X)
set_menu_sub	\fBmenu_win\fR(3X)
set_menu_term	\fBmenu_hook\fR(3X)
set_menu_userptr	\fBmenu_userptr\fR(3X)
set_menu_win	\fBmenu_win\fR(3X)
set_top_row	\fBmitem_current\fR(3X)
top_row   	\fBmitem_current\fR(3X)
unpost_menu	\fBmenu_post\fR(3X)
.TE
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return pointas return \fBNULL\fR on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Routines dat return
an integer return one of tha followin error codes:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_STATE
Routine was called from a initialization or termination function.
.TP 5
.B E_NO_MATCH
Characta failed ta match.
.TP 5
.B E_NO_ROOM
Menu is too big-ass fo' its window.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No shit is connected ta tha menu.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_POSTED
Da menu has not been posted.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_SELECTABLE
Da designated item cannot be selected.
.TP 5
.B E_POSTED
Da menu be already posted.
.TP 5
.B E_REQUEST_DENIED
Da menu driver could not process tha request.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.TP 5
.B E_UNKNOWN_COMMAND
Da menu driver code saw a unknown request code.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X) n' related pages whose names begin "menu_" fo' detailed
descriptionz of tha entry points.
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes tha header files
\fB<curses.h>\fR n' \fB<eti.h>\fR.
.PP
In yo' library list, libmenu.a should be before libncurses.a; dat is,
you wanna say `\-lmenu \-lncurses', not tha other way round (which would
usually give a link-error).
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V menu library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' ncurses by Eric
S. Raymond.
.SH SEE ALSO
This raps bout \fBncurses\fR
version 5.9 (patch 20130511).
