'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu_spacing.3x,v 1.12 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH menu_spacin 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmenu_spacing\fR \- Control spacin between menu items.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.br
int set_menu_spacing(MENU *menu,
                     int spc_description,
                     int spc_rows,
                     int spc_columns);
.br
int menu_spacing(const MENU *menu,
                 int* spc_description,
                 int* spc_rows,
                 int* spc_columns);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBset_menu_spacing\fR sets tha spacin shiznit fo' tha menu.
Its parameta \fBspc_description\fR controls tha number of spaces between a item name n' a item
description.
It must not be larger than \fBTABSIZE\fR.
Da menu system puts up in the
middle of dis spacin area tha pad character.
Da remainin parts is filled with
spaces.
Da \fBspc_rows\fR parameta controls tha number of rows dat is used fo' a item.
It must not be larger than 3.
Da menu system bangs tha blank lines between item rows, these lines
will contain tha pad characta up in tha appropriate positions.
Da \fBspc_columns\fR parameta controls tha number of blanks between columnz of items.
It must not be larger than TABSIZE.
A value of 0 fo' all tha spacin joints resets dem ta tha default, which is 1 fo' all
of em.
.br
Da function \fBmenu_spacing\fR passes back tha spacin info fo' tha menu.
If a
pointa is NULL, dis specific info is simply not returned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Both routines return \fBE_OK\fR on success.
\fBset_menu_spacing\fR may return
\fBE_POSTED\fR if tha menu is posted, or \fBE_BAD_ARGUMENT\fR if one of the
spacin joints is outta range.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_variables\fR(3X),
\fBmenu\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines is specific ta ncurses.
They was not supported on
Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.
It be recommended that
any code dependin on dem be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric S. Raymond.
