
.\" Based on mkstemp(3), Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' GNU libc documentation
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH MKDTEMP 3  2010-09-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mkdtemp \- create a unique temporary directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *mkdtemp(char *" template );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR mkdtemp ():
.br
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
_BSD_SOURCE
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.10: */
.RS 4
(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700)
.ad
.PD
.RE
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR mkdtemp ()
function generates a uniquely named temporary
directory from \fItemplate\fP.
Da last six charactaz of \fItemplate\fP
must be XXXXXX n' these is replaced wit a strang dat make the
directory name unique.
Da directory is then pimped with
permissions 0700.
Since it is ghon be modified,
.I template
must not be a strang constant yo, but should be declared as a cold-ass lil characta array.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR mkdtemp ()
function returns a pointa ta tha modified template
strin on success, n' NULL on failure, up in which case
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da last six charactaz of \fItemplate\fP was not XXXXXX.
Now \fItemplate\fP is unchanged.
.PP
Also see
.BR mkdir (2)
for other possible joints fo' \fIerrno\fP.
.SH VERSIONS
Available since glibc 2.1.91.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function is present on tha BSDs.
.\" As at 2006, dis function is bein considered fo' a revision of POSIX.1
.\" Also up in NetBSD 1.4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3),
.BR tmpnam (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
