.\" Copyright (C) 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Jun 23 01:26:34 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" (prompted by Scott Burkett <scottb@IntNet.net>)
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 23:44:38 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH MKTEMP 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mktemp \- cook up a unique temporary filename
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *mktemp(char *" template );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR mktemp ():
.ad l
.PD 0
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.12:
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE ||
    (_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
         _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED) &&
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600)
.TP
Before glibc 2.12:
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.PD
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR mktemp ()
function generates a unique temporary filename
from \fItemplate\fP.
Da last six charactaz of \fItemplate\fP must
be XXXXXX n' these is replaced wit a strang dat make the
filename unique.
Since it is ghon be modified,
.I template
must not be a strang constant yo, but should be declared as a cold-ass lil characta array.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR mktemp ()
function always returns \fItemplate\fP.
If a unique name was pimped, tha last six bytez of \fItemplate\fP will
have been modified up in such a way dat tha resultin name is unique
(i.e., do not exist already)
If a unique name could not be pimped,
\fItemplate\fP is made a empty string, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da last six charactaz of \fItemplate\fP was not XXXXXX.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justification of
.BR mktemp ().
.SH NOTES
Da prototype is in
.I <unistd.h>
for libc4, libc5, glibc1; glibc2 bigs up tha Single UNIX Justification
and has tha prototype in
.IR <stdlib.h> .
.SH BUGS
Never use
.BR mktemp ().
Some implementations follow 4.3BSD
and replace XXXXXX by tha current process ID n' a single letter,
so dat at most 26 different names can be returned.
Since on tha one hand tha names is easy as fuck  ta guess, n' on tha other
hand there be a race between testin whether tha name exists and
openin tha file, every last muthafuckin use of
.BR mktemp ()
is a securitizzle risk.
Da race be avoided by
.BR mkstemp (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3),
.BR tmpnam (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
