.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walta Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.TH MODF 3  2013-06-21 ""  "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
modf, modff, modfl \- extract signed integral n' fractionizzle joints from
floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double modf(double " x ", double *" iptr );
.br
.BI "float modff(float " x ", float *" iptr );
.br
.BI "long double modfl(long double " x ", long double *" iptr );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR modf (),
.BR modfl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR modf ()
function breaks tha argument
.I x
into a integral
part n' a gangbangin' fractionizzle part, each of which has tha same ol' dirty sign as
.IR x .
Da integral part is stored up in tha location pointed ta by
.IR iptr .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR modf ()
function returns tha fractionizzle part of
.IR x .

If
.I x
is a NaN, a NaN is returned, and
.IR *iptr
is set ta a NaN.

If
.I x
is positizzle infinitizzle (negatizzle infinity), +0 (\-0) is returned, and
.IR *iptr
is set ta positizzle infinitizzle (negatizzle infinity).
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR modf (),
.BR modff (),
and
.BR modfl ()
functions is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
Da variant returning
.I double
also conforms to
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR frexp (3),
.BR ldexp (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
