.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_move.3x,v 1.14 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_move 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBmove\fR,
\fBwmove\fR \- move \fBcurses\fR window cursor
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint move(int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBint wmove(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines move tha cursor associated wit tha window ta line \fIy\fR and
column \fIx\fR.  This routine do not move tha physical cursor of tha terminal
until \fBrefresh\fR is called. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da posizzle specified is relatizzle ta tha upper
left-hand corner of tha window, which is (0,0).
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return \fBERR\fR upon failure n' OK (SVr4
specifies only "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.
.PP
Specifically, they return a error
if tha window pointa is null, or
if tha posizzle is outside tha window.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBmove\fR may be a macro.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X)
