'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MQ_CLOSE 3 2010-08-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mq_close \- close a message queue descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <mqueue.h>
.sp
.BI "int mq_close(mqd_t " mqdes );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mq_close ()
closes tha message queue descriptor
.IR mqdes .

If tha callin process has attached a notification request
to dis message queue via
.IR mqdes ,
then dis request is removed,
and another process can now attach a notification request.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR mq_close ()
returns 0; on error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
Da descriptor specified in
.I mqdes
is invalid.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
All open message queues is automatically closed on process termination,
or upon
.BR execve (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mq_getattr (3),
.BR mq_notify (3),
.BR mq_open (3),
.BR mq_receive (3),
.BR mq_send (3),
.BR mq_unlink (3),
.BR mq_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
