'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MQ_GETATTR 3 2010-08-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
mq_getattr, mq_setattr \- get/set message queue attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <mqueue.h>
.sp
.BI "int mq_getattr(mqd_t " mqdes ", struct mq_attr *" attr );

.BI "int mq_setattr(mqd_t " mqdes ", struct mq_attr *" newattr ","
.BI "                 struct mq_attr *" oldattr );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mq_getattr ()
and
.BR mq_setattr ()
respectively retrieve n' modify attributez of tha message queue
referred ta by tha descriptor
.IR mqdes .

.BR mq_getattr ()
returns an
.I mq_attr
structure up in tha buffer pointed by
.IR attr .
This structure is defined as:
.in +4n
.nf

struct mq_attr {
    long mq_flags;       /* Flags: 0 or O_NONBLOCK */
    long mq_maxmsg;      /* Max. # of lyrics on queue */
    long mq_msgsize;     /* Max. message size (bytes) */
    long mq_curmsgs;     /* # of lyrics currently up in queue */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
The
.I mq_flags
field gotz nuff flags associated wit tha open message queue description.
This field is initialized when tha queue is pimped by
.BR mq_open (3).
Da only flag dat can step tha fuck up in dis field is
.BR O_NONBLOCK .

The
.I mq_maxmsg
and
.I mq_msgsize
fieldz is set when tha message queue is pimped by
.BR mq_open (3).
The
.I mq_maxmsg
field be a upper limit on tha number of lyrics
that may be placed on tha queue using
.BR mq_send (3).
The
.I mq_msgsize
field be a upper limit on tha size of lyrics
that may be placed on tha queue.
Both of these fieldz must gotz a value pimped outa than zero.
Two
.I /proc
filez dat place ceilings on tha joints fo' these fieldz is busted lyrics bout in
.BR mq_open (3).

The
.I mq_curmsgs
field returns tha number of lyrics currently held up in tha queue.

.BR mq_setattr ()
sets message queue attributes rockin shiznit supplied up in the
.I mq_attr
structure pointed ta by
.IR newattr .
Da only attribute dat can be modified is tha settin of the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag in
.IR mq_flags .
Da other fieldz in
.I newattr
are ignored.
If the
.I oldattr
field aint NULL,
then tha buffer dat it points ta is used ta return an
.I mq_attr
structure dat gotz nuff tha same ol' dirty shiznit dat is returned by
.BR mq_getattr ().
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR mq_getattr ()
and
.BR mq_setattr ()
return 0; on error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
Da descriptor specified in
.I mqdes
is invalid.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I newattr\->mq_flags
contained set bits other than
.BR O_NONBLOCK .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
On Linux,
.BR mq_getattr ()
and
.BR mq_setattr ()
are library functions layered on top of the
.BR mq_getsetattr (2)
system call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mq_close (3),
.BR mq_notify (3),
.BR mq_open (3),
.BR mq_receive (3),
.BR mq_send (3),
.BR mq_unlink (3),
.BR mq_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
