.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_addwstr.3x,v 1.11 2012/11/03 22:57:31 tom Exp $
.TH curs_addwstr 3X ""
.de bP
.IP \(bu 4
..
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBaddwstr\fR,
\fBaddnwstr\fR,
\fBwaddwstr\fR,
\fBwaddnwstr\fR,
\fBmvaddwstr\fR,
\fBmvaddnwstr\fR,
\fBmvwaddwstr\fR,
\fBmvwaddnwstr\fR \- add a strang of wide charactas ta a \fBcurses\fR window n' advizzle cursor
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.PP
\fBint addwstr(const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint addnwstr(const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint waddwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint waddnwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvaddwstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvaddnwstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwaddwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwaddnwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions write tha charactaz of the
(null-terminated) \fBwchar_t\fR characta string
\fIwstr\fR on tha given window.
It be similar ta constructin a \fBcchar_t\fR fo' each wchar_t up in tha string,
then callin \fBwadd_wch\fR fo' tha resultin \fBcchar_t\fR.
.PP
Da \fImv\fR functions big-ass up cursor movement once, before freestylin any
characters.
Thereafter, tha cursor be advanced as a side-effect of freestylin ta tha window.
.PP
Da four functions wit \fIn\fR as tha last argument
write at most \fIn\fR \fBwchar_t\fR characters,
or until a terminatin null is reached.
If \fIn\fR is \-1, then tha entire strang is ghon be added.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' \fBOK\fR on success.
.PP
X/Open do not define any error conditions.
This implementation returns a error
.bP
if tha window pointa is null or
.bP
if tha strang pointa is null or
.bP
if tha correspondin calls ta \fBwadd_wch\fP return a error.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
All of these functions except \fBwaddnwstr\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_add_wch\fR(3X)
