.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_delch.3x,v 1.11 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_delch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBdelch\fR,
\fBwdelch\fR,
\fBmvdelch\fR,
\fBmvwdelch\fR \- delete characta under tha cursor up in a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint delch(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wdelch(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint mvdelch(int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwdelch(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines delete tha characta under tha cursor; all charactas ta the
right of tha cursor on tha same line is moved ta tha left one posizzle n' the
last characta on tha line is filled wit a funky-ass blank.  Da cursor posizzle do
not chizzle (afta movin ta \fIy\fR, \fIx\fR, if specified).  (This do not
imply use of tha hardware delete characta feature.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' a \fBOK\fR (SVr4
specifies only "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBdelch\fR, \fBmvdelch\fR, n' \fBmvwdelch\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.  The
standard specifies dat they return \fBERR\fR on failure yo, but specifies no
error conditions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X)
