.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_insch.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_insch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBinsch\fR,
\fBwinsch\fR,
\fBmvinsch\fR,
\fBmvwinsch\fR \- bang a cold-ass lil characta before cursor up in a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint insch(chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBint winsch(WINDOW *win, chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinsch(int y, int x, chtype ch);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinsch(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype ch);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines bang tha characta \fIch\fR before tha characta under the
cursor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  All charactas ta tha right of tha cursor is moved one space ta the
right, wit tha possibilitizzle of tha rightmost characta on tha line bein lost.
Da insertion operation do not chizzle tha cursor position.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines dat return a integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure n' OK (SVr4
specifies only "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion, unless otherwise noted up in tha precedin routine descriptions.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
These routines do not necessarily imply use of a hardware bang character
feature.
.PP
Note dat \fBinsch\fR, \fBmvinsch\fR, n' \fBmvwinsch\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X).
.PP
Comparable functions up in tha wide-characta (ncursesw) library are
busted lyrics bout in
\fBcurs_ins_wch\fR(3X).
