.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2010,2012 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_ins_wstr.3x,v 1.7 2012/11/03 23:03:59 tom Exp $
.TH curs_ins_wstr 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBins_wstr\fR,
\fBins_nwstr\fR,
\fBwins_wstr\fR,
\fBwins_nwstr\fR,
\fBmvins_wstr\fR,
\fBmvins_nwstr\fR,
\fBmvwins_wstr\fR,
\fBmvwins_nwstr\fR \- bang a wide-characta strang tha fuck into a cold-ass lil curses window
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint ins_wstr(const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr);\fR
.br
\fBint ins_nwstr(const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint wins_wstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint wins_nwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvins_wstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvins_nwstr(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwins_wstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwins_nwstr(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, const wchar_t *\fR\fIwstr\fR\fB, int \fR\fIn\fR\fB);\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines bang a \fBwchar_t\fR characta string
(as nuff charactas as will fit on tha line)
before tha characta under tha cursor.
All charactas ta tha right of tha cursor is shifted right,
with tha possibilitizzle of tha rightmost charactas on tha line bein lost.
No wrappin is performed.
Da cursor posizzle do not chizzle
(afta movin ta \fIy\fR, \fIx\fR, if specified).
Da four routines wit \fIn\fR as tha last argument
insert a leadin substrin of at most \fIn\fR \fBwchar_t\fR characters.
If \fIn\fR is less than 1, tha entire strang is inserted.
.PP
If a cold-ass lil characta up in \fIwstr\fR be a tab, newline, carriage return or
backspace, tha cursor is moved appropriately within tha window.
A newline also do a \fBclrtoeol\fR before moving.
Tabs is considered ta be at every last muthafuckin eighth column.
If a cold-ass lil characta up in \fIwstr\fR be another control character,
it is drawn up in tha \fB^\fR\fIX\fR notation.
Callin \fBwin_wch\fR afta addin a cold-ass lil control character
(and movin ta it, if necessary)
does not return tha control character,
but instead returns a cold-ass lil characta up in tha ^-representation
of tha control character.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all but wins_nwstr may be macros.
.PP
If tha straight-up original gangsta characta up in tha strang be a nonspacin character, these
functions will fail.
XSI do not define what tha fuck will happen if a nonspacin characta bigs up
a control character.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, these functions return OK.
Otherwise, they return ERR.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_insstr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_in_wch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_ins_wch\fR(3X).
