'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_inch.3x,v 1.17 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_inch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBinch\fR,
\fBwinch\fR,
\fBmvinch\fR,
\fBmvwinch\fR \- git a cold-ass lil characta n' attributes from a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBchtype inch(void);\fR
.br
\fBchtype winch(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBchtype mvinch(int y, int x);\fR
.br
\fBchtype mvwinch(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return tha character, of type \fBchtype\fR, all up in tha current
posizzle up in tha named window.  If any attributes is set fo' dat position,
their joints is OR'ed tha fuck into tha value returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Constants defined in
\fB<curses.h>\fR can be used wit tha \fB&\fR (logical AND) operator to
extract tha characta or attributes ridin' solo.
.
.SS Attributes
Da followin bit-masks may be AND-ed wit charactas returned by \fBwinch\fR.
.
.TS
l l .
\fBA_CHARTEXT\fR	Bit-mask ta extract character
\fBA_ATTRIBUTES\fR	Bit-mask ta extract attributes
\fBA_COLOR\fR	Bit-mask ta extract color-pair field shiznit
.TE
.SH RETURN VALUE
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all of these routines may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X).
.PP
Comparable functions up in tha wide-characta (ncursesw) library are
busted lyrics bout in
\fBcurs_in_wch\fR(3X).
