.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_instr.3x,v 1.16 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_instr 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBinstr\fR,
\fBinnstr\fR,
\fBwinstr\fR,
\fBwinnstr\fR,
\fBmvinstr\fR,
\fBmvinnstr\fR,
\fBmvwinstr\fR,
\fBmvwinnstr\fR \- git a strang of charactas from a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint instr(char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint innstr(char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint winstr(WINDOW *win, char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint winnstr(WINDOW *win, char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinstr(int y, int x, char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinnstr(int y, int x, char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str, int n);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return a strang of charactas up in \fIstr\fR, extracted starting
at tha current cursor posizzle up in tha named window.
Attributes is stripped from tha characters.  Da four
functions wit \fIn\fR as tha last argument return a leadin substrin at most
\fIn\fR charactas long (exclusive of tha trailin NUL).
.SH RETURN VALUE
All of tha functions return \fBERR\fR upon failure,
or tha number of charactas straight-up read tha fuck into tha string.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
if tha window parameta is null or tha str parameta is null,
a zero is returned.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all routines except \fBwinnstr\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
SVr4 do not
document whether a length limit includes or excludes tha trailin NUL.
.PP
Da ncurses library extendz tha XSI description by allowin a negative
value fo' \fIn\fR.
In dis case, tha functions return tha strang endin all up in tha right margin.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X).
