.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_insstr.3x,v 1.21 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH curs_insstr 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBinsstr\fR,
\fBinsnstr\fR,
\fBwinsstr\fR,
\fBwinsnstr\fR,
\fBmvinsstr\fR,
\fBmvinsnstr\fR,
\fBmvwinsstr\fR,
\fBmvwinsnstr\fR \- bang strang before cursor up in a \fBcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fBint insstr(const char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint insnstr(const char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint winsstr(WINDOW *win, const char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint winsnstr(WINDOW *win, const char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinsstr(int y, int x, const char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint mvinsnstr(int y, int x, const char *str, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinsstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, const char *str);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwinsnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, const char *str, int n);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines bang a cold-ass lil characta string
(as nuff charactas as will fit on tha line)
before tha characta under tha cursor.
All charactas ta tha right of tha cursor is shifted right
with tha possibilitizzle of tha rightmost charactas on tha line bein lost.
Da cursor posizzle do not chizzle
(afta movin ta \fIy\fR, \fIx\fR, if specified).
Da functions wit \fIn\fR as tha last argument
insert a leadin substrin of at most \fIn\fR characters.
If \fIn\fR<=0, then tha entire strang is inserted.
.PP
Special charactas is handled as up in \fBaddch\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines dat return a integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure n' OK (SVr4
specifies only "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion, unless otherwise noted up in tha precedin routine descriptions.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
if tha window parameta is null or tha str parameta is null,
an error is returned.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all but \fBwinsnstr\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4, which adds
const qualifiers ta tha arguments.
.LP
Da Single Unix Justification, Version 2 states dat 
\fBinsnstr\fP n' \fBwinsnstr\fP big-ass up wrapping.
This is probably a error, since it make dis crew of functions inconsistent.
Also, no implementation of curses documents dis inconsistency.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_util\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_clear\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_inch\fR(3X).
