.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_in_wch.3x,v 1.5 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_in_wch 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBin_wch\fR,
\fBmvin_wch\fR,
\fBmvwin_wch\fR,
\fBwin_wch\fR \- extract a cold-ass lil complex characta n' rendizzle from a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint in_wch(cchar_t *\fR\fIwcval\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvin_wch(int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwcval\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwin_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, int \fR\fIy\fR\fB, int \fR\fIx\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwcval\fR\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint win_wch(WINDOW *\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, cchar_t *\fR\fIwcval\fR\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions extract tha complex characta n' rendizzle from
the current posizzle up in tha named window tha fuck into tha \fBcchar_t\fR object
referenced by wcval.
.SH RETURN VALUE
No errors is defined up in tha XSI Curses standard.
This implementation checks fo' null pointers, returns ERR up in dat case.
Also, tha \fImv\fR routines check fo' error movin tha cursor, returnin ERR
in dat case.
Otherwise they return OK
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat all of these routines may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_inch\fR(3X).
