.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on glibc infopages
.\"
.\" Corrections by aeb
.\"
.TH NAN 3 2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nan, nanf, nanl \- return 'Not a Number'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double nan(const char *" tagp );
.br
.BI "float nanf(const char *" tagp );
.br
.BI "long double nanl(const char *" tagp );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR nan (),
.BR nanf (),
.BR nanl ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return a representation (determined by
.IR tagp )
of a on tha down-low NaN.
If tha implementation do not support
quiet NaNs, these functions return zero.
.LP
Da call
.I nan("char-sequence")
is equivalent to:
.nf

    strtod("NAN(char-sequence)", NULL);
.fi
.PP
Similarly, calls to
.BR nanf ()
and
.BR nanl ()
are equivalent ta analogous calls to
.BR strtof (3)
and
.BR strtold (3).
.PP
Da argument
.I tagp
is used up in a unspecified manner.
On IEEE 754 systems, there be nuff representationz of NaN, and
.I tagp
selects one.
On other systems it may do nothing.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
See also IEC 559 n' tha appendix with
recommended functions up in IEEE 754/IEEE 854.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isnan (3),
.BR strtod (3),
.BR math_error (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
