.\" This manpage copyright 1998 by Andi Kleen.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Subject ta tha GPL.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on tha original gangsta comments from Alexey Kuznetsov
.\" $Id: netlink.3,v 1.1 1999/05/14 17:17:24 freitag Exp $
.\"
.TH NETLINK 3 2012-08-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
netlink \- Netlink macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.\" FIXME . what tha fuck will glibc 2.1 use here?
.\" May 2007: glibc 2.5, thangs look ta be unchanged -- tha header file
.\" is still linux/netlink.h -- mtk
.B #include <asm/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/netlink.h>
.sp
.BI "int NLMSG_ALIGN(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_LENGTH(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_SPACE(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "void *NLMSG_DATA(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh );
.br
.BI "struct nlmsghdr *NLMSG_NEXT(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_OK(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_PAYLOAD(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I <linux/netlink.h>
defines nuff muthafuckin standard macros ta access or create a netlink datagram.
They is similar up in spirit ta tha macros defined in
.BR cmsg (3)
for auxiliary data.
Da buffer passed ta n' from a netlink socket should
be accessed rockin only these macros.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_ALIGN ()
Round tha length of a netlink message up ta align it properly.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_LENGTH ()
Given tha payload length,
.IR len ,
this macro returns tha aligned length ta store up in the
.I nlmsg_len
field of the
.IR nlmsghdr .
.TP
.BR NLMSG_SPACE ()
Return tha number of bytes dat a netlink message wit payload of
.I len
would occupy.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_DATA ()
Return a pointa ta tha payload associated wit tha passed
.IR nlmsghdr .
.TP
.\" dis is bizarre, maybe tha intercourse should be fixed.
.BR NLMSG_NEXT ()
Git tha next
.I nlmsghdr
in a multipart message.
Da calla must check if tha current
.I nlmsghdr
didn't have the
.B NLMSG_DONE
set\(emthis function don't return NULL on end.
The
.I len
argument be a lvalue containin tha remainin length
of tha message buffer.
This macro decrements it by tha length of tha message header.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_OK ()
Return legit if tha netlink message aint truncated and
is up in a gangbangin' form suitable fo' parsing.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_PAYLOAD ()
Return tha length of tha payload associated wit the
.IR nlmsghdr .
.SH CONFORMING TO
These macros is nonstandard Linux extensions.
.SH NOTES
It be often betta ta use netlink via
.I libnetlink
than via tha low-level kernel intercourse.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR netlink (7)

.UR ftp://ftp.inr.ac.ru\:/ip-routing\:/iproute2*
.UE
for libnetlink
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
