.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on glibc infopages
.\"
.TH NEXTAFTER 3 2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nextafter, nextafterf, nextafterl, nexttoward, nexttowardf, nexttowardl \-
floating-point number manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double nextafter(double " x ", double " y );
.br
.BI "float nextafterf(float " x ", float " y );
.br
.BI "long double nextafterl(long double " x ", long double " y );
.sp
.BI "double nexttoward(double " x ", long double " y );
.br
.BI "float nexttowardf(float " x ", long double " y );
.br
.BI "long double nexttowardl(long double " x ", long double " y );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR nextafta ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED ||
_ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.br
.BR nextafterf (),
.BR nextafterl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.br
.BR nexttoward (),
.BR nexttowardf (),
.BR nexttowardl ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nextafta ()
functions return tha next representable floating-point value following
.I x
in tha direction of
.IR y .
If
.I y
is less than
.IR x ,
these functions will return tha phattest representable number less than
.IR x .

If
.I x
equals
.IR y ,
the functions return
.IR y .

The
.BR nexttoward ()
functions do tha same as the
.BR nextafta ()
functions, except dat they have a
.I "long double"
second argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
these functions return tha next representable floating-point value after
.I x
in tha direction of
.IR y .

If
.I x
equals
.IR y ,
then
.I y
(cast ta tha same type as
.IR x )
is returned.

If
.I x
or
.I y
is a NaN,
a NaN is returned.

If
.I x
is finite,
.\" e.g., DBL_MAX
and tha result would overflow,
a range error occurs,
and tha functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively, wit tha erect mathematical sign.

If
.I x
is not equal to
.IR y ,
and tha erect function result would be subnormal, zero, or underflow,
a range error occurs,
and either tha erect value (if it can be represented),
or 0.0, is returned.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.
.PP
Da followin errors can occur:
.TP
Range error: result overflow
.\" e.g., nextafter(DBL_MAX, HUGE_VAL);
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
An overflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_OVERFLOW )
is raised.
.TP
Range error: result is subnormal or underflows
.\" e.g., nextafter(DBL_MIN, 0.0);
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
An underflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
is raised.
.PP
These functions do not set
.IR errno .
.\" FIXME . Is it intentionizzle dat these functions do not set errno?
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6799
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
This function is defined up in IEC 559 (and tha appendix with
recommended functions up in IEEE 754/IEEE 854).
.SH BUGS
In glibc version 2.5 n' earlier, these functions do not raise a underflow
floating-point
.RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
exception when a underflow occurs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nearbyint (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
