
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 manual
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.\" Corrected prototype, 2002-10-18, aeb
.\"
.TH NL_LANGINFO 3  2010-10-03 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nl_langinfo \- query language n' locale shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <langinfo.h>
.sp
.BI "char *nl_langinfo(nl_item " item );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nl_langinfo ()
function serves up access ta locale shiznit
in a mo' flexible way than
.BR localeconv (3)
does.
Individual n' additionizzle elementz of tha locale categories can
be queried.
.PP
Examplez fo' tha locale elements dat can be specified up in \fIitem\fP
usin tha constants defined up in \fI<langinfo.h>\fP are:
.TP
.BR CODESET \ (LC_CTYPE)
Return a strang wit tha name of tha characta encodin used up in the
selected locale, like fuckin "UTF-8", "ISO-8859-1", or "ANSI_X3.4-1968"
(betta known as US-ASCII).
This is tha same ol' dirty strang dat you git with
"locale charmap".
For a list of characta encodin names,
try "locale \-m", cf.\&
.BR locale (1).
.TP
.BR D_T_FMT \ (LC_TIME)
Return a strang dat can be used as a gangbangin' format strang for
.BR strftime (3)
to represent time n' date up in a locale-specific way.
.TP
.BR D_FMT \ (LC_TIME)
Return a strang dat can be used as a gangbangin' format strang for
.BR strftime (3)
to represent a thugged-out date up in a locale-specific way.
.TP
.BR T_FMT \ (LC_TIME)
Return a strang dat can be used as a gangbangin' format strang for
.BR strftime (3)
to represent a time up in a locale-specific way.
.TP
.BR DAY_ "{1\(en7} (LC_TIME)"
Return name of tha \fIn\fP-th dizzle of tha week. [Warning: dis bigs up
the US convention DAY_1 = Sunday, not tha internationistic convention
(ISO 8601) dat Mondizzle is tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha week.]
.TP
.BR ABDAY_ "{1\(en7} (LC_TIME)"
Return abbreviated name of tha \fIn\fP-th dizzle of tha week.
.TP
.BR MON_ "{1\(en12} (LC_TIME)"
Return name of tha \fIn\fP-th month.
.TP
.BR ABMON_ "{1\(en12} (LC_TIME)"
Return abbreviated name of tha \fIn\fP-th month.
.TP
.BR RADIXCHAR \ (LC_NUMERIC)
Return radix characta (decimal dot, decimal comma, etc.).
.TP
.BR THOUSEP \ (LC_NUMERIC)
Return separator characta fo' thousandz (groupz of three digits).
.TP
.BR YESEXPR \ (LC_MESSAGES)
Return a regular expression dat can be used wit the
.BR regex (3)
function ta recognize a positizzle response ta a yes/no question.
.TP
.BR NOEXPR \ (LC_MESSAGES)
Return a regular expression dat can be used wit the
.BR regex (3)
function ta recognize a wack response ta a yes/no question.
.TP
.BR CRNCYSTR \ (LC_MONETARY)
Return tha currency symbol, preceded by "\-" if tha symbol should
appear before tha value, "+" if tha symbol should step tha fuck up afta the
value, or "." if tha symbol should replace tha radix character.
.PP
Da above list covers just some examplez of shit dat can be requested.
For a mo' detailed list, consult
.IR "Da GNU C Library Reference Manual" .
.SH RETURN VALUE
If no locale has been selected by
.BR setlocale (3)
for tha appropriate category,
.BR nl_langinfo ()
returns a pointa ta tha correspondin strang up in the
"C" locale.
.PP
If \fIitem\fP aint valid, a pointa ta a empty strang is returned.
.PP
This pointa may point ta static data dat may be overwritten on the
next call to
.BR nl_langinfo ()
or
.BR setlocale (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
SUSv2, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin program sets tha characta type locale accordin ta the
environment n' queries tha terminal characta set.
.LP
.nf
#include <langinfo.h>
#include <locale.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    setlocale(LC_CTYPE,"");
    printf("%s\\n",nl_langinfo(CODESET));
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locale (1),
.BR localeconv (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR charsets (7),
.BR locale (7)
.br
Da GNU C Library Reference Manual
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
