.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-04-02, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-25, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH ON_EXIT 3  2008-12-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
on_exit \- regista a gangbangin' function ta be called at aiiight process termination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int on_exit(void (*" function ")(int , void *), void *" arg );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR on_exit ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR on_exit ()
function registas tha given
.I function
to be
called at aiiight process termination, whether via
.BR exit (3)
or via return from tha program's
.IR main ().
The
.I function
is passed tha status argument given ta tha last call to
.BR exit (3)
and the
.I arg
argument from
.BR on_exit ().

Da same function may be registered multiple times:
it is called once fo' each registration.

When a cold-ass lil lil pimp process is pimped via
.BR fork (2),
it inherits copiez of its parentz registrations.
Upon a successful call ta one of the
.BR exec (3)
functions, all registrations is removed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR on_exit ()
function returns tha value 0 if successful; otherwise
it returns a nonzero value.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be reppin SunOS 4 yo, but be also present in
libc4, libc5 n' glibc.
It no longer occurs up in Solaris (SunOS 5).
Avoid dis function, n' use tha standard
.BR atexit (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR _exit (2),
.BR atexit (3),
.BR exit (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
