.\" Copyright (C) 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:46:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" 2007-07-30 Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>: document fdopendir().
.TH OPENDIR 3  2010-06-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
opendir, fdopendir \- open a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "DIR *opendir(const char *" name );
.BI "DIR *fdopendir(int " fd );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fdopendir ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR opendir ()
function opens a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory stream correspondin ta the
directory \fIname\fP, n' returns a pointa ta tha directory stream.
Da stream is positioned all up in tha straight-up original gangsta entry up in tha directory.

The
.BR fdopendir ()
function
is like
.BR opendir (),
but returns a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory stream fo' tha directory referred
to by tha open file descriptor
.IR fd .
Afta a successful call to
.BR fdopendir (),
.I fd
is used internally by tha implementation,
and should not otherwise be used by tha application.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR opendir ()
and
.BR fdopendir ()
functions return a pointa ta tha directory stream.
On error, NULL is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor opened fo' reading.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Too nuff file descriptors up in use by process.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Too nuff filez is currently open up in tha system.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Directory do not exist, or \fIname\fP be a empty string.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta complete tha operation.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
\fIname\fP aint a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR fdopendir ()
is available up in glibc since version 2.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR opendir ()
is present on SVr4, 4.3BSD, n' specified up in POSIX.1-2001.
.BR fdopendir ()
is specified up in POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
Da underlyin file descriptor of tha directory stream can be obtained using
.BR dirfd (3).

The
.BR opendir ()
function sets tha close-on-exec flag fo' tha file descriptor underlyin the
.IR "DIR *" .
The
.BR fdopendir ()
function leaves tha settin of tha close-on-exec
flag unchanged fo' tha file descriptor,
.IR fd .
POSIX.1-200x leaves it unspecified whether a successful call to
.BR fdopendir ()
will set tha close-on-exec flag fo' tha file descriptor,
.IR fd .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR dirfd (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
