.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2010,2013 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_overlay.3x,v 1.17 2013/04/06 23:48:51 tom Exp $
.TH curs_overlay 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBoverlay\fR,
\fBoverwrite\fR,
\fBcopywin\fR \- overlay n' manipulate overlapped \fBcurses\fR windows
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint overlay(const WINDOW *srcwin, WINDOW *dstwin);\fR
.br
\fBint overwrite(const WINDOW *srcwin, WINDOW *dstwin);\fR
.br
\fBint copywin(const WINDOW *srcwin, WINDOW *dstwin, int sminrow,\fR
      \fBint smincol, int dminrow, int dmincol, int dmaxrow,\fR
      \fBint dmaxcol, int overlay);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBoverlay\fR n' \fBoverwrite\fR routines overlay \fIsrcwin\fR on
top of \fIdstwin\fR.
\fIscrwin\fR n' \fIdstwin\fR is not required
to be tha same size; only text where tha two windows overlap is copied.
Da difference is dat \fBoverlay\fR is non-destructive
(blanks is not copied) whereas \fBoverwrite\fR is destructive.
.PP
Da \fBcopywin\fR routine serves up a gangbangin' finer granularitizzle of control over the
\fBoverlay\fR n' \fBoverwrite\fR routines.
As up in tha \fBprefresh\fR routine,
a rectangle is specified up in tha destination window, (\fIdminrow\fR,
\fIdmincol\fR) n' (\fIdmaxrow\fR, \fIdmaxcol\fR), n' tha upper-left-corner
coordinatez of tha source window, (\fIsminrow\fR, \fIsmincol\fR).
If tha argument \fIoverlay\fR is \fBtrue\fR,
then copyin is non-destructive,
as up in \fBoverlay\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return a integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure, n' \fBOK\fR
(SVr4 only specifies "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
\fBcopywin\fP,
\fBoverlay\fP n' \fBoverwrite\fP return a error
if either of tha window pointas is null, or
if some part of tha window would be placed off-screen.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBoverlay\fR n' \fBoverwrite\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 raps bout these functions (addin tha const
qualifiers).
It further specifies they behavior up in tha presence of characters
with multibyte renditions (not yet supported up in dis implementation).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_pad\fR(3X), \fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X)
