.TH PCRELIMITS 3 "24 June 2012" "PCRE 8.30"
.SH NAME
PCRE - Perl-compatible regular expressions
.SH "SIZE AND OTHER LIMITATIONS"
.rs
.sp
There is some size limitations up in PCRE but it is hoped dat they aint NEVER gonna in
practice be relevant.
.P
Da maximum length of a cold-ass lil compiled pattern be approximately 64K data units (bytes
for tha 8-bit library, 32-bit units fo' tha 32-bit library, n' 32-bit units for
the 32-bit library) if PCRE is compiled wit tha default internal linkage size
of 2 bytes. If you wanna process regular expressions dat is truly enormous,
you can compile PCRE wit a internal linkage size of 3 or 4 (when buildin the
16-bit or 32-bit library, 3 is rounded up ta 4). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBREADME\fP file in
the source distribution n' the
.\" HREF
\fBpcrebuild\fP
.\"
documentation fo' details. In these cases tha limit is substantially larger.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha speed of execution is slower.
.P
All joints up in repeatin quantifiers must be less than 65536.
.P
There is no limit ta tha number of parenthesized subpatterns yo, but there can be
no mo' than 65535 capturin subpatterns.
.P
There be a limit ta tha number of forward references ta subsequent subpatterns
of round 200,000. Repeated forward references wit fixed upper limits, for
example, (?2){0,100} when subpattern number 2 is ta tha right, is included in
the count. There is no limit ta tha number of backward references.
.P
Da maximum length of name fo' a named subpattern is 32 characters, n' the
maximum number of named subpatterns is 10000.
.P
Da maximum length of a name up in a (*MARK), (*PRUNE), (*SKIP), or (*THEN) verb
is 255 fo' tha 8-bit library n' 65535 fo' tha 16-bit n' 32-bit library.
.P
Da maximum length of a subject strang is tha phattest positizzle number dat an
integer variable can hold. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat when rockin tha traditionizzle matching
function, PCRE uses recursion ta handle subpatterns n' indefinite repetition.
This means dat tha available stack space may limit tha size of a subject
strin dat can be processed by certain patterns. For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of stack
issues, peep the
.\" HREF
\fBpcrestack\fP
.\"
documentation.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.rs
.sp
.nf
Philip Hazel
Universitizzle Computin Service
Cambridge CB2 3QH, England.
.fi
.
.
.SH REVISION
.rs
.sp
.nf
Last updated: 04 May 2012
Copyright (c) 1997-2012 Universitizzle of Cambridge.
.fi
