.TH PCRESAMPLE 3 "10 January 2012" "PCRE 8.30"
.SH NAME
PCRE - Perl-compatible regular expressions
.SH "PCRE SAMPLE PROGRAM"
.rs
.sp
A simple, complete demonstration program, ta git you started wit rockin PCRE,
is supplied up in tha file \fIpcredemo.c\fP up in tha PCRE distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A listin of
this program is given up in the
.\" HREF
\fBpcredemo\fP
.\"
documentation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you aint gots a cold-ass lil copy of tha PCRE distribution, you can save
this listin ta re-create \fIpcredemo.c\fP.
.P
Da demonstration program, which uses tha original gangsta PCRE 8-bit library, compiles
the regular expression dat is its first argument, n' matches it against the
subject strang up in its second argument. No PCRE options is set, n' default
characta tablez is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If matchin succeeds, tha program outputs the
portion of tha subject dat matched, together wit tha contentz of any captured
substrings.
.P
If tha -g option is given on tha command line, tha program then goes on to
check fo' further matchez of tha same regular expression up in tha same subject
string. Da logic be a lil bit tricky cuz of tha possibilitizzle of matching
an empty string. Comments up in tha code explain what tha fuck is goin on.
.P
If PCRE is installed up in tha standard include n' library directories fo' your
operatin system, you should be able ta compile tha demonstration program using
this command:
.sp
  gcc -o pcredemo pcredemo.c -lpcre
.sp
If PCRE is installed elsewhere, you may need ta add additionizzle options ta the
command line. For example, on a Unix-like system dat has PCRE installed in
\fI/usr/local\fP, you can compile tha demonstration program rockin a cold-ass lil command
like this:
.sp
.\" JOINSH
  gcc -o pcredemo -I/usr/local/include pcredemo.c \e
      -L/usr/local/lib -lpcre
.sp
In a Windows environment, if you wanna statically link tha program against a
non-dll \fBpcre.a\fP file, you must uncomment tha line dat defines PCRE_STATIC
before includin \fBpcre.h\fP, cuz otherwise tha \fBpcre_malloc()\fP and
\fBpcre_free()\fP exported functions is ghon be declared
\fB__declspec(dllimport)\fP, wit unwanted thangs up in dis biatch.
.P
Once you have compiled n' linked tha demonstration program, you can run simple
tests like this:
.sp
  ./pcredemo 'cat|dog' 'the pussaaaaay sat on tha mat'
  ./pcredemo -g 'cat|dog' 'the dawg sat on tha cat'
.sp
Note dat there be a much mo' comprehensive test program, called
.\" HREF
\fBpcretest\fP,
.\"
which supports nuff mo' facilitizzles fo' testin regular expressions n' both
PCRE libraries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! The
.\" HREF
\fBpcredemo\fP
.\"
program is provided as a simple codin example.
.P
If you try ta run
.\" HREF
\fBpcredemo\fP
.\"
when PCRE aint installed up in tha standard library directory, you may git an
error like dis on some operatin systems (e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Solaris):
.sp
  ld.so.1: a.out: fatal: libpcre.so.0: open failed: No such file or directory
.sp
This is caused by tha way shared library support works on dem systems. You
need ta add
.sp
  -R/usr/local/lib
.sp
(for example) ta tha compile command ta git round dis problem.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.rs
.sp
.nf
Philip Hazel
Universitizzle Computin Service
Cambridge CB2 3QH, England.
.fi
.
.
.SH REVISION
.rs
.sp
.nf
Last updated: 10 January 2012
Copyright (c) 1997-2012 Universitizzle of Cambridge.
.fi
