.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de), 1994-06-04
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Mike Haardt
.\"      (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), 1995-03-16
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), 1996-01-13
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 1996-01-13 aeb: merged up in some text contributed by Melvin Smizzle
.\"   (msmith@falcon.mercer.peachnet.edu) n' various other chizzles.
.\" Modified 1996-05-16 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH PERROR 3 2012-04-17 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
perror \- print a system error message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void perror(const char *" s );
.sp
.B #include <errno.h>
.sp
.BI "const char *" sys_errlist [];
.br
.BI "int " sys_nerr ;
.br
.BI "int " errno ;
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.IR sys_errlist ,
.IR sys_nerr :
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da routine
.BR perror ()
produces a message on tha standard error output, describin tha last
error encountered durin a cold-ass lil call ta a system or library function.
First (if
.I s
is not NULL and
.I *s
is not a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq)) tha argument string
.I s
is printed, followed by a cold-ass lil colon n' a funky-ass blank.
Then tha message n' a new-line.

To be of most use, tha argument strang should include tha name
of tha function dat incurred tha error.
Da error number is taken from
the external variable
.IR errno ,
which is set when errors occur but not
cleared when successful calls is made.

Da global error list
.IR sys_errlist "[]"
indexed by
.I errno
can be used ta obtain tha error message without tha newline.
Da phattest message number provided up in tha table is
.IR sys_nerr "\-1."
Be careful when directly accessin dis list cuz freshly smoked up error joints
may not done been added to
.IR sys_errlist "[]."
Da use of
.IR sys_errlist "[]"
is nowadays deprecated.

When a system call fails, it probably returns \-1 n' sets the
variable
.I errno
to a value describin what tha fuck went wrong.
(These joints can be found in
.IR <errno.h> .)
Many library functions do likewise.
Da function
.BR perror ()
serves ta translate dis error code tha fuck into human-readable form.
Note that
.I errno
is undefined afta a successful library call:
this call may well chizzle dis variable, even though it succeeds,
for example cuz it internally used some other library function dat failed.
Thus, if a gangbangin' failin call aint immediately followed by a cold-ass lil call to
.BR perror (),
the value of
.I errno
should be saved.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da function
.BR perror ()
and tha external
.I errno
(see
.BR errno (3))
conform ta C89, C99, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
Da externals
.I sys_nerr
and
.I sys_errlist
conform ta BSD.
.SH NOTES
Da externals
.I sys_nerr
and
.I sys_errlist
are defined by glibc yo, but in
.IR <stdio.h> .
.\" n' only when _BSD_SOURCE is defined.
.\" When
.\" .B _GNU_SOURCE
.\" is defined, tha symbols
.\" .I _sys_nerr
.\" and
.\" .I _sys_errlist
.\" is provided.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR err (3),
.BR errno (3),
.BR error (3),
.BR strerror (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
