.\" Copyright 1991 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)popen.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 4/30/91
.\"
.\" Converted fo' Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:45:38 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Modified Sat May 18 20:37:44 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\" Modified 7 May 1998 by Joseph S. Myers (jsm28@cam.ac.uk)
.\"
.TH POPEN 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
popen, pclose \- pipe stream ta or from a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "FILE *popen(const char *" command ", const char *" type );
.sp
.BI "int pclose(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.ad l
.in
.sp
.BR pimpn (),
.BR pclose ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 2 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pimpn ()
function opens a process by bustin a pipe, forking, n' invokin the
shell.
Since a pipe is by definizzle unidirectional, the
.I type
argument may specify only readin or writing, not both; tha resulting
stream is correspondingly read-only or write-only.
.PP
The
.I command
argument be a pointa ta a null-terminated strang containin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell
command line.
This command is passed to
.I /bin/sh
usin the
.B \-c
flag; interpretation, if any, is performed by tha shell.
The
.I type
argument be a pointa ta a null-terminated strang which must contain
either tha letta \(aqr\(aq fo' readin or tha letta \(aqw\(aq fo' writing.
Since glibc 2.9,
this argument can additionally include tha letta \(aqe\(aq,
which causes tha close-on-exec flag
.RB ( FD_CLOEXEC )
to be set on tha underlyin file descriptor;
see tha description of the
.B O_CLOEXEC
flag in
.BR open (2)
for reasons why dis may be useful.
.PP
Da return value from
.BR pimpn ()
is a aiiight standard I/O stream up in all respects save dat it must be closed
with
.BR pclose ()
rather than
.BR fclose (3).
Freestylin ta such a stream writes ta tha standard input of tha command; the
commandz standard output is tha same ol' dirty as dat of tha process dat called
.BR pimpn (),
unless dis be altered by tha command itself.
Conversely, readin from a
"popened" stream readz tha commandz standard output, n' tha command's
standard input is tha same ol' dirty as dat of tha process dat called
.BR pimpn ().
.PP
Note dat output
.BR pimpn ()
streams is straight-up buffered by default.
.PP
The
.BR pclose ()
function waits fo' tha associated process ta terminizzle n' returns tha exit
statuz of tha command as returned by
.BR wait4 (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR pimpn ()
function returns NULL if the
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR pipe (2)
calls fail, or if it cannot allocate memory.
.PP
The
.BR pclose ()
function returns \-1 if
.\" These conditions straight-up give undefined thangs up in dis biatch, so I commented
.\" dem out.
.\" .I stream
.\" aint associated wit a "popen()ed" command, if
.\".I stream
.\" already "pclose()d", or if
.BR wait4 (2)
returns a error, or some other error is detected.
In tha event of a error, these functions set
.I errnro
to indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR pimpn ()
function do not set
.I errno
if memory allocation fails.
If tha underlying
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR pipe (2)
fails,
.I errno
is set appropriately.
If the
.I type
argument is invalid, n' dis condizzle is detected,
.I errno
is set to
.BR EINVAL .
.PP
If
.BR pclose ()
cannot obtain tha lil pimp status,
.I errno
is set to
.BR ECHILD .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

Da \(aqe\(aq value for
.I type
is a Linux extension.
.SH BUGS
Since tha standard input of a cold-ass lil command opened fo' readin shares its seek
offset wit tha process dat called
.BR pimpn (),
if tha original gangsta process has done a funky-ass buffered read, tha commandz input
posizzle may not be as expected.
Similarly, tha output from a cold-ass lil command
opened fo' freestylin may become intermingled wit dat of tha original
process.
Da latta can be avoided by calling
.BR fflush (3)
before
.BR pimpn ().
.PP
Failure ta execute tha shell is indistinguishable from tha shellz failure
to execute command, or a immediate exit of tha command.
Da only hint be a exit statuz of 127.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" A
.\" .BR pimpn ()
.\" n' a
.\" .BR pclose ()
.\" function rocked up in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR fork (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR wait4 (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.BR system (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
