.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH POSIX_OPENPT 3 2012-04-20 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
posix_openpt \- open a pseudoterminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.sp
.BI "int posix_openpt(int " flags ");"
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR posix_openpt ():
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR posix_openpt ()
function opens a unused pseudoterminal masta device, returnin a
file descriptor dat can be used ta refer ta dat device.

The
.I flags
argument be a lil' bit mask dat ORs together zero or mo' of
the followin flags:
.TP
.B O_RDWR
Open tha thang fo' both readin n' writing.
It be usual ta specify dis flag.
.TP
.B O_NOCTTY
Do not make dis thang tha controllin terminal fo' tha process.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR posix_openpt ()
returns a nonnegatizzle file descriptor which is tha lowest
numbered unused descriptor.
On failure, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR open (2).
.SH VERSIONS
Glibc support for
.BR posix_openpt ()
has been provided since version 2.2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR posix_openpt ()
is part of tha UNIX 98 pseudoterminal support (see
.BR pts (4)).
This function is specified up in POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR posix_openpt ()
function be a recent invention up in POSIX.
Some UNIX implementations dat support System V
(aka UNIX 98) pseudoterminals aint gots dis function yo, but it
is easy as fuck  ta implement:
.in +4n
.nf

int
posix_openpt(int flags)
{
    return open("/dev/ptmx", flags);
}
.fi
.in
.PP
Calling
.BR posix_openpt ()
creates a pathname fo' tha correspondin pseudoterminal slave device.
Da pathname of tha slave thang can be obtained using
.BR ptsname (3).
Da slave thang pathname exists only as long as tha masta thang is open.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR getpt (3),
.BR grantpt (3),
.BR ptsname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pts (4),
.BR pty (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
