.\" Copyright 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH POW10 3  2008-08-11 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pow10, pow10f, pow10l \- base-10 juice functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double pow10(double " x );
.br
.BI "float pow10f(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double pow10l(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pow10 ()
function returns tha value of 10 raised ta the
power
.IR x .
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This be a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
These functions is identical ta tha functions listed under
.BR exp10 (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exp10 (3),
.BR pow (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
