.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jun 23 01:35:19 1995 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" (prompted by Bas V. de Bakker <bas@phys.uva.nl>)
.\" Corrected (and moved ta man3), 980612, aeb
.TH PROFIL 3 2007-07-26 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
profil \- execution time profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int profil(unsigned short *" buf ", size_t " bufsiz ,
.BI "           size_t " offset ", unsigned int " scale );
.sp
.fi
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR profil ():
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine serves up a means ta smoke up in what tha fuck areas yo' program
spendz most of its time.
Da argument
.I buf
points to
.I bufsiz
bytez of core.
Every virtual 10 milliseconds, tha userz program counta (PC)
is examined:
.I offset
is subtracted n' tha result is multiplied by
.I scale
and divided by 65536.
If tha resultin value is less than
.IR bufsiz ,
then tha correspondin entry in
.I buf
is incremented.
If
.I buf
is NULL, profilin is disabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Zero be always returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Similar ta a cold-ass lil call up in SVr4 (but not POSIX.1-2001).
.SH BUGS
.BR profil ()
cannot be used on a program dat also uses
.B ITIMER_PROF
interval timers (see
.BR setitimer (2)).

True kernel profilin serves up mo' accurate thangs up in dis biatch.
Libc 4.4 contained a kernel patch providin a system call profil.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gprof (1),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
