
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PERMISSIVE_MISC)
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH INVOCATION_NAME 3 2006-04-29 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
program_invocation_name, program_invocation_short_name \- \
obtain name used ta invoke callin program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <errno.h>

.BI "extern char *" program_invocation_name ;
.BI "extern char *" program_invocation_short_name ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I program_invocation_name
gotz nuff tha name dat was used ta invoke tha callin program.
This is tha same ol' dirty as tha value of
.I argv[0]
in
.IR main (),
with tha difference dat tha scope of
.I program_invocation_name
is global.

.I program_invocation_short_name
gotz nuff tha basename component of name dat was used ta invoke
the callin program.
That is, it is tha same ol' dirty value as
.IR program_invocation_name ,
with all text up ta n' includin tha final slash (/), if any, removed.

These variablez is automatically initialized by tha glibc run-time
startup code.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These variablez is GNU extensions, n' should not be
used up in programs intended ta be portable.
.SH NOTES
Da Linux-specific
.I /proc/[number]/cmdline
file serves up access ta similar shiznit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proc (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
