.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:45:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH PSIGNAL 3  2010-10-06 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
psignal, psiginfo \- print signal message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "void psignal(int " sig ", const char *" s );
.BI "void psiginfo(const siginfo_t *" pinfo ", const char *" s );
.sp
.BI "extern const char *const " sys_siglist [];
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR psignal ():
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE
.br
.BR psiginfo ():
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.br
.IR sys_siglist :
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR psignal ()
function displays a message on \fIstderr\fP
consistin of tha strang \fIs\fP, a cold-ass lil colon, a space, a string
describin tha signal number \fIsig\fP, n' a trailin newline.
If tha strang \fIs\fP is NULL or empty, tha colon n' space is omitted.
If \fIsig\fP is invalid,
the message displayed will indicate a unknown signal.

The
.BR psiginfo ()
function is like
.BR psignal (),
except dat it displays shiznit bout tha signal busted lyrics bout by
.IR pinfo ,
which should point ta a valid
.I siginfo_t
structure.
As well as tha signal description,
.BR psiginfo ()
displays shiznit bout tha origin of tha signal,
and other shiznit relevant ta tha signal
(e.g., tha relevant memory address fo' hardware-generated signals,
the lil pimp process ID for
.BR SIGCHLD ,
and tha user ID n' process ID of tha sender, fo' signals set using
.BR bust a cap up in (2)
or
.BR sigqueue (3)).

Da array \fIsys_siglist\fP holdz tha signal description strings
indexed by signal number.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR psignal ()
and
.BR psiginfo ()
functions return no value.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR psiginfo ()
function was added ta glibc up in version 2.10.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008, 4.3BSD.
.SH BUGS
In glibc versions up ta 2.12,
.BR psiginfo ()
had tha followin bugs:
.IP * 3
In some circumstances, a trailin newline aint printed.
.\" FIXME http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12107
.\" Reportedly now fixed; check glibc 2.13
.IP *
Additionizzle details is not displayed fo' real-time signals.
.\" FIXME http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12108
.\" Reportedly now fixed; check glibc 2.13
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR perror (3),
.BR strsignal (3),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
