.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_SETSCHEDPRIO 3 2008-11-06 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_setschedprio \- set schedulin prioritizzle of a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "pthread_setschedprio(pthread_t " thread ", int " prio );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_setschedprio ()
function sets tha schedulin prioritizzle of tha thread
.I thread
to tha value specified in
.IR prio .
(By contrast
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3)
changes both tha schedulin policy n' prioritizzle of a thread.)
.\" FIXME . nptl/pthread_setschedprio.c has tha following
.\"   /* If tha thread should have higher prioritizzle cuz of some
.\"      PTHREAD_PRIO_PROTECT mutexes it holds, adjust tha priority. */
.\" Eventually (like afta freestylin tha mutexattr pages), we
.\" may wanna add suttin' on tha topic ta dis page.
.\" nptl/pthread_setschedparam.c has a similar case.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, dis function returns 0;
on error, it returns a nonzero error number.
If
.BR pthread_setschedprio ()
fails, tha schedulin prioritizzle of
.I thread
is not chizzled.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I prio
is not valid fo' tha schedulin policy of tha specified thread.
.TP
.B EPERM
Da calla aint gots appropriate privileges
to set tha specified priority.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No thread wit tha ID
.I thread
could be found.
.PP
POSIX.1-2001 also documents an
.B ENOTSUP
("attempt was made ta set tha priority
to a unsupported value") error for
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3).
.SH VERSIONS
This function be available up in glibc since version 2.3.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
For a thugged-out description of tha permissions required to, n' tha effect of,
changin a threadz schedulin priority,
and detailz of tha permitted ranges fo' priorities
in each schedulin policy, see
.BR sched_setschedula (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2),
.BR sched_setschedula (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_self (3),
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
