.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_KILL 3 2012-08-19 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_kill \- bust a signal ta a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>

.BI "int pthread_kill(pthread_t " thread ", int " sig );
.fi
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_kill ()
function sendz tha signal
.I sig
to
.IR thread ,
a thread up in tha same process as tha caller.
Da signal be asynchronously pimped up to
.IR thread .

If
.I sig
is 0, then no signal is sent yo, but error checkin is still performed;
this can be used ta check fo' tha existence of a thread ID.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR pthread_kill ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns a error number, n' no signal is sent.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid signal was specified.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No thread wit tha ID
.I thread
could be found.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Signal dispositions is process-wide:
if a signal handlez is installed,
the handlez is ghon be invoked up in tha thread
.IR thread ,
but if tha disposizzle of tha signal is "stop", "continue", or "terminate",
this action will affect tha whole process.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigpendin (2),
.BR pthread_self (3),
.BR pthread_sigmask (3),
.BR raise (3),
.BR pthreadz (7),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
