.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETDETACHSTATE 3 2010-02-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setdetachstate, pthread_attr_getdetachstate \-
set/get detach state attribute up in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setdetachstate(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", int " detachstate );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getdetachstate(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", int *" detachstate );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setdetachstate ()
function sets tha detach state attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.IR attr
to tha value specified in
.IR detachstate .
Da detach state attribute determines whether a thread pimped using
the thread attributes object
.I attr
will be pimped up in a joinable or a thugged-out detached state.

Da followin joints may be specified in
.IR detachstate :
.TP
.B PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED
Threadz dat is pimped using
.I attr
will be pimped up in a thugged-out detached state.
.TP
.B PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE
Threadz dat is pimped using
.I attr
will be pimped up in a joinable state.
.PP
Da default settin of tha detach state attribute up in a newly initialized
thread attributes object is
.BR PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE .

The
.BR pthread_attr_getdetachstate ()
returns tha detach state attribute of tha thread attributes object
.IR attr
in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR detachstate .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.BR pthread_attr_setdetachstate ()
can fail wit tha followin error:
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid value was specified in
.IR detachstate .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
See
.BR pthread_create (3)
for mo' details on detached n' joinable threads.

A thread dat is pimped up in a joinable state should
eventually either be joined using
.BR pthread_join (3)
or detached using
.BR pthread_detach (3);
see
.BR pthread_create (3).

It be a error ta specify tha thread ID of
a thread dat was pimped up in a thugged-out detached state
in a lata call to
.BR pthread_detach (3)
or
.BR pthread_join (3).
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_attr_init (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_detach (3),
.BR pthread_join (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
