
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_YIELD 3 2013-03-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_yield \- yield tha processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B int pthread_yield(void);
.fi
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pthread_yield ()
causes tha callin thread ta relinquish tha CPU.
Da thread is placed all up in tha end of tha run queue fo' its static
prioritizzle n' another thread is scheduled ta run.
For further details, see
.BR sched_yield (2)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR pthread_yield ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns a error number.
.SH ERRORS
On Linux, dis call always succeeds
(but portable n' future-proof applications should nevertheless
handle a possible error return).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is nonstandard yo, but present on nuff muthafuckin other systems.
Use tha standardized
.BR sched_yield (2)
instead.
.\" e.g., tha BSDs, Tru64, AIX, n' Irix.
.SH NOTES
On Linux, dis function is implemented as a cold-ass lil call to
.BR sched_yield (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_setschedula (2),
.BR sched_yield (2),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
