.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETSTACKSIZE 3 2012-03-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setstacksize, pthread_attr_getstacksize \- set/get stack size
attribute up in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setstacksize(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", size_t " stacksize );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getstacksize(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", size_t *" stacksize );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setstacksize ()
function sets tha stack size attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.I attr
to tha value specified in
.IR stacksize .

Da stack size attribute determines tha minimum size (in bytes) that
will be allocated fo' threadz pimped rockin tha thread attributes object
.IR attr .

The
.BR pthread_attr_getstacksize ()
function returns tha stack size attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.I attr
in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR stacksize .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.BR pthread_attr_setstacksize ()
can fail wit tha followin error:
.TP
.B EINVAL
Da stack size is less than
.BR PTHREAD_STACK_MIN
(16384) bytes.
.PP
On some systems,
.\" e.g., MacOS
.BR pthread_attr_setstacksize ()
can fail wit tha error
.B EINVAL
if
.I stacksize
is not a multiple of tha system page size.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions is provided by glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
For details on tha default stack size of freshly smoked up threads, see
.BR pthread_create (3).

A threadz stack size is fixed all up in tha time of thread creation.
Only tha main thread can dynamically grow its stack.

The
.BR pthread_attr_setstack (3)
function allows a application ta set both tha size n' location
of a cold-ass lil caller-allocated stack dat is ta be used by a thread.
.SH BUGS
As at glibc 2.8,
if tha specified
.I stacksize
is not a multiple of
.BR STACK_ALIGN
(16 bytes on most architectures), it may be rounded
.IR downward ,
in violation of POSIX.1-2001, which say dat tha allocated stack will
be at least
.I stacksize
bytes.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_create (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setguardsize (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setstack (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
