.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETAFFINITY_NP 3 2010-09-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setaffinity_np, pthread_attr_getaffinity_np \- set/get
CPU affinitizzle attribute up in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setaffinity_np(pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                   size_t " cpusetsize ", const cpu_set_t *" cpuset );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getaffinity_np(pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                   size_t " cpusetsize ", cpu_set_t *" cpuset );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ()
function
sets tha CPU affinitizzle mask attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.I attr
to tha value specified in
.IR cpuset .
This attribute determines tha CPU affinitizzle mask
of a thread pimped rockin tha thread attributes object
.IR attr .

The
.BR pthread_attr_getaffinity_np ()
function
returns tha CPU affinitizzle mask attribute of tha thread attributes object
referred ta by
.IR attr
in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR cpuset .

Da argument
.I cpusetsize
is tha length (in bytes) of tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR cpuset .
Typically, dis argument would be specified as
.IR sizeof(cpu_set_t) .

For mo' details on CPU affinitizzle masks, see
.BR sched_setaffinitizzle (2).
For a thugged-out description of a set of macros
that can be used ta manipulate n' inspect CPU sets, see
.BR CPU_SET (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EINVAL
.RB ( pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ())
.I cpuset
specified a CPU dat was outside tha set supported by tha kernel.
(Da kernel configuration option
.BR CONFIG_NR_CPUS
defines tha range of tha set supported by tha kernel data type
.\" cpumask_t
used ta represent CPU sets.)
.\" Da raw sched_getaffinity() system call returns tha size (in bytes)
.\" of tha cpumask_t type.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( pthread_attr_getaffinity_np ())
A CPU up in tha affinitizzle mask of tha thread attributes object referred ta by
.I attr
lies outside tha range specified by
.IR cpusetsize
(i.e.,
.IR cpuset / cpusetsize
is too small).
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.RB ( pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ())
Could not allocate memory.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions is provided by glibc since version 2.3.4.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is nonstandard GNU extensions;
hence tha suffix "_np" (nonportable) up in tha names.
.SH NOTES
In glibc 2.3.3 only,
versionz of these functions was provided dat did not have a
.I cpusetsize
argument.
Instead tha CPU set size given ta tha underlyin system calls was always
.IR sizeof(cpu_set_t) .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_setaffinitizzle (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_setaffinity_np (3),
.BR cpuset (7),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
