.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_TESTCANCEL 3 2012-04-14 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_testcancel \- request delivery of any pendin cancellation request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B void pthread_testcancel(void);
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calling
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
creates a cold-ass lil cancellation point within tha callin thread,
so dat a thread dat is otherwise executin code dat gotz nuff
no cancellation points will respond ta a cold-ass lil cancellation request.

If cancelabilitizzle is disabled (using
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3)),
or no cancellation request is pending,
then a cold-ass lil call to
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
has no effect.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function do not return a value.
If tha callin thread is canceled as a cold-ass lil consequence of a cold-ass lil call
to dis function, then tha function do not return.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.\" SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
