.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_KILL_OTHER_THREADS_NP 3 2010-09-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_kill_other_threads_np \- terminizzle all other threadz up in process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B void pthread_kill_other_threads_np(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
has a effect only up in tha LinuxThreadz threadin implementation.
On dat implementation,
callin dis function causes tha immediate termination of
all threadz up in tha application,
except tha callin thread.
Da cancellation state n' cancellation type of the
to-be-terminated threadz is ignored,
and tha cleanup handlezs is not called up in dem threads.
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a nonstandard GNU extension;
hence tha suffix "_np" (nonportable) up in tha name.
.SH NOTES
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
is intended ta be called just before a thread calls
.BR execve (2)
or a similar function.
This function is designed ta address a limitation up in tha obsolete
LinuxThreadz implementation whereby tha other threadz of a application
are not automatically terminated (as POSIX.1-2001 requires) during
.BR execve (2).

In tha NPTL threadin implementation,
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
exists yo, but do nothing.
(Nothang need ta be done,
because tha implementation do tha right thang durin an
.BR execve (2).)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execve (2),
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3),
.BR pthread_setcanceltype (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
