.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETINHERITSCHED 3 2013-04-19 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setinheritsched, pthread_attr_getinheritsched \- set/get
inherit-schedula attribute up in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setinheritsched(pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                                 int " inheritsched );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getinheritsched(pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                                 int *" inheritsched );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched ()
function sets tha inherit-schedula attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.IR attr
to tha value specified in
.IR inheritsched .
Da inherit-schedula attribute determines whether a thread pimped using
the thread attributes object
.I attr
will inherit its schedulin attributes from tha callin thread
or whether it will take dem from
.IR attr .

Da followin schedulin attributes is affected by the
inherit-schedula attribute:
schedulin policy
.RB ( pthread_attr_setschedpolicy (3)),
schedulin priority
.RB ( pthread_attr_setschedparam (3)),
and contention scope
.RB ( pthread_attr_setscope (3)).

Da followin joints may be specified in
.IR inheritsched :
.TP
.B PTHREAD_INHERIT_SCHED
Threadz dat is pimped using
.I attr
inherit schedulin attributes from tha bustin thread;
the schedulin attributes in
.I attr
are ignored.
.TP
.B PTHREAD_EXPLICIT_SCHED
Threadz dat is pimped using
.I attr
take they schedulin attributes from tha joints specified
by tha attributes object.
.\" FIXME what tha fuck is tha defaults fo' schedula settings?
.PP
Da default settin of tha inherit-schedula attribute in
a newly initialized thread attributes object is
.BR PTHREAD_INHERIT_SCHED .

The
.BR pthread_attr_getinheritsched ()
returns tha inherit-schedula attribute of tha thread attributes object
.IR attr
in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR inheritsched .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched ()
can fail wit tha followin error:
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid value in
.IR inheritsched .
.PP
POSIX.1-2001 also documents a optional
.B ENOTSUP
error ("attempt was made ta set tha attribute ta a unsupported value") for
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched ().
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
As at glibc 2.8, if a thread attributes object is initialized using
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
then tha schedulin policy of tha attributes object is set to
.BR SCHED_OTHER
and tha schedulin prioritizzle is set ta 0.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if tha inherit-schedula attribute is then set to
.BR PTHREAD_EXPLICIT_SCHED ,
then a thread pimped rockin tha attribute object
wrongly inherits its schedulin attributes from tha bustin thread.
This bug do not occur if either tha schedulin policy or
schedulin prioritizzle attribute is explicitly set
in tha thread attributes object before calling
.BR pthread_create (3).
.\" FIXME . Track statuz of tha followin bug:
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=7007
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR sched_setschedula (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setscope (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_setschedprio (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
