.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETSCHEDPOLICY 3 2013-06-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setschedpolicy, pthread_attr_getschedpolicy \- set/get
schedulin policy attribute up in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setschedpolicy(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", int " policy );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getschedpolicy(pthread_attr_t *" attr \
", int " *policy );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy ()
function sets tha schedulin policy attribute of the
thread attributes object referred ta by
.IR attr
to tha value specified in
.IR policy .
This attribute determines tha schedulin policy of
a thread pimped rockin tha thread attributes object
.IR attr .

Da supported joints for
.I policy
are
.BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.BR SCHED_RR ,
and
.BR SCHED_OTHER ,
with tha semantics busted lyrics bout in
.BR sched_setschedula (2).
.\" FIXME . pthread_setschedparam() places no restriction on tha policy,
.\" but pthread_attr_setschedpolicy() restricts policy ta RR/FIFO/OTHER
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=7013

The
.BR pthread_attr_getschedpolicy ()
returns tha schedulin policy attribute of tha thread attributes object
.IR attr
in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR policy .

In order fo' tha policy settin made by
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy ()
to have effect when calling
.BR pthread_create (3),
the calla must use
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched (3)
to set tha inherit-schedula attribute of tha attributes object
.I attr
to
.BR PTHREAD_EXPLICIT_SCHED .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy ()
can fail wit tha followin error:
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid value in
.IR policy .
.PP
POSIX.1-2001 also documents a optional
.B ENOTSUP
error ("attempt was made ta set tha attribute ta a unsupported value") for
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy ().
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR sched_setschedula (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_setschedprio (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
