.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_EQUAL 3 2009-03-30 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_equal \- compare thread IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_equal(pthread_t " t1 ", pthread_t " t2 );
.sp
Compile n' link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_equal ()
function compares two thread identifiers.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha two thread IDs is equal,
.BR pthread_equal ()
returns a nonzero value; otherwise, it returns 0.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR pthread_equal ()
function is necessary cuz thread IDs should be considered opaque:
there is no portable way fo' applications ta directly compare two
.I pthread_t
values.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_self (3),
.BR pthreadz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
