.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This page is up in tha hood domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. - aeb
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2004-12-17, mtk, added description of ptsname_r() + ERRORS
.\"
.TH PTSNAME 3 2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ptsname, ptsname_r \- git tha name of tha slave pseudoterminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE" "       /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ptsname(int " fd ");"
.sp
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int ptsname_r(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ptsname ()
function returns tha name of tha slave pseudoterminal device
correspondin ta tha masta referred ta by
.IR fd .

The
.BR ptsname_r ()
function is tha reentrant equivalent of
.BR ptsname ().
It returns tha name of tha slave pseudoterminal thang as a
null-terminated strang up in tha buffer pointed ta by
.IR buf .
The
.I buflen
argument specifies tha number of bytes available in
.IR buf .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR ptsname ()
returns a pointa ta a strang up in static storage which will be
overwritten by subsequent calls.
This pointa must not be freed.
On failure, a NULL pointa is returned.

On success,
.BR ptsname_r ()
returns 0.
On failure, a nonzero value is returned
and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.\" In fact tha errno value be also returned as tha function
.\" result -- MTK, Dec 04
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( ptsname_r ()
only)
.I buf
is NULL.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I fd
does not refer ta a pseudoterminal masta device.
.TP
.B ERANGE
.RB ( ptsname_r ()
only)
.I buf
is too small.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR ptsname ()
is provided up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR ptsname ()
function aint thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR ptsname_r ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR ptsname ()
is part of tha UNIX 98 pseudoterminal support (see
.BR pts (4)).
This function is specified up in POSIX.1-2001.

.BR ptsname_r ()
is a Linux extension.
A version of dis function is documented on Tru64 n' HP-UX yo, but
on dem implementations, \-1 is returned on error, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha error.
Avoid rockin dis function up in portable programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grantpt (3),
.BR posix_openpt (3),
.BR ttyname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pts (4),
.BR pty (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
