.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:43:46 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH PUTPWENT 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
putpwent \- write a password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "int putpwent(const struct passwd *" p ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR putpwent ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR putpwent ()
function writes a password entry from the
structure \fIp\fP up in tha file associated wit \fIstream\fP.
.PP
Da \fIpasswd\fP structure is defined up in \fI<pwd.h>\fP as bigs up:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct passwd {
    char    *pw_name;        /* username */
    char    *pw_passwd;      /* user password */
    uid_t    pw_uid;         /* user ID */
    gid_t    pw_gid;         /* crew ID */
    char    *pw_gecos;       /* real name */
    char    *pw_dir;         /* home directory */
    char    *pw_shell;       /* shell program */
};
.fi
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR putpwent ()
function returns 0 on success, or \-1 if a error
occurs.
In tha event of a error,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid (NULL) argument given.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpw (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR setpwent (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
