
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces a earlier playa page freestyled by Walta Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH QECVT 3  2013-07-22 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
qecvt, qfcvt, qgcvt \- convert a gangbangin' floating-point number ta a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *qecvt(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.BI "char *qfcvt(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.BI "char *qgcvt(long double " number ", int " ndigit ", char *" buf );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR qecvt (),
.BR qfcvt (),
.BR qgcvt ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da functions
.BR qecvt (),
.BR qfcvt ()
and
.BR qgcvt ()
are identical to
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR fcvt (3)
and
.BR gcvt (3)
respectively, except dat they use a
.I "long double"
argument
.IR number .
See
.BR ecvt (3)
and
.BR gcvt (3).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR qecvt ()
and
.BR qfcvt ()
functions is not thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR qgcvt ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
Not peeped up in most common UNIX implementations,
but occurs up in SunOS.
Not supported by libc4 n' libc5.
Supported by glibc.
.SH NOTES
These functions is obsolete.
Instead,
.BR sprintf (3)
is recommended.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR ecvt_r (3),
.BR gcvt (3),
.BR sprintf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
