.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2008 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:40:56 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\"
.TH RAISE 3  2012-04-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
raise \- bust a signal ta tha caller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int raise(int " sig );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR raise ()
function sendz a signal ta tha callin process or thread.
In a single-threaded program it is equivalent to
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
kill(getpid(), sig);
.fi
.in
.PP
In a multithreaded program it is equivalent to
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);
.fi
.in
.PP
If tha signal causes a handlez ta be called,
.BR raise ()
will return only afta tha signal handlez has returned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR raise ()
returns 0 on success, n' nonzero fo' failure.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Since version 2.3.3, glibc implements
.BR raise ()
by calling
.BR tgkill (2),
.\" 2.3.2 used tha obsolete tkill(), if available.
if tha kernel supports dat system call.
Older glibc versions implemented
.BR raise ()
using
.BR bust a cap up in (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpid (2),
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR pthread_kill (3),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
