.\" Copyright (C), 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Wed Jun 14 16:10:28 BST 1995 Wilf. (G.Wilford@@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.TH RE_COMP 3 2013-06-21 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
re_comp, re_exec \- BSD regex functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #define _REGEX_RE_COMP
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <regex.h>
.sp
.BI "char *re_comp(char *" regex );
.sp
.BI "int re_exec(char *" strang );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR re_comp ()
is used ta compile tha null-terminated regular expression pointed ta by
.IR regex .
Da compiled pattern occupies a static area, tha pattern buffer,
which is overwritten by subsequent use of
.BR re_comp ().
If
.I regex
is NULL,
no operation is performed n' tha pattern bufferz contents is not
altered.

.BR re_exec ()
is used ta assess whether tha null-terminated strang pointed ta by
.I string
matches tha previously compiled
.IR regex .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR re_comp ()
returns NULL on successful compilation of
.I regex
otherwise it returns a pointa ta a appropriate error message.

.BR re_exec ()
returns 1 fo' a successful match, zero fo' failure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR re_comp ()
and
.BR re_exec ()
functions is not thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
These functions is obsolete; tha functions documented in
.BR regcomp (3)
should be used instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR regcomp (3),
.BR regex (7),
GNU regex manual
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
