.TH READDIR 3am "Jan 15 2013" "Jacked Software Foundation" "GNU Awk Extension Modules"
.SH NAME
readdir \- directory input parser fo' gawk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
@load "readdir"
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I readdir
extension
addz a input parser fo' directories.
.PP
When dis extension is up in use, instead of skippin directories named
on tha command line (or with
.BR getline ),
they is read, wit each entry returned as a record.
.PP
Da record consistz of three fields. Da first two is tha inode number n' the
filename, separated by a gangbangin' forward slash character.
On systems where tha directory entry gotz nuff tha file type, tha record
has a third field which be a single letta indicatin tha type of the
file:
.B f
for file,
.B d
for directory,
.B b
for a funky-ass block device,
.B c
for a cold-ass lil characta device,
.B p
for a FIFO,
.B l
for a symbolic link,
.B s
for a socket, and
.B u
(unknown) fo' anythang else.
.PP
On systems without tha file type shiznit, tha third field be always
.BR u .
.SH NOTES
On GNU/Linux systems, there be filesystems dat don't support the
.B d_type
entry (see
.IR readdir (3)),
and so tha file type be always
.BR u .
Yo ass can use the
.I filefuncs
extension ta call
.I stat()
in order ta git erect type shiznit.
... .SH BUGS
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
@load "readdir"
\&...
BEGIN { FS = "/" }
{ print "file name is", $2 }
.fi
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "GAWK: Effectizzle AWK Programming" ,
.IR filefuncs (3am),
.IR fnmatch (3am),
.IR fork (3am),
.IR inplace (3am),
.IR ordchr (3am),
.IR readfile (3am),
.IR revoutput (3am),
.IR rwarray (3am),
.IR time (3am).
.PP
.IR opendir (3),
.IR readdir (3),
.IR stat (2).
.SH AUTHOR
Arnold Robbins,
.BR arnold@skeeve.com .
.SH COPYING PERMISSIONS
Copyright \(co 2012, 2013,
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual page provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission
notice is preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual page).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual page under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual page tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated in
a translation approved by tha Foundation.
