.\" This file is derived from unlink.2, which has tha followin copyright:
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"             n' Copyright (C) 1993 Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Edited tha fuck into remove.3 shape by:
.\" Graeme W. Wilford (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) on 13th July 1994
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH REMOVE 3 2008-12-03 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
remove \- remove a gangbangin' file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int remove(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR remove ()
deletes a name from tha file system.
It calls
.BR unlink (2)
for files, and
.BR rmdir (2)
for directories.

If tha removed name was the
last link ta a gangbangin' file n' no processes have tha file open, tha file is
deleted n' tha space dat shiznit was rockin is made available fo' reuse.

If tha name was tha last link ta a gangbangin' file,
but any processes still have tha file open,
the file will remain up in existence until tha last file
descriptor referrin ta it is closed.

If tha name referred ta a symbolic link, tha link is removed.

If tha name referred ta a socket, FIFO, or device, tha name is removed,
but processes which have tha object open may continue ta use dat shit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Da errors dat occur is dem for
.BR unlink (2)
and
.BR rmdir (2).
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Under libc4 n' libc5,
.BR remove ()
was a alias for
.BR unlink (2)
(and hence would not remove directories).
.SH BUGS
Infelicitizzles up in tha protocol underlyin NFS can cause tha unexpected
disappearizzle of filez which is still bein used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm (1),
.BR unlink (1),
.BR link (2),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR rename (2),
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR mkfifo (3),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
