.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-25 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2004-10-31 by aeb
.\"
.TH RESOLVER 3 2013-03-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
res_init, res_query, res_search, res_querydomain, res_mkquery, res_send,
dn_comp, dn_expand \- resolver routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.B #include <arpa/nameser.h>
.B #include <resolv.h>
.B extern struct state _res;
.sp
.B int res_init(void);
.sp
.BI "int res_query(const char *" dname ", int " class ", int " type ,
.RS
.BI "unsigned char *" answer ", int " anslen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int res_search(const char *" dname ", int " class ", int " type ,
.RS
.BI "unsigned char *" answer ", int " anslen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int res_querydomain(const char *" name ", const char *" domain ,
.RS
.BI "int " class ", int " type ", unsigned char *" answer ,
.BI "int " anslen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int res_mkquery(int " op ", const char *" dname ", int " class ,
.RS
.BI "int " type ", char *" data ", int " datalen ", struct rrec *" newrr ,
.BI "char *" buf ", int " buflen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int res_send(const char *" msg ", int " msglen ", char *" answer ,
.RS
.BI "int " anslen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int dn_comp(unsigned char *" exp_dn ", unsigned char *" comp_dn ,
.RS
.BI "int " length ", unsigned char **" dnptrs ", unsigned char **" lastdnptr );
.RE
.sp
.BI "int dn_expand(unsigned char *" msg ", unsigned char *" eomorig ,
.RS
.BI "unsigned char *" comp_dn ", char *" exp_dn ,
.BI "int " length );
.RE
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lresolv\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions make queries ta n' interpret tha responses from Internet
domain name servers.
.PP
The
.BR res_init ()
function readz tha configuration filez (see
.BR resolv.conf (5))
to git tha default domain name, search order n' name
server address(es).
If no server is given, tha local host is tried.
If no domain is given, dat associated wit tha local host is used.
It can be overridden wit tha environment variable
.BR LOCALDOMAIN .
.BR res_init ()
is normally executed by tha straight-up original gangsta call ta one of the
other functions.
.PP
The
.BR res_query ()
function queries tha name server fo' the
fully qualified domain name \fIname\fP of specified \fItype\fP and
\fIclass\fP.
Da reply is left up in tha buffer \fIanswer\fP of length
\fIanslen\fP supplied by tha caller.
.PP
The
.BR res_search ()
function cook up a query n' waits fo' tha response
like
.BR res_query (),
but up in addizzle implements tha default n' search
rulez controlled by
.B RES_DEFNAMES
and
.B RES_DNSRCH
(see description of
\fI_res\fP options below).
.PP
The
.BR res_querydomain ()
function cook up a query using
.BR res_query ()
on tha concatenation of \fIname\fP n' \fIdomain\fP.
.PP
Da followin functions is lower-level routines used by
.BR res_query ().
.PP
The
.BR res_mkquery ()
function constructs a query message up in \fIbuf\fP
of length \fIbuflen\fP fo' tha domain name \fIdname\fP.
Da query type
\fIop\fP is usually
.BR QUERY ,
but can be any of tha types defined in
\fI<arpa/nameser.h>\fP.
\fInewrr\fP is currently unused.
.PP
The
.BR res_send ()
function sendz a preformatted query given in
\fImsg\fP of length \fImsglen\fP n' returns tha answer up in \fIanswer\fP
which iz of length \fIanslen\fP.
It will call
.BR res_init (),
if it
has not already been called.
.PP
The
.BR dn_comp ()
function compresses tha domain name \fIexp_dn\fP
and stores it up in tha buffer \fIcomp_dn\fP of length \fIlength\fP.
Da compression uses a array of pointas \fIdnptrs\fP ta previously
compressed names up in tha current message.
Da first pointa points
to tha beginnin of tha message n' tha list endz wit NULL.
Da limit of tha array is specified by \fIlastdnptr\fP.
If \fIdnptr\fP is NULL, domain names is not compressed.
If \fIlastdnptr\fP is NULL, tha list
of labels aint updated.
.PP
The
.BR dn_expand ()
function expandz tha compressed domain name
\fIcomp_dn\fP ta a gangbangin' full domain name, which is placed up in tha buffer
\fIexp_dn\fP of size \fIlength\fP.
Da compressed name is contained
in a query or reply message, n' \fImsg\fP points ta tha beginnin of
the message.
.PP
Da resolver routines use global configuration n' state shiznit
contained up in tha structure \fI_res\fP, which is defined in
\fI<resolv.h>\fP.
Da only field dat is normally manipulated by the
user is \fI_res.options\fP.
This field can contain tha bitwise "OR"
of tha followin options:
.TP
.B RES_INIT
True if
.BR res_init ()
has been called.
.TP
.B RES_DEBUG
Print debuggin lyrics.
This option be available only if glibc was built wit debuggin enabled,
.\" See resolv/README.
.\" Support fo' RES_DEBUG was made conditionizzle up in glibc 2.2.
which aint tha default.
.TP
.B RES_AAONLY
Accept authoritatizzle lyrics only.
.BR res_send ()
continues until
it findz a authoritatizzle answer or returns a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  [Not currently
implemented].
.TP
.B RES_USEVC
Use TCP connections fo' queries rather than UDP datagrams.
.TP
.B RES_PRIMARY
Query primary domain name server only.
.TP
.B RES_IGNTC
Ignore truncation errors.
Don't retry wit TCP.  [Not currently
implemented].
.TP
.B RES_RECURSE
Set tha recursion desired bit up in queries.
Recursion is carried out
by tha domain name server, not by
.BR res_send ().
[Enabled by default].
.TP
.B RES_DEFNAMES
If set,
.BR res_search ()
will append tha default domain name to
single component names, i.e., dem dat do not contain a thugged-out dot.
[Enabled by default].
.TP
.B RES_STAYOPEN
Used with
.B RES_USEVC
to keep tha TCP connection open between queries.
.TP
.B RES_DNSRCH
If set,
.BR res_search ()
will search fo' hostnames up in tha current
domain n' up in parent domains.
This option is used by
.BR gethostbyname (3).
[Enabled by default].
.PP
This list aint complete.
Yo ass can find some other flags busted lyrics bout in
.BR resolv.conf (5).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR res_init ()
function returns 0 on success, or \-1 if a error
occurs.
.PP
The
.BR res_query (),
.BR res_search (),
.BR res_querydomain (),
.BR res_mkquery ()
and
.BR res_send ()
functions return tha length
of tha response, or \-1 if a error occurs.
.PP
The
.BR dn_comp ()
and
.BR dn_expand ()
functions return tha length
of tha compressed name, or \-1 if a error occurs.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/resolv.conf          resolver configuration file
/etc/host.conf            resolver configuration file
.fi
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR resolv.conf (5),
.BR resolver (5),
.BR hostname (7),
.BR named (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
