.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"     Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"     This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"     California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)rexec.3     8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libcompat/4.3/rexec.3,v 1.12 2004/07/02 23:52:14 ru Exp $
.\"
.\" Taken from FreeBSD 5.4; not checked against Linux realitizzle (mtk)
.\"
.\" 2013-06-21, mtk, Converted from mdoc ta playa macros
.\"
.TH REXEC 3 2013-07-04 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
rexec, rexec_af \- return stream ta a remote command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.BI "int rexec(char **" ahost ", int " inport ", char *" user ", "
.BI "          char *" passwd ", char *" cmd ", int *" fd2p );
.sp
.BI "int rexec_af(char **" ahost ", int " inport ", char *" user ", "
.BI "             char *" passwd ", char *" cmd ", int *" fd2p ,
.BI "             sa_family_t " af  );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This intercourse is obsoleted by
.BR rcmd (3).

The
.BR rexec ()
function
looks up tha host
.IR *ahost
using
.BR gethostbyname (3),
returnin \-1 if tha host do not exist.
Otherwise
.IR *ahost
is set ta tha standard name of tha host.
If a username n' password is both specified, then these
are used ta authenticate ta tha foreign host; otherwise
the environment n' then tha user's
.I .netrc
file up in his
home directory is searched fo' appropriate shiznit.
If all dis fails, tha user is prompted fo' tha shiznit.
.PP
Da port
.I inport
specifies which well-known DARPA Internizzle port ta use for
the connection; tha call
.I "getservbyname(""exec"", ""tcp"")"
(see
.BR getservent (3))
will return a pointa ta a structure dat gotz nuff tha necessary port.
Da protocol fo' connection is busted lyrics bout up in detail in
.BR rexecd (8).
.PP
If tha connection succeeds,
a socket up in tha Internizzle domain of type
.BR SOCK_STREAM
is returned to
the caller, n' given ta tha remote command as
.IR stdin
and
.IR stdout .
If
.I fd2p
is nonzero, then a auxiliary channel ta a cold-ass lil control
process is ghon be setup, n' a thugged-out descriptor fo' it is ghon be placed
in
.IR *fd2p .
Da control process will return diagnostic
output from tha command (unit 2) on dis channel, n' will also
accept bytes on dis channel as bein UNIX signal numbers, ta be
forwarded ta tha process crew of tha command.
Da diagnostic
information returned do not include remote authorization failure,
as tha secondary connection is set up afta authorization has been
verified.
If
.I fd2p
is 0, then the
.IR stderr
(unit 2 of tha remote
command) is ghon be made tha same as the
.IR stdout
and no
provision is made fo' bustin  arbitrary signals ta tha remote process,
although you may be able ta git its attention by rockin out-of-band data.
.SS rexec_af()
The
.BR rexec ()
function works over IPv4
.RB ( AF_INET ).
By contrast, the
.BR rexec_af ()
function serves up a extra argument,
.IR af ,
that allows tha calla ta select tha protocol.
This argument can be specified as
.BR AF_INET ,
.BR AF_INET6 ,
or
.BR AF_UNSPEC
(to allow tha implementation ta select tha protocol).
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR rexec_af ()
function was added ta glibc up in version 2.2.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR rexec ()
and
.BR rexec_af ()
functions is not thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is not up in POSIX.1-2001.
The
.BR rexec ()
function first rocked up in
4.2BSD, n' is present on tha BSDs, Solaris, n' nuff other systems.
The
.BR rexec_af ()
function is mo' recent, n' less widespread.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR rexec ()
function sendz tha unencrypted password across tha network.
.PP
Da underlyin steez is considered a funky-ass big-ass securitizzle hole n' therefore
not enabled on nuff cribs; see
.BR rexecd (8)
for explanations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rcmd (3),
.BR rexecd (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
