
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PERMISSIVE_MISC)
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References:
.\"   glibc manual n' source
.\"
.\" 2006-05-19, mtk, various edits n' example program
.\"
.TH RPMATCH 3 2007-07-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
rpmatch \- determine if tha answer ta a question be affirmatizzle or negative
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>

.BI "int rpmatch(const char *" response );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR rpmatch ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR rpmatch ()
handlez a user response ta yeaaaa or no thangs, with
support fo' internationalization.

.I response
should be a null-terminated strang containin a
user-supplied response, like obtained with
.BR fgets (3)
or
.BR getline (3).

Da userz language preference is taken tha fuck into account per the
environment variables
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR LC_ALL ,
if tha program has called
.BR setlocale (3)
to effect they chizzles.

Regardless of tha locale, responses matching
.B ^[Yy]
are always accepted as affirmative, n' dem matching
.B ^[Nn]
are always accepted as negative.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Afta examining
.IR response ,
.BR rpmatch ()
returns 0 fo' a recognized wack response ("no"), 1
for a recognized positizzle response ("yes"), n' \-1 when tha value
of
.I response
is unrecognized.
.SH ERRORS
A return value of \-1 may indicate either a invalid input, or some
other error.
It be incorrect ta only test if tha return value is nonzero.

.BR rpmatch ()
can fail fo' any of tha reasons that
.BR regcomp (3)
or
.BR regexec (3)
can fail; tha cause of tha error
is not available from
.I errno
or anywhere else yo, but indicates a
failure of tha regex engine (but dis case is indistinguishable from
that of a unrecognized value of
.IR response ).
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR rpmatch ()
is not required by any standard yo, but
is available on all dem other systems.
.\" It be available on at least AIX 5.1 n' FreeBSD 6.0.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR rpmatch ()
implementation looks at only tha straight-up original gangsta character
of
.IR response .
As a cold-ass lil consequence, "nyes" returns 0, and
"ynever; not up in a mazillion years" returns 1.
It would be preferable ta accept input strings much more
strictly, fo' example (usin tha extended regular
expression notation busted lyrics bout in
.BR regex (7)):
.B ^([yY]|yes|YES)$
and
.BR ^([nN]|no|NO)$ .
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin program displays tha thangs up in dis biatch when
.BR rpmatch ()
is applied ta tha strang given up in tha programz command-line argument.
.nf

#define _SVID_SOURCE
#include <locale.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    if (argc != 2 || strcmp(argv[1], "\-\-help") == 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "%s response\\n", argv[0]);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    setlocale(LC_ALL, "");
    printf("rpmatch() returns: %d\\n", rpmatch(argv[1]));
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgets (3),
.BR getline (3),
.BR nl_langinfo (3),
.BR regcomp (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
