.TH RWARRAY 3am "Jan 15 2013" "Jacked Software Foundation" "GNU Awk Extension Modules"
.SH NAME
writea, reada \- write n' read gawk arrays to/from files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
@load "rwarray"
.sp
ret = writea(file, array)
.br
ret = reada(file, array)
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I rwarray
extension addz two functions named
.BR writea() .
and
.BR reada() ,
as bigs up.
.TP
.B writea()
This function takes a strang argument, which is tha name of the
file ta which dump tha array, n' tha array itself as tha second
argument.
.B writea()
understandz multidimensionizzle arrays.
It returns one on success, or zero upon failure.
.TP
.B reada()
is tha inverse of
.BR writea() ;
it readz tha file named as its first argument, fillin in
the array named as tha second argument. Well shiiiit, it clears tha array
first.
Here too, tha return value is one on success n' zero upon failure.
.SH NOTES
Da array pimped by
.B reada()
is identical ta dat freestyled by
.B writea()
in tha sense dat tha contents is tha same. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat due
to implementation issues, tha array traversal order of tha recreated
array will likely be different from dat of tha original gangsta array.
As array traversal order up in AWK is by default undefined, dis is
not (technically) a problem.  If you need ta guarantee a particular
traversal order, use tha array sortin features in
.I gawk
to do so.
.PP
Da file gotz nuff binary data.  All integral joints is written
in network byte order.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat double precision floating-point joints is freestyled as
natizzle binary data.  Thus, arrays containin only strang data
can theoretically be dumped on systems wit one byte order and
restored on systems wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different one yo, but dis has not been tried.
... .SH BUGS
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
@load "rwarray"
\&...
ret = writea("arraydump.bin", array)
\&...
ret = reada("arraydump.bin", array)
.fi
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "GAWK: Effectizzle AWK Programming" ,
.IR filefuncs (3am),
.IR fnmatch (3am),
.IR fork (3am),
.IR inplace (3am),
.IR ordchr (3am),
.IR readdir (3am),
.IR readfile (3am),
.IR revoutput (3am),
.IR time (3am).
.SH AUTHOR
Arnold Robbins,
.BR arnold@skeeve.com .
.SH COPYING PERMISSIONS
Copyright \(co 2012, 2013,
Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copies of
this manual page provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission
notice is preserved on all copies.
.ig
Permission is granted ta process dis file all up in troff n' print the
results, provided tha printed document carries copyin permission
notice identical ta dis one except fo' tha removal of dis paragraph
(this paragraph not bein relevant ta tha printed manual page).
..
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
manual page under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
permission notice identical ta dis one.
.PP
Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute translationz of this
manual page tha fuck into another language, under tha above conditions for
modified versions, except dat dis permission notice may be stated in
a translation approved by tha Foundation.
