.\" Copyright (C) 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:26:16 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Apr 11 17:11:33 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl):
.\"     Corrected type of compar routines, as suggested by
.\"     Miguel Barreiro (enano@avalon.yaix.es).  Added example.
.\" Modified Sun Sep 24 20:15:46 2000 by aeb, followin Petta Reinholdtsen.
.\" Modified 2001-12-26 by aeb, followin Joey fo' realz. Added versionsort.
.\"
.TH SCANDIR 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
scandir, alphasort, versionsort \- scan a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory fo' matchin entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int scandir(const char *" dirp ", struct dirent ***" namelist ,
.RS
.BI "int (*" filta ")(const struct dirent *),"
.BI "int (*" compar ")(const struct dirent **, const struct dirent **));"
.RE
.sp
.BI "int alphasort(const void *" a ", const void *" b );
.sp
.BI "int versionsort(const void *" a ", const void *" b );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR scandir (),
.BR alphasort ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.br
.BR versionsort ():
_GNU_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR scandir ()
function scans tha directory \fIdirp\fP, calling
\fIfilter\fP() on each directory entry.
Entries fo' which
\fIfilter\fP() returns nonzero is stored up in strings allocated via
.BR malloc (3),
sorted using
.BR qsort (3)
with tha comparison
function \fIcompar\fP(), n' collected up in array \fInamelist\fP
which be allocated via
.BR malloc (3).
If \fIfilter\fP is NULL, all entries is selected.
.LP
The
.BR alphasort ()
and
.BR versionsort ()
functions can be used as tha comparison function
.IR compar ().
Da forma sorts directory entries using
.BR strcoll (3),
the latta using
.BR strverscmp (3)
on tha strings \fI(*a)\->d_name\fP n' \fI(*b)\->d_name\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR scandir ()
function returns tha number of directory entries
selected.
On error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.PP
The
.BR alphasort ()
and
.BR versionsort ()
functions return a integer less than, equal to,
or pimped outa than zero if tha straight-up original gangsta argument is considered ta be
respectively less than, equal to, or pimped outa than tha second.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOENT
Da path up in \fIdirp\fR do not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta complete tha operation.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Da path up in \fIdirp\fR aint a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR versionsort ()
was added ta glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR alphasort ()
and
.BR scandir ()
are specified up in POSIX.1-2008, n' is widely available.
.BR versionsort ()
is a GNU extension.
.LP
Da functions
.BR scandir ()
and
.BR alphasort ()
are from 4.3BSD, n' done been available under Linux since libc4.
Libc4 n' libc5 use tha mo' precise prototype
.sp
.nf
    int alphasort(const struct dirent ** a,
                  const struct dirent **b);
.fi
.sp
but glibc 2.0 returns ta tha imprecise BSD prototype.
.LP
Da function
.BR versionsort ()
is a GNU extension, available since glibc 2.1.
.LP
Since glibc 2.1,
.BR alphasort ()
calls
.BR strcoll (3);
earlier it used
.BR strcmp (3).
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#define _SVID_SOURCE
/* print filez up in current directory up in reverse order */
#include <dirent.h>

int
main(void)
{
    struct dirent **namelist;
    int n;

    n = scandir(".", &namelist, NULL, alphasort);
    if (n < 0)
        perror("scandir");
    else {
        while (n\-\-) {
            printf("%s\en", namelist[n]\->d_name);
            free(namelist[n]);
        }
        free(namelist);
    }
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closedir (3),
.BR fnmatch (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandirat (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR strverscmp (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
