
.\"        based on text up in mkfifoat.3 Copyright (c) 2006, Mike Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SCANDIRAT 3 2012-03-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
scandirat \- scan a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory relatizzle ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"

.BR "#include <fcntl.h>" "          /* Definizzle of AT_* constants */"
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.fi
.BI "int scandirat(int " dirfd ", const char *" dirp ","
.BI "struct dirent ***" namelist ,
.nf
.RS
.BI "int (*" filta ")(const struct dirent *),"
.BI "int (*" compar ")(const struct dirent **, const struct dirent **));"
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR scandirat ()
system call operates up in exactly tha same way as
.BR scandir (3),
except fo' tha differences busted lyrics bout up in dis manual page.

If tha pathname given in
.I dirp
is relative, then it is interpreted relatizzle ta tha directory
referred ta by tha file descriptor
.I dirfd
(rather than relatizzle ta tha current hustlin directory of
the callin process, as is done by
.BR scandir (3)
for a relatizzle pathname).

If
.I dirp
is relatizzle and
.I dirfd
is tha special value
.BR AT_FDCWD ,
then
.I dirp
is interpreted relatizzle ta tha current working
directory of tha callin process (like
.BR scandir (3)).

If
.I dirp
is absolute, then
.I dirfd
is ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR scandirat ()
returns tha number of directory entries selected.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
Da same errors dat occur for
.BR scandir (3)
can also occur for
.BR scandirat ().
Da followin additionizzle errors can occur for
.BR scandirat ():
.TP
.B EBADF
.I dirfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.I dirp
is a relatizzle path and
.I dirfd
is a gangbangin' file descriptor referrin ta a gangbangin' file other than a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR scandirat ()
was added ta glibc up in version 2.15.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function be a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
See
.BR openat (2)
for a explanation of tha need for
.BR scandirat ().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openat (2),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR path_resolution (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
