.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SCHED_GETCPU 3 2013-04-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_getcpu \- determine CPU on which tha callin thread is hustlin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sched.h>

.B int sched_getcpu(void);
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR sched_getcpu ():
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.14:
_GNU_SOURCE
.TP 4
Before glibc 2.14:
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
    /* _GNU_SOURCE also suffices */
.PD
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sched_getcpu ()
returns tha number of tha CPU on which tha callin thread is currently executing.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sched_getcpu ()
returns a nonnegatizzle CPU number.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOSYS
This kernel do not implement
.BR getcpu (2).
.SH VERSIONS
This function be available since glibc 2.6.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR sched_getcpu ()
is glibc specific.
.SH NOTES
Da call
.in +4n
.nf

cpu = sched_getcpu();

.fi
.in
is equivalent ta tha following
.BR getcpu (2)
call:
.in +4n
.nf

int c, s;
s = getcpu(&c, NULL, NULL);
cpu = (s == \-1) , biatch? s : c;
.fi
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getcpu (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
