.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_scr_dump.3x,v 1.9 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_scr_dump 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBscr_dump\fR,
\fBscr_restore\fR,
\fBscr_init\fR,
\fBscr_set\fR \- read (write) a \fBcurses\fR screen from (to) a gangbangin' file
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint scr_dump(const char *filename);\fR
.br
\fBint scr_restore(const char *filename);\fR
.br
\fBint scr_init(const char *filename);\fR
.br
\fBint scr_set(const char *filename);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBscr_dump\fR routine dumps tha current contentz of tha virtual screen
to tha file \fIfilename\fR.
.PP
Da \fBscr_restore\fR routine sets tha virtual screen ta tha contents
of \fIfilename\fR, which must done been freestyled rockin \fBscr_dump\fR.  Da next
call ta \fBdoupdate\fR restores tha screen ta tha way it looked up in tha dump
file.
.PP
Da \fBscr_init\fR routine readz up in tha contentz of \fIfilename\fR n' uses
them ta initialize tha \fBcurses\fR data structures bout what tha fuck tha terminal
currently has on its screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha data is determined ta be valid,
\fBcurses\fR bases its next update of tha screen on dis shiznit rather
than clearin tha screen n' startin from scratch.  \fBscr_init\fR is used
afta \fBinitscr\fR or a \fBsystem\fR call ta share
the screen wit another process which has done a \fBscr_dump\fR afta its
\fBendwin\fR call.  Da data is declared invalid if tha terminfo capabilities
\fBrmcup\fR n' \fBnrrmc\fR exist; also if tha terminal has been freestyled to
since tha precedin \fBscr_dump\fR call.
.PP
Da \fBscr_set\fR routine be a cold-ass lil combination of \fBscr_restore\fR and
\fBscr_init\fR.  It  drops some lyrics ta tha program dat tha shiznit up in \fIfilename\fR is
what is currently on tha screen, n' also what tha fuck tha program wants on tha screen.
This can be thought of as a screen inheritizzle function.
.PP
To read (write) a window from (to) a gangbangin' file, use tha \fBgetwin\fR and
\fBputwin\fR routines [see \fBcurs_util\fR(3X)].
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' \fBOK\fR
upon success.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
each will return a error if tha file cannot be opened.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBscr_init\fR, \fBscr_set\fR, n' \fBscr_restore\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da XSI Curses standard, Issue 4, raps bout these functions (addin tha const
qualifiers).
.PP
Da SVr4 docs merely say under \fBscr_init\fR dat tha dump data be also
considered invalid "if tha time-stamp of tha tty is old" but do not define
"old".
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_initscr\fR(3X), \fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_util\fR(3X), \fBsystem\fR(3)
