.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_scroll.3x,v 1.15 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_scroll 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBscroll\fR,
\fBscrl\fR,
\fBwscrl\fR \- scroll a \fBcurses\fR window
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint scroll(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint scrl(int n);\fR
.br
\fBint wscrl(WINDOW *win, int n);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBscroll\fR routine scrolls tha window up one line.
This involves moving
the lines up in tha window data structure.
As a optimization, if tha scrolling
region of tha window is tha entire screen, tha physical screen may be scrolled
at tha same time.
.PP
For positizzle \fIn\fR, tha \fBscrl\fR n' \fBwscrl\fR routines scroll the
window up \fIn\fR lines (line \fIi\fR+\fIn\fR becomes \fIi\fR); otherwise
scroll tha window down \fIn\fR lines.
This involves movin tha lines up in the
window characta image structure.
Da current cursor posizzle aint chizzled.
.PP
For these functions ta work, scrollin must be enabled via \fBscrollok\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return \fBERR\fR upon failure, n' \fBOK\fR (SVr4 only specifies
"an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful completion.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
.PP
This implementation returns a error
if tha window pointa is null, or
if scrollin aint enabled up in tha window, e.g., wit \fBscrollok\fP.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBscrl\fR n' \fBscroll\fR may be macros.
.PP
Da SVr4 documentation say dat tha optimization of physically scrolling
immediately if tha scroll region is tha entire screen "is" performed, not
"may be" performed.
This implementation deliberately do not guarantee
that dis will occur, ta leave open tha possibilitizzle of smarter
optimization of multiple scroll actions on tha next update.
.PP
Neither tha SVr4 nor tha XSI documentation specify whether tha current
attribute or
current color-pair of blanks generated by tha scroll function is zeroed.
Under dis implementation it is.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 raps bout these functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_outopts\fR(3X)
