.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2007
.TH "security_class_to_string" "3" "30 Mar 2007" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
security_class_to_string, security_av_perm_to_string, string_to_security_class, string_to_av_perm, security_av_string, mode_to_security_class \- convert
between SELinux class n' permission joints n' strang names.
.
print_access_vector \- display a access vector up in human-readable form. 
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/flask.h>
.sp
.BI "const char *security_class_to_string(security_class_t " tclass ");"
.sp
.BI "const char *security_av_perm_to_string(security_class_t " tclass ", access_vector_t " av ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_av_string(security_class_t " tclass ", access_vector_t " av ", char **" result ");"
.sp
.BI "security_class_t string_to_security_class(const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "security_class_t mode_to_security_class(mode_t " mode ");"
.sp
.BI "access_vector_t string_to_av_perm(security_class_t " tclass ", const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "void print_access_vector(security_class_t " tclass ", access_vector_t " av ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR security_class_to_strin ()
returns a strang name fo' class
.IR tclass ,
or NULL if tha class is invalid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da returned strang must not be modified or freed.

.BR security_av_perm_to_strin ()
returns a strang name fo' tha access vector bit
.I av
of class
.IR tclass ,
or NULL if either argument is invalid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da returned strang must not be modified or freed.

.BR security_av_strin ()
computes a gangbangin' full access vector strang representation using
.I tclass
and
.IR av ,
which may have multiple bits set.  Da strang is returned up in tha memory pointed ta by
.IR result ,
and should be freed by tha calla using
.BR free (3).

.BR string_to_security_class ()
returns tha class value correspondin ta tha strang name
.IR name ,
or zero if no such class exists.

.BR mode_to_security_class ()
returns tha class value correspondin ta tha specified 
.IR mode ,
or zero if no such class exists.

.BR string_to_av_perm ()
returns tha access vector bit correspondin ta tha strang name
.I name
and securitizzle class
.IR tclass ,
or zero if no such value exists.

.BR print_access_vector ()
displays a access vector up in human-readable form on tha standard output
stream.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR security_av_strin ()
returns zero on success or \-1 on error with
.I errno
set appropriately.
.BR print_access_vector ()
does not return a value fo' realz. All other functions return zero or NULL on error.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B EINVAL
A class or access vector argument aint recognized by tha currently loaded policy.

.TP
.B ENOMEM
An attempt ta allocate memory failed.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux (8),
.BR getcon (3),
.BR getfilecon (3)
.BR stat (3)
