.TH "security_get_boolean_names" "3" "15 November 2004" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux API Documentation"
.SH "NAME"
security_load_booleans, security_set_boolean, security_commit_booleans, 
security_get_boolean_names, security_get_boolean_active,
security_get_boolean_pendin \- routines fo' manipulatin SELinux boolean joints
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int security_load_booleans(char *" path ");"
.sp 
.BI "int security_get_boolean_names(char ***" names ", int *" len ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_get_boolean_pending(const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_get_boolean_active(const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_set_boolean(const char *" name ", int " value ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_set_boolean_list(size_t " boolcnt ", SELboolean *" boollist ", int " permanent ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_commit_booleans(void);"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Da SELinux policy can include conditionizzle rulez dat is enabled or
disabled based on tha current jointz of a set of policy booleans.
These policy booleans allow runtime modification of tha security
policy without havin ta load a freshly smoked up policy.  

Da SELinux API allows fo' a transaction based update. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So you can
set nuff muthafuckin boolean joints n' then commit dem all at once.

.BR security_load_booleans ()
loadz policy boolean settings. Path may be NULL, up in which case the
booleans is loaded from tha actizzle policy boolean configuration file.

.BR security_get_boolean_names ()
provides a list of boolean names, currently supported by tha loaded policy.

.BR security_get_boolean_pendin ()
returns tha pendin value fo' boolean or \-1 on failure.

.BR security_get_boolean_actizzle ()
returns tha actizzle value fo' boolean or \-1 on failure.

.BR security_set_boolean ()
sets tha pendin value fo' boolean 

.BR security_set_boolean_list ()
saves a list of booleans up in a single transaction.

.BR security_commit_booleans ()
commits all pendin joints fo' tha booleans.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Where not otherwise stated, functions busted lyrics bout up in dis manual page return
zero on success or \-1 on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
.
.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux (8),
.BR getsebool (8),
.BR booleans (8),
.BR togglesebool (8)
