.TH "security_load_policy" "3" "3 November 2009" "guido@trentalancia.com" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
security_load_policy \- load a freshly smoked up SELinux policy
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int security_load_policy(void *" data ", size_t "len );
.sp
.BI "int selinux_mkload_policy(int " preservebools ");"
.sp
.BI "int selinux_init_load_policy(int *" enforce ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR security_load_policy ()
loadz a freshly smoked up policy, returns 0 fo' success n' \-1 fo' error.

.BR selinux_mkload_policy ()
makes a policy image n' loadz dat shit. This function serves up a higher level
interface fo' loadin policy than
.BR \%security_load_policy (),
internally determinin tha right policy version, locatin n' opening
the policy file, mappin it tha fuck into memory, manipulatin it as needed for
current boolean settings and/or local definitions, n' then calling
security_load_policy ta load dat shit.
.I preservebools
is a funky-ass boolean flag indicatin whether current policy boolean joints should
be preserved tha fuck into tha freshly smoked up policy (if 1) or reset ta tha saved policy
settings (if 0). Da forma case is tha default fo' policy reloads, while
the latta case be a option fo' policy reloadz but is primarily used for
the initial policy load.
.BR selinux_init_load_policy ()
performs tha initial policy load. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This function determines tha desired
enforcin mode, sets the
.I enforce
argument accordingly fo' tha calla ta use, sets tha SELinux kernel
enforcin status ta match it, n' loadz tha policy. Well shiiiit, it also internally
handlez tha initial selinuxfs mount required ta big-ass up these actions.
.sp
It should also be noted dat afta tha initial policy load, tha SELinux
kernel code cannot no mo' be disabled n' tha selinuxfs cannot be
unmounted rockin a cold-ass lil call to
.BR security_disable (3).
Therefore, afta tha initial policy load, tha only operationizzle chizzles
are dem permitted by
.BR security_setenforce (3)
(i.e. eventually settin tha framework up in permissive mode rather than
in enforcin one).
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns zero on success or \-1 on error.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page has been freestyled by Guido Trentalancia <guido@trentalancia.com>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8), " security_disable "(3), " setenforce "(8)
