.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:25:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH SEEKDIR 3  2013-03-24 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
seekdir \- set tha posizzle of tha next readdir() call up in tha directory
stream.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "void seekdir(DIR *" dirp ", long " loc );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR seekdir ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR seekdir ()
function sets tha location up in tha directory stream
from which tha next
.BR readdir (2)
call will start.
The
.I loc
argument should be a value returned by a previous call to
.BR telldir (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR seekdir ()
function returns no value.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
In glibc up ta version 2.1.1, tha type of the
.I loc
argument was
.IR off_t .
POSIX.1-2001 specifies
.IR long ,
and dis is tha type used since glibc 2.1.2.
See
.BR telldir (3)
for shiznit on why you should be careful up in makin any
assumptions bout tha value up in dis argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
