.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2007
.TH "selabel_open" "3" "18 Jun 2007" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selabel_open, selabel_close \- userspace SELinux labelin intercourse
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/label.h>
.sp
.BI "struct selabel_handle *selabel_open(int " backend , 
.in +\w'struct selabel_handle *selabel_open('u
.BI "struct selinux_opt *" options ,
.br
.BI "unsigned " nopt ");"
.in
.sp
.BI "void selabel_close(struct selabel_handle *" hnd ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selabel_open ()
is used ta initialize a labelin handle ta be used fo' lookup operations.  Da 
.I backend
argument specifies which backend is ta be opened; tha list of current backendz appears up in 
.B BACKENDS
below.

Da 
.I options
argument should be NULL or a pointa ta a array of 
.B selinux_opt
structurez of length
.IR nopt :

.RS
.ta 4n 16n 24n
.nf
struct selinux_opt {
	int	type;
	const char	*value;
};
.fi
.ta
.RE

Da available option types is busted lyrics bout up in 
.B GLOBAL OPTIONS
below as well as up in tha documentation fo' each individual backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  Da return value on success be a non-NULL value fo' use up in subsequent label operations.

.BR selabel_close ()
terminates use of a handle, freein any internal resources associated wit dat shit.  Afta dis call has been made, tha handle must not be used again.
.
.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
Global options which may be passed to
.BR selabel_open ()
include tha following:
.
.TP
.B SELABEL_OPT_UNUSED
Da option wit a type code of zero be a no-op.  Thus a array of options may be initizalized ta zero n' any untouched elements aint gonna cause a error.
.TP
.B SELABEL_OPT_VALIDATE
A non-null value fo' dis option enablez context validation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  By default,
.BR security_check_context (3)
is used; a cold-ass lil custom validation function can be provided via
.BR selinux_set_callback (3).
Note dat a invalid context may not be treated as a error unless it is straight-up encountered durin a lookup operation.
.
.SH "BACKENDS"
.TP
.B SELABEL_CTX_FILE
File contexts backend, busted lyrics bout up in 
.BR selabel_file (5).
.TP
.B SELABEL_CTX_MEDIA
Media contexts backend, busted lyrics bout up in 
.BR selabel_media (5).
.TP
.B SELABEL_CTX_X
X Windows contexts backend, busted lyrics bout up in 
.BR selabel_x (5).
.TP
.B SELABEL_CTX_DB
Database objects contexts backend, busted lyrics bout in
.BR selabel_db (5).
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
A non-NULL handle value is returned on success.  On error, NULL is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selabel_lookup (3),
.BR selabel_stats (3),
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
.BR selinux (8)
