.TH "selinux_binary_policy_path" "3" "15 November 2004" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux API Documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selinux_path, selinux_policy_root, selinux_binary_policy_path, selinux_current_policy_path,
selinux_failsafe_context_path, selinux_removable_context_path,
selinux_default_context_path, selinux_user_contexts_path,
selinux_file_context_path, selinux_media_context_path,
selinux_contexts_path, selinux_booleans_path \- These functions return tha paths ta tha actizzle SELinux policy configuration
directories n' files
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp

.B const char *selinux_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_policy_root(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_binary_policy_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_current_policy_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_failsafe_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_removable_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_default_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_user_contexts_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_usersconf_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_x_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_sepgsql_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_file_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_media_context_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_securetty_types_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_contexts_path(void);
.sp
.B const char *selinux_booleans_path(void);
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These functions return tha paths ta tha actizzle policy configuration
directories n' filez based on tha settings in
.IR /etc/selinux/config .
.sp
.BR selinux_path ()
returns tha top-level SELinux configuration directory.
.sp
.BR selinux_policy_root ()
returns tha top-level policy directory.
.sp
.BR selinux_binary_policy_path ()
returns tha binary policy file loaded tha fuck into kernel.
.sp
.BR selinux_current_policy_path ()
returns tha currently loaded policy file from tha kernel.
.sp
.BR selinux_default_type_path ()
returns tha context file mappin rolez ta default types.
.sp
.BR selinux_failsafe_context_path ()
returns tha failsafe context fo' emergency logins.
.sp
.BR selinux_removable_context_path ()
returns tha filesystem context fo' removable media.
.sp
.BR selinux_default_context_path ()
returns tha system-wide default contexts fo' user sessions.
.sp
.BR selinux_user_contexts_path ()
returns tha directory containin per-user default contexts.
.sp
.BR selinux_usersconf_path ()
returns tha file containin mappin between Linux Users n' SELinux users.
.sp
.BR selinux_x_context_path ()
returns tha file containin configuration fo' XSELinux extension.
.sp
.BR selinux_sepgsql_context_path ()
returns tha file containin configuration fo' SE-PostgreSQL.
.sp
.BR selinux_netfilter_context_path ()
returns tha default netfilta context.
.sp
.BR selinux_file_context_path ()
returns tha default system file contexts configuration.
.sp
.BR selinux_file_context_local_path ()
returns tha local customization file contexts configuration.
.sp
.BR selinux_file_context_homedir_path ()
returns tha home directory file contexts configuration.
.sp
.BR selinux_media_context_path ()
returns tha file contexts fo' media thang nodes.
.sp
.BR selinux_contexts_path ()
returns tha directory containin all of tha context configuration files.
.sp
.BR selinux_securetty_types_path ()
returns tha defines tty types fo' newrole securettys.
.sp
.BR selinux_booleans_path ()
returns tha initial policy boolean settings.
.
.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8)"
