.\" Yo Emacs muthafucka! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2007
.TH "selinux_set_callback" "3" "20 Jun 2007" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selinux_set_callback \- userspace SELinux callback facilities
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "void selinux_set_callback(int " type ", union selinux_callback " callback ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selinux_set_callback ()
sets tha callback indicated by
.I type
to tha value of
.IR callback ,
which should be passed as a gangbangin' function pointa cast ta type
.B union
.BR selinux_callback .

All callback functions should return a wack value with
.I errno
set appropriately on error.

Da available joints fo' 
.I type
are:
.TP
.B SELINUX_CB_LOG
.BI "int (*" func_log ") (int " type ", const char *" fmt ", ...);"

This callback is used fo' loggin n' should process tha 
.BR printf (3)
style 
.I fmt
strin n' arguments as appropriate.  The
.I type
argument indicates tha type of message n' is ghon be set ta one of tha following:

.B SELINUX_ERROR

.B SELINUX_WARNING

.B SELINUX_INFO

.B SELINUX_AVC
.
.TP
.B SELINUX_CB_AUDIT
.BI "int (*" func_audit ") (void *" auditdata ", security_class_t " cls ,
.in +\w'int (*func_audit) ('u
.BI "char *" msgbuf ", size_t " msgbufsize ");"
.in

This callback is used fo' supplemenstrual auditin up in AVC lyrics.  The
.I auditdata
and
.I cls
arguments is tha joints passed to
.BR avc_has_perm (3).
A human-readable interpretation should be printed to
.I msgbuf
usin no mo' than
.I msgbufsize
characters.
.
.TP
.B SELINUX_CB_VALIDATE
.BI "int (*" func_validate ") (security_context_t *" ctx ");"

This callback is used fo' context validation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da callback may optionally modify tha input context by settin tha target of tha 
.I ctx
pointa ta a freshly smoked up context.  In dis case, tha oldschool value should be freed with
.BR freecon (3).
Da value of
.I errno
should be set to
.B EINVAL
to indicate a invalid context.
.
.TP
.B SELINUX_CB_SETENFORCE
.BI "int (*" func_setenforce ") (int " enforcin ");"

This callback is invoked when tha system enforcin state chizzles.
The
.I enforcing
argument indicates tha freshly smoked up value n' is set to
.I 1
for enforcin mode, and
.I 0
for permissive mode.
.
.TP
.B SELINUX_CB_POLICYLOAD
.BI "int (*" func_policyload ") (int " seqno ");"

This callback is invoked when tha system securitizzle policy is reloaded.
The
.I seqno
argument is tha current sequential number of tha policy generation up in tha system.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
None.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
None.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selabel_open (3),
.BR avc_init (3),
.BR avc_netlink_open (3),
.BR selinux (8)
