.TH "selinux_raw_context_to_color" "3" "08 April 2011" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selinux_raw_context_to_color \- Return RGB color strang fo' a SELinux securitizzle context
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int selinux_raw_context_to_color(security_context_t " raw ", "
.RS
.BI "char **" color_str ");"
.RE
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
returns a 
.I color_str
associated ta tha raw context 
.I raw
provided dat tha 
.BR mcstransd "(8)"
daemon is hustlin, tha policy be a MLS type policy (MCS or MLS) n' there be a cold-ass lil color configuration file
.BR \%secolor.conf (5)
(see the
.B FILES
section).
.sp
Da 
.I color_str
strin be a space separated list of eight hexadecimal RGB triples, each prefixed by a hash characta (#). These represent tha user:role:type:range componentz of tha foreground n' background colors fo' realz. An example strang is shown up in tha 
.B EXAMPLE
section.

Da returned
.I color_str
strin must be freed wit 
.BR free "(3)." 

If a cold-ass lil color has not been configured fo' a specific user, role, type and/or range component of context 
.IR raw ","
then
.BR \%selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
will select tha color returned up in 
.I color_str
in order of precedence as bigs up:
.RS
role, type, range
.br
user, type, range
.br
user, role, range 
.br
user, role, type 
.br
.RE

If there be no entries up in tha 
.BR secolor.conf (5)
file fo' any of tha componentz of context 
.I raw
(or tha file aint present), then tha default strang returned up in 
.I color_str
is:
.sp
.RS
----- user ---- ---- role ----  ---- type ----  ---- range ----
.br
#000000 #ffffff #000000 #ffffff #000000 #ffffff #000000 #ffffff
.sp
.RE
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.
.br
On failure, \-1 is returned wit 
.I errno
set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.B ENOENT
If tha 
.BR mcstransd "(8)"
daemon aint hustlin. 
.
.SH "FILES"
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
obtains tha translated entry from tha actizzle policy 
.BR secolor.conf "(5)"
file as returned by
.BR \%selinux_colors_path (3).
Da file format is busted lyrics bout up in 
.BR \%secolor.conf (5).
.
.SH "NOTES"
1. Da primary use of 
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
is ta return a cold-ass lil color dat correspondz ta a range, dat can then be used ta highlight shiznit at different MLS levels.
.sp
2. Da 
.BR mcstransd "(8)"
daemon process securitizzle level must dominizzle tha 
.I raw
securitizzle level passed ta it by tha 
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If not, tha range color selected is ghon be as defined by tha order of precedence.
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.BR selinux_raw_context_to_color ()
returns tha foreground n' background flavaz of tha context strang components (user:role:type:range) as RGB triplez as bigs up:
.sp

      user     :       role      :      type      :      range
.br
  fg       bg  :   fg       bg   :  fg       bg   :  fg       bg  
.br
#000000 #ffffff  #ffffff #000000  #d2b48c #ffa500  #000000 #008000
.br
 black   white :  white   black  : tan    orange  : black   chronic 
.br
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " selinux_colors_path "(3), " mcstransd "(8), " secolor.conf "(5), " selinux_raw_to_trans_context "(3), " selinux_trans_to_raw_context "(3), " free "(3)"
