.TH "selinux_file_context_verify" "3" "08 March 2011" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selinux_file_context_verify \- Compare tha SELinux securitizzle context on disk ta tha default securitizzle context required by tha policy file contexts file
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int selinux_file_context_verify(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode ");"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selinux_file_context_verify ()
compares tha context of tha specified
.I path
that is held on disk (in tha extended attribute), ta tha system default entry held up in tha file contexts seriez of files.
.sp
The
.I mode
may be zero.
.sp
Note dat tha two contexts is compared fo' "significant" differences (i.e. tha user component of tha contexts is ignored) as shown up in the
.B EXAMPLE
section.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If tha contexts hella match, 1 (one) is returned.
.sp
If tha contexts do not match 0 (zero) is returned and
.I errno
is set ta either
.B ENOENT
or
.B EINVAL
for tha reasons listed up in the
.B ERRORS
section, or if
.I errno
= 0 then tha contexts did not match.
.sp
On failure \-1 is returned and
.I errno
set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOTSUP
if extended attributes is not supported by tha file system.
.TP
.B ENOENT
if there is no entry up in tha file contexts seriez of filez or
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.B EINVAL
if tha entry up in tha file contexts seriez of filez or
.I path
are invalid, or tha returned context fails validation.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
if attempt ta allocate memory failed.
.
.SH "FILES"
Da followin configuration filez (the file contexts seriez of files) supportin tha actizzle policy is ghon be used (should they exist) ta determine the
.I path
default context:
.sp
.RS
.I contexts/files/file_contexts
- This file must exist.
.sp
.I contexts/files/file_contexts.local
- If exists has local customizations.
.sp
.I contexts/files/file_contexts.homedirs
- If exists has playas home directory customizations.
.sp
.I contexts/files/file_contexts.subs
- If exists has substitutions dat is then applied ta tha 'in memory' version of tha file contexts files.
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
If tha filez context is:
.RS
unconfined_u:object_r:admin_home_t:s0
.RE
.sp
and tha default context defined up in tha file contexts file is:
.RS
system_u:object_r:admin_home_t:s0
.RE
.sp
then tha actual strings compared are:
.RS
:object_r:admin_home_t:s0 n' :object_r:admin_home_t:s0
.RE
.sp
Therefore they will match and
.BR selinux_file_context_verify ()
will return 1.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8)"
