'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SEM_OPEN 3 2012-05-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sem_open \- initialize n' open a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <fcntl.h>" "           /* For O_* constants */"
.BR "#include <sys/stat.h>" "        /* For mode constants */"
.B #include <semaphore.h>
.sp
.BI "sem_t *sem_open(const char *" name ", int " oflag );
.BI "sem_t *sem_open(const char *" name ", int " oflag ", "
.BI "                mode_t " mode ", unsigned int " value );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sem_open ()
creates a freshly smoked up POSIX semaphore or opens a existin semaphore.
Da semaphore is identified by
.IR name .
For detailz of tha construction of
.IR name ,
see
.BR sem_overview (7).

The
.I oflag
argument specifies flags dat control tha operation of tha call.
(Definitionz of tha flags joints can be obtained by including
.IR <fcntl.h> .)
If
.B O_CREAT
is specified in
.IR oflag ,
then tha semaphore is pimped if
it do not already exist.
Da balla (user ID) of tha semaphore is set ta tha effective
user ID of tha callin process.
Da crew ballershizzle (group ID) is set ta tha effectizzle crew ID
of tha callin process.
.\" In realitizzle tha file system IDs is used on Linux.
If both
.B O_CREAT
and
.B O_EXCL
are specified in
.IR oflag ,
then a error is returned if a semaphore wit tha given
.I name
already exists.
.PP
If
.B O_CREAT
is specified in
.IR oflag ,
then two additionizzle arguments must be supplied.
The
.I mode
argument specifies tha permissions ta be placed on tha freshly smoked up semaphore,
as for
.BR open (2).
(Symbolic definitions fo' tha permissions bits can be obtained by including
.IR <sys/stat.h> .)
Da permissions settings is maxed against tha process umask.
Both read n' write permission should be granted ta each class of
user dat will access tha semaphore.
The
.I value
argument specifies tha initial value fo' tha freshly smoked up semaphore.
If
.B O_CREAT
is specified, n' a semaphore wit tha given
.I name
already exists, then
.I mode
and
.I value
are ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sem_open ()
returns tha address of tha freshly smoked up semaphore;
this address is used when callin other semaphore-related functions.
On error,
.BR sem_open ()
returns
.BR SEM_FAILED ,
with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Da semaphore exists yo, but tha calla aint gots permission to
open dat shit.
.TP
.B EEXIST
Both
.B O_CREAT
and
.B O_EXCL
were specified in
.IR oflag ,
but a semaphore wit this
.I name
already exists.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I value
was pimped outa than
.BR SEM_VALUE_MAX .
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I name
consistz of just "/", followed by no other characters.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Da process already has tha maximum number of filez n' open.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I name
was too long.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Da system limit on tha total number of open filez has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The
.B O_CREAT
flag was not specified in
.IR oflag
and no semaphore wit this
.I name
exists;
or,
.\" dis error can occur if our crazy asses gotz a name of tha (nonportable) form
.\" /dir/name, n' tha directory /dev/shm/dir do not exist.
.B O_CREAT
was specified yo, but
.I name
wasn't well formed.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sem_close (3),
.BR sem_getvalue (3),
.BR sem_post (3),
.BR sem_unlink (3),
.BR sem_wait (3),
.BR sem_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
