'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SEM_GETVALUE 3 2012-05-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sem_getvalue \- git tha value of a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <semaphore.h>
.sp
.BI "int sem_getvalue(sem_t *" sem ", int *" sval );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sem_getvalue ()
places tha current value of tha semaphore pointed to
.I sem
into tha integer pointed ta by
.IR sval .

If one or mo' processes or threadz is blocked
waitin ta lock tha semaphore with
.BR sem_wait (3),
POSIX.1-2001 permits two possibilitizzles fo' tha value returned in
.IR sval :
either 0 is returned;
or a wack number whose absolute value is tha count
of tha number of processes n' threadz currently blocked in
.BR sem_wait (3).
Linux adopts tha forma behavior.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR sem_getvalue ()
returns 0 on success;
on error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sem
is not a valid semaphore.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da value of tha semaphore may already have chizzled by tha time
.BR sem_getvalue ()
returns.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sem_post (3),
.BR sem_wait (3),
.BR sem_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
