'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SEM_UNLINK 3 2012-05-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sem_unlink \- remove a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <semaphore.h>
.sp
.BI "int sem_unlink(const char *" name );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sem_unlink ()
removes tha named semaphore referred ta by
.IR name .
Da semaphore name is removed immediately.
Da semaphore is destroyed once all other processes dat have
the semaphore open close dat shit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR sem_unlink ()
returns 0; on error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Da calla aint gots permission ta unlink dis semaphore.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I name
was too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
There is no semaphore wit tha given
.IR name .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sem_getvalue (3),
.BR sem_open (3),
.BR sem_post (3),
.BR sem_wait (3),
.BR sem_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
