'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_win.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH form_win 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_win\fR \- make n' break form window n' subwindow associations
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
int set_form_win(FORM *form, WINDOW *win);
.br
WINDOW *form_win(const FORM *form);
.br
int set_form_sub(FORM *form, WINDOW *sub);
.br
WINDOW *form_sub(const FORM *form);
.br
int scale_form(const FORM *form, int *rows, int *columns);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Every form has a associated pair of \fBcurses\fR windows.  Da form window
displays any title n' border associated wit tha window; tha form subwindow
displays tha shit of tha form dat is currently available fo' selection.
.PP
Da first four functions git n' set dem windows.  It aint necessary ta set
either window; by default, tha driver code uses \fBstdscr\fR fo' both.
.PP
In tha \fBset_\fR functions, window argument of \fBNULL\fR is treated as though
it was \fBstsdcr\fR.  A form argument of \fBNULL\fR is treated as a request
to chizzle tha system default form window or subwindow.
.PP
Da function \fBscale_form\fR returns tha minimum size required fo' the
subwindow of \fIform\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return pointas return \fBNULL\fR on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Routines dat return
an integer return one of tha followin error codes:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_POSTED
Da form has already been posted.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No shit is connected ta tha form.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_variables\fR(3X),
\fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
