'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu_hook.3x,v 1.11 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH menu_hook 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmenu_hook\fR \- set hooks fo' automatic invocation by applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.br
int set_item_init(MENU *menu, Menu_Hook func);
.br
Menu_Hook item_init(const MENU *menu);
.br
int set_item_term(MENU *menu, Menu_Hook func);
.br
Menu_Hook item_term(const MENU *menu);
.br
int set_menu_init(MENU *menu, Menu_Hook func);
.br
Menu_Hook menu_init(const MENU *menu);
.br
int set_menu_term(MENU *menu, Menu_Hook func);
.br
Menu_Hook menu_term(const MENU *menu);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions make it possible ta set hook functions ta be called at various
points up in tha automatic processin of input event codes by \fBmenu_driver\fR.
.PP
Da function \fBset_item_init\fR sets a hook ta be called at menu-post time and
each time tha selected item chizzlez (afta tha chizzle).  \fBitem_init\fR
returns tha current item init hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_item_term\fR sets a hook ta be called at menu-unpost time
and each time tha selected item chizzlez (before tha chizzle).  \fBitem_term\fR
returns tha current item term hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_menu_init\fR sets a hook ta be called at menu-post time and
just afta tha top row on tha menu chizzlez once it is posted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  \fBmenu_init\fR
returns tha current menu init hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there is no such
hook).
.PP
Da function \fBset_menu_term\fR sets a hook ta be called at menu-unpost time
and just before tha top row on tha menu chizzlez once it is posted.
\fBmenu_term\fR returns tha current menu term hook, if any (\fBNULL\fR if there
is no such hook).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return pointas return \fBNULL\fR on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Other routines
return one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBmenu\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V menu library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
