'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_page.3x,v 1.12 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_page 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_page\fR \- set n' git form page number
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
int set_current_field(FORM *form, FIELD *field);
.br
FIELD *current_field(const FORM *);
.br
int set_form_page(FORM *form, int n);
.br
int form_page(const FORM *form);
.br
int field_index(const FIELD *field);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBset_current field\fR sets tha current field of tha given
form; \fBcurrent_field\fR returns tha current field of tha given form.
.PP
Da function \fBset_form_page\fR sets tha formz page number (goes ta page
\fIn\fR of tha form).
.PP
Da function \fBform_page\fR returns tha formz current page number.
.PP
Da function \fBfield_index\fR returns tha index of tha field up in the
field array of tha form it is connected to. Well shiiiit, it returns \fBERR\fR if
the argument is tha null pointa or tha field aint connected.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Except fo' \fBform_page\fR, each routine returns one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_STATE
Routine was called from a initialization or termination function.
.TP 5
.B E_INVALID_FIELD
Contentz of a gangbangin' field is not valid.
.TP 5
.B E_REQUEST_DENIED
Da form driver could not process tha request.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
