'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: mitem_current.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH mitem_current 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBmitem_current\fR \- set n' git current_menu_item
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.br
int set_current_item(MENU *menu, const ITEM *item);
.br
ITEM *current_item(const MENU *menu);
.br
int set_top_row(MENU *menu, int row);
.br
int top_row(const MENU *menu);
.br
int item_index(const ITEM *item);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBset_current_item\fR sets tha current item (the item on which
the menu cursor is positioned).  \fBcurrent_item\fR returns a pointa ta the
current item up in tha given menu.
.PP
Da function \fBset_top_row\fR sets tha top row of tha menu ta show tha given
row (the top row is initially 0, n' is reset ta dis value whenever the
\fBO_ROWMAJOR\fR option is toggled).  Da item leftmost on tha given row
becomes current.  Da function \fBtop_row\fR returns tha number of tha top menu
row bein displayed.
.PP
Da function \fBitem_index\fR returns tha (zero-origin) index of \fIitem\fR in
the menuz item pointa list.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBcurrent_item\fR returns a pointa (which may be \fBNULL\fR).
It do not set errno.
.PP
\fBtop_row\fR n' \fBitem_index\fR return \fBERR\fR (the general \fBcurses\fR
error value) if they \fImenu\fP parameta is \fBNULL\fP.
.PP
\fBset_current_item\fR n' \fBset_top_row\fR return one of tha following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_STATE
Routine was called from a initialization or termination function.
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No shit is connected ta tha menu.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBmenu\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V menu library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.PP
Da SVr4 menu library documentation specifies tha \fBtop_row\fR and
\fBindex_item\fR error value as \-1 (which is tha value of \fBERR\fR).
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
