'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_fieldtype.3x,v 1.16 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_fieldtype 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_fieldtype\fR \- define validation-field types
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
FIELDTYPE *new_fieldtype(
    bool (* const field_check)(FIELD *, const void *),
    bool (* const char_check)(int, const void *));
.br
int free_fieldtype(FIELDTYPE *fieldtype);
.br
int set_fieldtype_arg(
    FIELDTYPE *fieldtype,
    void *(* const make_arg)(va_list *),
    void *(* const copy_arg)(const void *),
    void  (* const free_arg)(void *));
.br
int set_fieldtype_choice(
    FIELDTYPE *fieldtype,
    bool (* const next_choice)(FIELD *, const void *),
    bool (* const prev_choice)(FIELD *, const void *));
.br
FIELDTYPE *link_fieldtype(FIELDTYPE *type1,
                          FIELDTYPE *type2);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function \fBnew_fieldtype\fR creates a freshly smoked up field type usable fo' data
validation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass supply it wit \fIfield_check\fR, a predicate ta check the
validitizzle of a entered data strang whenever tha user attempts ta leave a gangbangin' field.
Da (FIELD *) argument is passed up in so tha validation predicate can peep the
fieldz buffer, sizes n' other attributes; tha second argument be an
argument-block structure, bout which mo' below.
.PP
Yo ass also supply \fBnew_fieldtype\fR wit \fIchar_check\fR,
a function ta validate input charactas as they is entered; it is ghon be passed
the characta ta be checked n' a pointa ta a argument-block structure.
.PP
Da function \fBfree_fieldtype\fR frees tha space allocated fo' a given
validation type.
.PP
Da function \fBset_fieldtype_arg\fR associates three storage-management functions
with a gangbangin' field type.
Da \fImake_arg\fR function be automatically applied ta the
list of arguments you give \fBset_field_type\fR when attachin validation
to a gangbangin' field; its thang is ta bundle these tha fuck into a allocated argument-block
object which can lata be passed ta validation predicated.
Da other two hook arguments should copy n' free argument-block structures.
They is ghon be used by tha forms-driver code.
Yo ass must supply tha \fImake_arg\fR function,
the other two is optional, you may supply NULL fo' em.
In dis case it be assumed
that \fImake_arg\fR do not allocate memory but simply loadz the
argument tha fuck into a single scalar value.
.PP
Da function \fBlink_fieldtype\fR creates
a freshly smoked up field type from tha two given types.
They is connected by a logical 'OR'.
.PP
Da form driver requests \fBREQ_NEXT_CHOICE\fR n' \fBREQ_PREV_CHOICE\fR assume
that tha possible jointz of a gangbangin' field form a ordered set, n' provide tha forms
user wit a way ta move all up in tha set.
Da \fBset_fieldtype_choice\fR
function allows forms programmers ta define successor n' predecessor functions
for tha field type.
These functions take tha field pointa n' an
argument-block structure as arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da pointer-valued routines return NULL on error.
They set errno accordin ta they success:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred, e.g., malloc failure.
.PP
Da integer-valued routines return one of tha followin codes on
error:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
Da routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected a incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_CONNECTED
Da field be already connected ta a gangbangin' form.
.TP 5
.B E_CURRENT
Da field is tha current field.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
Da header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes tha header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.PP
All of tha \fB(char *)\fR argumentz of these functions should straight-up be
\fB(void *)\fR.  Da type has been left uncorrected fo' strict compatibility
with System V.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate tha System V forms library.  They was not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer n' shit.  Manual pages n' adaptation fo' freshly smoked up curses by Eric
S. Raymond.
