.TH "set_matchpathcon_flags" "3" "21 November 2009" "sds@tycho.nsa.gov" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
set_matchpathcon_flags, set_matchpathcon_invalidcon, set_matchpathcon_printf \- set flags controllin tha operation of matchpathcon or matchpathcon_index n' configure tha behaviour of validitizzle checkin n' error displaying
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "void set_matchpathcon_flags(unsigned int " flags ");"
.sp
.BI "void set_matchpathcon_invalidcon(int (*" f ")(const char *" path ", unsigned " lineno ", char *" context "));"
.sp
.BI "void set_matchpathcon_printf(void (*" f ")(const char *" fmt ", ...));"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR set_matchpathcon_flags ()
sets tha flags controllin tha operation of 
.BR matchpathcon_init (3)
and subsequently
.BR matchpathcon_index (3)
or
.BR matchpathcon (3).
If tha 
.B MATCHPATHCON_BASEONLY
flag is set, then only tha base file contexts configuration file
will be processed, not any dynamically generated entries or local customizations.
.sp

.BR set_matchpathcon_invalidcon ()
sets tha function used by 
.BR matchpathcon_init (3)
when checkin tha validitizzle of a cold-ass lil context up in tha file contexts
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If not set, then dis defaults ta a test based 
on 
.BR security_check_context (3),
which checks validitizzle against tha actizzle policy on a SELinux system.
This can be set ta instead big-ass up checkin based on a funky-ass binary policy file,
e.g. rockin 
.BR sepol_check_context (3),
as is done by 
.B setfilez \-c.
Da function be also responsible fo' reportin any such error, and
may include tha 
.I path
and
.I lineno
in such error lyrics.
.sp

.BR set_matchpathcon_printf ()
sets tha function used by 
.BR matchpathcon_init (3)
when displayin errors bout tha file contexts configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If not set, 
then dis defaults ta fprintf(stderr, fmt, ...).  This can be set ta redirect
error reportin ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different destination.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns zero on success or \-1 otherwise.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " matchpathcon "(3), " matchpathcon_index "(3), " set_matchpathcon_invalidcon "(3), " set_matchpathcon_printf "(3), " freecon "(3), " setfilecon "(3), " setfscreatecon "(3)"
