.\" Copyright 2003 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Polished a funky-ass bit, added a lil, aeb
.\"
.TH SETALIASENT 3 2003-09-09 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setaliasent, endaliasent, getaliasent, getaliasent_r,
getaliasbyname, getaliasbyname_r \- read a alias entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <aliases.h>
.sp
.B "void setaliasent(void);"
.sp
.B "void endaliasent(void);"
.sp
.B "struct aliasent *getaliasent(void);"
.sp
.BI "int getaliasent_r(struct aliasent *" result ","
.br
.BI "        char *" buffer ", size_t " buflen ", struct aliasent **" res );
.sp
.BI "struct aliasent *getaliasbyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "int getaliasbyname_r(const char *" name ", struct aliasent *" result ,
.br
.BI "        char *" buffer ", size_t " buflen ", struct aliasent **" res );
.SH DESCRIPTION
One of tha databases available wit tha Name Service Switch (NSS)
is tha aliases database, dat gotz nuff mail aliases.
(To smoke up which databases is supported, try
.IR "getent \-\-help" .)
Six functions is provided ta access tha aliases database.
.PP
The
.BR getaliasent ()
function returns a pointa ta a structure containing
the crew shiznit from tha aliases database.
Da last time it is called it returns tha straight-up original gangsta entry;
thereafter, it returns successive entries.
.PP
The
.BR setaliasent ()
function rewindz tha file pointa ta tha beginnin of the
aliases database.
.PP
The
.BR endaliasent ()
function closes tha aliases database.
.PP
.BR getaliasent_r ()
is tha reentrant version of tha previous function.
Da axed structure
is stored via tha straight-up original gangsta argument but tha programmer need ta fill tha other
arguments also.
Not providin enough space causes tha function ta fail.
.PP
Da function
.BR getaliasbyname ()
takes tha name argument n' searches tha aliases database.
Da entry is returned as a pointa ta a
.IR "struct aliasent" .
.PP
.BR getaliasbyname_r ()
is tha reentrant version of tha previous function.
Da axed structure
is stored via tha second argument but tha programmer need ta fill tha other
arguments also.
Not providin enough space causes tha function ta fail.
.PP
The
.I "struct aliasent"
is defined in
.IR <aliases.h> :
.in +4n
.nf

struct aliasent {
    char    *alias_name;             /* alias name */
    size_t   alias_members_len;
    char   **alias_members;          /* alias name list */
    int      alias_local;
};
.fi
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da functions
.BR getaliasent_r ()
and
.BR getaliasbyname_r ()
return a nonzero value on error.
.SH FILES
Da default alias database is tha file
.IR /etc/aliases .
This can be chizzled up in the
.I /etc/nsswitch.conf
file.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These routines is glibc-specific.
Da NeXT system has similar routines:
.in +4n
.nf

#include <aliasdb.h>

void alias_setent(void);
void alias_endent(void);
alias_ent *alias_getent(void);
alias_ent *alias_getbyname(char *name);
.fi
.in
.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin example compilez with
.IR "gcc example.c \-o example" .
It will dump all names up in tha alias database.
.sp
.nf
#include <aliases.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <errno.h>

int
main(void)
{
    struct aliasent *al;
    setaliasent();
    fo' (;;) {
        al = getaliasent();
        if (al == NULL)
            break;
        printf("Name: %s\\n", al\->alias_name);
    }
    if (errno) {
        perror("readin alias");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }
    endaliasent();
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR getspent (3),
.BR aliases (5)
.\"
.\" /etc/sendmail/aliases
.\" Yellow Pages
.\" newaliases, postalias
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
