.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Mike kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 9 Jun 2004, Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Chizzled unsetenv() prototype; added EINVAL error
.\"     Noted nonstandard behavior of setenv() if name gotz nuff '='
.\" 2005-08-12, mtk, glibc 2.3.4 fixed tha "name gotz nuff '='" bug
.\"
.TH SETENV 3  2009-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setenv \- chizzle or add a environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int setenv(const char *" name ", const char *" value ", int " overwrite );
.sp
.BI "int unsetenv(const char *" name );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR setenv (),
.BR unsetenv ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR setenv ()
function addz tha variable
.I name
to the
environment wit tha value
.IR value ,
if
.I name
does not
already exist.
If
.I name
does exist up in tha environment, then
its value is chizzled to
.IR value
if
.I overwrite
is nonzero;
if
.IR overwrite
is zero, then tha value of
.I name
is not
changed.
This function make copiez of tha strings pointed ta by
.I name
and
.I value
(by contrast with
.BR putenv (3)).
.PP
The
.BR unsetenv ()
function deletes tha variable
.I name
from
the environment.
If
.I name
does not exist up in tha environment,
then tha function succeeds, n' tha environment is unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR setenv ()
function returns zero on success,
or \-1 on error, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.

The
.BR unsetenv ()
function returns zero on success,
or \-1 on error, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I name
is NULL, points ta a strang of length 0,
or gotz nuff a \(aq=\(aq character.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory ta add a freshly smoked up variable ta tha environment.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1-2001 do not require
.BR setenv ()
or
.BR unsetenv ()
to be reentrant.

Prior ta glibc 2.2.2,
.BR unsetenv ()
was prototyped
as returning
.IR void ;
more recent glibc versions follow the
POSIX.1-2001-compliant prototype shown up in tha SYNOPSIS.
.SH BUGS
POSIX.1-2001 specifies dat if
.I name
gotz nuff a \(aq=\(aq character, then
.BR setenv ()
should fail wit tha error
.BR EINVAL ;
however, versionz of glibc before 2.3.4 allowed a \(aq=\(aq sign in
.IR name .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clearenv (3),
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR environ (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
