.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SETLOGMASK 3  2001-10-05 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setlogmask \- set log prioritizzle mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syslog.h>
.sp
.BI "int setlogmask(int " mask );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A process has a log prioritizzle mask dat determines which calls to
.BR syslog (3)
may be logged.
All other calls is ghon be ignored.
Loggin is enabled fo' tha prioritizzles dat have tha corresponding
bit set in
.IR mask .
Da initial mask is such dat loggin is enabled fo' all priorities.
.LP
The
.BR setlogmask ()
function sets dis logmask fo' tha callin process,
and returns tha previous mask.
If tha mask argument is 0, tha current logmask aint modified.
.LP
Da eight prioritizzles are
.BR LOG_EMERG ,
.BR LOG_ALERT ,
.BR LOG_CRIT ,
.BR LOG_ERR ,
.BR LOG_WARNING ,
.BR LOG_NOTICE ,
.BR LOG_INFO ,
and
.BR LOG_DEBUG .
Da bit correspondin ta a priority
.I p
is
.IR LOG_MASK(p) .
Some systems also provide a macro
.IR LOG_UPTO(p)
for tha mask
of all prioritizzles up in tha above list up ta n' including
.IR p .
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns tha previous log prioritizzle mask.
.SH ERRORS
None.
.\" .SH NOTES
.\" Da glibc logmask handlin was fucked up in versions before glibc 2.1.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
Note dat tha description up in POSIX.1-2001 is flawed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closelog (3),
.BR openlog (3),
.BR syslog (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
