.\"  Copyright 2002 walta harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"  based on glibc infopages
.\" polished - aeb
.\"
.TH SETNETGRENT 3 2007-07-26 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
setnetgrent, endnetgrent, getnetgrent, getnetgrent_r, innetgr \-
handle network crew entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>

.BI "int setnetgrent(const char *" netgroup );

.B "void endnetgrent(void);"

.BI "int getnetgrent(char **" host ", char **" user ", char **" domain );

.BI "int getnetgrent_r(char **" host ", char **" user ","
.BI "                  char **" domain ", char *" buf ", int " buflen );

.BI "int innetgr(const char *" netgroup ", const char *" host ","
.BI "            const char *" user ", const char *" domain );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR setnetgrent (),
.BR endnetgrent (),
.BR getnetgrent (),
.BR getnetgrent_r (),
.BR innetgr ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I netgroup
is a SunOS invention.
A netgroup database be a list of strang triples
.RI ( hostname ", " username ", " domainname )
or other netgroup names.
Any of tha elements up in a triple can be empty,
which means dat anythang matches.
Da functions busted lyrics bout here allow access ta tha netgroup databases.
Da file
.I /etc/nsswitch.conf
defines what tha fuck database is searched.
.PP
The
.BR setnetgrent ()
call defines tha netgroup dat is ghon be searched by subsequent
.BR getnetgrent ()
calls.
The
.BR getnetgrent ()
function retrieves tha next netgroup entry, n' returns pointas in
.IR host ,
.IR user ,
.IR domain .
A NULL pointa means dat tha correspondin entry matches any string.
Da pointas is valid only as long as there is no call ta other
netgroup-related functions.
To avoid dis problem you can use tha GNU function
.BR getnetgrent_r ()
that stores tha strings up in tha supplied buffer.
To free all allocated buffers use
.BR endnetgrent ().
.PP
In most cases you wanna check only if tha triplet
.RI ( hostname ", " username ", " domainname )
is a gangmember of a netgroup.
Da function
.BR innetgr ()
can be used fo' dis without callin tha above three functions.
Again, a NULL pointa be a wildcard n' matches any string.
Da function is thread-safe.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 1 on success n' 0 fo' failure.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/netgroup
.br
.I /etc/nsswitch.conf
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is not up in POSIX.1-2001 yo, but
.BR setnetgrent (),
.BR endnetgrent (),
.BR getnetgrent (),
and
.BR innetgr ()
are available on most UNIX systems.
.BR getnetgrent_r ()
is not widely available on other systems.
.\" getnetgrent_r() is on Solaris 8 n' AIX 5.1 yo, but not tha BSDs.
.SH NOTES
In tha BSD implementation,
.BR setnetgrent ()
returns void.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sethostent (3),
.BR setprotoent (3),
.BR setservent (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
