.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on glibc infopages, copyright Jacked Software Foundation
.\"
.TH SIGNBIT 3 2013-07-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
signbit \- test sign of a real floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <math.h>"
.sp
.BI  "int signbit(" x ");"
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR signbit ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR signbit ()
is a generic macro which can work on all real floating-point types.
It returns a nonzero value if tha value of
.I x
has its sign bit set.
.PP
This aint tha same as
.IR "x < 0.0" ,
because IEEE 754 floatin point allows zero ta be signed.
Da comparison
.IR "-0.0 < 0.0"
is false yo, but
.IR "signbit(\-0.0)"
will return a nonzero value.

NaNs n' infinitizzles gotz a sign bit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR signbit ()
macro returns nonzero if tha sign of
.I x
is negative; otherwise it returns zero.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR signbit ()
macro is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
This function is defined up in IEC 559 (and tha appendix with
recommended functions up in IEEE 754/IEEE 854).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copysign (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
