.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SIGPAUSE 3 2010-09-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sigpause \- atomically release blocked signals n' wait fo' interrupt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigpause(int " sigmask ");  /* BSD */"
.sp
.BI "int sigpause(int " sig ");      /* System V / UNIX 95 */"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Don't use dis function.
Use
.BR sigsuspend (2)
instead.
.LP
Da function
.BR sigpause ()
is designed ta wait fo' some signal.
It chizzlez tha processs signal mask (set of blocked signals),
and then waits fo' a signal ta arrive.
Upon arrival of a signal, tha original gangsta signal mask is restored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If
.BR sigpause ()
returns, dat shiznit was interrupted by a signal n' tha return value is \-1
with
.I errno
set to
.BR EINTR .
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da System V version of
.BR sigpause ()
is standardized up in POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
.SS History
Da old-ass BSD version of dis function rocked up in 4.2BSD.
It sets tha processs signal mask to
.IR sigmask .
UNIX 95 standardized tha incompatible System V version of
this function, which removes only tha specified signal
.I sig
from tha processs signal mask.
.\" __xpg_sigpause: UNIX 95, spec 1170, SVID, SVr4, XPG
Da fucked up thang wit two incompatible functions wit the
same name was solved by the
.BR \%sigsuspend (2)
function, dat takes a
.I "sigset_t\ *"
argument (instead of an
.IR int ).
.SS Linux notes
On Linux, dis routine be a system call only on tha Sparc (sparc64)
architecture.

Libc4 n' libc5 know only bout tha BSD version.

Glibc uses tha BSD version if the
.B _BSD_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined n' none of
.BR _POSIX_SOURCE ,
.BR _POSIX_C_SOURCE ,
.BR _XOPEN_SOURCE ,
.BR _GNU_SOURCE ,
or
.B _SVID_SOURCE
is defined.
Otherwise, tha System V version is used.
.\"
.\" For tha BSD version, one probably uses a zero
.\" .I sigmask
.\" ta indicate dat no signals is ta be blocked.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bust a cap up in (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR sigblock (3),
.BR sigvec (3),
.BR feature_test_macros (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
