.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Battersby
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by aeb, 960721
.\" 2005-11-21, mtk, added descriptionz of sigisemptyset(), sigandset(),
.\"                  n' sigorset()
.\" 2007-10-26 mdw   added wordin dat a sigset_t must be initialized
.\"                  prior ta use
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 2013-04-19 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sigemptyset, sigfillset, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigismember \- POSIX
signal set operations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigemptyset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigfillset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigaddset(sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigdelset(sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigismember(const sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR sigemptyset (),
.BR sigfillset (),
.BR sigaddset (),
.BR sigdelset (),
.BR sigismember ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions allow tha manipulation of POSIX signal sets.
.PP
.BR sigemptyset ()
initializes tha signal set given by
.I set
to empty, wit all signals excluded from tha set.
.PP
.BR sigfillset ()
initializes
.I set
to full, includin all signals.
.PP
.BR sigaddset ()
and
.BR sigdelset ()
add n' delete respectively signal
.I signum
from
.IR set .
.PP
.BR sigismember ()
tests whether
.I signum
is a gangmember of
.IR set .
.PP
Objectz of type
.I sigset_t
must be initialized by a cold-ass lil call ta either
.BR sigemptyset ()
or
.BR sigfillset ()
before bein passed ta tha functions
.BR sigaddset (),
.BR sigdelset ()
and
.BR sigismember ()
or tha additionizzle glibc functions busted lyrics bout below
.RB ( sigisemptyset (),
.BR sigandset (),
and
.BR sigorset ()).
Da thangs up in dis biatch is undefined if dis aint done.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR sigemptyset (),
.BR sigfillset (),
.BR sigaddset (),
and
.BR sigdelset ()
return 0 on success n' \-1 on error.
.PP
.BR sigismember ()
returns 1 if
.I signum
is a gangmember of
.IR set ,
0 if
.I signum
is not a member, n' \-1 on error.
On error, these functions set
.I errno
to indicate tha cause.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sig
is not a valid signal.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
.SS Glibc notes
If the
.B _GNU_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined, then \fI<signal.h>\fP
exposes three other functions fo' manipulatin signal
sets.
.TP
.BI "int sigisemptyset(sigset_t *" set );
returns 1 if
.I set
gotz nuff no signals, n' 0 otherwise.
.TP
.BI "int sigorset(sigset_t *" dest ", sigset_t *" left \
", sigset_t *" right );
places tha union of tha sets
.I left
and
.I right
in
.IR dest .
.TP
.BI "int sigandset(sigset_t *" dest ", sigset_t *" left \
", sigset_t *" right );
places tha intersection of tha sets
.I left
and
.I right
in
.IR dest .
.PP
.BR sigorset ()
and
.BR sigandset ()
return 0 on success, n' \-1 on failure.
.PP
These functions is nonstandard (a few other systems provide similar
functions) n' they use should be avoided up in portable applications.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigpendin (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
