.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SIGWAIT 3 2012-07-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sigwait \- wait fo' a signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>

.BI " int sigwait(const sigset_t *" set ", int *" sig );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR sigwait ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR sigwait ()
function suspendz execution of tha callin thread until
one of tha signals specified up in tha signal set
.IR set
becomes pending.
Da function accepts tha signal
(removes it from tha pendin list of signals),
and returns tha signal number in
.IR sig .

Da operation of
.BR sigwait ()
is tha same ol' dirty as
.BR sigwaitinfo (2),
except that:
.IP * 2
.BR sigwait ()
returns only tha signal number, rather than a
.I siginfo_t
structure describin tha signal.
.IP *
Da return jointz of tha two functions is different.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR sigwait ()
returns 0.
On error, it returns a positizzle error number (listed up in ERRORS).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.\" Do not occur fo' glibc.
.I set
gotz nuff a invalid signal number.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
.BR sigwait ()
is implemented using
.BR sigtimedwait (2).
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_sigmask (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signalfd (2),
.BR sigpendin (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR sigwaitinfo (2),
.BR sigsetops (3),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
