.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:16:02 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SLEEP 3  2010-02-03 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sleep \- chill fo' tha specified number of seconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int sleep(unsigned int " "seconds" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sleep ()
makes tha callin thread chill until
.I seconds
secondz have elapsed or a signal arrives which aint ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Zero if tha axed time has elapsed,
or tha number of secondz left ta chill,
if tha call was interrupted by a signal handlez.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
.BR sleep ()
may be implemented using
.BR SIGALRM ;
mixin calls to
.BR alarm (2)
and
.BR sleep ()
is a wack idea.
.PP
Using
.BR longjmp (3)
from a signal handlez or modifyin tha handlin of
.B SIGALRM
while chillin will cause undefined thangs up in dis biatch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR alarm (2),
.BR nanosleep (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
