.\" From dholland@burgundy.eecs.harvard.edu Tue Mar 24 18:08:15 1998
.\"
.\" This playa page was freestyled up in 1998 by Dizzy A yo. Holland
.\" Polished a lil' bit by aeb.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" Placed up in tha Public Domain.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2005-06-16 mtk, mentioned freopen()
.\" 2007-12-08, mtk, Converted from mdoc ta playa macros
.\"
.TH STDIN 3 2008-07-14 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
stdin, stdout, stderr \- standard I/O streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>

.BI "extern FILE *" stdin ;
.BI "extern FILE *" stdout ;
.BI "extern FILE *" stderr ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Under aiiight circumstances every last muthafuckin UNIX program has three streams opened
for it when it starts up, one fo' input, one fo' output, n' one for
printin diagnostic or error lyrics.
These is typically attached to
the userz terminal (see
.BR tty (4)
but might instead refer ta filez or other devices, dependin on what
the parent process chose ta set up.
(See also tha "Redirection" section of
.BR sh (1).)
.PP
Da input stream is referred ta as "standard input"; tha output stream is
referred ta as "standard output"; n' tha error stream is referred to
as "standard error".
These terms is abbreviated ta form tha symbols
used ta refer ta these files, namely
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.IR stderr .

Each of these symbols be a
.BR stdio (3)
macro of type pointa to
.IR FILE ,
and can be used wit functions like
.BR fprintf (3)
or
.BR fread (3).
.PP
Since
.IR FILE s
are a funky-ass bufferin wrapper round UNIX file descriptors, the
same underlyin filez may also be accessed rockin tha raw UNIX file
interface, dat is, tha functions like
.BR read (2)
and
.BR lseek (2).
.PP
On program startup, tha integer file descriptors
associated wit tha streams
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.I stderr
are 0, 1, n' 2, respectively.
Da preprocessor symbols
.BR STDIN_FILENO ,
.BR STDOUT_FILENO ,
and
.B STDERR_FILENO
are defined wit these joints in
.IR <unistd.h> .
(Applying
.BR freopen (3)
to one of these streams can chizzle tha file descriptor number
associated wit tha stream.)
.PP
Note dat mixin use of
.IR FILE s
and raw file descriptors can produce
unexpected thangs up in dis biatch n' should generally be avoided.
(For tha masochistic among you: POSIX.1, section 8.2.3, raps about
in detail how tha fuck dis interaction is supposed ta work.)
A general rule is dat file descriptors is handled up in tha kernel,
while stdio is just a library.
This means fo' example, dat afta an
.BR exec (3),
the lil pimp inherits all open file descriptors yo, but all oldschool streams
have become inaccessible.
.PP
Since tha symbols
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.I stderr
are specified ta be macros, assignin ta dem is nonportable.
Da standard streams can be made ta refer ta different files
with help of tha library function
.BR freopen (3),
specially introduced ta make it possible ta reassign
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.IR stderr .
Da standard streams is closed by a cold-ass lil call to
.BR exit (3)
and by aiiight program termination.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.I stderr
macros conform ta C89
and dis standard also stipulates dat these three
streams shall be open at program startup.
.SH NOTES
Da stream
.I stderr
is unbuffered.
Da stream
.I stdout
is line-buffered when it points ta a terminal.
Partial lines will not
appear until
.BR fflush (3)
or
.BR exit (3)
is called, or a newline is printed.
This can produce unexpected
results, especially wit debuggin output.
Da bufferin mode of tha standard streams (or any other stream)
can be chizzled rockin the
.BR setbuf (3)
or
.BR setvbuf (3)
call.
Note dat up in case
.I stdin
is associated wit a terminal, there may also be input buffering
in tha terminal driver, entirely unrelated ta stdio buffering.
(Indeed, normally terminal input is line buffered up in tha kernel.)
This kernel input handlin can be modified rockin calls like
.BR tcsetattr (3);
see also
.BR stty (1),
and
.BR termios (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR open (2),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
