.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:51:24 1993, Dizzy Metcalfe
.\" 2006-05-19, Quentin Pryzby <pryzbyj@justinpryzby.com>
.\"	Document strchrnul(3).
.\"
.TH STRCHR 3  2012-04-24 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strchr, strrchr, strchrnul \- locate characta up in string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strchr(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *strrchr(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strchrnul(const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strchr ()
function returns a pointa ta tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence
of tha character
.I c
in tha string
.IR s .
.PP
The
.BR strrchr ()
function returns a pointa ta tha last occurrence
of tha character
.I c
in tha string
.IR s .
.PP
The
.BR strchrnul ()
function is like
.BR strchr ()
except dat if
.I c
is not found in
.IR s ,
then it returns a pointa ta tha null byte
at tha end of
.IR s ,
rather than NULL.
.PP
Here "character" means "byte"; these functions do not work with
wide or multibyte characters.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strchr ()
and
.BR strrchr ()
functions return a pointa to
the matched characta or NULL if tha characta aint found.
Da terminatin null byte is considered part of tha string,
so dat if
.I c
is specified as \(aq\\0\(aq,
these functions return a pointa ta tha terminator.

The
.BR strchrnul ()
function returns a pointa to
the matched character,
or a pointa ta tha null
byte all up in tha end of
.I s
(i.e.,
.IR "s+strlen(s)" )
if tha characta aint found.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR strchrnul ()
first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR strchr ()
and
.BR strrchr ()
are up in SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.BR strchrnul ()
is a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strlen (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR wcschr (3),
.BR wcsrchr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
