.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:08:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2001-08-31, aeb
.\"
.TH STRCMP 3  2012-11-25 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strcmp, strncmp \- compare two strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "int strncmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strcmp ()
function compares tha two strings
.I s1
and
.IR s2 .
It returns a integer less than, equal to, or pimped outer
than zero if
.I s1
is found, respectively, ta be less than,
to match, or be pimped outa than
.IR s2 .
.PP
The
.BR strncmp ()
function is similar, except it compares
the only first (at most)
.IR n
bytes of
.I s1
and
.IR s2 .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strcmp ()
and
.BR strncmp ()
functions return a integer
less than, equal to, or pimped outa than zero if
.I s1
(or tha first
.I n
bytes thereof) is found, respectively, ta be less than, to
match, or be pimped outa than
.IR s2 .
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strncasecmp (3),
.BR strverscmp (3),
.BR wcscmp (3),
.BR wcsncmp (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
