.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRCOLL 3  2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strcoll \- compare two strings rockin tha current locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcoll(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strcoll ()
function compares tha two strings
.I s1
and
.IR s2 .
It returns a integer less than, equal to, or pimped outer
than zero if
.I s1
is found, respectively, ta be less than,
to match, or be pimped outa than
.IR s2 .
Da comparison is based on
strings interpreted as appropriate fo' tha programz current locale
for category
.BR LC_COLLATE .
(See
.BR setlocale (3).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strcoll ()
function returns a integer less than, equal to,
or pimped outa than zero if
.I s1
is found, respectively, ta be less
than, ta match, or be pimped outa than
.IR s2 ,
when both is interpreted
as appropriate fo' tha current locale.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.SH NOTES
In the
.I "POSIX"
or
.I "C"
locales
.BR strcoll ()
is equivalent to
.BR strcmp (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strxfrm (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
