.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Oct 17 01:12:26 2001 by Jizzy Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.TH STRDUP 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strdup, strndup, strdupa, strndupa \- duplicate a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strdup(const char *" s );
.sp
.BI "char *strndup(const char *" s ", size_t " n );
.br
.BI "char *strdupa(const char *" s );
.br
.BI "char *strndupa(const char *" s ", size_t " n );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.PD 0
.ad l
.sp
.BR strdup ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.PP
.BR strndup ():
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.PP
.BR strdupa (),
.BR strndupa ():
_GNU_SOURCE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strdup ()
function returns a pointa ta a freshly smoked up strang which
is a thugged-out duplicate of tha string
.IR s .
Memory fo' tha freshly smoked up strang is
obtained with
.BR malloc (3),
and can be freed with
.BR free (3).

The
.BR strndup ()
function is similar yo, but copies at most
.I n
bytes.
If
.I s
is longer than
.IR n ,
only
.I n
bytes is copied, n' a terminatin null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq) be added.

.BR strdupa ()
and
.BR strndupa ()
are similar yo, but use
.BR alloca (3)
to allocate tha buffer.
They is available only when rockin tha GNU
GCC suite, n' suffer from tha same limitations busted lyrics bout in
.BR alloca (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the
.BR strdup ()
function returns a pointa ta tha duplicated
string.
It returns NULL if insufficient memory was available, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory available ta allocate duplicate string.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.\" 4.3BSD-Reno, not (first) 4.3BSD.
.BR strdup ()
conforms ta SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.BR strndup ()
conforms ta POSIX.1-2008.
.BR strdupa ()
and
.BR strndupa ()
are GNU extensions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR alloca (3),
.BR calloc (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR realloc (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR wcsdup (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
