.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:56:43 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added history, aeb, 980113.
.\" 2005-05-05 mtk: added strcasestr()
.\"
.TH STRSTR 3  2011-09-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strstr, strcasestr \- locate a substring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strstr(const char *" haystack ", const char *" needle );
.sp
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.sp
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcasestr(const char *" haystack ", const char *" needle );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strstr ()
function findz tha straight-up original gangsta occurrence of tha substring
.I needle
in tha string
.IR haystack .
Da terminatin null bytes (\(aq\\0\(aq) is not compared.

The
.BR strcasestr ()
function is like
.BR strstr (),
but ignores tha case of both arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return a pointa ta tha beginnin of the
substring, or NULL if tha substrin aint found.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.BR strstr ()
function conforms ta C89 n' C99.
The
.BR strcasestr ()
function be a nonstandard extension.
.SH BUGS
Early versionz of Linux libc (like 4.5.26) would not allow
an empty
.I needle
argument for
.BR strstr ().
Lata versions (like 4.6.27) work erectly,
and return
.IR haystack
when
.I needle
is empty.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR wcsstr (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
