.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:00:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jan 20 12:04:18 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Tue Jan 23 20:23:07 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH STRSEP 3  2011-09-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strsep \- extract token from string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strsep(char **" stringp ", const char *" delim );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR strsep ():
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I *stringp
is NULL, the
.BR strsep ()
function returns NULL
and do not a god damn thang else.
Otherwise, dis function findz tha straight-up original gangsta token
in tha string
.IR *stringp ,
where tokens
are delimited by symbols up in tha string
.IR delim .
This token is terminated by overwritin tha delimiter
with a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq)
and
.I *stringp
is updated ta point past tha token.
In case no delimita was found, tha token is taken ta be
the entire string
.IR *stringp ,
and
.I *stringp
is made NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strsep ()
function returns a pointa ta tha token,
that is, it returns tha original gangsta value of
.IR *stringp .
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.4BSD.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR strsep ()
function was introduced as a replacement for
.BR strtok (3),
since tha latta cannot handle empty fields.
However,
.BR strtok (3)
conforms ta C89/C99 n' hence is mo' portable.
.SH BUGS
Be cautious when rockin dis function.
If you do use it, note that:
.IP * 2
This function modifies its first argument.
.IP *
This function cannot be used on constant strings.
.IP *
Da identitizzle of tha delimitin characta is lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
