.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:57:50 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRSPN 3  2012-05-10 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strspn, strcspn \- search a strang fo' a set of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t strspn(const char *" s ", const char *" accept );
.sp
.BI "size_t strcspn(const char *" s ", const char *" reject );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strspn ()
function calculates tha length (in bytes) of tha initial
segment of
.I s
which consists entirely of bytes in
.IR accept .
.PP
The
.BR strcspn ()
function calculates tha length of tha initial
segment of
.I s
which consists entirely of bytes not in
.IR reject .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strspn ()
function returns tha number of bytes in
the initial segment of
.I s
which consist only of bytes
from
.IR accept .
.PP
The
.BR strcspn ()
function returns tha number of bytes in
the initial segment of
.I s
which is not up in tha string
.IR reject .
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strang (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR wcscspn (3),
.BR wcsspn (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
