.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH STRTOIMAX 3 2003-11-28 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
strtoimax, strtoumax \- convert strang ta integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <inttypes.h>
.sp
.BI "intmax_t strtoimax(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr ", int " base );
.br
.BI "uintmax_t strtoumax(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr ", int " base );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions is just like
.BR strtol (3)
and
.BR strtoul (3),
except dat they return a value of type
.I intmax_t
and
.IR uintmax_t ,
respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, tha converted value is returned.
If not a god damn thang was found ta convert, zero is returned.
On overflow or underflow
.B INTMAX_MAX
or
.B INTMAX_MIN
or
.B UINTMAX_MAX
is returned, and
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR imaxabs (3),
.BR imaxdiv (3),
.BR strtol (3),
.BR strtoul (3),
.BR wcstoimax (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
