.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:51:42 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Aug 17 11:42:20 1999 by Ariel Scolnicov (ariels@compugen.co.il)
.TH SYSCONF 3  2013-02-12 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sysconf \- git configuration shiznit at run time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "long sysconf(int " "name" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
POSIX allows a application ta test at compile or run time
whether certain options is supported, or what tha fuck tha value is
of certain configurable constants or limits.
.LP
At compile time dis is done by including
.I <unistd.h>
and/or
.I <limits.h>
and testin tha value of certain macros.
.LP
At run time, one can ask fo' numerical joints rockin tha present function
.BR sysconf ().
One can ask fo' numerical joints dat may depend
on tha file system a gangbangin' file is up in rockin tha calls
.BR fpathconf (3)
and
.BR pathconf (3).
One can ask fo' strang joints using
.BR confstr (3).
.LP
Da joints obtained from these functions is system configuration constants.
They do not chizzle durin tha gametime of a process.
.\" except dat sysconf(_SC_OPEN_MAX) may chizzle answer afta a cold-ass lil call
.\" ta setrlimit( ) which chizzlez tha RLIMIT_NOFILE soft limit
.LP
For options, typically, there be a cold-ass lil constant
.B _POSIX_FOO
that may be defined in
.IR <unistd.h> .
If it is undefined, one should ask at run time.
If it is defined ta \-1, then tha option aint supported.
If it is defined ta 0, then relevant functions n' headaz exist,
but one has ta ask at run time what tha fuck degree of support be available.
If it is defined ta a value other than \-1 or 0, then tha option is
supported.
Usually tha value (like fuckin 200112L) indicates tha year n' month
of tha POSIX revision describin tha option.
Glibc uses tha value 1
to indicate support as long as tha POSIX revision has not been published yet.
.\" n' 999 ta indicate support fo' options no longer present up in tha sickest fuckin
.\" standard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (?)
The
.BR sysconf ()
argument will be
.BR _SC_FOO .
For a list of options, see
.BR posixoptions (7).
.LP
For variablez or limits, typically, there be a cold-ass lil constant
.BR _FOO ,
maybe defined in
.IR <limits.h> ,
or
.BR _POSIX_FOO ,
maybe defined in
.IR <unistd.h> .
Da constant aint gonna be defined if tha limit is unspecified.
If tha constant is defined, it gives a guaranteed value, and
a pimped outa value might straight-up be supported.
If a application wants ta take advantage of joints which may chizzle
between systems, a cold-ass lil call to
.BR sysconf ()
can be made.
The
.BR sysconf ()
argument will be
.BR _SC_FOO .
.SS POSIX.1 variables
We give tha name of tha variable, tha name of the
.BR sysconf ()
argument used ta inquire bout its value,
and a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description.
.LP
First, tha POSIX.1 compatible joints.
.\" [for tha moment: only tha thangs dat is unconditionally present]
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AIO_LISTIO_MAX " - " _SC_AIO_LISTIO_MAX
.\" (if _POSIX_ASYNCHRONOUS_IO)
.\" Maximum number of I/O operations up in a single list I/O call.
.\" Must not be less than _POSIX_AIO_LISTIO_MAX.
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AIO_MAX " - " _SC_AIO_MAX
.\" (if _POSIX_ASYNCHRONOUS_IO)
.\" Maximum number of outstandin asynchronous I/O operations.
.\" Must not be less than _POSIX_AIO_MAX.
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AIO_PRIO_DELTA_MAX " - " _SC_AIO_PRIO_DELTA_MAX
.\" (if _POSIX_ASYNCHRONOUS_IO)
.\" Da maximum amount by which a process can decrease its
.\" asynchronous I/O prioritizzle level from its own schedulin priority.
.\" Must be nonnegative.
.TP
.BR ARG_MAX " - " _SC_ARG_MAX
Da maximum length of tha arguments ta the
.BR exec (3)
family of functions.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_ARG_MAX
(4096).
.TP
.BR CHILD_MAX " - " _SC_CHILD_MAX
Da maximum number of simultaneous processes per user ID.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_CHILD_MAX
(25).
.TP
.BR HOST_NAME_MAX " - " _SC_HOST_NAME_MAX
Maximum length of a hostname, not includin tha terminatin null byte,
as returned by
.BR gethostname (2).
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_HOST_NAME_MAX
(255).
.TP
.BR LOGIN_NAME_MAX " - " _SC_LOGIN_NAME_MAX
Maximum length of a login name, includin tha terminatin null byte.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_LOGIN_NAME_MAX
(9).
.TP
.BR "" "clock ticks - " _SC_CLK_TCK
Da number of clock ticks per second.
Da correspondin variable is obsolete.
Dat shiznit waz of course called
.BR CLK_TCK .
(Note: tha macro
.B CLOCKS_PER_SEC
does not give shiznit: it must equal 1000000.)
.TP
.BR OPEN_MAX " - " _SC_OPEN_MAX
Da maximum number of filez dat a process can have open at any time.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_OPEN_MAX
(20).
.TP
.BR PAGESIZE " - " _SC_PAGESIZE
Size of a page up in bytes.
Must not be less than 1.
(Some systems use PAGE_SIZE instead.)
.TP
.BR RE_DUP_MAX " - " _SC_RE_DUP_MAX
Da number of repeated occurrencez of a BRE permitted by
.BR regexec (3)
and
.BR regcomp (3).
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX2_RE_DUP_MAX
(255).
.TP
.BR STREAM_MAX " - " _SC_STREAM_MAX
Da maximum number of streams dat a process can have open at any
time.
If defined, it has tha same ol' dirty value as tha standard C macro
.BR FOPEN_MAX .
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_STREAM_MAX
(8).
.TP
.BR SYMLOOP_MAX " - " _SC_SYMLOOP_MAX
Da maximum number of symbolic links peeped up in a pathname before resolution
returns
.BR ELOOP .
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_SYMLOOP_MAX
(8).
.TP
.BR TTY_NAME_MAX " - " _SC_TTY_NAME_MAX
Da maximum length of terminal thang name,
includin tha terminatin null byte.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_TTY_NAME_MAX
(9).
.TP
.BR TZNAME_MAX " - " _SC_TZNAME_MAX
Da maximum number of bytes up in a timezone name.
Must not be less than
.B _POSIX_TZNAME_MAX
(6).
.TP
.BR _POSIX_VERSION " - " _SC_VERSION
indicates tha year n' month tha POSIX.1 standard was approved up in the
format
.BR YYYYMML ;
the value
.B 199009L
indicates tha Sept. 1990 revision.
.SS POSIX.2 variables
Next, tha POSIX.2 joints, givin limits fo' utilities.
.TP
.BR BC_BASE_MAX " - " _SC_BC_BASE_MAX
indicates tha maximum
.I obase
value accepted by the
.BR bc (1)
utility.
.TP
.BR BC_DIM_MAX " - " _SC_BC_DIM_MAX
indicates tha maximum value of elements permitted up in a array by
.BR bc (1).
.TP
.BR BC_SCALE_MAX " - " _SC_BC_SCALE_MAX
indicates tha maximum
.I scale
value allowed by
.BR bc (1).
.TP
.BR BC_STRING_MAX " - " _SC_BC_STRING_MAX
indicates tha maximum length of a strang accepted by
.BR bc (1).
.TP
.BR COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX " - " _SC_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX
indicates tha maximum numberz of weights dat can be assigned ta an
entry of the
.B LC_COLLATE order
keyword up in tha locale definizzle file,
.TP
.BR EXPR_NEST_MAX " - " _SC_EXPR_NEST_MAX
is tha maximum number of expressions which can be nested within
parentheses by
.BR expr (1).
.TP
.BR LINE_MAX " - " _SC_LINE_MAX
Da maximum length of a utilityz input line, either from
standard input or from a gangbangin' file.
This includes space fo' a trailing
newline.
.TP
.BR RE_DUP_MAX " - " _SC_RE_DUP_MAX
Da maximum number of repeated occurrencez of a regular expression when
the interval notation
.B \e{m,n\e}
is used.
.TP
.BR POSIX2_VERSION " - " _SC_2_VERSION
indicates tha version of tha POSIX.2 standard up in tha format of
YYYYMML.
.TP
.BR POSIX2_C_DEV " - " _SC_2_C_DEV
indicates whether tha POSIX.2 C language pimpment facilitizzles are
supported.
.TP
.BR POSIX2_FORT_DEV " - " _SC_2_FORT_DEV
indicates whether tha POSIX.2 FORTRAN pimpment utilitizzles are
supported.
.TP
.BR POSIX2_FORT_RUN " - " _SC_2_FORT_RUN
indicates whether tha POSIX.2 FORTRAN run-time utilitizzles is supported.
.TP
.BR _POSIX2_LOCALEDEF " - " _SC_2_LOCALEDEF
indicates whether tha POSIX.2 creation of locates via
.BR localedef (1)
is supported.
.TP
.BR POSIX2_SW_DEV " - " _SC_2_SW_DEV
indicates whether tha POSIX.2 software pimpment utilitizzles option is
supported.
.PP
These joints also exist yo, but may not be standard.
.TP
.BR "" " - " _SC_PHYS_PAGES
Da number of pagez of physical memory.
Note dat it is possible
for tha thang of dis value n' tha value of
.B _SC_PAGESIZE
to overflow.
.TP
.BR "" " - " _SC_AVPHYS_PAGES
Da number of currently available pagez of physical memory.
.TP
.BR "" " - " _SC_NPROCESSORS_CONF
Da number of processors configured.
.TP
.BR "" " - " _SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN
Da number of processors currently online (available).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If
.I name
is invalid, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set to
.BR EINVAL .
Otherwise, tha value returned is tha value of tha system resource and
.I errno
is not chizzled.
In tha case of options, a positizzle value is returned if a queried option
is available, n' \-1 if it is not.
In tha case of limits, \-1 means dat there is no definite limit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH BUGS
It be hard as fuck ta use
.B ARG_MAX
because it aint specified how tha fuck much of tha argument space for
.BR exec (3)
is consumed by tha userz environment variables.
.PP
Some returned joints may be huge; they is not suitable fo' allocating
memory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bc (1),
.BR expr (1),
.BR getconf (1),
.BR locale (1),
.BR fpathconf (3),
.BR pathconf (3),
.BR posixoptions (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
