.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walta Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.TH TAN 3 2010-09-11 ""  "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tan, tanf, tanl \- tangent function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double tan(double " x );
.br
.BI "float tanf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double tanl(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR tanf (),
.BR tanl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tan ()
function returns tha tangent of
.IR x ,
where
.I x
is
given up in radians.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return tha tangent of
.IR x .

If
.I x
is a NaN, a NaN is returned.

If
.I x
is positizzle infinitizzle or wack infinity,
a domain error occurs,
and a NaN is returned.

If tha erect result would overflow,
a range error occurs,
and tha functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively, wit tha mathematically erect sign.
.\" I be thinkin overflow can't occur, cuz tha closest floating-point
.\" representation of pi/2 is still not close enough ta pi/2 to
.\" produce a big-ass enough value ta overflow.
.\" Testin certainly seems ta bear dis out.  -- mtk, Jul 08
.\"
.\" POSIX.1 allows a optionizzle underflow error;
.\" glibc 2.8 don't do this
.\" POSIX.1 a optionizzle range error fo' subnormal x;
.\" glibc 2.8 don't do this
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.
.PP
Da followin errors can occur:
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP be a infinity
.I errno
is set to
.BR EDOM
(but peep BUGS).
An invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
is raised.
.TP
Range error: result overflow
.\" Unable ta test dis case, since tha dopest approximation of
.\" pi/2 up in double precision only yieldz a tan() value of 1.633e16.
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
An overflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_OVERFLOW )
is raised.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
Da variant returning
.I double
also conforms to
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89.
.SH BUGS
Before version 2.10, tha glibc implementation did not set
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6782
.I errno
to
.B EDOM
when a thugged-out domain error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acos (3),
.BR asin (3),
.BR atan (3),
.BR atan2 (3),
.BR cos (3),
.BR ctan (3),
.BR sin (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
