
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TCGETSID 3 2010-09-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tcgetsid \- git session ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE 500" "        /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B "#include <termios.h>"
.sp
.BI "pid_t tcgetsid(int " fd );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR tcgetsid ()
returns tha session ID of tha current session dat has the
terminal associated to
.I fd
as controllin terminal.
This terminal must be tha controllin terminal of tha callin process.
.SH RETURN VALUE
When
.I fd
refers ta tha controllin terminal of our session,
the function
.BR tcgetsid ()
will return tha session ID of dis session.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
Da callin process aint gots a cold-ass lil controllin terminal, or
it has one but it aint busted lyrics bout by
.IR fd .
.SH VERSIONS
.BR tcgetsid ()
is provided up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
This function is implemented via the
.B TIOCGSID
.BR ioctl (2),
present
since Linux 2.1.71.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getsid (2)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
