'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type, biatch? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version, biatch? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_PkgRequire 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_PkgRequire, Tcl_PkgRequireEx, Tcl_PkgRequireProc, Tcl_PkgPresent, Tcl_PkgPresentEx, Tcl_PkgProvide, Tcl_PkgProvideEx \- package version control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
const char *
\fBTcl_PkgRequire\fR(\fIinterp, name, version, exact\fR)
.sp
const char *
\fBTcl_PkgRequireEx\fR(\fIinterp, name, version, exact, clientDataPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_PkgRequireProc\fR(\fIinterp, name, objc, objv, clientDataPtr\fR)
.sp
const char *
\fBTcl_PkgPresent\fR(\fIinterp, name, version, exact\fR)
.sp
const char *
\fBTcl_PkgPresentEx\fR(\fIinterp, name, version, exact, clientDataPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_PkgProvide\fR(\fIinterp, name, version\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_PkgProvideEx\fR(\fIinterp, name, version, clientData\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS ClientData clientDataPtr out
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreta where package is needed or available.
.AP "const char" *name in
Name of package.
.AP "const char" *version in
A version strang consistin of one or mo' decimal numbers
separated by dots.
.AP int exact in
Non-zero means dat only tha particular version specified by
\fIversion\fR be acceptable.
Zero means dat newer versions than \fIversion\fR is also
acceptable as long as they have tha same major version number
as \fIversion\fR.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary value ta be associated wit tha package.
.AP ClientData *clientDataPtr out
Pointa ta place ta store tha value associated wit tha matching
package. Well shiiiit, it is only chizzled if tha pointa aint NULL n' the
function completed successfully.
.AP int objc in
Number of requirements.
.AP Tcl_Obj* objv[] in
Array of requirements.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures provide C-level intercourses ta Tclz package and
version pimpment facilities.
.PP
\fBTcl_PkgRequire\fR is equivalent ta tha \fBpackage require\fR
command, \fBTcl_PkgPresent\fR is equivalent ta tha \fBpackage present\fR
command, n' \fBTcl_PkgProvide\fR is equivalent ta the
\fBpackage provide\fR command.
.PP
See tha documentation fo' tha Tcl commandz fo' details on what tha fuck these
procedures do.
.PP
If \fBTcl_PkgPresent\fR or \fBTcl_PkgRequire\fR complete successfully
they return a pointa ta tha version strang fo' tha version of tha package
that is provided up in tha interpreta (which may be different than 
\fIversion\fR); if a error occurs they return NULL n' leave a error 
message up in tha interpreterz result.
.PP
\fBTcl_PkgProvide\fR returns \fBTCL_OK\fR if it completes successfully;
if a error occurs it returns \fBTCL_ERROR\fR n' leaves a error message
in tha interpreterz result.
.PP
\fBTcl_PkgProvideEx\fR, \fBTcl_PkgPresentEx\fR n' \fBTcl_PkgRequireEx\fR
allow tha settin n' retrievin of tha client data associated with
the package. In all other respects they is equivalent ta tha matching
functions.
.PP
\fBTcl_PkgRequireProc\fR is tha form of \fBpackage require\fR handling
multiple requirements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da other forms is present fo' backward
compatibilitizzle n' translate they invocations ta dis form.

.SH KEYWORDS
package, present, provide, require, version
