'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type, biatch? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version, biatch? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_CreateTimerHandlez 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_CreateTimerHandlez, Tcl_DeleteTimerHandlez \- call a procedure at a given time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_TimerToken
\fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR(\fImilliseconds, proc, clientData\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_DeleteTimerHandlez\fR(\fItoken\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_TimerToken milliseconds
.AP int millisecondz  in
How tha fuck nuff millisecondz ta wait before invokin \fIproc\fR.
.AP Tcl_TimerProc *proc in
Procedure ta invoke afta \fImilliseconds\fR have elapsed.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value ta pass ta \fIproc\fR.
.AP Tcl_TimerToken token in
Token fo' previously pimped timer handlez (the return value
from some previous call ta \fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR).
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR arranges fo' \fIproc\fR ta be
invoked at a time \fImilliseconds\fR millisecondz up in the
future.
Da callback ta \fIproc\fR is ghon be made by \fBTcl_DoOneEvent\fR,
so \fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR is only useful up in programs that
dispatch events all up in \fBTcl_DoOneEvent\fR or all up in Tcl commands
like fuckin \fBvwait\fR.
Da call ta \fIproc\fR may not be made all up in tha exact time given by
\fImilliseconds\fR:  it is ghon be made all up in tha next opportunity
afta dat time.  For example, if \fBTcl_DoOneEvent\fR is not
called until long afta tha time has elapsed, or if there
are other pendin events ta process before tha call to
\fIproc\fR, then tha call ta \fIproc\fR is ghon be delayed.
.PP
\fIProc\fR should have arguments n' return value dat match
the type \fBTcl_TimerProc\fR:
.CS
typedef void Tcl_TimerProc(ClientData \fIclientData\fR);
.CE
Da \fIclientData\fR parameta ta \fIproc\fR be a
copy of tha \fIclientData\fR argument given to
\fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR when tha callback
was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Typically, \fIclientData\fR points ta a thugged-out data
structure containin application-specific shiznit about
what ta do up in \fIproc\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteTimerHandlez\fR may be called ta delete a
previously pimped timer handlez n' shit.  It deletes tha handlez
indicated by \fItoken\fR so dat no call ta \fIproc\fR
will be made;  if dat handlez no longer exists
(e.g. cuz tha time period has already elapsed n' \fIproc\fR
has been invoked then \fBTcl_DeleteTimerHandlez\fR do nothing.
Da tokens returned by \fBTcl_CreateTimerHandlez\fR never have
a value of NULL, so if NULL is passed ta \fBTcl_DeleteTimerHandlez\fR
then tha procedure do nothing.

.SH KEYWORDS
callback, clock, handlez, timer
