'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_SetAssocData 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_GetAssocData, Tcl_SetAssocData, Tcl_DeleteAssocData \- manage associationz of strang keys n' user specified data wit Tcl interpreters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
ClientData
\fBTcl_GetAssocData\fR(\fIinterp, key, delProcPtr\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetAssocData\fR(\fIinterp, key, delProc, clientData\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_DeleteAssocData\fR(\fIinterp, key\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_InterpDeleteProc **delProcPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreta up in which ta execute tha specified command.
.AP "const char" *key in
Key fo' association wit which ta store data or from which ta delete or
retrieve data.  Typically tha module prefix fo' a package.
.AP Tcl_InterpDeleteProc *delProc in
Procedure ta booty-call when \fIinterp\fR is deleted.
.AP Tcl_InterpDeleteProc **delProcPtr in
Pointa ta location up in which ta store address of current deletion procedure
for association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Ignored if NULL.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value associated wit tha given key up in this
interpreter n' shit.  This data is owned by tha caller.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures allow extensions ta associate they own data with
a Tcl interpreter.
An association consistz of a strang key, typically tha name of
the extension, n' a one-word value, which is typically a pointer
to a thugged-out data structure holdin data specific ta tha extension.
Tcl make no interpretation of either tha key or tha value for
an association.
.PP
Storage pimpment is facilitated by storin wit each association a
procedure ta booty-call when tha interpreta is deleted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This
procedure can dispose of tha storage occupied by tha clientz data up in any
way it sees fit.
.PP
\fBTcl_SetAssocData\fR creates a association between a string
key n' a user specified datum up in tha given interpreter.
If there be already a association wit tha given \fIkey\fR,
\fBTcl_SetAssocData\fR overwrites it wit tha freshly smoked up shiznit.
It be up ta callaz ta organize they use of names ta avoid conflicts,
for example, by rockin package names as tha keys.
If tha \fIdeleteProc\fR argument is non-NULL it specifies tha address of a
procedure ta invoke if tha interpreta is deleted before tha association
is deleted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  \fIDeleteProc\fR should have arguments n' result dat match
the type \fBTcl_InterpDeleteProc\fR:
.CS
typedef void Tcl_InterpDeleteProc(
        ClientData \fIclientData\fR,
        Tcl_Interp *\fIinterp\fR);
.CE
When \fIdeleteProc\fR is invoked tha \fIclientData\fR n' \fIinterp\fR
arguments is ghon be tha same as tha correspondin arguments passed to
\fBTcl_SetAssocData\fR.
Da deletion procedure will \fInot\fR be invoked if tha association
is deleted before tha interpreta is deleted.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetAssocData\fR returns tha datum stored up in tha association wit the
specified key up in tha given interpreter, n' if tha \fIdelProcPtr\fR field
is non-\fBNULL\fR, tha address indicated by it gets tha address of the
delete procedure stored wit dis association. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If no association wit the
specified key exists up in tha given interpreta \fBTcl_GetAssocData\fR
returns \fBNULL\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteAssocData\fR deletes a association wit a specified key in
the given interpreter n' shit.  Then it calls tha deletion procedure.
.SH KEYWORDS
association, data, deletion procedure, interpreter, key
