'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1997 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type, biatch? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version, biatch? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_UtfToUpper 3 "8.1" Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_UniCharToUpper, Tcl_UniCharToLower, Tcl_UniCharToTitle, Tcl_UtfToUpper, Tcl_UtfToLower, Tcl_UtfToTitle \- routines fo' manipulatin tha case of Unicode charactas n' UTF-8 strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_UniChar
\fBTcl_UniCharToUpper\fR(\fIch\fR)
.sp
Tcl_UniChar
\fBTcl_UniCharToLower\fR(\fIch\fR)
.sp
Tcl_UniChar
\fBTcl_UniCharToTitle\fR(\fIch\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR(\fIstr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfToLower\fR(\fIstr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfToTitle\fR(\fIstr\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS char *str in/out
.AP int ch in
Da Tcl_UniChar ta be converted.
.AP char *str in/out
Pointa ta UTF-8 strang ta be converted up in place.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Da first three routines convert tha case of individual Unicode characters:
.PP
If \fIch\fR represents a lower-case character,
\fBTcl_UniCharToUpper\fR returns tha correspondin upper-case
character n' shit.  If no upper-case characta is defined, it returns the
characta unchanged.
.PP
If \fIch\fR represents a upper-case character,
\fBTcl_UniCharToLower\fR returns tha correspondin lower-case
character n' shit.  If no lower-case characta is defined, it returns the
characta unchanged.
.PP
If \fIch\fR represents a lower-case character,
\fBTcl_UniCharToTitle\fR returns tha correspondin title-case
character n' shit.  If no title-case characta is defined, it returns the
correspondin upper-case character n' shit.  If no upper-case characta is
defined, it returns tha characta unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Title-case is defined
for a lil' small-ass number of charactas dat gotz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different appearizzle when
they is all up in tha beginnin of a cold-ass lil capitalized word.
.PP
Da next three routines convert tha case of UTF-8 strings up in place in
memory:
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR chizzlez every last muthafuckin UTF-8 characta up in \fIstr\fR to
upper-case.  Because changin tha case of a cold-ass lil characta may chizzle its
size, tha byte offset of each characta up in tha resultin strang may
differ from its original gangsta location. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  \fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR writes a null
byte all up in tha end of tha converted string.  \fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR returns
the freshly smoked up length of tha strang up in bytes.  This freshly smoked up length is guaranteed
to be no longer than tha original gangsta strang length.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfToLower\fR is tha same ol' dirty as \fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR except it
turns each characta up in tha strang tha fuck into its lower-case equivalent.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfToTitle\fR is tha same ol' dirty as \fBTcl_UtfToUpper\fR except it
turns tha straight-up original gangsta characta up in tha strang tha fuck into its title-case equivalent
and all followin charactas tha fuck into they lower-case equivalents.

.SH BUGS
.PP
At dis time, tha case conversions is only defined fo' tha ISO8859-1
characters.  Unicode charactas above 0x00ff is not modified by these
routines.

.SH KEYWORDS
utf, unicode, toupper, tolower, totitle, case
