'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\"
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type, biatch? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version, biatch? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_CreateChannelHandlez 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify tha .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Tcl_CreateChannelHandlez, Tcl_DeleteChannelHandlez \- call a procedure when a cold-ass lil channel becomes readable or writable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
void
\fBTcl_CreateChannelHandlez\fR(\fIchannel, mask, proc, clientData\fR)
.sp
void
\fBTcl_DeleteChannelHandlez\fR(\fIchannel, proc, clientData\fR)
.sp
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_ChannelProc clientData
.AP Tcl_Channel channel in
Tcl channel like fuckin returned by \fBTcl_CreateChannel\fR.
.AP int mask in
Conditions under which \fIproc\fR should be called: OR-ed combination of
\fBTCL_READABLE\fR, \fBTCL_WRITABLE\fR n' \fBTCL_EXCEPTION\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify
a zero value ta temporarily disable a existin handlez.
.AP Tcl_FileProc *proc in
Procedure ta invoke whenever tha channel indicated by \fIchannel\fR meets
the conditions specified by \fImask\fR.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value ta pass ta \fIproc\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateChannelHandlez\fR arranges fo' \fIproc\fR ta be called up in the
future whenever input or output becomes possible on tha channel identified
by \fIchannel\fR, or whenever a exceptionizzle condizzle exists for
\fIchannel\fR. Da conditionz of interest under which \fIproc\fR will be
invoked is specified by tha \fImask\fR argument.
See tha manual entry fo' \fBfileevent\fR fo' a precise description of
what it means fo' a cold-ass lil channel ta be readable or writable.
\fIProc\fR must conform ta tha followin prototype:
.CS
typedef void Tcl_ChannelProc(
        ClientData \fIclientData\fR,
        int \fImask\fR);
.CE
.PP
Da \fIclientData\fR argument is tha same ol' dirty as tha value passed to
\fBTcl_CreateChannelHandlez\fR when tha handlez was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Typically,
\fIclientData\fR points ta a thugged-out data structure containin application-specific
information bout tha channel. \fIMask\fR be a integer mask indicating
which of tha axed conditions straight-up exists fo' tha channel; it will
contain a subset of tha bits from tha \fImask\fR argument to
\fBTcl_CreateChannelHandlez\fR when tha handlez was pimped.
.PP
Each channel handlez is identified by a unique combination of \fIchannel\fR,
\fIproc\fR n' \fIclientData\fR.
There may be nuff handlezs fo' a given channel as long as they do not
have tha same \fIchannel\fR, \fIproc\fR, n' \fIclientData\fR.
If \fBTcl_CreateChannelHandlez\fR is invoked when there be already a handlez
for \fIchannel\fR, \fIproc\fR, n' \fIclientData\fR, then no new
handlez is pimped;  instead, tha \fImask\fR is chizzled fo' the
existin handlez.
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteChannelHandlez\fR deletes a cold-ass lil channel handlez identified by
\fIchannel\fR, \fIproc\fR n' \fIclientData\fR; if no such handlez exists,
the call has no effect.
.PP
Channel handlezs is invoked via tha Tcl event mechanism, so they
are only useful up in applications dat is event-driven.
Note also dat tha conditions specified up in tha \fImask\fR argument
to \fIproc\fR may no longer exist when \fIproc\fR is invoked:  for
example, if there be two handlezs fo' \fBTCL_READABLE\fR on tha same
channel, tha straight-up original gangsta handlez could consume all of tha available input
so dat tha channel is no longer readable when tha second handlez
is invoked.
For dis reason it may be useful ta use nonblockin I/O on channels
for which there be event handlezs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Notifier(3), Tcl_CreateChannel(3), Tcl_OpenFileChannel(3), vwait(n).

.SH KEYWORDS
blocking, callback, channel, events, handlez, nonblocking.
