'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See tha file "license.terms" fo' shiznit on usage n' redistribution
'\" of dis file, n' fo' a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
.\" Da -*- nroff -*- definitions below is fo' supplemenstrual macros used
.\" up in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describin a argument ta a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" ta describe whether procedure readz or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent ta second arg of .IP (shouldn't eva be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizez of arguments fo' settin tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name is examplez of phattest possible arguments dat is ghon be passed
.\"	to .AP later n' shit.  If args is omitted, default tab stops is used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, every last muthafuckin thang will be
.\"	enclosed up in one big-ass box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, fo' use up in markin newly-changed parts
.\"	of playa pages.  Da first argument is ignored n' used fo' recording
.\"	the version when tha .VS was added, so dat tha sidebars can be
.\"	found n' removed when they reach a cold-ass lil certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before startin tha sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin a indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget. Da manpage
.\"	argument defines where ta look up tha standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults ta "options". Da options follow on successive
.\"	lines, up in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options fo' a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  cmdName gives the
.\"	optionz name as specified up in tha class command, dbName gives
.\"	the optionz name up in tha option database, n' dbClass gives
.\"	the optionz class up in tha option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailin punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print a open parenthesis, arg1 up in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailin punctuation) n' then a cold-ass lil closin parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps n' other miscellaneous shiznit fo' Tcl/Tk playa pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start a argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbin joints fo' .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = startin y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally yo, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if tha box started on a earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = startin y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  fo' nroff dis don't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro ta handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if up in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if dis is tha boxz first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See tha \\*(So manual entry fo' details on tha standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description fo' a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks ta word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens n' quotation marks ta word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_GetStdChannel 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify tha .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Tcl_GetStdChannel, Tcl_SetStdChannel \- procedures fo' retrievin n' replacin tha standard channels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Channel
\fBTcl_GetStdChannel\fR(\fItype\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR(\fIchannel, type\fR)
.sp
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Channel channel
.AP int type in
Da identifier fo' tha standard channel ta retrieve or modify.  Must be one of
\fBTCL_STDIN\fR, \fBTCL_STDOUT\fR, or \fBTCL_STDERR\fR.
.AP Tcl_Channel channel in
Da channel ta use as tha freshly smoked up value fo' tha specified standard channel.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Tcl defines three special channels dat is used by various I/O related
commandz if no other channels is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da standard input channel
has a cold-ass lil channel name of \fBstdin\fR n' is used by \fBread\fR n' \fBgets\fR.
Da standard output channel is named \fBstdout\fR n' is used by
\fBputs\fR.  Da standard error channel is named \fBstderr\fR n' is used fo' 
reportin errors.  In addition, tha standard channels is inherited by any
child processes pimped rockin \fBexec\fR or \fBopen\fR up in tha absence of any
other redirections.
.PP
Da standard channels is straight-up aliases fo' other aiiight channels.  The
current channel associated wit a standard channel can be retrieved by calling
\fBTcl_GetStdChannel\fR wit one of 
\fBTCL_STDIN\fR, \fBTCL_STDOUT\fR, or \fBTCL_STDERR\fR as tha \fItype\fR.  The
return value is ghon be a valid channel, or NULL.
.PP
A freshly smoked up channel can be set fo' tha standard channel specified by \fItype\fR 
by callin \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR wit a freshly smoked up channel or NULL up in the
\fIchannel\fR argument.  If tha specified channel is closed by a lata call to
\fBTcl_Close\fR, then tha correspondin standard channel will automatically be
set ta NULL.
.PP
If a non-NULL value fo' \fIchannel\fR is passed ta \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR,
then dat same value should be passed ta \fBTcl_RegisterChannel\fR, like so:
.CS
Tcl_RegisterChannel(NULL, channel);
.CE
This be a workaround fo' a misfeature up in \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR dat it
fails ta do some reference countin housekeeping.  This misfeature cannot
be erected without contradictin tha assumptionz of some existing
code dat calls \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR.
.PP
If \fBTcl_GetStdChannel\fR is called before \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR, Tcl will
construct a freshly smoked up channel ta wrap tha appropriate platform-specific standard 
file handle.  If \fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR is called before
\fBTcl_GetStdChannel\fR, then tha default channel aint gonna be pimped.
.PP
If one of tha standard channels is set ta NULL, either by calling
\fBTcl_SetStdChannel\fR wit a NULL \fIchannel\fR argument, or by calling
\fBTcl_Close\fR on tha channel, then tha next call ta \fBTcl_CreateChannel\fR
will automatically set tha standard channel wit tha newly pimped channel.  If
more than one standard channel is NULL, then tha standard channels will be
assigned startin wit standard input, followed by standard output, with
standard error bein last.
.PP
See \fBTcl_StandardChannels\fR fo' a general treatise bout standard
channels n' tha behaviour of tha Tcl library wit regard ta em.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_Close(3), Tcl_CreateChannel(3), Tcl_Main(3), tclsh(1)

.SH KEYWORDS
standard channel, standard input, standard output, standard error
