.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:48:42 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH TELLDIR 3  2013-03-24 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
telldir \- return current location up in directory stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "long telldir(DIR *" dirp );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR telldir ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR telldir ()
function returns tha current location associated with
the directory stream \fIdirp\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the
.BR telldir ()
function returns tha current location
in tha directory stream.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
Invalid directory stream descriptor \fIdirp\fP.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
In glibc up ta version 2.1.1, tha return type of
.BR telldir ()
was
.IR off_t .
POSIX.1-2001 specifies
.IR long ,
and dis is tha type used since glibc 2.1.2.

In early file systems, tha value returned by
.BR telldir ()
was a simple file offset within a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
Modern file systems use tree or hash structures, rather than flat tables,
to represent directories.
On such file systems, tha value returned by
.BR telldir ()
(and used internally by
.BR readdir (3))
is a "cookie" dat is used by tha implementation
to derive a posizzle within a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.
.\" https://lwn.net/Articles/544298/
Application programs should treat dis strictly as a opaque value, making
.I no
assumptions bout its contents.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closedir (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
