.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TEMPNAM 3  2013-04-19 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tempnam \- create a name fo' a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *tempnam(const char *" dir ", const char *" pfx );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR tempnam ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tempnam ()
function returns a pointa ta a strang dat be a valid filename,
and such dat a gangbangin' file wit dis name did not exist when
.BR tempnam ()
checked.
Da filename suffix of tha pathname generated will start with
.I pfx
in case
.I pfx
is a non-NULL strang of at most five bytes.
Da directory prefix part of tha pathname generated is required to
be "appropriate" (often dat at least implies writable).

Attempts ta find a appropriate directory go all up in tha following
steps:
.TP 3
a)
In case tha environment variable
.B TMPDIR
exists and
gotz nuff tha name of a appropriate directory, dat is used.
.TP
b)
Otherwise, if the
.I dir
argument is non-NULL n' appropriate, it is used.
.TP
c)
Otherwise,
.I P_tmpdir
(as defined in
.IR <stdio.h> )
is used when appropriate.
.TP
d)
Finally a implementation-defined directory may be used.
.PP
Da strang returned by
.BR tempnam ()
is allocated using
.BR malloc (3)
and hence should be freed by
.BR free (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On succes, the
.BR tempnam ()
function returns a pointa ta a unique temporary filename.
It returns NULL if a unique name cannot be generated, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Allocation of storage failed.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR tempnam ()
as obsolete.
.SH NOTES
Although
.BR tempnam ()
generates names dat is hard as fuck ta guess,
it is nevertheless possible dat between tha time that
.BR tempnam ()
returns a pathname, n' tha time dat tha program opens it,
another program might create dat pathname using
.BR open (2),
or create it as a symbolic link.
This can lead ta securitizzle holes.
To avoid such possibilities, use the
.BR open (2)
.B O_EXCL
flag ta open tha pathname.
Or betta yet, use
.BR mkstemp (3)
or
.BR tmpfile (3).

SUSv2 do not mention tha use of
.BR TMPDIR ;
glibc will use it only
when tha program aint set-user-ID.
On SVr4, tha directory used under \fBd)\fP is
.I /tmp
(and dis is what tha fuck glibc do).
.LP
Because it dynamically allocates memory used ta return tha pathname,
.BR tempnam ()
is reentrant, n' thus thread safe, unlike
.BR tmpnam (3).
.LP
The
.BR tempnam ()
function generates a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different strang each time it is called,
up to
.B TMP_MAX
(defined in
.IR <stdio.h> )
times.
If it is called mo' than
.B TMP_MAX
times,
the behavior is implementation defined.
.LP
.BR tempnam ()
uses at most tha straight-up original gangsta five bytes from
.IR pfx .

Da glibc implementation of
.BR tempnam ()
will fail wit tha error
.B EEXIST
upon failure ta find a unique name.
.SH BUGS
Da precise meanin of "appropriate" is undefined;
it is unspecified how tha fuck accessibilitizzle of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is determined.

Never use dis function.
Use
.BR mkstemp (3)
or
.BR tmpfile (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR tmpfile (3),
.BR tmpnam (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
