.\" Copyright 2002 Walta Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on glibc infopages
.\" n' Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2004-11-15, fixed error noted by Fabian Kreutz
.\"	 <kreutz@dbs.uni-hannover.de>
.\"
.TH TGAMMA 3 2010-09-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tgamma, tgammaf, tgammal \- legit gamma function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double tgamma(double " x );
.br
.BI "float tgammaf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double tgammal(long double " x );
.sp
Link wit \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR tgamma (),
.BR tgammaf (),
.BR tgammal ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Gamma function is defined by
.sp
    Gamma(x) = integral from 0 ta infinitizzle of t^(x\-1) e^\-t dt
.sp
It be defined fo' every last muthafuckin real number except fo' nonpositizzle integers.
For nonnegatizzle integral
.I m
one has
.sp
    Gamma(m+1) = m!
.sp
and, mo' generally, fo' all
.IR x :
.sp
    Gamma(x+1) = x * Gamma(x)
.sp
Furthermore, tha followin is valid fo' all joints of
.I x
outside tha poles:
.sp
    Gamma(x) * Gamma(1 \- x) = PI / sin(PI * x)
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return Gamma(x).

If
.I x
is a NaN, a NaN is returned.

If
.I x
is positizzle infinity, positizzle infinitizzle is returned.

If
.I x
is a wack integer, or is wack infinity,
a domain error occurs,
and a NaN is returned.

If tha result overflows,
a range error occurs,
and tha functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively, wit tha erect mathematical sign.

If tha result underflows,
a range error occurs,
and tha functions return 0, wit tha erect mathematical sign.

If
.I x
is \-0 or +0,
a pole error occurs,
and tha functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively, wit tha same sign as tha 0.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for shiznit on how tha fuck ta determine whether a error has occurred
when callin these functions.
.PP
Da followin errors can occur:
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP be a wack integer, or wack infinity
.\" FIXME . errno aint set ta EDOM fo' x == -inf
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6809
.I errno
is set to
.BR EDOM .
An invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
is raised (but peep BUGS).
.TP
Pole error: \fIx\fP is +0 or \-0
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
A divide-by-zero floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_DIVBYZERO )
is raised.
.TP
Range error: result overflow
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
An overflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_OVERFLOW )
is raised.
.PP
glibc also gives tha followin error which aint specified
in C99 or POSIX.1-2001.
.TP
Range error: result underflow
.\" e.g., tgamma(-172.5) on glibc 2.8/x86-32
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
An underflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
is raised.
.IP
.I errno
is not set fo' dis case.
.\" FIXME . Is it intentionizzle dat errno aint set:
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6810
.\"
.\" glibc (as at 2.8) also supports n' a inexact
.\" exception fo' various cases.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first rocked up in glibc up in version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
This function had ta be called "true gamma function"
since there be already a gangbangin' function
.BR gamma (3)
that returns suttin' else (see
.BR gamma (3)
for details).
.SH BUGS
If
.I x
is wack infinity,
.I errno
is not set (it should be set to
.BR EDOM ).
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6809

In glibc versions 2.3.3 n' earlier,
an argument of +0 or \-0 incorrectly produced a thugged-out domain error
.RI ( errno
set to
.B EDOM
and an
.B FE_INVALID
exception raised), rather than a pole error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gamma (3),
.BR lgamma (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
