
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TIMEGM 3 2013-07-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
timegm, timelocal \- inversez of gmtime n' localtime
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t timelocal(struct tm *" tm );
.sp
.BI "time_t timegm(struct tm *" tm );
.sp
.fi
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR timelocal (),
.BR timegm ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da functions
.BR timelocal ()
and
.BR timegm ()
are tha inverses of
.BR localtime (3)
and
.BR gmtime (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions is nonstandard GNU extensions
that is also present on tha BSDs.
Avoid they use; peep NOTES.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR timelocal ()
function is equivalent ta tha POSIX standard function
.BR mktime (3).
There is no reason ta eva use dat shit.
.LP
For a portable version of
.BR timegm (),
set the
.B TZ
environment variable ta UTC, call
.BR mktime (3)
and restore tha value of
.BR TZ .
Somethang like

.in +4n
.nf
#include <time.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

time_t
my_timegm(struct tm *tm)
{
    time_t ret;
    char *tz;

    tz = getenv("TZ");
    if (tz)
        tz = strdup(tz);
    setenv("TZ", "", 1);
    tzset();
    ret = mktime(tm);
    if (tz) {
        setenv("TZ", tz, 1);
        free(tz);
    } else
        unsetenv("TZ");
    tzset();
    return ret;
}
.fi
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gmtime (3),
.BR localtime (3),
.BR mktime (3),
.BR tzset (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
