.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:46:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2001-11-17, aeb
.TH TMPFILE 3  2008-07-14 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tmpfile \- create a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.B FILE *tmpfile(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tmpfile ()
function opens a unique temporary file
in binary read/write (w+b) mode.
Da file is ghon be automatically deleted when it is closed or the
program terminates.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR tmpfile ()
function returns a stream descriptor, or NULL if
a unique filename cannot be generated or tha unique file cannot be
opened.
In tha latta case,
.I errno
is set ta indicate tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission denied fo' directory up in filez path prefix.
.TP
.B EEXIST
Unable ta generate a unique filename.
.TP
.B EINTR
Da call was interrupted by a signal.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Too nuff file descriptors up in use by tha process.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Too nuff filez open up in tha system.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
There was no room up in tha directory ta add tha freshly smoked up filename.
.TP
.B EROFS
Read-only file system.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, SUSv2, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1-2001 specifies:
an error message may be freestyled to
.I stdout
if tha stream
cannot be opened.
.LP
Da standard do not specify tha directory that
.BR tmpfile ()
will use.
Glibc will try tha path prefix
.I P_tmpdir
defined
in
.IR <stdio.h> ,
and if dat fails tha directory
.IR /tmp .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exit (3),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpnam (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
