.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2003-11-15, aeb, added tmpnam_r
.\"
.TH TMPNAM 3  2013-06-21 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
tmpnam, tmpnam_r \- create a name fo' a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *tmpnam(char *" s );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tmpnam ()
function returns a pointa ta a strang dat be a valid filename,
and such dat a gangbangin' file wit dis name did not exist at some point
in time, so dat naive programmers may be thinkin it
a suitable name fo' a temporary file.
If tha argument
.I s
is NULL dis name is generated up in a internal static buffer
and may be overwritten by tha next call to
.BR tmpnam ().
If
.I s
is not NULL, tha name is copied ta tha characta array (of length
at least
.IR L_tmpnam )
pointed ta by
.I s
and tha value
.I s
is returned up in case of success.
.LP
Da pathname dat is pimped, has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory prefix
.IR P_tmpdir .
(Both
.I L_tmpnam
and
.I P_tmpdir
are defined in
.IR <stdio.h> ,
just like the
.B TMP_MAX
mentioned below.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR tmpnam ()
function returns a pointa ta a unique temporary
filename, or NULL if a unique name cannot be generated.
.SH ERRORS
No errors is defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR tmpnam ()
function is thread-safe wit exceptions.
It aint thread-safe if called wit a NULL parameter.
.LP
The
.BR tmpnam_r ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR tmpnam ()
as obsolete.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR tmpnam ()
function generates a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different strang each time it is called,
up to
.B TMP_MAX
times.
If it is called mo' than
.B TMP_MAX
times,
the behavior is implementation defined.
.LP
Although
.BR tmpnam ()
generates names dat is hard as fuck ta guess,
it is nevertheless possible dat between tha time that
.BR tmpnam ()
returns a pathname, n' tha time dat tha program opens it,
another program might create dat pathname using
.BR open (2),
or create it as a symbolic link.
This can lead ta securitizzle holes.
To avoid such possibilities, use the
.BR open (2)
.B O_EXCL
flag ta open tha pathname.
Or betta yet, use
.BR mkstemp (3)
or
.BR tmpfile (3).
.LP
Portable applications dat use threadz cannot call
.BR tmpnam ()
with a NULL argument if either
.B _POSIX_THREADS
or
.B _POSIX_THREAD_SAFE_FUNCTIONS
is defined.
.LP
A POSIX draft proposed ta bust a gangbangin' function
.BR tmpnam_r ()
defined by
.sp
.nf
.in +4n
char *
tmpnam_r(char *s)
{
    return s ? tmpnam(s) : NULL;
}
.in
.fi
.sp
apparently as a warnin not ta use NULL.
A few systems implement dat shit.
To git a glibc prototype fo' dis function from
.IR <stdio.h> ,
define
.B _SVID_SOURCE
or
.B _BSD_SOURCE
(before including
.I any
header file).
.SH BUGS
Never use dis function.
Use
.BR mkstemp (3)
or
.BR tmpfile (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
