
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Added BUGS section, aeb, 950919
.\"
.TH TOASCII 3 2009-03-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
toascii \- convert characta ta ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toascii(int " "c" );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR toascii ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR toascii ()
converts
.I c
to a 7-bit
.I "unsigned char"
value dat fits tha fuck into tha ASCII characta set, by clearin the
high-order bits.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da value returned is dat of tha converted character.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR toascii ()
as obsolete,
notin dat it cannot be use portably up in a localized application.
.SH BUGS
Many playas is ghon be unaiiight if you use dis function.
This function will convert accented lettas tha fuck into random characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isascii (3),
.BR tolower (3),
.BR toupper (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
