.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2000-02-13 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.TH TOUPPER 3  1993-04-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
toupper, tolower \- convert letta ta upper or lower case
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toupper(int " "c" );
.br
.BI "int tolower(int " "c" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR toupper ()
converts tha letter
.I c
to upper case, if possible.
.PP
.BR tolower ()
converts tha letter
.I c
to lower case, if possible.
.PP
If
.I c
is not an
.I "unsigned char"
value, or
.BR EOF ,
the behavior of these functions
is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da value returned is dat of tha converted letter, or
.I c
if tha conversion was not possible.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, 4.3BSD.
.SH BUGS
Da detailz of what tha fuck constitutes a uppercase or lowercase letta depend
on tha current locale.
For example, tha default
.B """C"""
locale do not know bout umlauts, so no conversion is done fo' em.
.PP
In some non-Gangsta locales, there be lowercase lettas wit no
correspondin uppercase equivalent; tha German sharp s is one
example.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR towlower (3),
.BR towupper (3),
.BR locale (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
