
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH TOWLOWER 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
towlower \- convert a wide characta ta lowercase
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t towlower(wint_t " wc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR towlower ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR tolower (3)
function.
If
.I wc
is a wide character, it is converted to
lowercase.
Charactas which aint gots case is returned unchanged.
If
.IR wc
is
.BR WEOF ,
.B WEOF
is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR towlower ()
function returns tha lowercase equivalent of
.IR wc ,
or
.BR WEOF
if
.I wc
is
.BR WEOF .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR towlower ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
This function aint straight-up appropriate fo' dealin wit Unicode characters,
because Unicode knows bout three cases: upper, lower n' title case.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iswlower (3),
.BR towctrans (3),
.BR towupper (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
