
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2001-12-13, Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\" Added ttyname_r, aeb, 2002-07-20
.\"
.TH TTYNAME 3 2013-06-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ttyname, ttyname_r \- return name of a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ttyname(int " fd );

.BI "int ttyname_r(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR ttyname ()
returns a pointa ta tha null-terminated pathname of tha terminal device
that is open on tha file descriptor \fIfd\fP, or NULL on error
(for example, if \fIfd\fP aint connected ta a terminal).
Da return value may point ta static data, possibly overwritten by the
next call.
Da function
.BR ttyname_r ()
stores dis pathname up in tha buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen .
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function
.BR ttyname ()
returns a pointa ta a pathname on success.
On error, NULL is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
Da function
.BR ttyname_r ()
returns 0 on success, n' a error number upon error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
Wack file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
File descriptor do not refer ta a terminal device.
.TP
.B ERANGE
.RB ( ttyname_r ())
.I buflen
was too lil' small-ass ta allow storin tha pathname.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR ttyname ()
function aint thread-safe.
.LP
The
.BR ttyname_r ()
function is thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.2BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fstat (2),
.BR ctermid (3),
.BR isatty (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
