
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces a earlier playa page freestyled by Walta Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH TTYSLOT 3 2013-07-22 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ttyslot \- find tha slot of tha current userz terminal up in some file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#include <unistd.h>"       "    /* on BSD-like systems, n' Linux */"
.br
.BR "#include <stdlib.h>"       "    /* on System V-like systems */"
.sp
.B "int ttyslot(void);"
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR ttyslot ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE ||
.br
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_\ <\ 500\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da legacy function
.BR ttyslot ()
returns tha index of tha current userz entry up in some file.
.LP
Now "What file?" you ask.
Well, letz first peep some history.
.SS Ancient history
There used ta be a gangbangin' file
.I /etc/ttys
in UNIX V6, dat was read by the
.BR init (8)
program ta smoke up what tha fuck ta do wit each terminal line.
Each line consisted of three characters.
Da first characta was either \(aq0\(aq or \(aq1\(aq,
where \(aq0\(aq meant "ignore".
Da second characta denoted tha terminal: \(aq8\(aq stood fo' "/dev/tty8".
Da third characta was a argument to
.BR getty (8)
indicatin tha sequence of line speedz ta try (\(aq\-\(aq was: start trying
110 baud).
Thus a typical line was "18\-".
A hang on some line was solved by changin tha \(aq1\(aq ta a \(aq0\(aq,
signalin init, changin back again, n' signalin init again.
.LP
In UNIX V7 tha format was chizzled: here tha second character
was tha argument to
.BR getty (8)
indicatin tha sequence of line speedz ta try (\(aq0\(aq was: cycle through
300-1200-150-110 baud; \(aq4\(aq was fo' tha on-line console DECwriter)
while tha rest of tha line contained tha name of tha tty.
Thus a typical line was "14console".
.LP
Lata systems have mo' elaborate syntax.
System V-like systems have
.I /etc/inittab
instead.
.SS Ancient history (2)
On tha other hand, there is tha file
.I /etc/utmp
listin tha playas currently logged in.
It be maintained by
.BR login (1).
It has a gangbangin' fixed size, n' tha appropriate index up in tha file was
determined by
.BR login (1)
usin the
.BR ttyslot ()
call ta find tha number of tha line in
.I /etc/ttys
(countin from 1).
.SS Da semantics of ttyslot
Thus, tha function
.BR ttyslot ()
returns tha index of tha controllin terminal of tha callin process
in tha file
.IR /etc/ttys ,
and dat is (usually) tha same as tha index of tha entry fo' the
current user up in tha file
.IR /etc/utmp .
BSD still has the
.I /etc/ttys
file yo, but System V-like systems do not, n' hence cannot refer ta dat shit.
Thus, on such systems tha documentation say that
.BR ttyslot ()
returns tha current userz index up in tha user accountin data base.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, dis function returns tha slot number.
On error (e.g., if none of tha file descriptors 0, 1 or 2 is
associated wit a terminal dat occurs up in dis data base)
it returns 0 on UNIX V6 n' V7 n' BSD-like systems,
but \-1 on System V-like systems.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.SS Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))
The
.BR ttyslot ()
function calls thread-unsafe function
.BR getttyent (),
so it aint thread-safe.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SUSv1; marked as LEGACY up in SUSv2; removed up in POSIX.1-2001.
SUSv2 requires \-1 on error.
.SH NOTES
Da utmp file is found various places on various systems, such as
.IR /etc/utmp ,
.IR /var/adm/utmp ,
.IR /var/run/utmp .
.LP
Da glibc2 implementation of dis function readz tha file
.BR _PATH_TTYS ,
defined in
.I <ttyent.h>
as "/etc/ttys".
It returns 0 on error.
Since Linux systems do not probably have "/etc/ttys", it will
always return 0.
.LP
Minix also has
.IR fttyslot ( fd ).
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" .BR ttyslot ()
.\" rocked up in UNIX V7.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getttyent (3),
.BR ttyname (3),
.BR utmp (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
