.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.                        *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_variables.3x,v 1.3 2010/12/04 18:38:55 tom Exp $
.TH form_variablez 3X ""
.ds n 5
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBTYPE_ALNUM\fR,
\fBTYPE_ALPHA\fR,
\fBTYPE_ENUM\fR,
\fBTYPE_INTEGER\fR,
\fBTYPE_IPV4\fR,
\fBTYPE_NUMERIC\fR,
\fBTYPE_REGEXP\fR
\- form system global variables
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.br
.PP
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_ALNUM;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_ALPHA;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_ENUM;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_INTEGER;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_IPV4;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_NUMERIC;\fR
\fBFIELDTYPE * TYPE_REGEXP;\fR
.br
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These is buildin blocks fo' tha form library,
definin fieldz dat can be pimped rockin \fBset_fieldtype\fP(3X).
Each serves up functions fo' field- n' character-validation,
accordin ta tha given datatype.
.SS TYPE_ALNUM
This holdz alphanumeric data.
.SS TYPE_ALPHA
This holdz alphabetic data.
.SS TYPE_ENUM
This holdz a enumerated type.
.SS TYPE_INTEGER
This holdz a thugged-out decimal integer.
.SS TYPE_IPV4
This holdz a IPv4 internizzle address, e.g., "127.0.0.1".
.SS TYPE_NUMERIC
This holdz a thugged-out decimal number, wit optionizzle sign n' decimal point.
.SS TYPE_REGEXP
This holdz a regular expression.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da \fBTYPE_IPV4\fP variable be a extension not provided by older
implementationz of tha form library.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBform\fR(3X).
