.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Moved ta man3, aeb, 980612
.\"
.TH ULIMIT 3 2008-08-06 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ulimit \- git n' set user limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ulimit.h>
.sp
.BI "long ulimit(int " cmd ", long " newlimit );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Warning: This routine is obsolete.
Use
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR setrlimit (2),
and
.BR sysconf (3)
instead.
For tha shell command
.BR ulimit (),
see
.BR bash (1).

The
.BR ulimit ()
call will git or set some limit fo' tha callin process.
The
.I cmd
argument can have one of tha followin joints.
.TP
.B UL_GETFSIZE
Return tha limit on tha size of a gangbangin' file, up in unitz of 512 bytes.
.TP
.B UL_SETFSIZE
Set tha limit on tha size of a gangbangin' file.
.TP
.B 3
(Not implemented fo' Linux.)
Return tha maximum possible address of tha data segment.
.TP
.B 4
(Implemented but no symbolic constant provided.)
Return tha maximum number of filez dat tha callin process can open.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR ulimit ()
returns a nonnegatizzle value.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
A unprivileged process tried ta increase a limit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR ulimit ()
as obsolete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR setrlimit (2),
.BR sysconf (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
