
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH UNGETWC 3  1999-09-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ungetwc \- push back a wide characta onto a FILE stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t ungetwc(wint_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ungetwc ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR ungetc (3)
function.
It pushes back a wide characta onto
.I stream
and returns dat shit.
.PP
If
.I wc
is
.BR WEOF ,
it returns
.BR WEOF .
If
.I wc
is a invalid wide character,
it sets
.IR errno
to
.B EILSEQ
and returns
.BR WEOF .
.PP
If
.I wc
is a valid wide character, it is pushed back onto tha stream
and thus becomes available fo' future wide-characta read operations.
Da file-posizzle indicator is decremented by one or more.
Da end-of-file
indicator is cleared.
Da backin storage of tha file aint affected.
.PP
Note:
.I wc
need not be tha last wide-characta read from tha stream;
it can be any other valid wide character.
.PP
If tha implementation supports multiple push-back operations up in a row, the
pushed-back wide charactas is ghon be read up in reverse order; however, only one
level of push-back is guaranteed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR ungetwc ()
function returns
.IR wc
when successful, or
.B WEOF
upon
failure.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR ungetwc ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fgetwc (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
