.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH UNLOCKED_STDIO 3  2008-08-29 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
getc_unlocked, getchar_unlocked, putc_unlocked,
putchar_unlocked \- nonlockin stdio functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.B "int getchar_unlocked(void);"
.BI "int putc_unlocked(int " c ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int putchar_unlocked(int " c );
.sp
.BI "void clearerr_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int feof_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int ferror_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fileno_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fflush_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fgetc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputc_unlocked(int " c ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "size_t fread_unlocked(void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " n ,
.BI "                      FILE *" stream );
.BI "size_t fwrite_unlocked(const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " n ,
.BI "                      FILE *" stream );
.sp
.BI "char *fgets_unlocked(char *" s ", int " n ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputs_unlocked(const char *" s ", FILE *" stream );
.sp
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t getwc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.B "wint_t getwchar_unlocked(void);"
.BI "wint_t fgetwc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t fputwc_unlocked(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t putwc_unlocked(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t putwchar_unlocked(wchar_t " wc );
.BI "wchar_t *fgetws_unlocked(wchar_t *" ws ", int " n ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputws_unlocked(const wchar_t *" ws ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.ad l
.in
.sp
.BR getc_unlocked (),
.BR getchar_unlocked (),
.BR putc_unlocked (),
.BR putchar_unlocked ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE ||
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.sp
.BR clearerr_unlocked (),
.BR feof_unlocked (),
.BR ferror_unlocked (),
.BR fileno_unlocked (),
.BR fflush_unlocked (),
.BR fgetc_unlocked (),
.BR fputc_unlocked (),
.BR fread_unlocked (),
.BR fwrite_unlocked ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.sp
.BR fgets_unlocked (),
.BR fputs_unlocked (),
.BR getwc_unlocked (),
.BR getwchar_unlocked (),
.BR fgetwc_unlocked (),
.BR fputwc_unlocked (),
.BR putwchar_unlocked (),
.BR fgetws_unlocked (),
.BR fputws_unlocked ():
.RS 4
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each of these functions has tha same ol' dirty behavior as its counterpart
without tha "_unlocked" suffix, except dat they do not use locking
(they do not set locks theyselves, n' do not test fo' tha presence
of locks set by others) n' hence is thread-unsafe.
See
.BR flockfile (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da four functions
.BR getc_unlocked (),
.BR getchar_unlocked (),
.BR putc_unlocked (),
.BR putchar_unlocked ()
are up in POSIX.1-2001.

Da nonstandard
.BR *_unlocked ()
variants occur on all dem UNIX systems, n' is available up in recent glibc.
.\" E.g., up in HP-UX 10.0. In HP-UX 10.30 they is called obsolescent, and
.\" moved ta a cold-ass lil compatibilitizzle library.
.\" Available up in HP-UX 10.0: clearerr_unlocked, fclose_unlocked,
.\" feof_unlocked, ferror_unlocked, fflush_unlocked, fgets_unlocked,
.\" fgetwc_unlocked, fgetws_unlocked, fileno_unlocked, fputs_unlocked,
.\" fputwc_unlocked, fputws_unlocked, fread_unlocked, fseek_unlocked,
.\" ftell_unlocked, fwrite_unlocked, getc_unlocked, getchar_unlocked,
.\" getw_unlocked, getwc_unlocked, getwchar_unlocked, putc_unlocked,
.\" putchar_unlocked, puts_unlocked, putws_unlocked, putw_unlocked,
.\" putwc_unlocked, putwchar_unlocked, rewind_unlocked, setvbuf_unlocked,
.\" ungetc_unlocked, ungetwc_unlocked.
They should probably not be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flockfile (3),
.BR stdio (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
