
.\" Created Wed Jul  2 23:27:34 ART 1997
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Added info on availability, aeb, 971207
.\" Added -lutil remark, 030718
.\" 2008-07-02, mtk, document updwtmpx()
.\"
.TH UPDWTMP 3  2008-07-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
updwtmp, logwtmp \- append a entry ta tha wtmp file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <utmp.h>
.sp
.BI "void updwtmp(const char *" wtmp_file ", const struct utmp *" ut );
.br
.BI "void logwtmp(const char *" line ", const char *" name \
", const char *" host );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR updwtmp ()
appendz tha utmp structure
.I ut
to tha wtmp file.
.PP
.BR logwtmp ()
constructs a utmp structure using
.IR line ", " name ", " host ,
current time n' current process ID.
Then it calls
.BR updwtmp ()
to append tha structure ta tha wtmp file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/wtmp
database of past user logins
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not up in POSIX.1-2001.
Present on Solaris, NetBSD, n' like other systems.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Both functions is available under glibc2 yo, but not under libc5.
However,
.BR logwtmp ()
used ta occur up in tha oldschool libbsd.
These days, the
.BR logwtmp ()
function is included up in libutil.
(Hence you gonna need ta add \fI\-lutil\fP
to yo' compila command line ta git dat shit.)
.SH NOTES
For consistency wit tha other "utmpx" functions (see
.BR getutxent (3)),
glibc serves up (since version 2.1):
.nf
.sp
.B #include <utmpx.h>
.sp
.BI "void updwtmpx (const char *" wtmpx_file ", const struct utmpx *" utx );
.fi
.PP
This function performs tha same ol' dirty task as
.BR updwtmp (),
but differs up in dat it takes a
.I utmpx
structure as its last argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getutxent (3),
.BR wtmp (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
