.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 2005-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey
.\"
.\" $Id: legacy_coding.3x,v 1.4 2010/12/04 18:49:20 tom Exp $
.TH legacy_codin 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBuse_legacy_coding\fR \- use terminalz default colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint use_legacy_coding(int level);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I use_legacy_coding()
function be a extension ta tha curses library.
It allows tha calla ta chizzle tha result of \fBunctrl\fP,
and suppress related checks within tha library dat would normally
cause nonprintin charactas ta be rendered up in visible form.
This affects only 8-bit characters.
.PP
Da \fIlevel\fP parameta controls tha result:
.RS
.TP 5
0
the library functions normally,
renderin nonprintin charactas as busted lyrics bout up in \fBunctrl\fP.
.TP
1
the library ignores \fBisprintf\fP fo' codes up in tha range 160-255.
.TP
2
the library ignores \fBisprintf\fP fo' codes up in tha range 128-255.
It also modifies tha output of \fBunctrl\fP, showin codes up in the
range 128-159 as is.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha screen has not been initialized,
or tha \fIlevel\fP parameta is outta range,
the function returns \fBERR\fP.
Otherwise, it returns tha previous level: \fB0\fP, \fB1\fP or \fB2\fP.
.SH PORTABILITY
This routine is specific ta ncurses.
Dat shiznit was not supported on Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.
It be recommended dat any code dependin on ncurses extensions
be conditioned rockin NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBunctrl\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (to support lynxz font-switchin feature).
