.\" Copyright 1993 Dizzy Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewinez _POSIX Programmerz Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD playa pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2001-04-01 by aeb
.\" Modified 2003-07-23 by aeb
.\"
.TH USLEEP 3  2013-04-19 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
usleep \- suspend execution fo' microsecond intervals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <unistd.h>"
.sp
.BI "int usleep(useconds_t " usec );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR usleep ():
.ad l
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.12:
.nf
_BSD_SOURCE ||
    (_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
        _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED) &&
    !(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700)
.TP 4
.fi
Before glibc 2.12:
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.PD
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR usleep ()
function suspendz execution of tha callin thread for
(at least) \fIusec\fP microseconds.
Da chill may be lengthened slightly
by any system activitizzle or by tha time dropped processin tha call or by the
granularitizzle of system timers.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR usleep ()
function returns 0 on success.
On error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINTR
Interrupted by a signal; see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIusec\fP aint smalla than 1000000.
(On systems where dat is considered a error.)
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2001 declares dis function obsolete; use
.BR nanosleep (2)
instead.
POSIX.1-2008 removes tha justification of
.BR usleep ().

On tha original gangsta BSD implementation,
and up in glibc before version 2.2.2, tha return type of dis function is
.IR void .
Da POSIX version returns
.IR int ,
and dis be also tha prototype used since glibc 2.2.2.

Only the
.B EINVAL
error return is documented by SUSv2 n' POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Da type
.I useconds_t
is a unsigned integer type capable of holdin integers
in tha range [0,1000000].
Programs is ghon be mo' portable
if they never mention dis type explicitly.
Use
.in +4n
.nf
.sp
#include <unistd.h>
\&...
    unsigned int usecs;
\&...
    usleep(usecs);
.fi
.in
.LP
Da interaction of dis function wit the
.B SIGALRM
signal, n' wit other timer functions such as
.BR alarm (2),
.BR chill (3),
.BR nanosleep (2),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR timer_create (2),
.BR timer_delete (2),
.BR timer_getoverrun (2),
.BR timer_gettime (2),
.BR timer_settime (2),
.BR ualarm (3)
is unspecified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR alarm (2),
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR nanosleep (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR chill (3),
.BR ualarm (3),
.BR time (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
