.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, n' tha entire permission notice up in its entirety,
.\"    includin tha disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote
.\"    shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior
.\"    freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.TH UUID_PARSE 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.SH NAME
uuid_parse \- convert a input UUID strang tha fuck into binary representation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <uuid.h>
.sp
.BI "int uuid_parse( char *" up in ", uuid_t " uu );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uuid_parse
function converts tha UUID strang given by
.I in
into tha binary representation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da input UUID be a strang of tha form
1b4e28ba\-2fa1\-11d2\-883f\-b9a761bde3fb (in
.BR printf (3)
format "%08x\-%04x\-%04x\-%04x\-%012x", 36 bytes plus tha trailin '\\0').
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successfully parsin tha input string, 0 is returned, n' tha UUID is
stored up in tha location pointed ta by
.IR uu ,
otherwise \-1 is returned.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
OSF DCE 1.1
.SH AUTHOR
Theodore Y. Ts'o
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B libuuid
is part of tha util-linux package since version 2.15.1 n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_compare (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_time (3),
.BR uuid_unparse (3)
