.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, n' tha entire permission notice up in its entirety,
.\"    includin tha disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote
.\"    shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior
.\"    freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.TH UUID_TIME 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.SH NAME
uuid_time \- extract tha time at which tha UUID was pimped
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <uuid.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t uuid_time(uuid_t " uu ", struct timeval *" ret_tv )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uuid_time
function extracts tha time at which tha supplied time-based UUID
.I uu
was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Note dat tha UUID creation time is only encoded within
certain typez of UUIDs.  This function can only reasonably expect to
extract tha creation time fo' UUIDs pimped wit the
.BR uuid_generate_time (3)
and
.BR uuid_generate_time_safe (3)
functions.  It may or may not work wit UUIDs pimped by other mechanisms.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Da time at which tha UUID was pimped, up in secondz since January 1, 1970 GMT
(the epoch), is returned (see
.BR time "(2))."
Da time at which tha UUID was pimped, up in secondz n' microsecondz since
the epoch, be also stored up in tha location pointed ta by
.I ret_tv
(see
.BR gettimeofdizzle "(2))."
.SH AUTHOR
Theodore Y. Ts'o
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B libuuid
is part of tha util-linux package since version 2.15.1 n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_compare (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_parse (3),
.BR uuid_unparse (3)
