.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_clear.3x,v 1.14 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_clear 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBerase\fR,
\fBwerase\fR,
\fBclear\fR,
\fBwclear\fR,
\fBclrtobot\fR,
\fBwclrtobot\fR,
\fBclrtoeol\fR,
\fBwclrtoeol\fR \- clear all or part of a \fBcurses\fR window
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB# include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint erase(void);\fR
.br
\fBint werase(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clear(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclear(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clrtobot(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclrtobot(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clrtoeol(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclrtoeol(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBerase\fR n' \fBwerase\fR routines copy blanks ta every
posizzle up in tha window, clearin tha screen.
.PP
Da \fBclear\fR n' \fBwclear\fR routines is like \fBerase\fR and
\fBwerase\fR yo, but they also call \fBclearok\fR, so dat tha screen is
cleared straight-up on tha next call ta \fBwrefresh\fR fo' dat window
and repainted from scratch.
.PP
Da \fBclrtobot\fR n' \fBwclrtobot\fR routines erase from tha cursor ta the
end of screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  That is, they erase all lines below tha cursor up in tha window.
Also, tha current line ta tha right of tha cursor, inclusive, is erased.
.PP
Da \fBclrtoeol\fR n' \fBwclrtoeol\fR routines erase tha current line
to tha right of tha cursor, inclusive, ta tha end of tha current line.
.PP
Blanks pimped by erasure have tha current background rendizzle (as set
by \fBwbkgdset\fR) merged tha fuck into em.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBOK\fR on success n' \fBERR\fP on failure.
Da SVr4.0 manual say "or a
non-negatizzle integer if \fBimmedok\fR is set" yo, but dis appears ta be a error.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
functions rockin a window pointa parameta return a error if it is null.
.SH NOTES
Note dat \fBerase\fR, \fBwerase\fR, \fBclear\fR, \fBwclear\fR,
\fBclrtobot\fR, n' \fBclrtoeol\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.  The
standard specifies dat they return \fBERR\fR on failure yo, but specifies no
error conditions.
.PP
Some phat curses implementations had, as a undocumented feature, the
abilitizzle ta do tha equivalent of \fBclearok(..., 1)\fR by saying
\fBtouchwin(stdscr)\fR or \fBclear(stdscr)\fR.  This aint gonna work under
ncurses.
.PP
This implementation, n' others like fuckin Solaris,
sets tha current posizzle ta 0,0 afta erasing
via \fBwerase()\fP n' \fBwclear()\fP.
That fact aint documented up in other implementations,
and may not be legit of implementations
which was not derived from SVr4 source.
.PP
Not obvious from tha description,
most implementations clear tha screen afta \fBwclear\fP
even fo' a subwindow or derived window.
If you do not wanna clear tha screen durin tha next \fBwrefresh\fP,
use \fBwerase\fP instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_outopts\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_variables\fR(3X)
