
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH WCRTOMB 3  2011-09-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wcrtomb \- convert a wide characta ta a multibyte sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t wcrtomb(char *" s ", wchar_t " wc ", mbstate_t *" ps );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da main case fo' dis function is when
.I s
is
not NULL and
.I wc
is not a null wide characta (L\(aq\\0\(aq).
In dis case, the
.BR wcrtomb ()
function
converts tha wide character
.I wc
to its multibyte representation n' stores it
at tha beginnin of tha character
array pointed ta by
.IR s .
It thugged-out shiznit tha shift state
.IR *ps ,
and
returns tha length of holla'd multibyte representation,
that is, tha number of bytes
written at
.IR s .
.PP
A different case is when
.I s
is not NULL,
but
.I wc
is a null wide characta (L\(aq\\0\(aq).
In this
case the
.BR wcrtomb ()
function stores at
the characta array pointed ta by
.I s
the shift sequence needed to
bring
.I *ps
back ta tha initial state,
followed by a \(aq\\0\(aq byte.
It thugged-out shiznit tha shift state
.I *ps
(i.e., brangs
it tha fuck into tha initial state),
and returns tha length of tha shift sequence plus
one, dat is, tha number of bytes freestyled at
.IR s .
.PP
A third case is when
.I s
is NULL.
In dis case
.I wc
is ignored,
and tha function effectively returns

    wcrtomb(buf, L\(aq\\0\(aq, ps)

where
.I buf
is a internal anonymous buffer.
.PP
In all of tha above cases, if
.I ps
is a NULL pointer, a static anonymous
state known only ta the
.BR wcrtomb ()
function is used instead.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wcrtomb ()
function returns tha number of
bytes dat done been or would
have been freestyled ta tha byte array at
.IR s .
If
.I wc
can not be
represented as a multibyte sequence (accordin ta tha current locale),
.I (size_t)\ \-1
is returned, and
.I errno
set to
.BR EILSEQ .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wcrtomb ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
Passin NULL as
.I ps
is not multithread safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wcsrtombs (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
