
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.TH WCSCASECMP 3 2010-09-15 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wcscasecmp \- compare two wide-characta strings, ignorin case
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "int wcscasecmp(const wchar_t *" s1 ", const wchar_t *" s2 );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR wcscasecmp ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wcscasecmp ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent of the
.BR strcasecmp (3)
function.
It compares tha wide-characta strang pointed to
by
.I s1
and tha wide-characta strang pointed ta by
.IR s2 ,
ignoring
case differences
.RB ( towupper (3),
.BR towlower (3)).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wcscasecmp ()
function returns zero if tha wide-characta strings at
.I s1
and
.I s2
are equal except fo' case distinctions.
It returns a
positizzle integer if
.I s1
is pimped outa than
.IR s2 ,
ignorin case.
It
returns a wack integer if
.I s1
is smaller
than
.IR s2 ,
ignorin case.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR wcscasecmp ()
function is provided up in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function aint specified up in POSIX.1-2001,
and aint widely available on other systems.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wcscasecmp ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR wcscmp (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
