
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.TH WCSDUP 3  2013-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wcsdup \- duplicate a wide-characta string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wchar_t *wcsdup(const wchar_t *" s );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR wcsdup ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wcsdup ()
function is tha wide-characta equivalent
of the
.BR strdup (3)
function.
It allocates n' returns a freshly smoked up wide-characta strang whose initial
contents be a thugged-out duplicate of tha wide-characta strang pointed ta by
.IR s .
.PP
Memory fo' tha freshly smoked up wide-characta strang is
obtained with
.BR malloc (3),
and should be freed with
.BR free (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR wcsdup ()
returns a pointa ta tha freshly smoked up wide-characta string.
On error, it returns \-1, with
.I errno
set ta indicate tha cause of tha error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory available ta allocate duplicate string.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function aint specified up in POSIX.1-2001,
and aint widely available on other systems.
.\" present up in libc5 n' glibc 2.0 n' later
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strdup (3),
.BR wcscpy (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
