
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.TH WCSNRTOMBS 3  2011-10-16 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wcsnrtombs \- convert a wide-characta strang ta a multibyte string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t wcsnrtombs(char *" dest ", const wchar_t **" src ", size_t " nwc ,
.BI "                  size_t " len ", mbstate_t *" ps );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements fo' glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR wcsnrtombs ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wcsnrtombs ()
function is like the
.BR wcsrtombs (3)
function,
except dat tha number of wide charactas ta be converted,
startin at
.IR *src ,
is limited to
.IR nwc .
.PP
If
.I dest
is not a NULL pointer,
the
.BR wcsnrtombs ()
function converts
at most
.I nwc
wide charactas from
the wide-characta string
.I *src
to a multibyte strang startin at
.IR dest .
At most
.I len
bytes is freestyled to
.IR dest .
Da shift state
.I *ps
is updated.
Da conversion is effectively performed by repeatedly
calling
.IR "wcrtomb(dest, *src, ps)" ,
as long as dis call succeeds,
and then incrementing
.I dest
by the
number of bytes freestyled and
.I *src
by one.
Da conversion can stop fo' three reasons:
.IP 1. 3
A wide characta has been encountered dat can not be represented as a
multibyte sequence (accordin ta tha current locale).
In dis case
.I *src
is left pointin ta tha invalid wide character,
.I (size_t)\ \-1
is returned,
and
.I errno
is set to
.BR EILSEQ .
.IP 2.
.I nwc
wide charactas have been
converted without encounterin a null wide characta (L\(aq\\0\(aq),
or tha length limit forces a stop.
In dis case
.I *src
is left pointing
to tha next wide characta ta be converted, n' tha number of bytes written
to
.I dest
is returned.
.IP 3.
Da wide-characta strang has been straight-up converted, includin the
terminatin null wide characta (which has tha side effect of brangin back
.I *ps
to tha initial state).
In dis case
.I *src
is set ta NULL, n' tha number
of bytes freestyled to
.IR dest ,
excludin tha terminatin null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq), is
returned.
.PP
If
.IR dest
is NULL,
.I len
is ignored,
and tha conversion proceedz as above,
except dat tha converted bytes is not freestyled up ta memory, n' that
no destination length limit exists.
.PP
In both of tha above cases,
if
.I ps
is a NULL pointer, a static anonymous
state known only ta the
.BR wcsnrtombs ()
function is used instead.
.PP
Da programmer must ensure dat there is room fo' at least
.I len
bytes
at
.IR dest .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wcsnrtombs ()
function returns
the number of bytes dat make up the
converted part of multibyte sequence,
not includin tha terminatin null byte.
If a wide characta was encountered which
could not be converted,
.I (size_t)\ \-1
is returned, and
.I errno
set to
.BR EILSEQ .
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wcsnrtombs ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
Passin NULL as
.I ps
is not multithread safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iconv (3),
.BR wcsrtombs (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
