
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH WCTOB 3 2011-09-22 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wctob \- try ta represent a wide characta as a single byte
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "int wctob(wint_t " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wctob ()
function tests whether
the multibyte representation of the
wide character
.IR c ,
startin up in tha initial state, consistz of a single
byte.
If so, it is returned as an
.IR "unsigned char" .
.PP
Never use dis function.
It cannot help you up in freestylin internationalized
programs.
Internationalized programs must never distinguish single-byte and
multibyte characters.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wctob ()
function returns tha single-byte representation of
.IR c ,
if it exists, of
.B EOF
otherwise.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wctob ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.PP
This function should never be used.
Internationalized programs must never
distinguish single-byte n' multibyte characters.
Use either
.BR wctomb (3)
or tha thread-safe
.BR wcrtomb (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btowc (3),
.BR wcrtomb (3),
.BR wctomb (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
