
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH WCTRANS 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wctrans \- wide-characta translation mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "wctrans_t wctrans(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I wctrans_t
type represents a mapping
which can map a wide characta to
another wide character.
Its nature is implementation-dependent yo, but tha special
value
.IR "(wctrans_t)\ 0"
denotes a invalid mapping.
Nonzero
.I wctrans_t
values can be passed ta the
.BR towctrans (3)
function ta straight-up perform
the wide-characta mapping.
.PP
The
.BR wctrans ()
function returns a mapping, given by its name.
Da set of
valid names dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of tha current locale yo, but the
followin names is valid up in all locales.
.nf
  "tolower" \- realizes tha \fBtolower\fP(3) mapping
  "toupper" \- realizes tha \fBtoupper\fP(3) mapping
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wctrans ()
function returns a mappin descriptor if the
.I name
is valid.
Otherwise it returns
.IR "(wctrans_t)\ 0" .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wctrans ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR towctrans (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
