
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code n' manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroupz Single UNIX justification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH WCTYPE 3  1999-07-25 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
wctype \- wide-characta classification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "wctype_t wctype(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I wctype_t
type represents a property which a wide characta may or
may not have.
In other lyrics, it represents a cold-ass lil class of wide characters.
This typez nature is implementation-dependent yo, but tha special value
.I "(wctype_t) 0"
denotes a invalid property.
Nonzero
.I wctype_t
values
can be passed ta the
.BR iswctype (3)
function
to straight-up test whether a given
wide characta has tha property.
.PP
The
.BR wctype ()
function returns a property, given by its name.
Da set of
valid names dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of tha current locale yo, but the
followin names is valid up in all locales.
.nf
  "alnum" \- realizes tha \fBisalnum\fP(3) classification function
  "alpha" \- realizes tha \fBisalpha\fP(3) classification function
  "blank" \- realizes tha \fBisblank\fP(3) classification function
  "cntrl" \- realizes tha \fBiscntrl\fP(3) classification function
  "digit" \- realizes tha \fBisdigit\fP(3) classification function
  "graph" \- realizes tha \fBisgraph\fP(3) classification function
  "lower" \- realizes tha \fBislower\fP(3) classification function
  "print" \- realizes tha \fBisprint\fP(3) classification function
  "punct" \- realizes tha \fBispunct\fP(3) classification function
  "space" \- realizes tha \fBisspace\fP(3) classification function
  "upper" \- realizes tha \fBisupper\fP(3) classification function
  "xdigit" \- realizes tha \fBisxdigit\fP(3) classification function
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR wctype ()
function returns a property descriptor
if the
.I name
is valid.
Otherwise it returns
.IR "(wctype_t) 0" .
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH NOTES
Da behavior of
.BR wctype ()
dependz on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iswctype (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
