.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_printw.3x,v 1.20 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH curs_printw 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBprintw\fR,
\fBwprintw\fR,
\fBmvprintw\fR,
\fBmvwprintw\fR,
\fBvwprintw\fR, \fBvw_printw\fR \- print formatted output up in \fBcurses\fR windows
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint printw(const char *fmt, ...);\fR
.br
\fBint wprintw(WINDOW *win, const char *fmt, ...);\fR
.br
\fBint mvprintw(int y, int x, const char *fmt, ...);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwprintw(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, const char *fmt, ...);\fR
.br
\fBint vwprintw(WINDOW *win, const char *fmt, va_list varglist);\fR
.br
\fBint vw_printw(WINDOW *win, const char *fmt, va_list varglist);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBprintw\fR, \fBwprintw\fR, \fBmvprintw\fR n' \fBmvwprintw\fR
routines is analogous ta \fBprintf\fR [see \fBprintf\fR(3)].  In
effect, tha strang dat would be output by \fBprintf\fR is output
instead as though \fBwaddstr\fR was used on tha given window.
.PP
Da \fBvwprintw\fR n' \fBwv_printw\fR routines is analogous
to \fBvprintf\fR [see \fBprintf\fR(3)]
and big-ass up a \fBwprintw\fR rockin a variable argument list.
Da third argument be a \fBva_list\fR, a pointa ta a
list of arguments, as defined up in \fB<stdarg.h>\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines dat return a integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure n' \fBOK\fR
(SVr4 only specifies "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In dis implementation,
an error may be returned if it cannot allocate enough memory fo' the
buffer used ta format tha thangs up in dis biatch.
It will return a error if tha window pointa is null.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH PORTABILITY
Da XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 raps bout these functions.  Da function
\fBvwprintw\fR is marked TO BE WITHDRAWN, n' is ta be replaced by a gangbangin' function
\fBvw_printw\fR rockin tha \fB<stdarg.h>\fR intercourse.
Da Single Unix Justification, Version 2 states that
\fBvw_printw\fR  is preferred ta \fBvwprintw\fR since tha latta requires
includin \fB<varargs.h>\fR, which
cannot be used up in tha same file as \fB<stdarg.h>\fR.
This implementation uses \fB<stdarg.h>\fR fo' both, cuz dat header
is included up in \fB<curses.h\fR>.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBprintf\fR(3), \fBvprintf(3)\fR
