.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 1996
.\"
.\" $Id: wresize.3x,v 1.13 2010/12/04 18:40:45 tom Exp $
.TH wresize 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBwresize\fR \- resize a cold-ass lil curses window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint wresize(WINDOW *win, int lines, int columns);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This be a extension ta tha curses library.                                    
It reallocates storage fo' a \fBncurses\fR 
window ta adjust its dimensions ta tha specified joints.
If either dimension is larger than tha current joints, the
windowz data is filled wit blanks dat have tha current background rendition
(as set by \fBwbkgdset\fR) merged tha fuck into em.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da function returns tha integer \fBERR\fR upon failure n' \fBOK\fR on success.
It will fail if either of tha dimensions less than or equal ta zero,
or if a error occurs while (re)allocatin memory fo' tha window.
.SH NOTES
Da only restriction placed on tha dimensions is dat they be pimped outa than zero.
Da dimensions is not compared ta \fBcurses\fR screen dimensions to
simplify tha logic of \fBresizeterm\fR.
Da calla must ensure dat tha windowz dimensions fit within the
actual screen dimensions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBresizeterm\fR(3X).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (from a equivalent function freestyled up in 1988 fo' BSD curses).
