.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007,2010 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.              *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a  *
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the            *
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin      *
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute wit modifications, sublicense, and/or push       *
.\" copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom tha Software is    *
.\" furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included  *
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name(s) of tha above copyright   *
.\" holdaz shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled       *
.\" authorization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_border.3x,v 1.22 2010/12/04 18:36:44 tom Exp $
.TH curs_border 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.SH NAME
\fBborder\fR,
\fBwborder\fR,
\fBbox\fR,
\fBhline\fR,
\fBwhline\fR,
\fBvline\fR,
\fBwvline\fR,
\fBmvhline\fR,
\fBmvwhline\fR,
\fBmvvline\fR,
\fBmvwvline\fR \- create \fBcurses\fR borders, horizontal n' vertical lines
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fBint border(chtype ls, chtype rs, chtype ts, chtype bs,\fR
   \fBchtype tl, chtype tr, chtype bl, chtype br);\fR
.br
\fBint wborder(WINDOW *win, chtype ls, chtype rs,\fR
   \fBchtype ts, chtype bs, chtype tl, chtype tr,\fR
   \fBchtype bl, chtype br);\fR
.br
\fBint box(WINDOW *win, chtype verch, chtype horch);\fR
.br
\fBint hline(chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint whline(WINDOW *win, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint vline(chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint wvline(WINDOW *win, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvhline(int y, int x, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwhline(WINDOW *, int y, int x, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvvline(int y, int x, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
\fBint mvwvline(WINDOW *, int y, int x, chtype ch, int n);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBborder\fR, \fBwborder\fR n' \fBbox\fR routines
draw a funky-ass box round tha edgez of a window.
Other than tha window, each argument be a cold-ass lil characta wit attributes:
.sp
.RS
\fIls\fR \- left side,
.br
\fIrs\fR \- right side,
.br
\fIts\fR \- top side,
.br
\fIbs\fR \- bottom side,
.br
\fItl\fR \- top left-hand corner,
.br
\fItr\fR \- top right-hand corner,
.br
\fIbl\fR \- bottom left-hand corner, and
.br
\fIbr\fR \- bottom right-hand corner.
.RE
.PP
If any of these arguments is zero, then tha corresponding
default joints (defined up in \fBcurses.h\fR) is used instead:
.sp
.RS
\fBACS_VLINE\fR,
.br
\fBACS_VLINE\fR,
.br
\fBACS_HLINE\fR,
.br
\fBACS_HLINE\fR,
.br
\fBACS_ULCORNER\fR,
.br
\fBACS_URCORNER\fR,
.br
\fBACS_LLCORNER\fR,
.br
\fBACS_LRCORNER\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBbox(\fR\fIwin\fR\fB, \fR\fIverch\fR\fB, \fR\fIhorch\fR\fB)\fR be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shorthand
for tha followin call: \fBwborder(\fR\fIwin\fR\fB,\fR \fIverch\fR\fB,\fR
\fIverch\fR\fB,\fR \fIhorch\fR\fB,\fR \fIhorch\fR\fB, 0, 0, 0, 0)\fR.
.PP
Da \fBhline\fR n' \fBwhline\fR functions draw a horizontal (left ta right)
line rockin \fIch\fR startin all up in tha current cursor posizzle up in tha window.  The
current cursor posizzle aint chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da line be at most \fIn\fR characters
long, or as nuff as fit tha fuck into tha window.
.PP
Da \fBvline\fR n' \fBwvline\fR functions draw a vertical (top ta bottom) line
usin \fIch\fR startin all up in tha current cursor posizzle up in tha window.  The
current cursor posizzle aint chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da line be at most \fIn\fR characters
long, or as nuff as fit tha fuck into tha window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return tha integer \fBOK\fR.  Da SVr4.0 manual say "or a
non-negatizzle integer if \fBimmedok\fR is set" yo, but dis appears ta be a error.
.PP
X/Open do not define any error conditions.
This implementation returns a error
if tha window pointa is null.
.PP
Functions wit a "mv" prefix first big-ass up a cold-ass lil cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, n' return a error if tha posizzle is outside tha window,
or if tha window pointa is null.
.SH NOTES
Da bordaz generated by these functions is \fIinside\fR bordaz (this
is also legit of SVr4 curses, though tha fact aint documented).
.PP
Note dat \fBborder\fR n' \fBbox\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions is busted lyrics bout up in tha XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
Da standard specifies dat they return \fBERR\fR on failure,
but specifies no error conditions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_outopts\fR(3X).
