.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XAddConnectionWatch 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAddConnectionWatch, XRemoveConnectionWatch, XProcessInternalConnection, XInternalConnectionNumbers \- handle Xlib internal connections
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
typedef void (*XConnectionWatchProc)\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XPointer
\fIclient_data\fP\^, int \fIfd\fP\^, Bool \fIopening\fP\^, XPointer
*\fIwatch_data\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XAddConnectionWatch\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XWatchProc
\fIprocedure\fP\^, XPointa \fIclient_data\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XRemoveConnectionWatch\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XWatchProc
\fIprocedure\fP\^, XPointa \fIclient_data\fP\^); 
.HP
void XProcessInternalConnection\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIfd\fP\^);
.HP
Status XInternalConnectionNumbers\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int
**\fIfd_return\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha additionizzle client data.
.ds Cn file descriptors
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIfd\fP 1i
Specifies tha file descriptor.
.IP \fIfd_return\fP 1i
Returns tha file descriptors.
.IP \fIprocedure\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure ta be called.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XAddConnectionWatch
function registas a procedure ta be called each time Xlib opens or closes an
internal connection fo' tha specified display.  Da procedure is passed the
display, tha specified client_data, tha file descriptor fo' tha connection,
a Boolean indicatin whether tha connection is bein opened or closed, n' a
pointa ta a location fo' private peep data.  If openin is
.ZN True ,
the procedure can store a pointa ta private data up in tha location pointed
to by watch_data;
when tha procedure is lata called fo' dis same connection n' openin is
.ZN False ,
the location pointed ta by watch_data will hold dis same private data pointer.
.LP
This function can be called at any time afta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display is opened.
If internal connections already exist, tha registered procedure will
immediately be called fo' each of them, before
.ZN XAddConnectionWatch
returns.
.ZN XAddConnectionWatch
returns a nonzero status if tha procedure is successfully registered;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.LP
Da registered procedure should not call any Xlib functions.
If tha procedure directly or indirectly causes tha state of internal
connections or peep procedures ta chizzle, tha result aint defined.
If Xlib has been initialized fo' threads, tha procedure is called with
the display locked n' tha result of a cold-ass lil call by tha procedure ta any
Xlib function dat locks tha display aint defined unless tha executing
thread has externally locked tha display using
.ZN XLockDisplay .
.LP
The
.ZN XRemoveConnectionWatch
function removes a previously registered connection peep procedure.
Da client_data must match tha client_data used when tha procedure
was initially registered.

.LP
The
.ZN XProcessInternalConnection
function processes input available on a internal connection.
This function should be called fo' a internal connection only
afta a operatin system facilitizzle (for example,
.ZN select
or
.ZN poll )
has indicated dat input be available; otherwise,
the effect aint defined.
.LP
The
.ZN XInternalConnectionNumbers
function returns a list of tha file descriptors fo' all internal
connections currently open fo' tha specified display.
When tha allocated list is no longer needed,
free it by using
.ZN XJacked .
This functions returns a nonzero status if tha list is successfully allocated;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
