.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps
.\" ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice(s) n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies of
.\" tha Software n' dat both tha above copyright notice(s) n' this
.\" permission notice step tha fuck up in supportin documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of a cold-ass lil copyright holder
.\" shall not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use
.\" or other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" of tha copyright holder.
.\" 
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XAddHost 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAddHost, XAddHosts, XListHosts, XRemoveHost, XRemoveHosts, XSetAccessControl, XEnableAccessControl, XDisableAccessControl, XHostAddress, XServerInterpretedAddress \- control host access n' host control structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XAddHost\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XHostAddress *\fIhost\fP\^); 
.HP
int XAddHosts\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XHostAddress *\fIhosts\fP, 
int \fInum_hosts\fP\^);
.HP
XHostAddress *XListHosts\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int *\fInhosts_return\fP,
Bool \fIstate_return\fP\^);
.HP
int XRemoveHost\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XHostAddress *\fIhost\fP\^);
.HP
int XRemoveHosts\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XHostAddress *\fIhosts\fP, int \fInum_hosts\fP\^);
.HP
int XSetAccessControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int \fImode\fP\^);
.HP
int XEnableAccessControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.HP
int XDisableAccessControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.ds Ho added or removed
.IP \fIhost\fP 1i
Specifies tha host dat is ta be \*(Ho.
.ds Ho added or removed
.IP \fIhosts\fP 1i
Specifies each host dat is ta be \*(Ho.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies tha mode.
Yo ass can pass
.ZN EnableAccess
or
.ZN DisableAccess .
.IP \fInhosts_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of hosts currently up in tha access control list.
.IP \fInum_hosts\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of hosts.
.IP \fIstate_return\fP 1i
Returns tha state of tha access control.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XAddHost
function addz tha specified host ta tha access control list fo' dat display.
Da server must be on tha same host as tha client issuin tha command, or a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XAddHost
can generate
.ZN BadAccess
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XAddHosts
function addz each specified host ta tha access control list fo' dat display.
Da server must be on tha same host as tha client issuin tha command, or a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XAddHosts
can generate
.ZN BadAccess
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XListHosts
function returns tha current access control list as well as whether tha use 
of tha list at connection setup was enabled or disabled.
.ZN XListHosts
allows a program ta smoke up what tha fuck machines can make connections.
It also returns a pointa ta a list of host structures that
were allocated by tha function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
When no longer needed,
this memory should be freed by calling
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN XRemoveHost
function removes tha specified host from tha access control list 
for dat display.
Da server must be on tha same host as tha client process, or a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If you remove yo' machine from tha access list,
you can no longer connect ta dat server,
and dis operation cannot be reversed unless you reset tha server.
.LP
.ZN XRemoveHost
can generate
.ZN BadAccess
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XRemoveHosts
function removes each specified host from tha access control list fo' dat 
display.  
Da X server must be on tha same host as tha client process, or a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If you remove yo' machine from tha access list, 
you can no longer connect ta dat server,
and dis operation cannot be reversed unless you reset tha server.
.LP
.ZN XRemoveHosts
can generate
.ZN BadAccess
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetAccessControl
function either enablez or disablez tha use of tha access control list 
at each connection setup.
.LP
.ZN XSetAccessControl
can generate
.ZN BadAccess
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XEnableAccessControl
function enablez tha use of tha access control list at each connection setup.
.LP
.ZN XEnableAccessControl
can generate a
.ZN BadAccess 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XDisableAccessControl
function disablez tha use of tha access control list at each connection setup.
.LP
.ZN XDisableAccessControl
can generate a
.ZN BadAccess 
error.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XHostAddress
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int crew;     /\&* fo' example FamilyInternizzle */
        int length;     /\&* length of address, up in bytes */
        char *address;  /\&* pointa ta where ta find tha address */
} XHostAddress;
.De
.LP
Da crew member specifies which protocol address crew ta use 
(for example, TCP/IP or DECnet) n' can be
.ZN FamilyInternizzle ,
.ZN FamilyInternet6 ,
.ZN FamilyServerInterpreted ,
.ZN FamilyDECnet ,
or
.ZN FamilyChaos .
Da length member specifies tha length of tha address up in bytes.
Da address member specifies a pointa ta tha address.
.LP
For tha ServerInterpreted crew, tha length is ignored n' tha address 
member be a pointa ta a 
.ZN XServerInterpretedAddress
structure which gotz nuff:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int typelength;         /\&* length of type string, up in bytes */
        int valuelength;        /\&* length of value string, up in bytes */
        char *type;             /\&* pointa ta where ta find tha type strang */
        char *value;            /\&* pointa ta where ta find tha address */
} XServerInterpretedAddress;
.De
.LP
Da type n' value thugz point ta strings representin tha type n' value of
the server interpreted entry.  These strings may not be NULL-terminated so care
should be used when accessin em.  Da typelength n' valuelength members
specify tha length up in byte of tha type n' value strings.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAccess
A client attempted
to modify tha access control list from other than tha local
(or otherwise authorized) host.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
