.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XAllocClassHint 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAllocClassHint, XSetClassHint, XGetClassHint, XClassHint \- allocate class hints structure n' set or read a windowz WM_CLASS property
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XClassHint *XAllocClassHint\^(void\^);
.HP
XSetClassHint\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, Window \fIw\fP, XClassHint *\fIclass_hints\fP\^);
.HP
Status XGetClassHint\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, Window \fIw\fP, XClassHint *\fIclass_hints_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIclass_hints\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XClassHint
structure dat is ta be used.
.IP \fIclass_hints_return\fP 1i
Returns tha 
.ZN XClassHint
structure.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XAllocClassHint
function allocates n' returns a pointa ta a
.ZN XClassHint
structure.
Note dat tha pointa fieldz up in the
.ZN XClassHint
structure is initially set ta NULL.
If insufficient memory be available, 
.ZN XAllocClassHint
returns NULL.
To free tha memory allocated ta dis structure,
use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN XSetClassHint
function sets tha class hint fo' tha specified window.
If tha strings is not up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
.LP
.ZN XSetClassHint
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetClassHint
function returns tha class hint of tha specified window ta tha members
of tha supplied structure.
If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable Characta Encoding,
then tha returned strings is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
It returns a nonzero status on success;
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
To free res_name n' res_class when finished wit tha strings,
use
.ZN XFree
on each individually.
.LP
.ZN XGetClassHint
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_CLASS\s+1
Set by application programs ta allow window n' session
managers ta obtain tha applicationz resources from tha resource database.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XClassHint
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.IN "XClassHint" "" "@DEF@"
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        char *res_name;
        char *res_class;
} XClassHint;
.LP
Da res_name member gotz nuff tha application name, 
and tha res_class member gotz nuff tha application class. 
Note dat tha name set up in dis property may differ from tha name set as WM_NAME.
That is, WM_NAME specifies what tha fuck should be displayed up in tha title bar and,
therefore, can contain temporal shiznit (for example, tha name of
a file currently up in a editorz buffer).
On tha other hand, 
the name specified as part of WM_CLASS is tha formal name of tha application
that should be used when retrievin tha applicationz resources from tha 
resource database.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XFree(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
