.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XAllocIconSize 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAllocIconSize, XSetIconSizes, XGetIconSizes, XIconSize \- allocate icon size structure n' set or read a windowz WM_ICON_SIZES property
.SH SYNTAX
XIconSize *XAllocIconSize\^(void\^);
.LP
int XSetIconSizes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, Window \fIw\fP, XIconSize
*\fIsize_list\fP, int \fIcount\fP\^);
.LP
Status XGetIconSizes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, Window \fIw\fP, XIconSize
**\fIsize_list_return\fP, int \fIcount_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of shit up in tha size list.
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of shit up in tha size list.
.IP \fIsize_list\fP 1i
Specifies tha size list.
.IP \fIsize_list_return\fP 1i
Returns tha size list.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XAllocIconSize 
function allocates n' returns a pointa ta a
.ZN XIconSize 
structure.
Note dat all fieldz up in the
.ZN XIconSize
structure is initially set ta zero.
If insufficient memory be available, 
.ZN XAllocIconSize
returns NULL.
To free tha memory allocated ta dis structure,
use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN XSetIconSizes
function is used only by window managers ta set tha supported icon sizes.
.LP
.ZN XSetIconSizes
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetIconSizes
function returns zero if a window manager has not set icon sizes;
otherwise, it return nonzero.
.ZN XGetIconSizes
should be called by a application that
wants ta smoke up what tha fuck icon sizes would be most appreciated by the
window manager under which tha application is hustlin.
Da application
should then use
.ZN XSetWMHints
to supply tha window manager wit a icon pixmap or window up in one of the
supported sizes.
To free tha data allocated up in size_list_return, use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
.ZN XGetIconSizes
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_ICON_SIZES\s+1
Da window manager may set dis property on tha root window to
specify tha icon sizes it supports.
Da C type of dis property is 
.ZN XIconSize .
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XIconSize
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.IN "XIconSize" "" "@DEF@"
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int min_width, min_height;
        int max_width, max_height;
        int width_inc, height_inc;
} XIconSize;
.De
.LP
Da width_inc n' height_inc thugz define a arithmetic progression of
sizes (minimum ta maximum) dat represent tha supported icon sizes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XFree(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
