.TH xcb-examplez 3 2011-12-11 "XCB" "XCB examples"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb-examplez \- manpage examples
.SH DESCRIPTION
Many of tha XCB manpages contain example code. These examplez intend ta explain
how ta use one particular part of XCB. They almost never represent a standalone
(or even useful) program - X11 programs is relatively involved and
thus beyond tha scope of a manpage example.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

Every example assumes you have a \fIxcb_connection\fP n' possibly other
variablez at hand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For illustratin how tha fuck \fIxcb_get_property\fP works, you need
the window of which you wanna git tha property, fo' example. To make it clear
that these variablez is yo' responsibility, these examplez consist of a
single function which takes tha necessary variablez as parameters.

.SH FLUSHING

Flushin means callin \fIxcb_flush\fP ta clear tha XCB-internal write buffer
and bust all pendin requests ta tha X11 server n' shit. Yo ass don't explicitly need to
flush before rockin a reply function (like \fIxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP) yo, but
you do need ta flush before enterin tha event loop of yo' program.

There is only two cases when XCB flushes by itself. Da first case is when
its write buffer becomes full, tha second case is when yo ass be askin for
the reply of a request which wasn't flushed up yet (like
\fIxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP). This last point also includes
xcb_request_check(). Please note dat waitin fo' a event do \fBNOT\fP
flush.

Examplez generally include tha \fIxcb_flush\fP call where appropriate (for
example afta settin a property). Therefore, includin these functions and
callin dem up in yo' application should just work. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat you might get
betta thangs up in dis biatch when flushin outside of tha function, dependin on the
architecture of yo' program.

.SH COMPILATION

If a example do not compile (without warnings) when rockin \fI-std=c99\fP,
that is considered a thugged-out documentation bug. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Similarly, not handlin errors or
leakin memory be also considered a thugged-out documentation bug. Please inform our asses about
it on xcb@lists.freedesktop.org.

.SH CODING STYLE

Every example uses 4 spaces fo' indention.

Comments is up in asterisks, like /* dis */.

No line is longer than 80 charactas (includin indention).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_connect (3),
.BR xcb_get_property (3),
.BR xcb_flush (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Stapelberg <michael+xcb at stapelberg dot de>
