.TH xcb_map_window 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_map_window \- Makes a window visible
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_map_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window ta make visible.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Maps tha specified window. This means makin tha window visible (as long as its
parent is visible).

This MapWindow request is ghon be translated ta a MapRequest request if a window
manager is hustlin. Da window manager then decides ta either map tha window or
not. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set tha override-redirect window attribute ta legit if you wanna bypass
this mechanism.

If tha window manager decides ta map tha window (or if no window manager is
running), a MapNotify event is generated.

If tha window becomes viewable n' no earlier contents fo' it is remembered,
the X server tilez tha window wit its background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha windowz background
is undefined, tha existin screen contents is not altered, n' tha X server
generates zero or mo' Expose events.

If tha window type is InputOutput, a Expose event is ghon be generated when the
window becomes visible. Da aiiight response ta a Expose event should be to
repaint tha window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_map_window_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified window do not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_map_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_expose_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_unmap_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
