.TH xcb_get_input_focus 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_get_input_focus \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t \fBxcb_get_input_focus\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, 
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_get_input_focus_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIrevert_to\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIfocus\fP;
} \fBxcb_get_input_focus_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_get_input_focus_reply_t *\fBxcb_get_input_focus_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_GET_INPUT_FOCUS\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIrevert_to\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta \fIXCB_NONE\fP, so no window gonna git tha input focus.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_POINTER_ROOT\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP respectively. When tha focus reverts,
FocusIn n' FocusOut events is generated yo, but tha last-focus-change time is
not chizzled.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_PARENT\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta tha parent (or closest viewable ancestor) n' tha new
revert_to value is \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_FOLLOW_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED. Only relevant fo' tha xinput extension.
.RE
.RS 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.IP \fIfocus\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_get_input_focus_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_get_input_focus_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
This request do never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
