.TH xcb_poly_segment 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_segment \- draw lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_segment\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIsegments_len\fP, const xcb_segment_t\ *\fIsegments\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
A drawable (Window or Pixmap) ta draw on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Da graphics context ta use.

TODO: document which attributez of a gc is used
.IP \fIsegments_len\fP 1i
Da number of \fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures up in \fIsegments\fP.
.IP \fIsegments\fP 1i
An array of \fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws multiple, unconnected lines. For each segment, a line is drawn between
(x1, y1) n' (x2, y2). Da lines is drawn up in tha order listed up in tha array of
\fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures n' do not big-ass up joinin at coincident
endpoints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For any given line, a pixel aint drawn mo' than once. If lines
intersect, tha intersectin pixels is drawn multiple times.

TODO: include tha xcb_segment_t data structure

TODO: a example
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_segment_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIdrawable\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_gc_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIgc\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
