.TH xcb_poly_fill_rectangle 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_fill_rectangle \- Fills rectangles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_fill_rectangle\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIrectangles_len\fP, const xcb_rectangle_t\ *\fIrectangles\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Da drawable (Window or Pixmap) ta draw on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Da graphics context ta use.

Da followin graphics context components is used: function, plane-mask,
fill-style, subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, n' clip-mask.

Da followin graphics context mode-dependent components is used:
foreground, background, tile, stipple, tile-stipple-x-origin, and
tile-stipple-y-origin.
.IP \fIrectangles_len\fP 1i
Da number of \fIxcb_rectangle_t\fP structures up in \fIrectangles\fP.
.IP \fIrectangles\fP 1i
Da rectanglez ta fill.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fills tha specified rectangle(s) up in tha order listed up in tha array. For any
given rectangle, each pixel aint drawn mo' than once. If rectangles
intersect, tha intersectin pixels is drawn multiple times.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_fill_rectangle_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_gc_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified graphics context do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
