.TH xcb_list_fonts 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_list_fonts \- git matchin font names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_list_fonts_cookie_t \fBxcb_list_fonts\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint16_t\ \fImax_names\fP, uint16_t\ \fIpattern_len\fP, const char\ *\fIpattern\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_list_fonts_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    uint16_t \fInames_len\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad1\fP[22];
} \fBxcb_list_fonts_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_list_fonts_reply_t *\fBxcb_list_fonts_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_list_fonts_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.SS Reply accessors
.HP
int \fBxcb_list_fonts_names_length\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
xcb_str_iterator_t \fBxcb_list_fonts_names_iterator\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fImax_names\fP 1i
Da maximum number of fonts ta be returned.
.IP \fIpattern_len\fP 1i
Da length (in bytes) of \fIpattern\fP.
.IP \fIpattern\fP 1i
A font pattern, fo' example "-misc-fixed-*".

Da asterisk (*) be a wildcard fo' any number of characters. Da question mark
(?) be a wildcard fo' a single character n' shit. Use of uppercase or lowercase do
not matter.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_LIST_FONTS\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fInames_len\fP 1i
Da number of font names.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets a list of available font names which match tha given \fIpattern\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_list_fonts_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_list_fonts_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_list_fonts_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
This request do never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
