.TH xcb_query_extension 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_extension \- check if extension is present
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_extension_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_extension\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint16_t\ \fIname_len\fP, const char\ *\fIname\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_extension_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpresent\fP;
    uint8_t  \fImajor_opcode\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIfirst_event\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIfirst_error\fP;
} \fBxcb_query_extension_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_extension_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_extension_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_extension_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIname_len\fP 1i
Da length of \fIname\fP up in bytes.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Da name of tha extension ta query, fo' example "RANDR". This is case
sensitive!
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_QUERY_EXTENSION\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIpresent\fP 1i
Whether tha extension is present on dis X11 server.
.IP \fImajor_opcode\fP 1i
Da major opcode fo' requests.
.IP \fIfirst_event\fP 1i
Da first event code, if any.
.IP \fIfirst_error\fP 1i
Da first error code, if any.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Determines if tha specified extension is present on dis X11 server.

Every extension has a unique \fImajor_opcode\fP ta identify requests, tha minor
opcodes n' request formats is extension-specific. If tha extension provides
events n' errors, tha \fIfirst_event\fP n' \fIfirst_error\fP fieldz up in tha reply are
set accordingly.

There should rarely be a need ta use dis request directly, XCB serves up the
\fIxcb_get_extension_data\fP function instead.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_query_extension_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_query_extension_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_extension_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
This request do never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xdpyinfo (1),
.BR xcb_get_extension_data (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
