.TH xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/glx.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_cookie_t \fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint32_t\ \fIvendor_code\fP, xcb_glx_context_tag_t\ \fIcontext_tag\fP, uint32_t\ \fIdata_len\fP, const uint8_t\ *\fIdata\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    uint32_t \fIretval\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIdata1\fP[24];
} \fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply_t *\fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.SS Reply accessors
.HP
uint8_t *\fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_data_2\fP(const xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_request_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
int \fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_data_2_length\fP(const xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
xcb_generic_iterator_t \fBxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_data_2_end\fP(const xcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIvendor_code\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIcontext_tag\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIdata_len\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_GLX_VENDOR_PRIVATE_WITH_REPLY\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIretval\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIdata1\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_glx_vendor_private_with_reply_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
This request do never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from glx.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
