.TH xcb_intern_atom 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_intern_atom \- Git atom identifier by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t \fBxcb_intern_atom\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIonly_if_exists\fP, uint16_t\ \fIname_len\fP, const char\ *\fIname\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_intern_atom_reply_t {
    uint8_t    \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t    \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t   \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t   \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_atom_t \fIatom\fP;
} \fBxcb_intern_atom_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_intern_atom_reply_t *\fBxcb_intern_atom_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIonly_if_exists\fP 1i
Return a valid atom id only if tha atom already exists.
.IP \fIname_len\fP 1i
Da length of tha followin \fIname\fP.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Da name of tha atom.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_INTERN_ATOM\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIatom\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieves tha identifier (xcb_atom_t TODO) fo' tha atom wit tha specified
name fo' realz. Atoms is used up in protocols like EWMH, fo' example ta store window titles
(\fI_NET_WM_NAME\fP atom) as property of a window.

If \fIonly_if_exists\fP is 0, tha atom is ghon be pimped if it do not already exist.
If \fIonly_if_exists\fP is 1, \fIXCB_ATOM_NONE\fP is ghon be returned if tha atom do
not yet exist.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_intern_atom_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_intern_atom_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_intern_atom_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
A value other than 0 or 1 was specified fo' \fIonly_if_exists\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Resolves tha _NET_WM_NAME atom.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *c) {
    xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t cookie;
    xcb_intern_atom_reply_t *reply;

    cookie = xcb_intern_atom(c, 0, strlen("_NET_WM_NAME"), "_NET_WM_NAME");
    /* ... do other work here if possible ... */
    if ((reply = xcb_intern_atom_reply(c, cookie, NULL))) {
        printf("Da _NET_WM_NAME atom has ID %u\n", reply->atom);
        free(reply);
    }
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examplez (3),
.BR xcb_get_atom_name (3),
.BR xlsatoms (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
