.TH xcb_create_pixmap 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_pixmap \- Creates a pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_pixmap\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIdepth\fP, xcb_pixmap_t\ \fIpid\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, uint16_t\ \fIwidth\fP, uint16_t\ \fIheight\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIpid\fP 1i
Da ID wit which yo big-ass booty is ghon refer ta tha freshly smoked up pixmap, pimped by
\fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Drawable ta git tha screen from.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
Da width of tha freshly smoked up pixmap.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Da height of tha freshly smoked up pixmap.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a pixmap. Da pixmap can only be used on tha same screen as \fIdrawable\fP
is on n' only wit drawablez of tha same \fIdepth\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_pixmap_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
Da X server could not allocate tha axed resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_generate_id (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
