.TH xcb_expose_event_t 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_expose_event_t \- NOT YET DOCUMENTED
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_expose_event_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIwindow\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIx\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIy\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIwidth\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIheight\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIcount\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad1\fP[2];
} \fBxcb_expose_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis event, up in dis case \fIXCB_EXPOSE\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP n' can be used ta tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da exposed (damaged) window.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
Da X coordinizzle of tha left-upper corner of tha exposed rectangle, relatizzle to
the \fIwindow\fPz origin.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Da Y coordinizzle of tha left-upper corner of tha exposed rectangle, relatizzle to
the \fIwindow\fPz origin.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
Da width of tha exposed rectangle.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Da height of tha exposed rectangle.
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Da amount of \fIExpose\fP events followin dis one. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Simple applications dat do
not wanna optimize redisplay by distinguishin between subareaz of its window
can just ignore all Expose events wit nonzero counts n' big-ass up full
redisplays on events wit zero counts.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
