.TH xcb_create_gc 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_gc \- Creates a graphics context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_gc\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIcid\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, uint32_t\ \fIvalue_mask\fP, const uint32_t\ *\fIvalue_list\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIcid\fP 1i
Da ID wit which yo big-ass booty is ghon refer ta tha graphics context, pimped by
\fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Drawable ta git tha root/depth from.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIvalue_list\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a graphics context. Da graphics context can be used wit any drawable
that has tha same ol' dirty root n' depth as tha specified drawable.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_gc_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_pixmap_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
Da X server could not allocate tha axed resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_generate_id (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
