.TH xcb_poly_line 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_line \- draw lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_line\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIcoordinate_mode\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIpoints_len\fP, const xcb_point_t\ *\fIpoints\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIcoordinate_mode\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_COORD_MODE_ORIGIN\fP 1i
Treats all coordinates as relatizzle ta tha origin.
.IP \fIXCB_COORD_MODE_PREVIOUS\fP 1i
Treats all coordinates afta tha straight-up original gangsta as relatizzle ta tha previous coordinate.
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Da drawable ta draw tha line(s) on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Da graphics context ta use.
.IP \fIpoints_len\fP 1i
Da number of \fIxcb_point_t\fP structures up in \fIpoints\fP.
.IP \fIpoints\fP 1i
An array of points.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws \fIpoints_len\fP-1 lines between each pair of points (point[i], point[i+1])
in tha \fIpoints\fP array. Da lines is drawn up in tha order listed up in tha array.
They join erectly at all intermediate points, n' if tha straight-up original gangsta n' last
points coincide, tha straight-up original gangsta n' last lines also join erectly. For any given
line, a pixel aint drawn mo' than once. If thin (zero line-width) lines
intersect, tha intersectin pixels is drawn multiple times. If wide lines
intersect, tha intersectin pixels is drawn only once, as though tha entire
request was a single, filled shape.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_line_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_gc_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Draw a straight line.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *conn, xcb_drawable_t drawable, xcb_gcontext_t gc) {
    xcb_poly_line(conn, XCB_COORD_MODE_ORIGIN, drawable, gc, 2,
                  (xcb_point_t[]) { {10, 10}, {100, 10} });
    xcb_flush(conn);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examplez (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
