.TH xcb_change_save_set 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_change_save_set \- Chizzlez a cold-ass lil clientz save set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_change_save_set\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fImode\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_SET_MODE_INSERT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_SET_MODE_DELETE\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i

Insert ta add tha specified window ta tha save set or Delete ta delete it from tha save set.
.RE
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window ta add or delete to/from yo' save set.
.SH DESCRIPTION
TODO: explain what tha fuck tha save set is for.

This function either addz or removes tha specified window ta tha clientz (your
application's) save set.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_change_save_set_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified window do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
Yo ass specified a invalid mode.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
Yo ass pimped tha specified window. This do not make sense, you can only add
windows pimped by other clients ta yo' save set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_reparent_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
