.TH xcb_query_pointa 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_pointa \- git pointa coordinates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_pointer_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_pointer\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_pointer_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIsame_screen\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIchild\fP;
    int16_t      \fIroot_x\fP;
    int16_t      \fIroot_y\fP;
    int16_t      \fIwin_x\fP;
    int16_t      \fIwin_y\fP;
    uint16_t     \fImask\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP[2];
} \fBxcb_query_pointer_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_pointer_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_pointer_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
A window ta check if tha pointa is on tha same screen as \fIwindow\fP (see the
\fIsame_screen\fP field up in tha reply).
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_QUERY_POINTER\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIsame_screen\fP 1i
If \fIsame_screen\fP is False, then tha pointa aint on tha same screen as the
argument window, \fIchild\fP is None, n' \fIwin_x\fP n' \fIwin_y\fP is zero. If
\fIsame_screen\fP is True, then \fIwin_x\fP n' \fIwin_y\fP is tha pointa coordinates
relatizzle ta tha argument windowz origin, n' lil pimp is tha lil pimp containin the
pointer, if any.
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
Da root window tha pointa is logically on.
.IP \fIchild\fP 1i
Da lil pimp window containin tha pointer, if any, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. If
\fIsame_screen\fP is false, \fIXCB_NONE\fP is returned.
.IP \fIroot_x\fP 1i
Da pointa X position, relatizzle ta \fIroot\fP.
.IP \fIroot_y\fP 1i
Da pointa Y position, relatizzle ta \fIroot\fP.
.IP \fIwin_x\fP 1i
Da pointa X coordinate, relatizzle ta \fIchild\fP, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. Zero
otherwise.
.IP \fIwin_y\fP 1i
Da pointa Y coordinate, relatizzle ta \fIchild\fP, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. Zero
otherwise.
.IP \fImask\fP 1i
Da current logical state of tha modifier keys n' tha buttons. Note dat the
logical state of a thang (as peeped by meanz of tha protocol) may lag the
physical state if thang event processin is frozen.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets tha root window tha pointa is logically on n' tha pointa coordinates
relatizzle ta tha root windowz origin.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_query_pointer_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_pointer_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIwindow\fP do not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
