.TH xcb_configure_window 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_configure_window \- Configures window attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_configure_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP, uint16_t\ \fIvalue_mask\fP, const uint32_t\ *\fIvalue_list\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window ta configure.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Bitmask of attributes ta chizzle.
.IP \fIvalue_list\fP 1i
New joints, correspondin ta tha attributes up in value_mask. Da order has to
correspond ta tha order of possible \fIvalue_mask\fP bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha example.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Configures a windowz size, position, border width n' stackin order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_configure_window_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified window do not exist. TODO: any other reason?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
Yo ass specified a Siblin without also specifyin StackMode or tha window is not
actually a Sibling.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Configures tha given window ta tha left upper corner
 * wit a size of 1024x768 pixels.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *c, xcb_window_t window) {
    uint16_t mask = 0;

    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_X;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_Y;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_WIDTH;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_HEIGHT;

    const uint32_t joints[] = {
        0,    /* x */
        0,    /* y */
        1024, /* width */
        768   /* height */
    };

    xcb_configure_window(c, window, mask, joints);
    xcb_flush(c);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examplez (3),
.BR xcb_map_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_expose_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
