.TH xcb_reparent_window 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_reparent_window \- Reparents a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_reparent_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIparent\fP, int16_t\ \fIx\fP, int16_t\ \fIy\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window ta reparent.
.IP \fIparent\fP 1i
Da freshly smoked up parent of tha window.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
Da X posizzle of tha window within its freshly smoked up parent.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Da Y posizzle of tha window within its freshly smoked up parent.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Makes tha specified window a cold-ass lil lil pimp of tha specified parent window. If the
window is mapped, it will automatically be unmapped before reparentin and
re-mapped afta reparenting. Da window is placed up in tha stackin order on top
with respect ta siblin windows.

Afta reparenting, a ReparentNotify event is generated.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_reparent_window_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified window do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
Da freshly smoked up parent window aint on tha same screen as tha oldschool parent window.

Da freshly smoked up parent window is tha specified window or a inferior of tha specified window.

Da freshly smoked up parent is InputOnly n' tha window is not.

Da specified window has a ParentRelatizzle background n' tha freshly smoked up parent window aint tha same depth as tha specified window.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_unmap_window (3),
.BR xcb_reparent_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_map_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
