.TH xcb_change_property 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_change_property \- Chizzlez a window property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_change_property\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fImode\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP, xcb_atom_t\ \fIproperty\fP, xcb_atom_t\ \fItype\fP, uint8_t\ \fIformat\fP, uint32_t\ \fIdata_len\fP, const void\ *\fIdata\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_PROP_MODE_REPLACE\fP 1i
Discard tha previous property value n' store tha freshly smoked up data.
.IP \fIXCB_PROP_MODE_PREPEND\fP 1i
Insert tha freshly smoked up data before tha beginnin of existin data. Da \fIformat\fP must
match existin property value. If tha property is undefined, it is treated as
defined wit tha erect type n' format wit zero-length data.
.IP \fIXCB_PROP_MODE_APPEND\fP 1i
Insert tha freshly smoked up data afta tha beginnin of existin data. Da \fIformat\fP must
match existin property value. If tha property is undefined, it is treated as
defined wit tha erect type n' format wit zero-length data.
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window whose property you wanna chizzle.
.IP \fIproperty\fP 1i
Da property you wanna chizzle (an atom).
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Da type of tha property you wanna chizzle (an atom).
.IP \fIformat\fP 1i
Specifies whether tha data should be viewed as a list of 8-bit, 16-bit or
32-bit quantities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Possible joints is 8, 16 n' 32. This shiznit allows
the X server ta erectly big-ass up byte-swap operations as necessary.
.IP \fIdata_len\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of elements (see \fIformat\fP).
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Da property data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets or thugged-out shiznit a property on tha specified \fIwindow\fP. Propertizzles is for
example tha window title (\fIWM_NAME\fP) or its minimum size (\fIWM_NORMAL_HINTS\fP).
Protocols like fuckin EWMH also use propertizzles - fo' example EWMH defines the
window title, encoded as UTF-8 string, up in tha \fI_NET_WM_NAME\fP property.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_change_property_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
Da X server could not store tha property (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIwindow\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_atom_error_t\fP 1i
\fIproperty\fP or \fItype\fP do not refer ta a valid atom.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Sets tha WM_NAME property of tha window ta "XCB Example".
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *conn, xcb_window_t window) {
    xcb_change_property(conn,
        XCB_PROP_MODE_REPLACE,
        window,
        XCB_ATOM_WM_NAME,
        XCB_ATOM_STRING,
        8,
        strlen("XCB Example"),
        "XCB Example");
    xcb_flush(conn);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examplez (3),
.BR xcb_intern_atom (3),
.BR xprop (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
