.TH xcb_button_press_event_t 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_button_press_event_t \- a mouse button was pressed/released
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_button_press_event_t {
    uint8_t         \fIresponse_type\fP;
    xcb_button_t    \fIdetail\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_timestamp_t \fItime\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIevent\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIchild\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_y\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_y\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIstate\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIsame_screen\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIpad0\fP;
} \fBxcb_button_press_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis event, up in dis case \fIXCB_BUTTON_PRESS\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP n' can be used ta tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIdetail\fP 1i
Da keycode (a number representin a physical key on tha keyboard) of tha key
which was pressed.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Time when tha event was generated (in milliseconds).
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
Da root window of \fIchild\fP.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIchild\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIroot_x\fP 1i
Da X coordinizzle of tha pointa relatizzle ta tha \fIroot\fP window all up in tha time of
the event.
.IP \fIroot_y\fP 1i
Da Y coordinizzle of tha pointa relatizzle ta tha \fIroot\fP window all up in tha time of
the event.
.IP \fIevent_x\fP 1i
If \fIsame_screen\fP is true, dis is tha X coordinizzle relatizzle ta tha \fIevent\fP
windowz origin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, \fIevent_x\fP is ghon be set ta zero.
.IP \fIevent_y\fP 1i
If \fIsame_screen\fP is true, dis is tha Y coordinizzle relatizzle ta tha \fIevent\fP
windowz origin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, \fIevent_y\fP is ghon be set ta zero.
.IP \fIstate\fP 1i
Da logical state of tha pointa buttons n' modifier keys just prior ta the
event.
.IP \fIsame_screen\fP 1i
Whether tha \fIevent\fP window is on tha same screen as tha \fIroot\fP window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_grab_pointa (3),
.BR xcb_grab_button (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
