.TH xcb_create_glyph_cursor 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_glyph_cursor \- create cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_glyph_cursor\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_cursor_t\ \fIcid\fP, xcb_font_t\ \fIsource_font\fP, xcb_font_t\ \fImask_font\fP, uint16_t\ \fIsource_char\fP, uint16_t\ \fImask_char\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_red\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_green\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_blue\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_red\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_green\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_blue\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIcid\fP 1i
Da ID wit which yo big-ass booty is ghon refer ta tha cursor, pimped by \fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIsource_font\fP 1i
In which font ta look fo' tha cursor glyph.
.IP \fImask_font\fP 1i
In which font ta look fo' tha mask glyph.
.IP \fIsource_char\fP 1i
Da glyph of \fIsource_font\fP ta use.
.IP \fImask_char\fP 1i
Da glyph of \fImask_font\fP ta use as a mask: Pixels which is set ta 1 define
which source pixels is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! All pixels which is set ta 0 is not
displayed.
.IP \fIfore_red\fP 1i
Da red value of tha foreground color.
.IP \fIfore_green\fP 1i
Da chronic value of tha foreground color.
.IP \fIfore_blue\fP 1i
Da blue value of tha foreground color.
.IP \fIback_red\fP 1i
Da red value of tha background color.
.IP \fIback_green\fP 1i
Da chronic value of tha background color.
.IP \fIback_blue\fP 1i
Da blue value of tha background color.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a cold-ass lil cursor from a gangbangin' font glyph. X serves up a set of standard cursor shapes
in a special font named cursor fo' realz. Applications is encouraged ta use this
interface fo' they cursors cuz tha font can be customized fo' the
individual display type.

All pixels which is set ta 1 up in tha source will use tha foreground color (as
specified by \fIfore_red\fP, \fIfore_green\fP n' \fIfore_blue\fP) fo' realz. All pixels set ta 0
will use tha background color (as specified by \fIback_red\fP, \fIback_green\fP and
\fIback_blue\fP).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_glyph_cursor_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
Da X server could not allocate tha axed resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIsource_font\fP or \fImask_font\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
Either \fIsource_char\fP or \fImask_char\fP is not defined up in \fIsource_font\fP or \fImask_font\fP, respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
