.TH xcb_alloc_color 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_alloc_color \- Allocate a cold-ass lil color
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_alloc_color_cookie_t \fBxcb_alloc_color\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_colormap_t\ \fIcmap\fP, uint16_t\ \fIred\fP, uint16_t\ \fIgreen\fP, uint16_t\ \fIblue\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_alloc_color_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    uint16_t \fIred\fP;
    uint16_t \fIgreen\fP;
    uint16_t \fIblue\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad1\fP[2];
    uint32_t \fIpixel\fP;
} \fBxcb_alloc_color_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_alloc_color_reply_t *\fBxcb_alloc_color_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_alloc_color_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIcmap\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIred\fP 1i
Da red value of yo' color.
.IP \fIgreen\fP 1i
Da chronic value of yo' color.
.IP \fIblue\fP 1i
Da blue value of yo' color.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_ALLOC_COLOR\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIred\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIgreen\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIblue\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIpixel\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Allocates a read-only colormap entry correspondin ta tha closest RGB value
supported by tha hardware. If yo ass is rockin TrueColor, you can take a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shortcut
and directly calculate tha color pixel value ta avoid tha round trip. But, for
example, on 16-bit color setups (VNC), you can easily git tha closest supported
RGB value ta tha RGB value yo ass is specifying.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_alloc_color_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_alloc_color_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_alloc_color_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_colormap_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified colormap \fIcmap\fP do not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
