.TH xcb_leave_notify_event_t 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_leave_notify_event_t \- tha pointa is up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_leave_notify_event_t {
    uint8_t         \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIdetail\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_timestamp_t \fItime\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIevent\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIchild\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_y\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_y\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIstate\fP;
    uint8_t         \fImode\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIsame_screen_focus\fP;
} \fBxcb_leave_notify_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis event, up in dis case \fIXCB_LEAVE_NOTIFY\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP n' can be used ta tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIdetail\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
Da root window fo' tha final cursor position.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Da reconfigured window or its parent, dependin on whether \fIStructureNotify\fP
or \fISubstructureNotify\fP was selected.
.IP \fIchild\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIroot_x\fP 1i
Da pointa X coordinizzle relatizzle ta \fIroot\fPz origin all up in tha time of tha event.
.IP \fIroot_y\fP 1i
Da pointa Y coordinizzle relatizzle ta \fIroot\fPz origin all up in tha time of tha event.
.IP \fIevent_x\fP 1i
If \fIevent\fP is on tha same screen as \fIroot\fP, dis is tha pointa X coordinate
relatizzle ta tha event windowz origin.
.IP \fIevent_y\fP 1i
If \fIevent\fP is on tha same screen as \fIroot\fP, dis is tha pointa Y coordinate
relatizzle ta tha event windowz origin.
.IP \fIstate\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i

.IP \fIsame_screen_focus\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
