.TH xcb_image_text_8 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_image_text_8 \- Draws text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_image_text_8\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIstring_len\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, int16_t\ \fIx\fP, int16_t\ \fIy\fP, const char\ *\fIstring\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIstring_len\fP 1i
Da length of tha \fIstring\fP. Note dat dis parameta limited by 255 due to
usin 8 bits!
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Da drawable (Window or Pixmap) ta draw text on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Da graphics context ta use.

Da followin graphics context components is used: plane-mask, foreground,
background, font, subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, n' clip-mask.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
Da x coordinizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta character, relatizzle ta tha origin of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Da y coordinizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta character, relatizzle ta tha origin of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Da strang ta draw. Only tha straight-up original gangsta 255 charactas is relevant cuz of tha data
type of \fIstring_len\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fills tha destination rectangle wit tha background pixel from \fIgc\fP, then
paints tha text wit tha foreground pixel from \fIgc\fP. Da upper-left corner of
the filled rectangle be at [x, y - font-ascent]. Da width is overall-width,
the height is font-ascent + font-descent. Da overall-width, font-ascent and
font-descent is as returned by \fIxcb_query_text_extents\fP (TODO).

Note dat rockin X core fonts is deprecated (but still supported) up in favor of
client-side renderin rockin Xft.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_image_text_8_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_gc_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified graphics context do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_image_text_16 (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
