.TH xcb_set_selection_balla 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_set_selection_balla \- Sets tha balla of a selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_set_selection_baller\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIballer\fP, xcb_atom_t\ \fIselection\fP, xcb_timestamp_t\ \fItime\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIballer\fP 1i
Da freshly smoked up balla of tha selection.

Da special value \fIXCB_NONE\fP means dat tha selection gonna git no baller.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Da selection.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Timestamp ta avoid race conditions when hustlin X over tha network.

Da selection aint gonna be chizzled if \fItime\fP is earlier than tha current
last-change time of tha \fIselection\fP or is lata than tha current X server time.
Otherwise, tha last-change time is set ta tha specified time.

Da special value \fIXCB_CURRENT_TIME\fP is ghon be replaced wit tha current server
time.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Makes \fIwindow\fP tha balla of tha selection \fIselection\fP n' thugged-out shiznit the
last-change time of tha specified selection.

TODO: briefly explain what tha fuck a selection is.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_set_selection_baller_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_atom_error_t\fP 1i
\fIselection\fP do not refer ta a valid atom.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_set_selection_balla (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
