.TH xcb_ungrab_key 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_ungrab_key \- release a key combination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_ungrab_key\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_keycode_t\ \fIkey\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIgrab_window\fP, uint16_t\ \fImodifiers\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIkey\fP 1i
Da keycode of tha specified key combination.

Usin tha special value \fIXCB_GRAB_ANY\fP means releasin all possible key codes.
.IP \fIgrab_window\fP 1i
Da window on which tha grabbed key combination is ghon be busted out.
.IP \fImodifiers\fP 1i
Da modifierz of tha specified key combination.

Usin tha special value \fIXCB_MOD_MASK_ANY\fP means releasin tha key combination
with every last muthafuckin possible modifier combination.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Releases tha key combination on \fIgrab_window\fP if you grabbed it using
\fIxcb_grab_key\fP before.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_ungrab_key_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIgrab_window\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xev (1),
.BR xcb_grab_key (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
