.TH xcb_query_text_extents 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_text_extents \- git text extents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_text_extents\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_fontable_t\ \fIfont\fP, uint32_t\ \fIstring_len\fP, const xcb_char2b_t\ *\fIstring\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_text_extents_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIdraw_direction\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    int16_t  \fIfont_ascent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIfont_descent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIoverall_ascent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIoverall_descent\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_width\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_left\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_right\fP;
} \fBxcb_query_text_extents_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_text_extents_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_text_extents_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
Da \fIfont\fP ta calculate text extents in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass can also pass a graphics context.
.IP \fIstring_len\fP 1i
Da number of charactas up in \fIstring\fP.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Da text ta git text extents for.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_QUERY_TEXT_EXTENTS\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIdraw_direction\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_LEFT_TO_RIGHT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_RIGHT_TO_LEFT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.IP \fIfont_ascent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIfont_descent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_ascent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_descent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_width\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_left\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_right\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Query text extents from tha X11 server n' shit. This request returns tha boundin box
of tha specified 16-bit characta strang up in tha specified \fIfont\fP or tha font
contained up in tha specified graphics context.

\fIfont_ascent\fP is set ta tha maximum of tha ascent metrics of all charactas in
the string. \fIfont_descent\fP is set ta tha maximum of tha descent metrics.
\fIoverall_width\fP is set ta tha sum of tha character-width metrics of all
charactas up in tha string. For each characta up in tha string, let W be tha sum of
the character-width metrics of all charactas precedin it up in tha string. Let L
be tha left-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W. Let R be the
right-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W. Da lbearin member is set
to tha minimum L of all charactas up in tha string. Da rbearin member is set to
the maximum R.

For fonts defined wit linear indexin rather than 2-byte matrix indexing, each
\fIxcb_char2b_t\fP structure is interpreted as a 16-bit number wit byte1 as the
most dope byte. If tha font has no defined default character, undefined
charactas up in tha strang is taken ta have all zero metrics.

Charactas wit all zero metrics is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha font has no defined
default_char, tha undefined charactas up in tha strang is also ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_query_text_extents_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_text_extents_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIfont\fP do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_gc_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified graphics context do not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
