.TH xcb_set_input_focus 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_set_input_focus \- Sets input focus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_set_input_focus\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIrevert_to\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIfocus\fP, xcb_timestamp_t\ \fItime\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIrevert_to\fP 1i
One of tha followin joints:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta \fIXCB_NONE\fP, so no window gonna git tha input focus.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_POINTER_ROOT\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP respectively. When tha focus reverts,
FocusIn n' FocusOut events is generated yo, but tha last-focus-change time is
not chizzled.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_PARENT\fP 1i
Da focus reverts ta tha parent (or closest viewable ancestor) n' tha new
revert_to value is \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_FOLLOW_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED. Only relevant fo' tha xinput extension.
.RE
.RS 1i

Specifies what tha fuck happens when tha \fIfocus\fP window becomes unviewable (if \fIfocus\fP
is neither \fIXCB_NONE\fP nor \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP).
.RE
.IP \fIfocus\fP 1i
Da window ta focus fo' realz. All keyboard events is ghon be reported ta dis window. The
window must be viewable (TODO), or a \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP occurs (TODO).

If \fIfocus\fP is \fIXCB_NONE\fP (TODO), all keyboard events are
discarded until a freshly smoked up focus window is set.

If \fIfocus\fP is \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP (TODO), focus is on tha root window of the
screen on which tha pointa is on currently.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Timestamp ta avoid race conditions when hustlin X over tha network.

Da special value \fIXCB_CURRENT_TIME\fP is ghon be replaced wit tha current server
time.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes tha input focus n' tha last-focus-change time. If tha specified \fItime\fP
is earlier than tha current last-focus-change time, tha request is ignored (to
avoid race conditions when hustlin X over tha network).

A FocusIn n' FocusOut event is generated when focus is chizzled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) gotta be handled up in tha event loop.

If you wanna handle errors directly wit \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_set_input_focus_checked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIfocus\fP window do not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: Reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
Da specified \fIfocus\fP window aint viewable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_focus_in_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_focus_out_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
