.TH xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xprint.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_cookie_t \fBxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_x_print_pcontext_t\ \fIcontext\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    uint16_t \fIwidth\fP;
    uint16_t \fIheight\fP;
    uint16_t \fIoffset_x\fP;
    uint16_t \fIoffset_y\fP;
    uint16_t \fIreproducible_width\fP;
    uint16_t \fIreproducible_height\fP;
} \fBxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_reply_t *\fBxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
Da XCB connection ta X11.
.IP \fIcontext\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis reply, up in dis case \fIXCB_X_PRINT_PRINT_GET_PAGE_DIMENSIONS\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP n' can be used ta tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Da length of tha reply, up in lyrics (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoffset_x\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoffset_y\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIreproducible_width\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIreproducible_height\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a \fIxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_cookie_t\fP. Errors gotta be handled when callin tha reply function \fIxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_reply\fP.

If you wanna handle errors up in tha event loop instead, use \fIxcb_x_print_print_get_page_dimensions_unchecked\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP fo' details.
.SH ERRORS
This request do never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xprint.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
