.TH xcb_configure_notify_event_t 3  2013-08-04 "XCB" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_configure_notify_event_t \- NOT YET DOCUMENTED
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_configure_notify_event_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIevent\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIwindow\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIabove_sibling\fP;
    int16_t      \fIx\fP;
    int16_t      \fIy\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIwidth\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIheight\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIborder_width\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIoverride_redirect\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad1\fP;
} \fBxcb_configure_notify_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
Da type of dis event, up in dis case \fIXCB_CONFIGURE_NOTIFY\fP. This field be also present up in tha \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP n' can be used ta tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
Da sequence number of tha last request processed by tha X11 server.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Da reconfigured window or its parent, dependin on whether \fIStructureNotify\fP
or \fISubstructureNotify\fP was selected.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Da window whose size, position, border, and/or stackin order was chizzled.
.IP \fIabove_sibling\fP 1i
If \fIXCB_NONE\fP, tha \fIwindow\fP is on tha bottom of tha stack wit respect to
siblin windows. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if set ta a siblin window, tha \fIwindow\fP is placed on
top of dis siblin window.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
Da X coordinizzle of tha upper-left outside corner of \fIwindow\fP, relatizzle ta the
parent windowz origin.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Da Y coordinizzle of tha upper-left outside corner of \fIwindow\fP, relatizzle ta the
parent windowz origin.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
Da inside width of \fIwindow\fP, not includin tha border.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Da inside height of \fIwindow\fP, not includin tha border.
.IP \fIborder_width\fP 1i
Da border width of \fIwindow\fP.
.IP \fIoverride_redirect\fP 1i
Window managers should ignore dis window if \fIoverride_redirect\fP is 1.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_free_colormap (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org fo' erections n' improvements.
