.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XChangeWindowAttributes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XChangeWindowAttributes, XSetWindowBackground, XSetWindowBackgroundPixmap, XSetWindowBorder, XSetWindowBorderPixmap, XSetWindowColormap \- chizzle window attributes
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XChangeWindowAttributes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, unsigned long \fIvaluemask\fP\^, XSetWindowAttributes *\fIattributes\fP\^);
.HP
int XSetWindowBackground\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, unsigned long \fIbackground_pixel\fP\^);
.HP
int XSetWindowBackgroundPixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window
\fIw\fP\^, Pixmap \fIbackground_pixmap\fP\^);
.HP 
int XSetWindowBorder\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, unsigned long \fIborder_pixel\fP\^);
.HP
int XSetWindowBorderPixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, Pixmap \fIborder_pixmap\fP\^);
.HP
int XSetWindowColormap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIattributes\fP 1i
Specifies tha structure from which tha joints (as specified by tha value mask)
are ta be taken.
Da value mask should have tha appropriate bits
set ta indicate which attributes done been set up in tha structure.
.IP \fIbackground_pixel\fP 1i
Specifies tha pixel dat is ta be used fo' tha background.
.IP \fIbackground_pixmap\fP 1i
Specifies tha background pixmap,
.ZN ParentRelatizzle ,
or
.ZN None .
.IP \fIborder_pixel\fP 1i
Specifies tha entry up in tha colormap. 
.IP \fIborder_pixmap\fP 1i
Specifies tha border pixmap or
.ZN CopyFromParent .
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIvaluemask\fP 1i
Specifies which window attributes is defined up in tha attributes
argument.
This mask is tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha valid attribute mask bits.
If valuemask is zero,
the attributes is ignored n' is not referenced.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies tha colormap.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dependin on tha valuemask,
the
.ZN XChangeWindowAttributes
function uses tha window attributes up in the
.ZN XSetWindowAttributes
structure ta chizzle tha specified window attributes.
Changin tha background do not cause tha window contents ta be
changed.
To repaint tha window n' its background, use 
.ZN XClearWindow .
Settin tha border or changin tha background such dat the
border tile origin chizzlez causes tha border ta be repainted.
Changin tha background of a root window ta 
.ZN None 
or 
.ZN ParentRelative
restores tha default background pixmap.
Changin tha border of a root window to
.ZN CopyFromParent
restores tha default border pixmap.
Changin tha win-gravitizzle do not affect tha current posizzle of the
window.
Changin tha backing-store of a obscured window ta 
.ZN WhenMapped 
or
.ZN Always , 
or changin tha backing-planes, backing-pixel, or
save-under of a mapped window may have no immediate effect.
Changin tha colormap of a window (that is, definin a freshly smoked up map, not
changin tha contentz of tha existin map) generates a 
.ZN ColormapNotify
event.
Changin tha colormap of a visible window may have no
immediate effect on tha screen cuz tha map may not be installed
(see
.ZN XInstallColormap ).
Changin tha cursor of a root window ta 
.ZN None 
restores tha default
cursor.
Whenever possible, yo ass is encouraged ta share colormaps.
.LP
Multiple clients can select input on tha same window. 
Their event masks is maintained separately.
When a event is generated, 
it is reported ta all interested clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat only one client at a time can select fo' 
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask , 
.ZN ResizeRedirectMask , 
and
.ZN ButtonPressMask .
If a cold-ass lil client attempts ta select any of these event masks 
and some other client has already selected one, 
a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
There is only one do-not-propagate-mask fo' a window, 
not one per client.
.LP
.ZN XChangeWindowAttributes
can generate
.ZN BadAccess ,
.ZN BadColor ,
.ZN BadCursor ,
.ZN BadMatch ,
.ZN BadPixmap ,
.ZN BadValue ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetWindowBackground
function sets tha background of tha window ta tha specified pixel value.
Changin tha background do not cause tha window contents ta be chizzled.
.ZN XSetWindowBackground
uses a pixmap of undefined size filled wit tha pixel value you passed.
If you try ta chizzle tha background of a 
.ZN InputOnly
window, a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XSetWindowBackground
can generate
.ZN BadMatch
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetWindowBackgroundPixmap
function sets tha background pixmap of tha window ta tha specified pixmap.
Da background pixmap can immediately be freed if no further explicit
references ta it is ta be made.
If 
.ZN ParentRelative
is specified, 
the background pixmap of tha windowz parent is used,
or on tha root window, tha default background is restored.
If you try ta chizzle tha background of a 
.ZN InputOnly
window, a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If tha background is set to
.ZN None ,
the window has no defined background.
.LP
.ZN XSetWindowBackgroundPixmap
can generate
.ZN BadMatch ,
.ZN BadPixmap ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP 
The
.ZN XSetWindowBorder
function sets tha border of tha window ta tha pixel value you specify.
If you attempt ta big-ass up dis on an
.ZN InputOnly
window, a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XSetWindowBorder
can generate
.ZN BadMatch
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetWindowBorderPixmap
function sets tha border pixmap of tha window ta tha pixmap you specify.
Da border pixmap can be freed immediately if no further explicit
references ta it is ta be made.
If you specify
.ZN CopyFromParent ,
a copy of tha parent windowz border pixmap is used.
If you attempt ta big-ass up dis on an
.ZN InputOnly
window, a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XSetWindowBorderPixmap
can generate
.ZN BadMatch ,
.ZN BadPixmap ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetWindowColormap
function sets tha specified colormap of tha specified window.
Da colormap must have tha same visual type as tha window,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XSetWindowColormap
can generate
.ZN BadColor ,
.ZN BadMatch ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAccess
A client attempted
to free a cold-ass lil color map entry dat it did not already allocate.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAccess
A client attempted
to store tha fuck into a read-only color map entry.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadCursor
A value fo' a Cursor argument do not name a thugged-out defined Cursor.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has tha erect type n' range but fails
to match up in some other way required by tha request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window locks dis attribute.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value fo' a Pixmap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XConfigureWindow(3),
XCreateWindow(3),
XDestroyWindow(3),
XInstallColormap(3),
XMapWindow(3),
XRaiseWindow(3),
XUnmapWindow(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
