.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XChangePointerControl 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XChangePointerControl, XGetPointerControl \- control pointa 
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XChangePointerControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Bool \fIdo_accel\fP\^,
Bool \fIdo_threshold\fP\^, int \fIaccel_numerator\fP\^, int
\fIaccel_denominator\fP\^, int \fIthreshold\fP\^);
.HP
int XGetPointerControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int
*\fIaccel_numerator_return\fP\^, int *\fIaccel_denominator_return\fP\^, int
*\fIthreshold_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIaccel_denominator\fP 1i
Specifies tha denominator fo' tha acceleration multiplier.
.IP \fIaccel_denominator_return\fP 1i
Returns tha denominator fo' tha acceleration multiplier.
.IP \fIaccel_numerator\fP 1i
Specifies tha numerator fo' tha acceleration multiplier.
.IP \fIaccel_numerator_return\fP 1i
Returns tha numerator fo' tha acceleration multiplier.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIdo_accel\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value dat controls whether tha joints fo' 
the accel_numerator or accel_denominator is used.
.IP \fIdo_threshold\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value dat controls whether tha value fo' tha 
threshold is used.
.IP \fIthreshold\fP 1i
Specifies tha acceleration threshold.
.IP \fIthreshold_return\fP 1i
Returns tha acceleration threshold.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XChangePointerControl
function defines how tha fuck tha pointin thang moves.
Da acceleration, expressed as a gangbangin' fraction, be a
multiplier fo' movement. 
For example,
specifyin 3/1 means tha pointa moves three times as fast as normal.
Da fraction may be rounded arbitrarily by tha X server n' shit.  
Acceleration
only takes effect if tha pointa moves mo' than threshold pixels at
once n' only applies ta tha amount beyond tha value up in tha threshold argument.
Settin a value ta \-1 restores tha default.
Da jointz of tha do_accel n' do_threshold arguments must be 
.ZN True 
for tha pointa joints ta be set,
or tha parametas is unchanged.
Negatizzle joints (other than \-1) generate a
.ZN BadValue
error, as do a zero value
for tha accel_denominator argument.
.LP
.ZN XChangePointerControl
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetPointerControl
function returns tha pointerz current acceleration multiplier
and acceleration threshold.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
