.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XClearArea 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XClearArea, XClearWindow \- clear area or window
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XClearArea\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^,
int \fIy\fP\^, unsigned \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned \fIheight\fP\^,
Bool \fIexposures\fP\^);
.HP
int XClearWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIexposures\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value dat indicates if
.ZN Expose
events is ta be generated.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.ds Wh , which is tha dimensionz of tha rectangle
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height\*(Wh.
.ds Xy , which is relatizzle ta tha origin of tha window \
and specify tha upper-left corner of tha rectangle
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XClearArea
function paints a rectangular area up in tha specified window accordin ta the
specified dimensions wit tha windowz background pixel or pixmap.
Da subwindow-mode effectively is
.ZN ClipByLil Pimps . 
If width is zero, it
is replaced wit tha current width of tha window minus x.
If height is
zero, it is replaced wit tha current height of tha window minus y.
If tha window has a thugged-out defined background tile, 
the rectangle clipped by any lil pimps is filled wit dis tile.
If tha window has
background 
.ZN None , 
the contentz of tha window is not chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  
In either
case, if exposures is 
.ZN True , 
one or mo' 
.ZN Expose 
events is generated fo' regionz of tha rectangle dat is either visible or are
bein retained up in a funky-ass backin store.
If you specify a window whose class is
.ZN InputOnly ,
a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XClearArea
can generate
.ZN BadMatch ,
.ZN BadValue ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XClearWindow
function clears tha entire area up in tha specified window n' is
equivalent to
.ZN XClearArea
(display, w, 0, 0, 0, 0, 
.ZN False ).
If tha window has a thugged-out defined background tile, tha rectangle is tiled wit a
plane-mask of all ones n' 
.ZN GXcopy
function.
If tha window has
background 
.ZN None , 
the contentz of tha window is not chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  
If you specify a window whose class is
.ZN InputOnly ,
a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch. 
.LP
.ZN XClearWindow
can generate
.ZN BadMatch
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCopyArea(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
