.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsQueryColor 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsQueryColor, XcmsQueryColors, XcmsLookupColor \- obtain color joints
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsQueryColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XcmsColor *\fIcolor_in_out\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsQueryColors\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap
\fIcolormap\fP\^, XcmsColor \fIcolors_in_out\fP\^[\^]\^, unsigned int
\fIncolors\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsLookupColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap
\fIcolormap\fP\^, char *\fIcolor_string\fP\^, XcmsColor
*\fIcolor_exact_return\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_screen_return\fP\^,
XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies tha colormap.
.IP \fIcolor_exact_return\fP 1i
Returns tha color justification parsed from tha color string
or parsed from tha correspondin strang found up in a cold-ass lil color-name database.
.IP \fIcolor_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies tha pixel member dat indicates tha color cell ta query.
Da color justification stored fo' tha color cell is returned up in this
.ZN XcmsColor
structure.
.IP \fIcolor_screen_return\fP 1i
Returns tha color dat can be reproduced on tha screen.
.ds St
.IP \fIcolor_string\fP 1i
Specifies tha color string\*(St.
.IP \fIresult_format\fP 1i
Specifies tha color format fo' tha returned color
specifications (color_screen_return n' color_exact_return arguments).
If tha format is
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat
and tha color strang gotz nuff a
numerical color justification,
the justification is returned up in tha format used up in dat numerical
color justification.
If tha format is
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat
and tha color strang gotz nuff a cold-ass lil color name,
the justification is returned up in tha format used 
to store tha color up in tha database.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of 
.ZN XcmsColor
structures up in tha color-specification array.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsQueryColor
function obtains tha RGB value
for tha pixel value up in tha pixel gangmember of tha specified
.ZN XcmsColor
structure n' then
converts tha value ta tha target format as
specified by tha result_format argument.
If tha pixel aint a valid index up in tha specified colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
The
.ZN XcmsQueryColors
function obtains tha RGB joints
for pixel joints up in tha pixel thugz of
.ZN XcmsColor
structures n' then
converts tha joints ta tha target format as
specified by tha result_format argument.
If a pixel aint a valid index tha fuck into tha specified colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If mo' than one pixel is up in error,
the one dat gets reported be arbitrary.
.LP
.ZN XcmsQueryColor
and
.ZN XcmsQueryColors
can generate
.ZN BadColor
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsLookupColor
function looks up tha strang name of a cold-ass lil color wit respect ta tha screen
associated wit tha specified colormap.
It returns both tha exact color joints and
the closest joints provided by tha screen 
with respect ta tha visual type of tha specified colormap.
Da joints is returned up in tha format specified by result_format.
If tha color name aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase do not matter.
.ZN XcmsLookupColor
returns
.ZN XcmsSuccess
or
.ZN XcmsSuccessWithCompression
if tha name is resolved; otherwise, it returns
.ZN XcmsFailure .
If
.ZN XcmsSuccessWithCompression
is returned, tha color justification returned up in 
color_screen_return is tha result of gamut compression.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsAllocColor(3),
XcmsStoreColor(3),
XQueryColor(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
