.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsAllocColor 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsAllocColor, XcmsAllocNamedColor \- allocate colors
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsAllocColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XcmsColor *\fIcolor_in_out\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsAllocNamedColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap
\fIcolormap\fP\^, char *\fIcolor_string\fP\^, XcmsColor
*\fIcolor_screen_return\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_exact_return\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies tha colormap.
.IP \fIcolor_exact_return\fP 1i
Returns tha color justification parsed from tha color string
or parsed from tha correspondin strang found up in a cold-ass lil color-name database.
.IP \fIcolor_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies tha color ta allocate n' returns tha pixel n' color 
that is straight-up used up in tha colormap.
.IP \fIcolor_screen_return\fP 1i
Returns tha pixel value of tha color cell n' color justification 
that straight-up is stored fo' dat cell.
.ds St \ whose color definizzle structure is ta be returned
.IP \fIcolor_string\fP 1i
Specifies tha color string\*(St.
.IP \fIresult_format\fP 1i
Specifies tha color format fo' tha returned color justification.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsAllocColor
function is similar to
.ZN XAllocColor
except tha color can be specified up in any format.
The
.ZN XcmsAllocColor
function ultimately calls 
.ZN XAllocColor
to allocate a read-only color cell (colormap entry) wit tha specified color.
.ZN XcmsAllocColor
first converts tha color specified
to a RGB value n' then passes dis to
.ZN XAllocColor .
.ZN XcmsAllocColor
returns tha pixel value of tha color cell n' tha color justification
actually allocated.
This returned color justification is tha result of convertin tha RGB value
returned by 
.ZN XAllocColor 
into tha format specified wit tha result_format argument.
If there is no interest up in a returned color justification, 
unnecessary computation can be bypassed if result_format is set to
.ZN XcmsRGBFormat .
Da correspondin colormap cell is read-only.
If dis routine returns 
.ZN XcmsFailure , 
the color_in_out color justification is left unchanged.
.LP
.ZN XcmsAllocColor
can generate a
.ZN BadColor
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsAllocNamedColor
function is similar to
.ZN XAllocNamedColor
except dat tha color returned can be up in any format specified.
This function
ultimately calls
.ZN XAllocColor
to allocate a read-only color cell with
the color specified by a cold-ass lil color string.
Da color strang is parsed tha fuck into an
.ZN XcmsColor
structure (see
.ZN XcmsLookupColor ),
converted
to a RGB value, n' finally passed to
.ZN XAllocColor .
If tha color name aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase do not matter.
.LP
This function returns both tha color justification as a result
of parsin (exact justification) n' tha actual color justification
stored (screen justification).
This screen justification is tha result of convertin tha RGB value
returned by
.ZN XAllocColor
into tha format specified up in result_format.
If there is no interest up in a returned color justification,
unnecessary computation can be bypassed if result_format is set to
.ZN XcmsRGBFormat .
If color_screen_return n' color_exact_return
point ta tha same structure, tha pixel field is ghon be set erectly,
but tha color joints is undefined.
.LP
.LP
.ZN XcmsAllocNamedColor
can generate a
.ZN BadColor
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsQueryColor(3),
XcmsStoreColor(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
