.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsCIELabQueryMax 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsCIELabQueryMaxC, XcmsCIELabQueryMaxL, XcmsCIELabQueryMaxLC, XcmsCIELabQueryMinL \- obtain tha CIE L*a*b* coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsCIELabQueryMaxC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIL_star\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XcmsCIELabQueryMaxL\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XcmsCIELabQueryMaxLC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsCIELabQueryMinL\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies tha CCC.
Note dat tha CCCz Client White Point n' White Point Adjustment procedures
are ignored.
.ds Ch maximum lightnizz (MaxL) or minimum lightnizz (MinL)
.IP \fIchroma\fP 1i
Specifies tha chroma at which ta find \*(Ch.
.ds Lc maximum chroma (MaxC n' MaxLC), maximum lightnizz (MaxL), \
or minimum lightnizz (MinL)
.ds lC hue angle n' lightnizz (MaxC), hue angle n' chroma (MaxL n' MinL), \
or hue angle (MaxLC)
.IP \fIcolor_return\fP 1i
Returns tha CIE L*a*b* coordinatez of \*(Lc
displayable by tha screen fo' tha given \*(lC.
Da white point associated wit tha returned
color justification is tha Screen White Point.
Da value returned up in tha pixel member is undefined.
.ds Ha maximum chroma (MaxC n' MaxLC), maximum lightnizz (MaxL), \
or minimum lightnizz (MinL)
.IP \fIhue_angle\fP 1i
Specifies tha hue angle (in degrees) at which ta find \*(Ha.
.ds Ls maximum chroma (MaxC)
.IP \fIL_star\fP 1i
Specifies tha lightnizz (L*) at which ta find \*(Ls.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsCIELabQueryMaxC
function, given a hue angle n' lightness,
findz tha deal wit maximum chroma displayable by tha screen.
It returns dis point up in CIE L*a*b* coordinates.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELabQueryMaxL
function, given a hue angle n' chroma,
findz tha point up in CIE L*a*b* color space of maximum 
lightnizz (L*) displayable by tha screen.
It returns dis point up in CIE L*a*b* coordinates.
An 
.ZN XcmsFailure
return value probably indicates dat tha given chroma
is beyond maximum fo' tha given hue angle.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELabQueryMaxLC
function, given a hue angle,
findz tha deal wit maximum chroma displayable by tha screen.
It returns dis point up in CIE L*a*b* coordinates.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELabQueryMinL
function, given a hue angle n' chroma,
findz tha deal wit minimum lightnizz (L*) displayable by tha screen.
It returns dis point up in CIE L*a*b* coordinates.
An 
.ZN XcmsFailure
return value probably indicates dat tha given chroma
is beyond maximum fo' tha given hue angle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC(3),
XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC(3),
XcmsQueryBlack(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
