.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC, XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxV, XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVC, XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVSamples, XcmsTekHVCQueryMinV \- obtain tha TekHVC coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIhue\fP\^,
XcmsFloat \fIvalue\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxV\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIhue\fP\^,
XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIhue\fP\^,
XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVSamples\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue\fP\^, XcmsColor \fIcolors_return[]\fP\^, unsigned int
\fInsamples\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsTekHVCQueryMinV\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIhue\fP\^,
XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies tha CCC.
Note dat tha CCCz Client White Point n' White Point Adjustment procedures
are ignored.
.ds Ch maximum Value (MaxV)
.IP \fIchroma\fP 1i
Specifies tha chroma at which ta find \*(Ch.
.IP \fIcolors_return\fP 1i
Returns nsamplez of color justifications up in XcmsTekHVC
such dat tha Chroma is tha maximum attainable fo' tha Value n' Hue.
Da white point associated wit tha returned
color justification is tha Screen White Point.
Da value returned up in tha pixel member is undefined.
.ds Lc maximum Chroma along wit tha actual Hue n' Value (MaxC), \
maximum Value along wit tha Hue n' Chroma (MaxV), \
color justification up in XcmsTekHVC fo' tha maximum Chroma, \
the Value at which dat maximum Chroma is reached n' actual Hue (MaxVC) \
or minimum Value n' tha actual Hue n' Chroma (MinL)
.ds lC maximum Chroma (MaxC n' MaxVC), maximum Value (MaxV), or \
minimum Value (MinL)
.IP \fIcolor_return\fP 1i
Returns tha \*(Lc at which tha \*(lC was found.
Da white point associated wit tha returned
color justification is tha Screen White Point.
Da value returned up in tha pixel member is undefined.
.ds Hu up in which ta find tha maximum Chroma (MaxC n' MaxVC), \
maximum Value (MaxV), tha maximum Chroma/Value samplez (MaxVSamples), \
or tha minimum Value (MinL)
.IP \fIhue\fP 1i
Specifies tha Hue \*(Hu.
.IP \fInsamples\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of samples.
.ds Va maximum Chroma (MaxC) or minimum Value (MinL)
.IP \fIvalue\fP 1i
Specifies tha Value up in which ta find tha \*(Va.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC
function, given a Hue n' Value,
determines tha maximum Chroma up in TekHVC color space
displayable by tha screen.
It returns tha maximum Chroma along wit tha actual Hue
and Value at which tha maximum Chroma was found.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxV
function, given a Hue n' Chroma,
determines tha maximum Value up in TekHVC color space
displayable by tha screen.
It returns tha maximum Value n' tha actual Hue n' Chroma
at which tha maximum Value was found.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVC
function, given a Hue,
determines tha maximum Chroma up in TekHVC color space displayable by tha screen
and tha Value at which dat maximum Chroma is reached.
It returns tha maximum Chroma,
the Value at which dat maximum Chroma is reached,
and tha actual Hue fo' which tha maximum Chroma was found.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxVSamples
returns nsamplez of maximum Value, tha Chroma at which dat maximum Value
is reached, n' tha actual Hue fo' which tha maximum Chroma was found.
These sample points may then be used ta deal tha maximum Value/Chroma
boundary of tha screenz color gamut fo' tha specified Hue up in TekHVC color
space.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsTekHVCQueryMinV
function, given a Hue n' Chroma,
determines tha minimum Value up in TekHVC color space displayable by tha screen.
It returns tha minimum Value n' tha actual Hue n' Chroma at which
the minimum Value was found.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsCIELabQueryMaxC(3),
XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC(3),
XcmsQueryBlack(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
