.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsConvertColors 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsConvertColors \- convert CCC color justifications
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsConvertColors\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsColor
\fIcolors_in_out\fP\^[\^]\^, unsigned int \fIncolors\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat
\fItarget_format\fP\^, Bool \fIcompression_flags_return\fP\^[\^]\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies tha CCC.
If Conversion is between device-independent color spaces only
(for example, TekHVC ta CIELuv),
the CCC is necessary only ta specify tha Client White Point.
.IP \fIcolors_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies a array of color justifications.
Pixel thugz is ignored n' remain unchanged upon return.
.IP \fIcompression_flags_return\fP 1i
Returns a array of Boolean joints indicatin compression status.
If a non-NULL pointa is supplied,
each element of tha array is set to
.ZN True
if tha correspondin color was compressed and
.ZN False
otherwise.
Pass NULL if tha compression status aint useful.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of 
.ZN XcmsColor
structures up in tha color-specification array.
.IP \fItarget_format\fP 1i
Specifies tha target color justification format.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsConvertColors
function converts tha color justifications up in tha specified array of
.ZN XcmsColor
structures from they current format ta a single target format,
usin tha specified CCC.
When tha return value is
.ZN XcmsFailure ,
the contentz of tha color justification array is left unchanged.
.LP
Da array may contain a mixture of color justification formats
(for example, 3 CIE XYZ, 2 CIE Luv, n' so on).
When tha array gotz nuff both device-independent and
device-dependent color justifications n' tha target_format argument specifies
a device-dependent format (for example,
.ZN XcmsRGBiFormat ,
.ZN XcmsRGBFormat ),
all justifications is converted ta CIE XYZ format n' then ta tha target
device-dependent format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DisplayOfCCC(3),
XcmsCCCOfColormap(3),
XcmsCreateCCC(3),
XcmsDefaultCCC(3),
XcmsSetWhitePoint(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
