.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsSetWhitePoint 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsSetWhitePoint, XcmsSetWhiteAdjustProc \- modifyin CCC attributes
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsSetWhitePoint\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor\fP\^); 
.HP
XcmsWhiteAdjustProc XcmsSetWhiteAdjustProc\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^,
XcmsWhiteAdjustProc \fIwhite_adjust_proc\fP\^, XPointa \fIclient_data\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies tha CCC.
.ds Cd tha white point adjustment procedure
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies client data fo' \*(Cd or NULL.
.ds Co freshly smoked up Client White Point
.IP \fIcolor\fP 1i
Specifies tha \*(Co.
.IP \fIwhite_adjust_proc\fP 1i
Specifies tha white point adjustment procedure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsSetWhitePoint
function chizzlez tha Client White Point up in tha specified CCC.
Note dat tha pixel member is ignored 
and dat tha color justification is left unchanged upon return.
Da format fo' tha freshly smoked up white point must be
.ZN XcmsCIEXYZFormat ,
.ZN XcmsCIEuvYFormat ,
.ZN XcmsCIExyYFormat ,
or
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat .
If tha color argument is NULL, dis function sets tha format component of the
Client White Point justification to
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat ,
indicatin dat tha Client White Point be assumed ta be tha same as the
Screen White Point.
.LP
This function returns nonzero status
if tha format fo' tha freshly smoked up white point is valid;
otherwise, it returns zero.

.LP
The
.ZN XcmsSetWhiteAdjustProc
function first sets tha white point adjustment procedure n' client data 
in tha specified CCC wit tha newly specified procedure n' client data
and then returns tha oldschool procedure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DisplayOfCCC(3),
XcmsCCCOfColormap(3),
XcmsConvertColors(3),
XcmsCreateCCC(3),
XcmsDefaultCCC(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
