.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XCreateFontCursor 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreateFontCursor, XCreatePixmapCursor, XCreateGlyphCursor \- create cursors
.SH SYNTAX
\&#include <X11/cursorfont.h>
.HP
Cursor XCreateFontCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, unsigned int
\fIshape\fP\^); 
.HP
Cursor XCreatePixmapCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Pixmap
\fIsource\fP\^, Pixmap \fImask\fP\^, XColor *\fIforeground_color\fP\^, XColor
*\fIbackground_color\fP\^, unsigned int \fIx\fP\^, unsigned int \fIy\fP\^);
.HP
Cursor XCreateGlyphCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Font
\fIsource_font\fP\^, Font \fImask_font\fP\^, unsigned int \fIsource_char\fP\^,
unsigned int \fImask_char\fP\^, XColor *\fIforeground_color\fP\^, XColor
*\fIbackground_color\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbackground_color\fP 1i
Specifies tha RGB joints fo' tha background of tha source.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIforeground_color\fP 1i
Specifies tha RGB joints fo' tha foreground of tha source. 
.IP \fImask\fP 1i
Specifies tha cursorz source bits ta be displayed or
.ZN None .
.IP \fImask_char\fP 1i
Specifies tha glyph characta fo' tha mask. 
.IP \fImask_font\fP 1i
Specifies tha font fo' tha mask glyph or
.ZN None .
.IP \fIshape\fP 1i
Specifies tha shape of tha cursor.
.IP \fIsource\fP 1i
Specifies tha shape of tha source cursor.
.\" *** JIM: NEED TO CHECK THIS. ***
.IP \fIsource_char\fP 1i
Specifies tha characta glyph fo' tha source.
.IP \fIsource_font\fP 1i
Specifies tha font fo' tha source glyph.
.ds Xy , which indicate tha hotspot relatizzle ta tha sourcez origin
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
X serves up a set of standard cursor shapes up in a special font named
cursor.
Applications is encouraged ta use dis intercourse fo' they cursors
because tha font can be customized fo' tha individual display type.
Da shape argument specifies which glyph of tha standard fonts
to use.
.LP
Da hotspot be reppin tha shiznit stored up in tha cursor font.
Da initial flavaz of a cold-ass lil cursor is a funky-ass black foreground n' a white
background (see
.ZN XRecolorCursor ).
.LP
.ZN XCreateFontCursor
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XCreatePixmapCursor
function creates a cold-ass lil cursor n' returns tha cursor ID associated wit dat shit.
Da foreground n' background RGB joints must be specified using
foreground_color n' background_color,
even if tha X server only has a
.ZN StaticGray
or
.ZN GrayScale
screen.
Da foreground color is used fo' tha pixels set ta 1 up in the
source, n' tha background color is used fo' tha pixels set ta 0.
Both source n' mask, if specified, must have depth one (or a 
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch) but can have any root.
Da mask argument defines tha shape of tha cursor.
Da pixels set ta 1 up in tha mask define which source pixels is displayed,
and tha pixels set ta 0 define which pixels is ignored.
If no mask is given, 
all pixelz of tha source is displayed.
Da mask, if present, must be tha same size as tha pixmap defined by tha 
source argument, or a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
Da hotspot must be a point within tha source,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
Da componentz of tha cursor can be transformed arbitrarily ta meet
display limitations.
Da pixmaps can be freed immediately if no further explicit references
to dem is ta be made.
Subsequent drawin up in tha source or mask pixmap has a undefined effect on the
cursor.
Da X server might or might not cook up a cold-ass lil copy of tha pixmap.
.LP
.ZN XCreatePixmapCursor
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadPixmap 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XCreateGlyphCursor
function is similar to
.ZN XCreatePixmapCursor
except dat tha source n' mask bitmaps is obtained from tha specified 
font glyphs.
Da source_char must be a thugged-out defined glyph up in source_font, 
or a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If mask_font is given, 
mask_char must be a thugged-out defined glyph up in mask_font,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
Da mask_font n' characta is optional.
Da originz of tha source_char n' mask_char (if defined) glyphs are
positioned coincidently n' define tha hotspot. 
Da source_char n' mask_char need not have tha same boundin box metrics, 
and there is no restriction on tha placement of tha hotspot relatizzle ta tha bounding
boxes. 
If no mask_char is given, all pixelz of tha source is displayed.
Yo ass can free tha fonts immediately by calling
.ZN XFreeFont
if no further explicit references ta dem is ta be made. 
.LP
For 2-byte matrix fonts, 
the 16-bit value should be formed wit tha byte1
member up in da most thugged-out dope byte n' tha byte2 member up in tha 
least dope byte.
.LP
.ZN XCreateGlyphCursor
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadFont ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadFont
A value fo' a Font or GContext argument do not name a thugged-out defined Font.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has tha erect type n' range but fails
to match up in some other way required by tha request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value fo' a Pixmap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDefineCursor(3),
XLoadFont(3),
XRecolorCursor(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
