.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XCreatePixmap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreatePixmap, XFreePixmap \- create or destroy pixmaps
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Pixmap XCreatePixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^,
unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^, unsigned int
\fIdepth\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreePixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Pixmap \fIpixmap\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies which screen tha pixmap is pimped on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies tha depth of tha pixmap.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIpixmap\fP 1i
Specifies tha pixmap.
.ds Wh , which define tha dimensionz of tha pixmap
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height\*(Wh.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XCreatePixmap
function creates a pixmap of tha width, height, n' depth you specified
and returns a pixmap ID dat identifies dat shit.
It be valid ta pass a 
.ZN InputOnly
window ta tha drawable argument.
Da width n' height arguments must be nonzero,
or a 
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
Da depth argument must be one of tha depths supported by tha screen
of tha specified drawable,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
Da server uses tha specified drawable ta determine on which screen
to create tha pixmap.
Da pixmap can be used only on dis screen
and only wit other drawablez of tha same depth (see
.ZN XCopyPlane
for a exception ta dis rule).
Da initial contentz of tha pixmap is undefined.
.LP
.ZN XCreatePixmap
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadDrawable ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XFreePixmap
function first deletes tha association between tha pixmap ID n' tha pixmap.
Then, tha X server frees tha pixmap storage when there be no references ta dat shit.
Da pixmap should never be referenced again.
.LP
.ZN XFreePixmap
can generate a
.ZN BadPixmap 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value fo' a Drawable argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value fo' a Pixmap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCopyArea(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
