.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XCreateIC 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreateIC, XDestroyIC, XIMOfIC \- create, destroy, n' obtain tha input method of a input context
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XIC XCreateIC\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^, ...\^); 
.HP
void XDestroyIC\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^); 
.HP
XIM XIMOfIC\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIic\fP 1i
Specifies tha input context.
.IP \fIim\fP 1i
Specifies tha input method.
.ds Al \ ta set XIC joints
.IP ... 1i
Specifies tha variable length argument list\*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XCreateIC 
function creates a cold-ass lil context within tha specified input method.
.LP
Some of tha arguments is mandatory at creation time, and
the input context aint gonna be pimped if dem arguments is not provided.
Da mandatory arguments is tha input steez n' tha set of text callbacks
(if tha input steez selected requires callbacks).
All other input context joints can be set later.
.LP
.ZN XCreateIC
returns a NULL value if no input context could be pimped.
A NULL value could be returned fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
A required argument was not set.
.IP \(bu 5
A read-only argument was set (for example,
.ZN XNFilterEvents ).
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
Da input method encountered a input method implementation-dependent error.
.LP
The
.ZN XCreateIC
can generate
.ZN BadAtom ,
.ZN BadColor ,
.ZN BadPixmap ,
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
.ZN XDestroyIC
destroys tha specified input context.
.LP
The
.ZN XIMOfIC
function returns tha input method associated wit tha specified input context.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value fo' a Pixmap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XOpenIM(3),
XSetICFocus(3),
XSetICValues(3),
XmbResetIC(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
