.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XCreateOC 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreateOC, XDestroyOC, XSetOCValues, XGetOCValues, XOMOfOC \- create output contexts
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XOC XCreateOC\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.HP
void XDestroyOC\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^); 
.HP
char * XSetOCValues\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^, ...); 
.HP
char * XGetOCValues\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^, ...); 
.HP
XOM XOMOfOC\^(\^XOC \fIoc\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIoc\fP 1i
Specifies tha output context.
.IP \fIom\fP 1i
Specifies tha output method.
.ds Al \ ta set or git XOC joints
.IP ... 1i
Specifies tha variable length argument list\*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XCreateOC 
function creates a output context within tha specified output method.
.LP
Da base font names argument is mandatory at creation time, and
the output context aint gonna be pimped unless it is provided.
All other output context joints can be set later.
.LP
.ZN XCreateOC
returns NULL if no output context could be pimped.
NULL can be returned fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
A required argument was not set.
.IP \(bu 5
A read-only argument was set.
.IP \(bu 5
An argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
Da output method encountered a output method implementation-dependent error.
.LP
The
.ZN XDestroyOC
function destroys tha specified output context.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetOCValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred; 
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be set.
An argument might not be set fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument is read-only.
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
An implementation-dependent error occurs.
.LP
Each value ta be set must be a appropriate datum,
matchin tha data type imposed by tha semantics of tha argument.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetOCValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred; otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be obtained.
An argument might not be obtained fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
An implementation-dependent error occurs.
.LP
Each argument value
followin a name must point ta a location where tha value is ta be stored.
.LP
The
.ZN XOMOfOC
function returns tha output method associated wit the
specified output context.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateOM(3),
XCreateFontSet(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
