.\"  Copyright 2003 walta harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\"  Distributed under GPL
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"  dis is tha 3rd type of intercourse fo' cryptographic routines
.\"  1. encrypt() expects a lil' bit field
.\"  2. cbc_crypt() byte joints
.\"  3. xencrypt() a hexstring
.\"  ta wack ta be legit :(
.\"
.TH XCRYPT 3 2003-04-04 "" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
xencrypt, xdecrypt, passwd2des \- RFS password encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rpc/des_crypt.h>"
.sp
.BI "void passwd2des(char " *passwd ", char *" key ");"
.sp
.BI "int xencrypt(char *" secret ", char *" passwd ");"
.sp
.BI "int xdecrypt(char *" secret ", char *" passwd ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da function
.BR passwd2des ()
takes a cold-ass lil characta string
.I passwd
of arbitrary length n' fills a cold-ass lil characta array
.I key
of length 8.
Da array
.I key
is suitable fo' use as DES key.
It has odd paritizzle set up in bit 0 of each byte.
Both other functions busted lyrics bout here use dis function ta turn their
argument
.I passwd
into a DES key.
.LP
The
.BR xencrypt ()
function takes tha ASCII characta string
.I secret
given up in hex,
.\" (over tha alphabet 0123456789abcdefABCDEF),
which must gotz a length dat be a multiple of 16,
encrypts it rockin tha DES key derived from
.I passwd
by
.BR passwd2des (),
and outputs tha result again n' again n' again in
.I secret
as a hex string
.\" (over tha alphabet 0123456789abcdef)
of tha same length.
.LP
The
.BR xdecrypt ()
function performs tha converse operation.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Da functions
.BR xencrypt ()
and
.BR xdecrypt ()
return 1 on success n' 0 on error.
.SH VERSIONS
These routines is present up in libc 4.6.27 n' later, n' in
glibc 2.1 n' later.
.SH BUGS
Da prototypes is missin from tha abovementioned include file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cbc_crypt (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
