.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   Da Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XCUP 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupGetReservedColormapEntries \- list colormap entries reserved by tha system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupGetReservedColormapEntries\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
int \fIscreen\fP\^, XColor **\fIcolors_out\fP\^, int *\fIncolors\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Screen number on tha host server.
.IP \fIcolors_out\fP 1i
Returns tha joints reserved by tha server.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Returns tha number of shit up in \fIcolors_out\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.ZN XcupGetReservedColormapEntries
function returns a list of colormap entries (pixels) dat is reserved
by tha system. This list will, at a minimum, contain entries fo' the
BlackPixel n' WhitePixel of tha specified screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Use
.ZN XFree
to free
.I colors_out.
.LP
To minimize colormap flash, a application which installs its own private
colormap should query tha special flavas by calling
.ZN XCupGetReservedColormapEntries ,
and can then store dem entries (in the
proper location) up in its private colormap using
.ZN XCupStoreColors .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupQueryVersion (3Xext),
.BR XcupStoreColors (3Xext),
.BR XJacked (3X11),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy n' Extension\fP
