.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   Da Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XcupStoreColors 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupStoreColors \- initialize shareable colormap entries at specific locations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupStoreColors\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XColor *\fIcolors_in_out\fP\^, int \fIncolors\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies tha colormap
.IP \fIcolors_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies n' returns tha joints straight-up used up in tha colormap
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of shit up in colors_in_out
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.ZN XcupStoreColors
function chizzlez tha colormap entriez of tha pixel joints up in tha pixel
thugz of tha XColor structures. Da colormap entries is allocated
as if a AllocColor has been used instead, i.e. tha flavas are
read-only (shareable).
.ZN XcupStoreColors
returns tha number of flavas dat was successfully allocated up in tha colormap.
.LP
A
.ZN Value
error is generated if a pixel aint a valid index tha fuck into tha colormap fo' realz. A
.ZN BadMatch
error is generated if tha colormap do not belong ta a GrayScale,
PseudoColor, or DirectColor visual.
.LP
Applications which allocate nuff flavas up in a screenz default colormap, e.g.
a color-cube or a gray-ramp, should allocate dem with
.ZN XCupStoreColors .
By rockin XCupStoreColors tha flavas is ghon be allocated sharable (read-only)
and any other application which allocates tha same ol' dirty color will share that
color cell.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupQueryVersion (3Xext),
.BR XcupGetReservedColormapEntries (3Xext),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy n' Extension\fP
