.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   Da Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2005, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XcupQueryVersion 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupQueryVersion \- Returns TOG-CUP protocol version supported by tha X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupQueryVersion\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
int *\fImajor_version_return\fP\^, int *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server
.IP \fImajor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns tha major version supported by tha server
.IP \fIminor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns tha minor version supported by tha server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.ZN XcupQueryVersion
sets
.I major_version_return
and
.I minor_version_return
to tha major n' minor TOG-CUP protocol version supported by the
server n' shit. If tha TOG-CUP library is compatible wit tha version returned
by tha server, it returns nonzero. If tha server do not support tha TOG-CUP
extension, or if there was a error durin communications wit the
server, or if tha server n' library protocol versions are
incompatible, it returns zero. No other Xcup functions may be called
before dis function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If a cold-ass lil client violates dis rule, tha effects of
all subsequent Xcup calls dat it make is undefined.
.LP
To git tha list of reserved colormap entries, use
.ZN XcupGetReservedColormapEntries.
.LP
To allocate one or mo' read-only color cells wit RGB joints, use
.ZN XcupStoreColors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupGetReservedColormapEntries (3Xext),
.BR XcupStoreColors (3Xext),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy n' Extension\fP
