.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha Hewlett-Packard Company shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Hewlett-Packard Company.
.\"
.TH XdbeQueryExtension 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XdbeQueryExtension - returns tha version of DBE supported by tha server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xdbe.h>

Status XdbeQueryExtension(
    Display *dpy,
    int     *major_version_return,
    int     *minor_version_return)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets
.I major_version_return
and
.I minor_version_return
to tha major n' minor
DBE protocol version supported by tha server n' shit.  If tha DBE library is
compatible wit tha version returned by tha server, dis function returns
non-zero.  If
.I dpy
does not support tha DBE extension, or if there was a error
durin communication wit tha server, or if tha server n' library protocol
versions is incompatible, dis function returns zero.  No other Xdbe functions
may be called before dis function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If a cold-ass lil client violates dis rule, the
effectz of all subsequent Xdbe calls dat it make is undefined.
.SH SEE ALSO
DBE,
.I XdbeAllocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeBeginIdiom(),
.I XdbeDeallocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeEndIdiom(),
.I XdbeFreeVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeGetBackBufferAttributes(),
.I XdbeGetVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeSwapBuffers().

