.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha Hewlett-Packard Company shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Hewlett-Packard Company.
.\"
.TH XdbeAllocateBackBufferName 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XdbeAllocateBackBufferName - allocates a DBE buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xdbe.h>

XdbeBackBuffer XdbeAllocateBackBufferName(
    Display        *dpy,
    Window         window,
    XdbeSwapAction swap_action)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns a thugged-out drawable ID used ta refer ta tha back buffer of the
specified window.  Da swap_action be a hint ta indicate tha swap action that
will likely be used up in subsequent calls to
.B XdbeSwapBuffers().
Da actual swap
action used up in calls to
.B XdbeSwapBuffers()
does not gotta be tha same as the
swap_action passed ta dis function, though clients is encouraged ta provide
accurate shiznit whenever possible.
.SH ERRORS
.IP BadAlloc
.IP BadIDChoice
.IP BadMatch
Da specified window aint a InputOutput window or its visual do not
support DBE.
.IP BadValue
An invalid swap action was specified.
.IP BadWindow
An invalid window was specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
DBE,
.I XdbeBeginIdiom(),
.I XdbeDeallocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeEndIdiom(),
.I XdbeFreeVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeGetBackBufferAttributes(),
.I XdbeGetVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeQueryExtension(),
.I XdbeSwapBuffers().

