.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha Hewlett-Packard Company shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Hewlett-Packard Company.
.\"
.TH XdbeSwapBuffers 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XdbeSwapBuffers - swaps front n' back DBE buffers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xdbe.h>

Status XdbeSwapBuffers(
    Display      *dpy,
    XdbeSwapInfo *swap_info,
    int          num_windows)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function swaps tha front n' back buffers fo' a list of windows.  The
argument
.I num_windows
specifies how tha fuck nuff windows is ta have they buffers
swapped; it is tha number of elements up in the
.I swap_info
array.  Da argument
.I swap_info
specifies tha shiznit needed per window ta do tha swap.

The
.I XdbeSwapInfo
structure has tha followin fields:

     Window            swap_window
     XdbeSwapAction    swap_action

.I swap_window
specifies tha window fo' which ta swap buffers.
.I swap_action
specifies tha swap action ta use fo' this
.I swap_window.

.I swap_action
determines what tha fuck will happen ta tha freshly smoked up back buffer of the
.I swap_window
it is paired wit up in tha list up in addizzle ta makin tha oldschool back buffer
become visible.  Da defined actions is as bigs up:

.IP XdbeUndefined
Da contentz of tha freshly smoked up back buffer become undefined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This may be da most thugged-out
efficient action since it allows tha implementation ta discard tha contents of
the buffer if it needz to.
.IP XdbeBackground
Da unobscured region of tha freshly smoked up back buffer is ghon be tiled wit the
window background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da background action allows devices ta bust a gangbangin' fast clear
capabilitizzle durin a swap.
.IP XdbeUntouched
Da unobscured region of tha freshly smoked up back buffer is ghon be unmodified by tha swap.
.IP XdbeCopied
Da unobscured region of tha freshly smoked up back buffer is ghon be tha contentz of tha old
back buffer
.SH ERRORS
.IP BadMatch
A non-double-buffered window was specified or a window was specified twice.
.IP BadWindow
An invalid window was specified.
.IP BadValue
An invalid swap action was specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
DBE,
.I XdbeAllocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeBeginIdiom(),
.I XdbeDeallocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeEndIdiom(),
.I XdbeFreeVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeGetBackBufferAttributes(),
.I XdbeGetVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeQueryExtension().

