.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha Hewlett-Packard Company shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" Hewlett-Packard Company.
.\"
.TH XdbeGetVisualInfo 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XdbeGetVisualInfo - Git dbe Visual Informations
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xdbe.h>

XdbeScreenVisualInfo *XdbeGetVisualInfo(
    Display  *dpy,
    Drawable *screen_specifiers,
    int      *num_screens)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns shiznit bout which visuals support double
buffering.  Da argument
.I num_screens
specifies how tha fuck nuff elements there are
in the
.I screen_specifiers
list.  Each drawable in
.I screen_specifiers
designates a
screen fo' which tha supported visuals is bein requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If
.I num_screens
is zero, shiznit fo' all screens is requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  In dis case, upon return
from dis function,
.I num_screens
will be set ta tha number of screens dat were
found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If a error occurs, dis function returns NULL, else it returns a
pointa ta a list of
.I XdbeScreenVisualInfo
structurez of length
.I num_screens.
Da nth
element up in tha returned list correspondz ta tha nth drawable up in the
.I screen_specifiers
list, unless
.I num_screens
was passed up in wit tha value zero,
in which case tha nth element up in tha returned list correspondz ta tha nth screen
of tha server, startin wit screen zero.  The
.I XdbeScreenVisualInfo
structure has tha followin fields:

     int            count
     XdbeVisualInfo *visinfo

.I count
specifies tha number of shit in
.I visinfo.
.I visinfo
specifies a list of visuals, depths, n' performizzle hints fo' dis screen.

The
.I XdbeVisualInfo
structure has tha followin fields:

     VisualID visual
     int      depth
     int      perflevel

.I visual
specifies one visual ID dat supports double-buffering.
.I depth
specifies tha depth of tha visual.
.I perflevel
is a performizzle hint.

Da only operation defined on a
.I perflevel
is comparison ta a
.I perflevel
of another visual on tha same screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da visual havin tha higher
.I perflevel
is likely ta have betta double-bufferin graphics performizzle than tha visual
havin tha lower
.I perflevel.
Nothang can be deduced from tha following: tha magnitude of tha difference
of two
.I perflevels,
a
.I perflevel
value up in isolation, or comparing
.I perflevels
from different servers.

.SH ERRORS
.IP BadDrawable
One or mo' joints passed in
.I screen_specifiers
is not a valid drawable.
.SH SEE ALSO
DBE,
.I XdbeAllocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeBeginIdiom(),
.I XdbeDeallocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeEndIdiom(),
.I XdbeFreeVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeGetBackBufferAttributes(),
.I XdbeQueryExtension(),
.I XdbeSwapBuffers().

