.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XDestroyWindow 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDestroyWindow, XDestroySubwindows \- destroy windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XDestroyWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XDestroySubwindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XDestroyWindow
function destroys tha specified window as well as all of its subwindows n' causes
the X server ta generate a
.ZN DestroyNotify
event fo' each window.
Da window should never be referenced again.
If tha window specified by tha w argument is mapped,
it is unmapped automatically.
Da orderin of the
.ZN DestroyNotify
events is such dat fo' any given window bein destroyed,
.ZN DestroyNotify
is generated on any inferiorz of tha window before bein generated on
the window itself.
Da orderin among siblings n' across subhierarchies aint otherwise
constrained.
If tha window you specified be a root window, no windows is destroyed.
Destroyin a mapped window will generate 
.ZN Expose 
events on other windows dat was obscured by tha window bein destroyed.
.LP
.ZN XDestroyWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XDestroySubwindows
function destroys all inferior windowz of tha specified window, 
in bottom-to-top stackin order.
It causes tha X server ta generate a
.ZN DestroyNotify
event fo' each window.
If any mapped
subwindows was straight-up destroyed,
.ZN XDestroySubwindows
causes tha X server ta generate 
.ZN Expose 
events on tha specified window.
This is much mo' efficient than deletin nuff windows
one at a time cuz much of tha work need be performed only once fo' all
of tha windows, rather than fo' each window.
Da subwindows should never be referenced again. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.LP
.ZN XDestroySubwindows
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(3),
XConfigureWindow(3),
XCreateWindow(3),
XMapWindow(3),
XRaiseWindow(3),
XUnmapWindow(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
