.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XDrawRectangle 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDrawRectangle, XDrawRectangles, XRectangle \- draw rectanglez n' rectanglez structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XDrawRectangle\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, GC
\fIgc\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned
int \fIheight\fP\^); 
.HP
int XDrawRectangles\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, GC
\fIgc\fP\^, XRectangle \fIrectangles\fP\^[\^]\^, int \fInrectangles\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawable. 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies tha GC.
.IP \fInrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of rectanglez up in tha array.
.IP \fIrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies a array of rectangles.
.ds Wh , which specify tha dimensionz of tha rectangle
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height\*(Wh.
.ds Xy , which specify tha upper-left corner of tha rectangle
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XDrawRectangle
and
.ZN XDrawRectangles
functions draw tha outlinez of tha specified rectangle or rectanglez as
if a gangbangin' five-point 
.ZN PolyLine 
protocol request was specified fo' each rectangle:
.IP
[x,y] [x+width,y] [x+width,y+height] [x,y+height] [x,y]
.LP 
For tha specified rectangle or rectangles, 
these functions do not draw a pixel mo' than once.
.ZN XDrawRectangles
draws tha rectanglez up in tha order listed up in tha array.
If rectanglez intersect,
the intersectin pixels is drawn multiple times.
.LP
Both functions use these GC components: 
function, plane-mask, line-width,
line-style, cap-style, join-style, fill-style, 
subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, n' clip-mask.
They also use these GC mode-dependent components: 
foreground, background, tile, stipple, tile-stipple-x-origin, 
tile-stipple-y-origin, dash-offset, n' dash-list.
.LP
.ZN XDrawRectangle
and
.ZN XDrawRectangles
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadMatch 
errors.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XRectangle
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        short x, y;
        unsigned short width, height;
} XRectangle;
.De
.LP
All x n' y thugz is signed integers.
Da width n' height thugz is 16-bit unsigned integers.
Yo ass should be careful not ta generate coordinates n' sizes
out of tha 16-bit ranges, cuz tha protocol only has 16-bit fields
for these joints.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value fo' a Drawable argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value fo' a GContext argument do not name a thugged-out defined GContext.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has tha erect type n' range but fails
to match up in some other way required by tha request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawArc(3),
XDrawLine(3),
XDrawPoint(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
