.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XEmptyRegion 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XEmptyRegion, XEqualRegion, XPointInRegion, XRectInRegion \- determine if regions is empty or equal
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Bool XEmptyRegion\^(\^Region \fIr\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XEqualRegion\^(\^Region \fIr1\fP\^, Region \fIr2\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XPointInRegion\^(\^Region \fIr\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^); 
.HP
int XRectInRegion\^(\^Region \fIr\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^, unsigned
int \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIr\fP 1i
Specifies tha region.
.IP \fIr1\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIr2\fP 1i
Specify tha two regions.
.ds Wh , which define tha rectangle
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height\*(Wh.
.ds Xy , which define tha point \
or tha coordinatez of tha upper-left corner of tha rectangle
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XEmptyRegion
function returns
.ZN True
if tha region is empty.
.LP
The
.ZN XEqualRegion
function returns
.ZN True
if tha two regions have tha same offset, size, n' shape.
.LP
The
.ZN XPointInRegion
function returns 
.ZN True
if tha point (x, y) is contained up in tha region r.
.LP
The
.ZN XRectInRegion
function returns
.ZN RectangleIn
if tha rectangle is entirely up in tha specified region,
.ZN RectangleOut
if tha rectangle is entirely outta tha specified region,
and
.ZN RectanglePart
if tha rectangle is partially up in tha specified region.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateRegion(3),
XIntersectRegion(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
