.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2002 Keith Packard, gangmember of Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis software n' its
.\" documentation fo' any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' dat both that
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in supporting
.\" documentation, n' dat tha name of Keith Packard not be used in
.\" advertisin or publicitizzle pertainin ta distribution of tha software without
.\" specific, freestyled prior permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Keith Packard make no
.\" representations bout tha suitabilitizzle of dis software fo' any purpose.  It
.\" is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" KEITH PACKARD DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL KEITH PACKARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH XFIXES 3 "libXfixes 5.0.1" "X Version 11"

.SH NAME
XFixes \- Augmented versionz of core protocol requests
.SH SYNTAX
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xfixes.h>
.nf
.sp
Bool XFixesQueryExtension \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fIevent_base_return\fP, int *\fIerror_base_return\fP\^);
.sp
Status XFixesQueryVersion \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fImajor_version_return\fP,
	int *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^);
.sp
void XFixesChangeSaveSet \^(\^Display *dpy,
	Window \fIwindow\fP,
	int \fImode\fP,
	int \fItarget\fP,
	int \fImap\fP);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Specifies which window.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies tha save set operation (SetModeInsert/SetModeDelete).
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies tha target when executin tha save set
(SaveSetNearest/SaveSetRoot).  In SaveSetNearest mode, tha save set member
window is ghon be reparented ta tha nearest window not owned by tha save set
client.  In SaveSetRoot mode, tha save set member window is ghon be reparented
to tha root window.
.IP \fImap\fP 1i
Specifies tha map mode (SaveSetMap/SaveSetUnmap) which selects whether the
save setmember window is ghon be mapped or unmapped durin save set processing.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xfixes
is a simple library designed ta intercourse tha X Fixes
Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This extension serves up application wit work aroundz for
various limitations up in tha core protocol.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.B Xfixes
will remain upward compatible afta tha 1.0 release.
.SH AUTHORS
Keith Packard, gangmember of tha XFree86 Project, Inc. and
HP, Owen Taylor, gangmember of tha Gnome Foundation n' Redhat, Inc.
