.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XFontsOfFontSet 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XFontsOfFontSet, XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet, XLocaleOfFontSet, XContextDependentDrawing, XContextualDrawing, XDirectionalDependentDrawin \- obtain fontset shiznit
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XFontsOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^, XFontStruct
***\fIfont_struct_list_return\fP\^, char ***\fIfont_name_list_return\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XLocaleOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XContextDependentDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XContextualDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XDirectionalDependentDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont_set\fP 1i
Specifies tha font set.
.IP \fIfont_name_list_return\fP 1i
Returns tha list of font names.
.IP \fIfont_struct_list_return\fP 1i
Returns tha list of font structs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XFontsOfFontSet
function returns a list of one or mo' 
.ZN XFontStructs
and font names fo' tha fonts used by tha Xmb n' Xwc layers
for tha given font set.
A list of pointas ta the
.ZN XFontStruct
structures is moonwalked back ta font_struct_list_return.
A list of pointas ta null-terminated, straight-up specified font name strings
in tha locale of tha font set is moonwalked back ta font_name_list_return.
Da font_name_list order correspondz ta tha font_struct_list order.
Da number of
.ZN XFontStruct
structures n' font names is returned as tha value of tha function.
.LP
Because it aint guaranteed dat a given characta is ghon be imaged rockin a
single font glyph,
there is no provision fo' mappin a cold-ass lil characta or default strang 
to tha font properties, font ID, or direction hint fo' tha font 
for tha character.
Da client may access tha 
.ZN XFontStruct
list ta obtain these joints fo' all tha fonts currently up in use.
.LP
Xlib do not guarantee dat fonts is loaded from tha server
at tha creation of a 
.ZN XFontSet .
Xlib may chizzle ta cache font data, loadin it only as needed ta draw text 
or compute text dimensions.
Therefore, existence of tha per_char metrics up in tha 
.ZN XFontStruct
structures up in the
.ZN XFontStructSet
is undefined.
Also, note dat all propertizzles up in tha 
.ZN XFontStruct
structures is up in tha STRING encoding.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XFontStruct
and font name lists is owned by Xlib 
and should not be modified or freed by tha client.
They is ghon be freed by a cold-ass lil call to
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with tha associated
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, they contents aint gonna be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet
function returns tha original gangsta base font name list supplied
by tha client when tha 
.ZN XFontSet
was pimped.
A null-terminated strang containin a list of
comma-separated font names is returned
as tha value of tha function.
White space may step tha fuck up immediately on either side of separatin commas.
.LP
If 
.ZN XCreateFontSet
obtained a XLFD name from tha font propertizzles fo' tha font specified
by a non-XLFD base name, the
.ZN XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet
function will return tha XLFD name instead of tha non-XLFD base name.
.LP
Da base font name list is owned by Xlib n' should not be modified or
freed by tha client.
It is ghon be freed by a cold-ass lil call ta 
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with tha associated 
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, its contents aint gonna be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XLocaleOfFontSet
function
returns tha name of tha locale bound ta tha specified
.ZN XFontSet ,
as a null-terminated string.
.LP
Da returned locale name strang is owned by Xlib
and should not be modified or freed by tha client.
It may be freed by a cold-ass lil call to
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with tha associated 
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, it aint gonna be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XContextDependentDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if tha drawin functions implement implicit text directionalitizzle or
if text drawn wit tha font_set might include context-dependent drawing;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XContextualDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if text drawn wit tha font set might include context-dependent drawing;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XDirectionalDependentDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if tha drawin functions implement implicit text directionality;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateFontSet(3),
XCreateOM(3),
XCreateOC(3),
XExtentsOfFontSet(3),
XFontSetExtents(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
