'\" t
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
'\" t
.TH XGetVisualInfo 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XGetVisualInfo, XMatchVisualInfo, XVisualIDFromVisual, XVisualInfo \- obtain visual shiznit n' visual structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XVisualInfo *XGetVisualInfo\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, long
\fIvinfo_mask\fP\^, XVisualInfo *\fIvinfo_template\fP\^, int
*\fInitems_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XMatchVisualInfo\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIscreen\fP\^, int
\fIdepth\fP\^, int \fIclass\fP\^, XVisualInfo *\fIvinfo_return\fP\^); 
.HP
VisualID XVisualIDFromVisual\^(\^Visual *\^\fIvisual\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies tha class of tha screen.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies tha depth of tha screen.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fInitems_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of matchin visual structures.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies tha screen.
.IP \fIvisual\fP 1i
Specifies tha visual type.
.IP \fIvinfo_mask\fP 1i
Specifies tha visual mask value.
.IP \fIvinfo_return\fP 1i
Returns tha matched visual shiznit.
.IP \fIvinfo_template\fP 1i
Specifies tha visual attributes dat is ta be used up in matchin tha visual
structures.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XGetVisualInfo
function returns a list of visual structures dat have attributes 
equal ta tha attributes specified by vinfo_template.
If no visual structures match tha template rockin tha specified vinfo_mask,
.ZN XGetVisualInfo
returns a NULL.
To free tha data returned by dis function, use
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN XMatchVisualInfo
function returns tha visual shiznit fo' a visual dat matches tha specified
depth n' class fo' a screen.
Because multiple visuals dat match tha specified depth n' class can exist,
the exact visual chosen is undefined.
If a visual is found,
.ZN XMatchVisualInfo
returns nonzero n' tha shiznit on tha visual ta vinfo_return.
Otherwise, when a visual aint found,
.ZN XMatchVisualInfo
returns zero.
.LP
The
.ZN XVisualIDFromVisual
function returns tha visual ID fo' tha specified visual type.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XVisualInfo
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.LP
/\&* Visual shiznit mask bits */
.TS
lw(.5i) lw(2.5i) lw(.8i).
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualNoMask
T}	T{
0x0
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualIDMask
T}	T{
0x1
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualScreenMask
T}	T{
0x2
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualDepthMask
T}	T{
0x4
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualClassMask
T}	T{
0x8
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualRedMaskMask
T}	T{
0x10
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualGreenMaskMask
T}	T{
0x20
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualBlueMaskMask
T}	T{
0x40
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualColormapSizeMask
T}	T{
0x80
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualBitsPerRGBMask
T}	T{
0x100
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN VisualAllMask
T}	T{
0x1FF
T}
.TE
.IN "XVisualInfo" "" "@DEF@"
.Ds 0
/\&* Values */

typedef struct {
        Visual *visual;
        VisualID visualid;
        int screen;
        int depth;
        int class;
        unsigned long red_mask;
        unsigned long green_mask;
        unsigned long blue_mask;
        int colormap_size;
        int bits_per_rgb;
} XVisualInfo;
.De
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
