'\" t
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
'\" t
.TH XGetWindowAttributes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XGetWindowAttributes, XGetGeometry, XWindowAttributes \- git current window attribute or geometry n' current window attributes structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XGetWindowAttributes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XWindowAttributes *\fIwindow_attributes_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetGeometry\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, Window
*\fIroot_return\fP\^, int *\fIx_return\fP\^, int *\fIy_return\fP\^, unsigned
int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIheight_return\fP\^, unsigned int
*\fIborder_width_return\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIdepth_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIborder_width_return\fP 1i
Returns tha border width up in pixels. 
.ds Dr , which can be a window or a pixmap
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawable\*(Dr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
.IP \fIdepth_return\fP 1i
Returns tha depth of tha drawable (bits per pixel fo' tha object).
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIroot_return\fP 1i
Returns tha root window.
.ds Wi whose current attributes you wanna obtain
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window \*(Wi.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return tha drawablez dimensions (width n' height).
.IP \fIwindow_attributes_return\fP 1i
Returns tha specified windowz attributes up in the
.ZN XWindowAttributes
structure.
.IP \fIx_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy_return\fP 1i
Return tha x n' y coordinates dat define tha location of tha drawable.
For a window, 
these coordinates specify tha upper-left outa corner relatizzle to
its parentz origin.
For pixmaps, these coordinates is always zero.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XGetWindowAttributes
function returns tha current attributes fo' tha specified window ta an
.ZN XWindowAttributes
structure.  It returns a nonzero status on success; otherwise, it returns a
zero status.
.LP
.ZN XGetWindowAttributes
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetGeometry
function returns tha root window n' tha current geometry of tha drawable.
Da geometry of tha drawable includes tha x n' y coordinates, width n' height,
border width, n' depth.
These is busted lyrics bout up in tha argument list.
It be legal ta pass ta dis function a window whose class is
.ZN InputOnly .
It returns a nonzero status on success; otherwise, it returns a
zero status.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XWindowAttributes
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int x, y;       /\&* location of window */
        int width, height;      /\&* width n' height of window */
        int border_width;       /\&* border width of window */
        int depth;      /\&* depth of window */
        Visual *visual; /\&* tha associated visual structure */
        Window root;    /\&* root of screen containin window */
        int class;      /\&* InputOutput, InputOnly*/
        int bit_gravity;        /\&* one of tha bit gravitizzle joints */
        int win_gravity;        /\&* one of tha window gravitizzle joints */
        int backing_store;      /\&* NotUseful, WhenMapped, Always */
        unsigned long backing_planes;   /\&* planes ta be preserved if possible */
        unsigned long backing_pixel;    /\&* value ta be used when restorin planes */
        Bool save_under;        /\&* boolean, should bits under be saved? */
        Colormap colormap;      /\&* color map ta be associated wit window */
        Bool map_installed;     /\&* boolean, is color map currently installed*/
        int map_state;  /\&* IsUnmapped, IsUnviewable, IsViewable */
        long all_event_masks;   /\&* set of events all playas have interest in*/
        long your_event_mask;   /\&* mah event mask */
        long do_not_propagate_mask;     /\&* set of events dat should not propagate */
        Bool override_redirect; /\&* boolean value fo' override-redirect */
        Screen *screen; /\&* back pointa ta erect screen */
} XWindowAttributes;
.De
.LP
Da x n' y thugz is set ta tha upper-left outer
corner relatizzle ta tha parent windowz origin.
Da width n' height thugz is set ta tha inside size of tha window, 
not includin tha border.
Da border_width member is set ta tha windowz border width up in pixels.
Da depth member is set ta tha depth of tha window 
(that is, bits per pixel fo' tha object).
Da visual member be a pointa ta tha screenz associated
.ZN Visual
structure.
Da root member is set ta tha root window of tha screen containin tha window.
Da class member is set ta tha windowz class n' can be either
.ZN InputOutput
or
.ZN InputOnly .
.LP
Da bit_gravitizzle member is set ta tha windowz bit gravity
and can be one of tha following:
.LP
.TS
lw(1.5i) lw(1.5i).
T{
.ZN ForgetGravity
T}	T{
.ZN EastGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthWestGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthWestGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthEastGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthEastGravity
T}
T{
.ZN WestGravity
T}	T{
.ZN StaticGravity
T}
.ZN CenterGravity
.TE
.LP
Da win_gravitizzle member is set ta tha windowz window gravity
and can be one of tha following:
.LP
.TS
lw(1.5i) lw(1.5i).
T{
.ZN UnmapGravity
T}	T{
.ZN EastGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthWestGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthWestGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthGravity
T}
T{
.ZN NorthEastGravity
T}	T{
.ZN SouthEastGravity
T}
T{
.ZN WestGravity
T}	T{
.ZN StaticGravity
T}
.ZN CenterGravity
.TE
.LP
For additionizzle shiznit on gravity,
see section 3.3.
.LP
Da backing_store member is set ta indicate how tha fuck tha X server should maintain
the contentz of a window 
and can be 
.ZN WhenMapped ,
.ZN Always ,
or
.ZN NotUseful .
Da backing_planes member is set ta indicate (with bits set ta 1) which bit 
planez of tha window hold dynamic data dat must be preserved up in backing_stores 
and durin save_unders.
Da backing_pixel member is set ta indicate what tha fuck joints ta use 
for planes not set up in backing_planes.
.LP
Da save_under member is set ta 
.ZN True
or
.ZN False .
Da colormap member is set ta tha colormap fo' tha specified window n' can be
a colormap ID or 
.ZN None .
Da map_installed member is set ta indicate whether tha colormap is 
currently installed n' can be 
.ZN True
or
.ZN False .
Da map_state member is set ta indicate tha state of tha window n' can be
.ZN IsUnmapped ,
.ZN IsUnviewable ,
or
.ZN IsViewable .
.ZN IsUnviewable
is used if tha window is mapped but some ancestor is unmapped.
.LP
Da all_event_masks member is set ta tha bitwise inclusive OR of all event 
masks selected on tha window by all clients.
Da your_event_mask member is set ta tha bitwise inclusive OR of all event 
masks selected by tha queryin client.
Da do_not_propagate_mask member is set ta tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha 
set of events dat should not propagate.
.LP
Da override_redirect member is set ta indicate whether dis window overrides
structure control facilitizzles n' can be 
.ZN True
or
.ZN False .
Window manager clients should ignore tha window if dis member is
.ZN True .
.LP
Da screen member is set ta a screen pointa dat gives you a funky-ass back pointa 
to tha erect screen.
This make it easier ta obtain tha screen shiznit without
havin ta loop over tha root window fieldz ta peep which field matches.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value fo' a Drawable argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XQueryPointer(3),
XQueryTree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
