.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XGraphicsExposeEvent 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XGraphicsExposeEvent, XNoExposeEvent \- GraphicsExpose n' NoExpose event structures
.SH STRUCTURES
Da structures for
.ZN GraphicsExpose
and
.ZN NoExpose
events contain:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int type;       /\&* GraphicsExpose */
        unsigned long serial;   /\&* # of last request processed by server */
        Bool send_event;        /\&* legit if dis came from a SendEvent request */
        Display *display;       /\&* Display tha event was read from */
        Drawable drawable;
        int x, y;
        int width, height;
        int count;      /\&* if nonzero, at least dis nuff mo' */
        int major_code; /\&* core is CopyArea or CopyPlane */
        int minor_code; /\&* not defined up in tha core */
} XGraphicsExposeEvent;
.De
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        int type;       /\&* NoExpose */
        unsigned long serial;   /\&* # of last request processed by server */
        Bool send_event;        /\&* legit if dis came from a SendEvent request */
        Display *display;       /\&* Display tha event was read from */
        Drawable drawable;
        int major_code; /\&* core is CopyArea or CopyPlane */
        int minor_code; /\&* not defined up in tha core */
} XNoExposeEvent;
.De
.LP
When you receive these events,
their structure thugz is set as bigs up.
.LP
Da type member is set ta tha event type constant name dat uniquely identifies
it.
For example, when tha X server reports a
.ZN GraphicsExpose
event ta a cold-ass lil client application, it sendz an
.ZN XGraphicsExposeEvent
structure wit tha type member set to
.ZN GraphicsExpose .
Da display member is set ta a pointa ta tha display tha event was read on.
Da send_event member is set to
.ZN True
if tha event came from a
.ZN SendEvent
protocol request.
Da serial member is set from tha serial number reported up in tha protocol
but expanded from tha 16-bit least-significant bits ta a gangbangin' full 32-bit value.
Da window member is set ta tha window dat is most useful ta toolkit
dispatchers.
.LP
Both structures have these common members: drawable, major_code, n' minor_code.
Da drawable member is set ta tha drawable of tha destination region on 
which tha graphics request was ta be performed.
Da major_code member is set ta tha graphics request initiated by tha client
and can be either
.ZN X_CopyArea
or
.ZN X_CopyPlane .
If it is
.ZN X_CopyArea ,
a call to
.ZN XCopyArea
initiated tha request.
If it is
.ZN X_CopyPlane ,
a call to
.ZN XCopyPlane
initiated tha request.
These constants is defined up in 
.hN X11/Xproto.h .
Da minor_code member,
like tha major_code member, 
indicates which graphics request was initiated by
the client. 
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha minor_code member aint defined by tha core
X protocol n' is ghon be zero up in these cases, 
although it may be used by a extension.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XGraphicsExposeEvent
structure has these additionizzle members: x, y, width, height, n' count. 
Da x n' y thugz is set ta tha coordinates relatizzle ta tha drawablez origin
and indicate tha upper-left corner of tha rectangle.
Da width n' height thugz is set ta tha size (extent) of tha rectangle.
Da count member is set ta tha number of
.ZN GraphicsExpose
events ta follow.
If count is zero, no more
.ZN GraphicsExpose
events follow fo' dis window.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if count is nonzero, at least dat number of
.ZN GraphicsExpose
events (and possibly more) is ta follow fo' dis window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAnyEvent(3),
XButtonEvent(3),
XCreateWindowEvent(3),
XCirculateEvent(3),
XCirculateRequestEvent(3),
XColormapEvent(3),
XConfigureEvent(3),
XConfigureRequestEvent(3),
XCopyArea(3),
XCrossingEvent(3),
XDestroyWindowEvent(3),
XErrorEvent(3),
XExposeEvent(3),
XFocusChangeEvent(3),
XGravityEvent(3),
XKeymapEvent(3),
XMapEvent(3),
XMapRequestEvent(3),
XPropertyEvent(3),
XReparentEvent(3),
XResizeRequestEvent(3),
XSelectionClearEvent(3),
XSelectionEvent(3),
XSelectionRequestEvent(3),
XUnmapEvent(3),
XVisibilityEvent(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
