.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XIconifyWindow 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XIconifyWindow, XWithdrawWindow, XReconfigureWMWindow \- manipulate top-level windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XIconifyWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP, int
\fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XWithdrawWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, int
\fIscreen_number\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XReconfigureWMWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
int \fIscreen_number\fP\^, unsigned int \fIvalue_mask\fP\^, XWindowChanges
*\fIvalues\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIscreen_number\fP 1i
Specifies tha appropriate screen number on tha host server.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Specifies which joints is ta be set rockin shiznit in
the joints structure.
This mask is tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha valid configure window joints bits.
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies tha 
.ZN XWindowChanges 
structure.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.ZN XIconifyWindow 
function sendz a WM_CHANGE_STATE 
.ZN ClientMessage 
event wit a gangbangin' format of 32 n' a gangbangin' first data element of 
.ZN IconicState 
(as busted lyrics bout up in section 4.1.4 of tha 
\fIInter-Client Communication Conventions Manual\fP)
and a window of w
to tha root window of tha specified screen
with a event mask set to
.ZN SubstructureNotifyMask |
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask .
Window managers may elect ta receive dis message and
if tha window is up in its aiiight state, 
may treat it as a request ta chizzle tha windowz state from aiiight ta iconic.
If tha WM_CHANGE_STATE property cannot be interned, 
.ZN XIconifyWindow
does not bust a message n' returns a zero status.
It returns a nonzero status if tha client message is busted successfully;
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XWithdrawWindow 
function unmaps tha specified window 
and sendz a synthetic 
.ZN UnmapNotify 
event ta tha root window of tha specified screen.
Window managers may elect ta receive dis message 
and may treat it as a request ta chizzle tha windowz state ta withdrawn.
When a window is up in tha withdrawn state, 
neither its aiiight nor its iconic representations is visible.
It returns a nonzero status if tha 
.ZN UnmapNotify 
event is successfully sent; 
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
.LP
.ZN XWithdrawWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XReconfigureWMWindow 
function thangs a 
.ZN ConfigureWindow 
request on tha specified top-level window.
If tha stackin mode is chizzled n' tha request fails wit a 
.ZN BadMatch 
error, 
the error is trapped by Xlib n' a synthetic 
.ZN ConfigureRequestEvent 
containin tha same configuration parametas is busted ta tha root 
of tha specified window.
Window managers may elect ta receive dis event 
and treat it as a request ta reconfigure tha indicated window.
It returns a nonzero status if tha request or event is successfully sent;
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
.LP
.ZN XReconfigureWMWindow
can generate
.ZN BadValue
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(3),
XConfigureWindow(3),
XCreateWindow(3),
XDestroyWindow(3),
XRaiseWindow(3),
XMapWindow(3),
XUnmapWindow(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
