.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH XINERAMA 3 "libXinerama 1.1.3" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xinerama \- API fo' Xinerama extension ta X11 Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xinerama.h>
.nf
.sp
Bool XineramaQueryExtension \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fIevent_base_return\fP, int *\fIerror_base_return\fP\^);
.sp
Status XineramaQueryVersion \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fImajor_version_return\fP,
	int *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^);
.sp
Bool XineramaIsActizzle \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP\^);
.sp
XineramaScreenInfo * XineramaQueryScreens \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fInumber\fP\^);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIevent_base_return\fP 1i
Specifies tha return location fo' tha assigned base event code
.IP \fIerror_base_return\fP 1i
Specifies tha return location fo' tha assigned base error code
.IP \fImajor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns tha major version supported by tha server
.IP \fIminor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns tha minor version supported by tha server
.IP \fInumber\fP 1i
Returns tha number of entries up in tha returned XineramaScreenInfo array.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xinerama
is a simple library designed ta intercourse tha Xinerama Extension for
retrievin shiznit bout physical output devices which may be combined
into a single logical X screen.

.SH FUNCTIONS

.SS \fBXineramaQueryExtension()\fR

.LP
Da XineramaQueryExtension function queries tha Xserver ta determine the
availabilitizzle of tha Xinerama Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If tha extension be available, the
return value is True, n' event_base_return n' error_base_return is set to
the base event number n' base error number fo' tha extension, respectively.
Otherwise, tha return value is False, n' tha jointz of event_base_return and
error_base_return is undefined.
.sp

.SS \fBXineramaQueryVersion()\fR

.LP
Da XineramaQueryVersion function returns tha version of tha Xinerama extension
implemented by tha Xserver n' shit. Da version is returned up in major_version_return
and minor_version_return, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da major version is ghon be incremented fo' protocol
incompatible chizzles, n' tha minor version is ghon be incremented fo' small,
upwardly compatible chizzles.
.LP
If tha Xinerama library is compatible wit tha version returned by the
server, it returns nonzero. If tha server do not support the
XINERAMA extension, or if there was a error durin communications
with tha server, or if tha server n' library protocol versions are
incompatible, it returns zero.
.sp

.SS \fBXineramaIsActive()\fR

.LP
Da XineramaIsActizzle function returns a Boolean operator used ta determine if
Xinerama be activated on tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Returns True fo' actizzle n' False for
not active.
.sp

.SS \fBXineramaQueryScreens()\fR

.LP
Da \fBXineramaQueryScreens()\fR function returns info bout each
individual output thang within tha Xinerama Screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da integer
pointed ta by tha \fInumber\fR argument is updated ta tha number of
output devices listed up in tha returned array of \fIXineramaScreenInfo\fR
structures.  \fBXineramaQueryScreens()\fR returns NULL n' sets \fInumber\fR
to 0 if Xinerama aint active.

Da pointa returned should be busted out wit XFree(3)
when no longer needed.
.sp

.SH NOTE
Da original gangsta API provided fo' interactin wit tha XINERAMA extension used
function names beginnin wit \fIXPanoramiX\fR.   That API is now deprecated
and dis API should be used instead up in freshly smoked up software.



