.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XInternAtom 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XInternAtom, XInternAtoms, XGetAtomName, XGetAtomNames \- create or return atom names
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Atom XInternAtom\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIatom_name\fP\^, Bool
\fIonly_if_exists\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XInternAtoms\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char **\fInames\fP\^, int
\fIcount\fP\^, Bool \fIonly_if_exists\fP\^, Atom *\fIatoms_return\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XGetAtomName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom \fIatom\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetAtomNames\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom *\fIatoms\fP\^, int
\fIcount\fP\^, char **\fInames_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIatom\fP 1i
Specifies tha atom fo' tha property name you want returned.
.IP \fIatoms\fP 1i
Specifies tha array of atoms.
.IP \fIatom_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha name associated wit tha atom you want returned.
.IP \fIatoms_return\fP 1i
Returns tha atoms.
.ds Cn atom names up in tha array
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of \*(Cn.
.ds Cn atoms up in tha array
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies tha array of atom names.
.IP \fInames_return\fP 1i
Returns tha atom names.
.IP \fIonly_if_exists\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value dat indicates whether tha atom must be pimped.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XInternAtom
function returns tha atom identifier associated wit tha specified atom_name
string.
If only_if_exists is 
.ZN False ,
the atom is pimped if it do not exist.
Therefore,
.ZN XInternAtom
can return
.ZN None .
If tha atom name aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Uppercase n' lowercase matter;
the strings ``thing'', ``Thing'', n' ``thinG'' 
all designate different atoms.  
Da atom will remain defined even afta tha clientz connection closes.
It will become undefined only when tha last connection to
the X server closes.
.LP
.ZN XInternAtom
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc 
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XInternAtoms
function returns tha atom identifiers associated wit tha specified names.
Da atoms is stored up in tha atoms_return array supplied by tha caller.
Callin dis function is equivalent ta calling
.ZN XInternAtom
for each of tha names up in turn wit tha specified value of only_if_exists,
but dis function minimizes tha number of round-trip protocol exchanges
between tha client n' tha X server.
.LP
This function returns a nonzero status if atoms is returned for
all of tha names;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.LP
.ZN XInternAtoms
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc 
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetAtomName
function returns tha name associated wit tha specified atom.
If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable Characta Encoding,
then tha returned strang is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
To free tha resultin string,
call
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
.ZN XGetAtomName
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetAtomNames
function returns tha names associated wit tha specified atoms.
Da names is stored up in tha names_return array supplied by tha caller.
Callin dis function is equivalent ta calling
.ZN XGetAtomName
for each of tha atoms up in turn,
but dis function minimizes tha number of round-trip protocol exchanges
between tha client n' tha X server.
.LP
This function returns a nonzero status if names is returned for
all of tha atoms;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.LP
.ZN XGetAtomNames
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(3),
XGetWindowProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
