.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddSymInterpret 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddSymInterpret \- Add a symbol interpretation ta tha list of symbol 
interpretations up in a XkbCompatRec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbSymInterpretPtr XkbAddSymInterpret
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "XkbSymInterpretPtr " "si" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "updateMap" "\^,"
.BI "XkbChangesPtr " "changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta be updated 
.TP
.I \- si
symbol interpretation ta be added
.TP
.I \- updateMap
True=>apply compatibilitizzle map ta keys
.TP
.I \- chizzles
changes is put here 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbAddSymInterpret 
addz 
.I si 
to tha list of symbol interpretations up in 
.I xkb. 
If 
.I updateMap 
is True, it (re)applies tha compatibilitizzle map ta all of tha keys on tha 
keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I chizzlez 
is non-NULL, it reports tha partz of tha keyboard dat was affected (unless
.I updateMap 
is True, not much chizzles). 
.I XkbAddSymInterpret 
returns a pointa ta tha actual freshly smoked up symbol interpretation up in tha list or NULL if 
it failed.
