.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomKey 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomKey \- Add one key all up in tha end of a existin row of keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbKeyPtr XkbAddGeomKey
.BI "(\^XkbRowPtr " "row" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- row
row ta be updated
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard geometry. In each case 
the 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha jointz of tha 
elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you must explicitly write code ta fill 
the structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary name. Programs dat 
display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as hints yo, but they is not interpreted by 
Xkb. No other geometry structures refer ta geometry properties.

Keys is grouped tha fuck into rows. 
.I XkbAddGeomKey 
addz one key ta tha end of tha specified 
.I row. 
Da key be allocated n' zeroed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I XkbAddGeomKey 
returns NULL if 
.I row 
is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate space fo' tha key. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary 
number of keys ta a row, use 
.I XkbAllocGeomKeys.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbKey {              /\(** key up in a row */
        XkbKeyNameRec   name;             /\(** key name */
        short           gap;              /\(** gap up in mm/10 from previous key up in row */
        unsigned char   shape_ndx;        /\(** index of shape fo' key */
        unsigned char   color_ndx;        /\(** index of color fo' key body */
    } XkbKeyRec, *XkbKeyPtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomKeys (3)
