.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocIndicatorMaps \- Allocates, directly, tha 
.I indicators 
gangmember of tha keyboard description record 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocIndicatorMaps
.BI "(\^variable_type *" "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I xkb 
parameta must point ta a valid keyboard description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If it don't, 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
returns a BadMatch error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Otherwise, 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
allocates n' initializes tha 
.I indicators 
gangmember of tha keyboard description record n' returns Success. If 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
was unable ta allocate tha indicators record, it reports a BadAlloc error.
.SH RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da 
.I XkbAllocIndicatorMaps 
function returns Success if it is successful up in allocatin n' initializin tha 
.I indicators 
gangmember of tha keyboard description record.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
