'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocGeometry 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocGeometry \- Allocate a entire geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocGeometry
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "XkbGeometrySizesPtr " "sizes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description fo' which geometry is ta be allocated
.TP
.I \- sizes
initial sizes fo' all geometry components
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up a fuckin shitload of functions ta allocate n' free subcomponentz of a 
keyboard geometry. Use these functions ta create or modify keyboard geometries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
Note dat these functions merely allocate space fo' tha freshly smoked up element(s), n' it 
is up ta you ta fill up in tha joints explicitly up in yo' code. These allocation 
functions increase 
.I sz_* 
but never bust a nut on 
.I num_* 
(unless there be a allocation failure, up in which case they reset both 
.I sz_* 
and 
.I num_* 
to zero). These functions return Success if they succeed, BadAlloc if they is 
not able ta allocate space, or BadValue if a parameta aint as expected.

.I XkbAllocGeometry 
allocates a keyboard geometry n' addz it ta tha keyboard description specified 
by 
.I xkb. 
Da keyboard description should be obtained via tha 
.I XkbGetKeyboard 
or 
.I XkbAllocKeyboard 
functions. Da 
.I sizes 
parameta specifies tha number of elements ta be reserved fo' tha subcomponents 
of tha keyboard geometry n' can be zero or mo' n' mo' n' mo'. These subcomponents include 
the 
.I properties, colors, shapes, sections, n' doodads. 

To free a entire geometry, use 
.I XkbFreeGeometry.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocKeyboard (3),
.BR XkbFreeGeometry (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyboard (3)

