'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocCompatMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocCompatMap \- Allocate a freshly smoked up compatibilitizzle map if you do not already have one available
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocCompatMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num_si" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description up in which ta allocate compat map
.TP
.I \- which
mask of compatibilitizzle map components ta allocate
.TP
.I \- num_si
number of symbol interpretations ta allocate
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I xkb 
specifies tha keyboard description fo' which compatibilitizzle maps is ta be allocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da compatibilitizzle map is tha 
.I compat 
field up in dis structure.

.I which 
specifies tha compatibilitizzle map components ta be allocated (see XkbGetCompatMap). 
.I which 
is a inclusive OR of tha bits shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l.
Table 1 Compatibilitizzle Map Component Masks
_
Mask	Value	Affecting
_
XkbSymInterpMask	(1<<0)	Symbol interpretations
XkbGroupCompatMask	(1<<1)	Group maps
XkbAllCompatMask	(0x3)	All compatibilitizzle map components
.TE

.I num_si 
specifies tha total number of entries ta allocate up in tha symbol interpretation vector
.I (xkb.compat.sym_interpret).

.I XkbAllocCompatMap 
returns Success if successful, BadMatch if 
.I xkb 
is NULL, or BadAlloc if errors is encountered when attemptin ta allocate storage.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct {
        KeySym            sym;          /\(** keysym of interest or NULL */
        unsigned char     flags;        /\(** XkbSI_AutoRepeat, XkbSI_LockingKey */
        unsigned char     match;        /\(** specifies how tha fuck modz is interpreted */
        unsigned char     mods;         /\(** modifier bits, correspond ta eight real modifiers */
        unsigned char     virtual_mod;  /\(** 1 modifier ta add ta key virtual mod map */
        XkbAnyAction      act;          /\(** action ta bind ta symbol posizzle on key */
    } XkbSymInterpretRec,*XkbSymInterpretPtr;
    
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has erect type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetCompatMap (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Note dat symbol interpretations up in a cold-ass lil compatibilitizzle map (the 
.I sym_interpret 
vector of XkbSymInterpretRec structures) is also allocated rockin dis same function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To ensure dat there is sufficient space up in tha symbol interpretation vector fo' entries ta be added, use
.I XkbAllocCompatMap 
specifyin 
.I which 
as XkbSymInterpretMask n' tha number of free symbol interpretations needed up in 
.I num_si.
