.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomOverlay 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomOverlay \- Add one overlay ta a section
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbOverlayPtr XkbAddGeomOverlay
.BI "(\^XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_rows" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- section
section ta which a overlay is ghon be added
.TP
.I \- name
name of tha overlay
.TP
.I \- sz_rows
number of rows ta reserve up in tha overlay
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha 
valuez of tha elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary 
name. Programs dat display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as 
hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

.I XkbAddGeomOverlay 
addz a overlay wit tha specified name ta tha specified 
.I section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da freshly smoked up overlay is pimped wit space allocated fo' 
.I sz_rows 
rows. If a overlay wit name 
.I name 
already exists up in tha section, a pointa ta tha existin overlay is returned.
.I XkbAddGeomOverlay 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate 
space fo' tha overlay. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary number of overlays ta 
a section, use tha 
.I XkbAllocGeomOverlay 
function.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbOverlayRec {
        Atom                  name;            /\(** overlay name */
        XkbSectionPtr         section_under;   /\(** tha section under dis overlay */
        unsigned short        num_rows;        /\(** number of rows up in tha rows array */
        unsigned short        sz_rows;         /\(** size of tha rows array */
        XkbOverlayRowPtr      rows;            /\(** array of rows up in tha overlay */
        XkbBoundsPtr          bounds;          /\(** boundin box fo' tha overlay */
    } XkbOverlayRec,*XkbOverlayPtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomOverlay (3)
