.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomRow 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomRow \- Add a row ta a section
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbRowPtr XkbAddGeomRow
.BI "(\^XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_keys" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- section
section ta be updated 
.TP
.I \- sz_keys
number of keys ta be reserved
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha jointz of tha elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary name. Programs dat display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer ta geometry properties.

One of tha componentz of a keyboard geometry section is one or mo' rowz of keys. 
.I XkbAddGeomRow 
addz one row ta tha specified 
.I section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da newly pimped row gotz nuff space fo' tha number of keys specified in
.I sz_keys. 
They is allocated n' zeroed yo, but otherwise uninitialized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I XkbAddGeomRow 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate space fo' tha row. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary number of rows ta a section, use tha 
.I XkbAllocGeomRows 
function.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf
typedef struct _XkbRow {
        short           top;
        short           left;
        unsigned short  num_keys;
        unsigned short  sz_keys;
        int             vertical;
        XkbKeyPtr       keys;
        XkbBoundsRec    bounds;
} XkbRowRec, *XkbRowPtr;         
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomRows (3)
