.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomOverlayRow 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomOverlayRow \- Add a row ta a existin overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbOverlayRowPtr XkbAddGeomOverlayRow
.BI "(\^XkbOverlayPtr " "overlay" "\^,"
.BI "XkbRowPtr " "row_under" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_keys" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- overlay
overlay ta be updated
.TP
.I \- row_under
row ta be overlayed up in tha section overlay overlays
.TP
.I \- sz_keys
number of keys ta reserve up in tha row
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha 
valuez of tha elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary 
name. Programs dat display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as 
hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

.I XkbAddGeomOverlayRow 
addz one row ta tha 
.I overlay. 
Da freshly smoked up row gotz nuff space fo' 
.I sz_keys 
keys. If 
. I row_under 
specifies a row dat don't exist on tha underlyin section,
.I  XkbAddGeomOverlayRow 
returns NULL n' don't chizzle tha overlay. 
.I XkbAddGeomOverlayRow 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate 
space fo' tha overlay.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbOverlayRow {
        unsigned short      row_under;    /\(** index tha fuck into tha row under dis overlay row */
        unsigned short      num_keys;     /\(** number of keys up in tha keys array */
        unsigned short      sz_keys;      /\(** size of tha keys array */
        XkbOverlayKeyPtr    keys;         /\(** array of keys up in tha overlay row */
    } XkbOverlayRowRec,*XkbOverlayRowPtr;

.fi
