.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocKeyboard 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocKeyboard \-  Creates a keyboard description from scratch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbDescRec XkbAllocKeyboard
.BI "(\^void\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Applications seldom need ta directly allocate a keyboard description; calling
.I XkbGetKeyboard 
usually suffices. In tha event you need ta create a keyboard description from 
scratch, however, use 
.I XkbAllocKeyboard 
rather than directly callin 
.I malloc.

If 
.I XkbAllocKeyboard 
fails ta allocate tha keyboard description, it returns NULL. 
Otherwise, it returns a pointa ta a empty keyboard description structure. Da 
.I device_spec 
field gonna git been initialized ta XkbUseCoreKbd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass may then 
either fill up in tha structure components or use Xkb functions ta obtain joints 
for tha structure components from a keyboard device. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR malloc (3F),
.BR XkbUseCoreKbd (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyboard (3)


