'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocServerMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocServerMap \- Allocate n' initialize a empty server map description record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocServerMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "count_acts" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description up in which ta allocate server map
.TP
.I \- which
mask selectin map components ta allocate
.TP
.I \- count_acts
value of num_acts field up in map ta be allocated
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
allocates n' initializes a empty server map up in tha 
.I server 
field of tha keyboard description specified by 
.I xkb. 
Da 
.I which 
parameta specifies tha particular componentz of tha server map structure ta allocate, as specified up in Table 1. 

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 XkbAllocServerMap Masks
_
Mask	Effect
_
XkbExplicitComponentsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used to
allocate tha explicit field of tha server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyActionsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta allocate tha key_acts field of tha server map. Da count_acts parameta is used ta allocate tha acts field of tha server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyBehaviorsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta allocate tha behaviors field of tha server map.
T}
.sp
XkbVirtualModMapMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta allocate tha vmodmap field of tha server map.
T}

.TE

If tha server map of tha keyboard description aint NULL n' any fieldz is already allocated up in tha server map, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
does not overwrite tha existin joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da only exception is wit tha 
.I acts 
array. If tha 
.I count_acts 
parameta is pimped outa than tha current 
.I num_acts 
field of tha server map, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
resizes tha 
.I acts 
array n' resets tha 
.I num_acts 
field accordingly.

If 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
is successful, it returns Success. Otherwise, it can return either BadMatch or BadAlloc errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has erect type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH NOTES
.LP
Da 
.I min_key_code 
and 
.I max_key_code 
fieldz of tha 
.I xkb 
parameta must be legal joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If they is not valid, 
.I XkbAllocServerMap 
returns BadValue. 
