.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomOutline 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomOutline \- Add one outline ta a existin shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbOutlinePtr XkbAddGeomOutline
.BI "(\^XkbShapePtr " "shape" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_points" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- shape
shape ta be updated
.TP
.I \- sz_points
number of points ta be reserved
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha 
valuez of tha elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary 
name. Programs dat display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as 
hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

An outline consistz of a arbitrary number of points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.I XkbAddGeomOutline 
addz a outline ta tha specified 
.I shape 
by reservin 
.I sz_points 
points fo' dat shit. Da freshly smoked up outline be allocated n' zeroed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I XkbAddGeomOutline 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate 
space. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary number of outlines ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape, use
.I XkbAllocGeomOutlines.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbOutline {
        unsigned short    num_points;      /\(** number of points up in tha outline */
        unsigned short    sz_points;       /\(** size of tha points array */
        unsigned short    corner_radius;   /\(** draw corners as circlez wit dis radius */
        XkbPointPtr       points;          /\(** array of points definin tha outline */
    } XkbOutlineRec, *XkbOutlinePtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomOutlines (3)
