'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocControls \- Allocates a XkbControlsRec structure up in tha XkbDescRec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocControls
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description up in which ta allocate ctrls rec
.TP
.I \- which
mask of componentz of ctrls ta allocate
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da need ta allocate a XkbControlsRec structure seldom arises; Xkb creates one 
when a application calls 
.I XkbGetControls 
or a related function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For dem thangs where there aint a XkbControlsRec 
structure allocated up in tha XkbDescRec, allocate one by callin 
.I XkbAllocControls.

.I XkbAllocControls 
allocates tha 
.I ctrls 
field of tha 
.I xkb 
parameter, initializes all fieldz ta zero, n' returns Success. If tha 
.I ctrls 
field aint NULL, 
.I XkbAllocControls 
simply returns Success. If 
.I xkb 
is NULL, 
.I XkbAllocControls 
reports a BadMatch error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If tha 
.I ctrls 
field could not be allocated, it reports a BadAlloc error.

Da 
.I which 
mask specifies tha individual fieldz of tha 
.I ctrls 
structure ta be allocated n' can contain any of tha valid masks defined up in 
Table 1. 
(SHOULD THIS COMMENT BE LEFT IN????)
Because none of tha currently existin controls have any structures associated 
with them, which is currently of lil practical value up in dis call.

Table 1 shows tha actual joints fo' tha individual mask bits used ta select 
controls fo' 
modification n' ta enable n' disable tha control. Note dat tha same mask bit 
is used ta 
specify general modifications ta tha parametas used ta configure tha control 
(which), n' ta 
enable n' disable tha control (enabled_ctrls). Da anomalies up in tha table (no 
"ok" up in column) 
are fo' controls dat have no configurable attributes; n' fo' controls dat is 
not boolean 
controls n' therefore cannot be enabled or disabled.

.TS
c s s s
l l l l
l l l l
l l l l. 
Table 1 Controls Mask Bits
_
Mask Bit	which or	enabled	Value
	changed_ctrls	_ctrls
_
XkbRepeatKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<0)
XkbSlowKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<1)
XkbBounceKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<2)
XkbStickyKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<3)
XkbMouseKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<4)
XkbMouseKeysAccelMask	ok	ok	(1L<<5)
XkbAccessXKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<6)
XkbAccessXTimeoutMask	ok	ok	(1L<<7)
XkbAccessXFeedbackMask	ok	ok	(1L<<8)
XkbAudibleBellMask		ok	(1L<<9)
XkbOverlay1Mask		ok	(1L<<10)
XkbOverlay2Mask		ok	(1L<<11)
XkbIgnoreGroupLockMask		ok	(1L<<12)
XkbGroupsWrapMask	ok		(1L<<27)
XkbInternalModsMask	ok		(1L<<28)
XkbIgnoreLockModsMask	ok		(1L<<29)
XkbPerKeyRepeatMask	ok		(1L<<30)
XkbControlsEnabledMask	ok		(1L<<31)
XkbAccessXOptionsMask	ok	ok	(XkbStickyKeysMask | 
			XkbAccessXFeedbackMask)
XkbAllBooleanCtrlsMask		ok	(0x00001FFF) 
XkbAllControlsMask	ok		(0xF8001FFF)
.TE
.nh
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
SUCCESS
allocates tha ctrls field of tha xkb parameter, initializes all fieldz ta zero
.sp
.in 20
the ctrls field aint NULL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetControls (3)
