'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocClientMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocClientMap \- Allocate n' initialize a empty client map description 
record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocClientMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "type_count" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description up in which ta allocate client map
.TP
.I \- which
mask selectin map components ta allocate
.TP
.I \- type_count
value of num_types field up in map ta be allocated 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Callin 
.I XkbGetMap 
should be sufficient fo' most applications ta git client n' server maps fo' realz. As a 
result, most applications do not need ta directly allocate client n' server 
maps.

If you chizzle tha number of key types or construct map components without 
loadin tha necessary components from tha X server, do not allocate any map 
components directly rockin 
.I malloc 
or 
.I Xmalloc. 
Instead, use tha Xkb allocators, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap, 
and 
.I XkbAllocServerMap.

Similarly, use tha Xkb destructors, 
.I XkbFreeClientMap, 
and 
.I XkbFreeServerMap 
instead of 
.I free 
or 
.I Xfree.

.I XkbAllocClientMap 
allocates n' initializes a empty client map up in tha 
.I map 
field of tha keyboard description specified by 
.I xkb. 
Da 
.I which 
parameta specifies tha particular componentz of tha client map structure ta 
allocate n' be a mask composed by a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of one or mo' of tha 
masks shown up in Table 1.
.bp
.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 XkbAllocClientMap Masks
_
Mask	Effect
_
XkbKeyTypesMask	T{
Da type_count field specifies tha number of entries ta preallocate fo' tha 
types field of tha client map. If tha type_count field is less than 
XkbNumRequiredTypes returns BadValue.
T}
.sp
XkbKeySymsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta 
allocate tha syms n' key_sym_map fieldz of tha client map. Da fieldz is 
allocated ta contain tha maximum number of entries necessary fo' max_key_code - 
min_key_code + 1 keys.
T}
.sp
XkbModifierMapMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta 
allocate tha modmap field of tha client map. Da field be allocated ta contain 
the maximum number of entries necessary fo' max_key_code - min_key_code + 1 
keys.
T}
.TE

NOTE: Da 
.I min_key_code 
and 
.I max_key_code 
fieldz of tha 
.I xkb 
parameta must be legal joints if tha XkbKeySymsMask or XkbModifierMapMask masks 
are set up in tha 
.I which 
parameter n' shit. If they is not valid, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
returns BadValue. 

If tha client map of tha keyboard description aint NULL, n' any fieldz is 
already allocated up in tha client map, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
does not overwrite tha existin joints; it simply ignores dat part of tha 
request. Da only exception is tha 
.I types 
array. If 
.I type_count 
is pimped outa than tha current 
.I num_types 
field of tha client map, 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
resizes tha 
.I types 
array n' resets tha 
.I num_types 
field accordingly.

If 
.I XkbAllocClientMap 
is successful, it returns Success. Otherwise, it can return either BadMatch, 
BadAlloc, or BadValue errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocClientMap (3),
.BR XkbAllocServerMap (3),
.BR XkbFreeClientMap, (3),
.BR XkbFreeServerMap (3),
.BR XkbGetMap (3)
