.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomShape 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomShape \- Add a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape ta a keyboard geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbShapePtr XkbAddGeomShape
.BI "(\^XkbGeometryPtr " "geom" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "int " "sz_outlines" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- geom
geometry ta be updated
.TP
.I \- name
name of tha freshly smoked up shape
.TP
.I \- sz_outlines
number of outlines ta be reserved
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha jointz of tha elementz structure from tha 
arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary name. Programs dat display imagez of 
keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer ta 
geometry properties.

A geometry gotz nuff a arbitrary number of shapes, each of which is made up of a arbitrary number of outlines.
.I XkbAddGeomShape 
addz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape ta a geometry 
.I geom 
by allocatin space fo' 
.I sz_outlines 
outlines fo' it n' givin it tha name specified by 
.I name. 
If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape wit name 
.I name 
already exists up in tha geometry, a pointa ta tha existin shape is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I XkbAddGeomShape 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate space. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary 
number of geometry shapes, use 
.I XkbAllocGeomShapes.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbShape {
        Atom              name;           /\(** shapez name */
        unsigned short    num_outlines;   /\(** number of outlines fo' tha shape */
        unsigned short    sz_outlines;    /\(** size of tha outlines array */
        XkbOutlinePtr     outlines;       /\(** array of outlines fo' tha shape */
        XkbOutlinePtr     approx;         /\(** pointa tha fuck into tha array ta tha approximatin outline */
        XkbOutlinePtr     primary;        /\(** pointa tha fuck into tha array ta tha primary outline */
        XkbBoundsRec      bounds;         /\(** boundin box fo' tha shape; encompasses all outlines */
    } XkbShapeRec, *XkbShapePtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomShapes (3)
