.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomDoodad 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomDoodad \- Add one doodad ta a section of a keyboard geometry or ta tha 
top-level geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbDoodadPtr XkbAddGeomDoodad
.BI "(\^XkbGeometryPtr " "geom" "\^,"
.BI "XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- geom
geometry ta which tha doodad be added
.TP
.I \- section
section, if any, ta which tha doodad be added
.TP
.I \- name
name of tha freshly smoked up doodad 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up functions ta add a single freshly smoked up element ta tha top-level keyboard 
geometry. In each case tha 
.I num_ * 
fieldz of tha correspondin structure is incremented by 1. These functions do 
not chizzle 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no mo' room up in tha array. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some of these functions fill up in tha 
valuez of tha elementz structure from tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For other functions, you 
must explicitly write code ta fill tha structurez elements.

Da top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
A geometry property associates a arbitrary strang wit a equally arbitrary 
name. Programs dat display imagez of keyboardz can use geometry propertizzles as 
hints yo, but they is not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer 
to geometry properties.

A 
.I doodad 
raps bout some visible aspect of tha keyboard dat aint a key n' aint a 
section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.I XkbAddGeomDoodad 
addz a thugged-out doodad wit name specified by 
.I name 
to tha geometry 
.I geom 
if 
.I section 
is NULL or ta tha section of tha geometry specified by 
.I section 
if 
.I section 
is not NULL. 
.I XkbAddGeomDoodad 
returns NULL if any of tha parametas is empty or if dat shiznit was not able ta allocate 
space fo' tha doodad. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If there be already a thugged-out doodad wit tha name 
.I name 
in tha doodad array fo' tha geometry (if 
.I section 
is NULL) or tha section (if 
.I section 
is non-NULL), a pointa ta dat doodad is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To allocate space fo' a 
arbitrary number of doodadz ta a section, use tha 
.I XkbAllocGeomSectionDoodadz 
function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To allocate space fo' a arbitrary number of doodadz ta a keyboard 
geometry, use tha 
.I XkbAllocGeomDoodadz 
function.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef union _XkbDoodad {
        XkbAnyDoodadRec            any;
        XkbShapeDoodadRec          shape;
        XkbTextDoodadRec           text;
        XkbIndicatorDoodadRec      indicator;
        XkbLogoDoodadRec           logo;
    } XkbDoodadRec, *XkbDoodadPtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomDoodadz (3),
.BR XkbAllocGeomSectionDoodadz (3)
