'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbAllocNames 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAllocNames \- Allocate symbolic names structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbAllocNames
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "int " "num_rg" "\^,"
.BI "int " "num_key_aliases" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description fo' which names is ta be allocated
.TP
.I \- which
mask of names ta be allocated
.TP
.I \- num_rg
total number of radio crew names needed
.TP
.I \- num_key_aliases
total number of key aliases needed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Most applications do not need ta directly allocate symbolic names structures. Do 
not allocate a names structure directly rockin 
.I malloc 
or 
.I Xmalloc 
if yo' application chizzlez tha number of key aliases or radio crews or 
constructs a symbolic names structure without loadin tha necessary components 
from tha X server n' shit. Instead use 
.I XkbAllocNames.

.I XkbAllocNames 
can return BadAlloc, BadMatch, n' BadValue errors. Da 
.I which 
parameta is tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha valid names mask bits defined up in 
Table 1.

.TS
c s s s
l l l l.
Table 1 Symbolic Names Masks
_
Mask Bit	Value	Keyboard	Field
		Component
_
XkbKeycodesNameMask	(1<<0)	Xkb->names	keycodes
XkbGeometryNameMask	(1<<1)	Xkb->names	geometry
XkbSymbolsNameMask	(1<<2)	Xkb->names	symbols
XkbPhysSymbolsNameMask	(1<<3)	Xkb->names	phys_symbols
XkbTypesNameMask	(1<<4)	Xkb->names	type
XkbCompatNameMask	(1<<5)	Xkb->names	compat
XkbKeyTypeNamesMask	(1<<6)	Xkb->map	type[*].name
XkbKTLevelNamesMask	(1<<7)	Xkb->map	type[*].lvl_names[*]
XkbIndicatorNamesMask	(1<<8)	Xkb->names	indicators[*]
XkbKeyNamesMask	(1<<9)	Xkb->names	keys[*], num_keys
XkbKeyAliasesMask	(1<<10)	Xkb->names	key_aliases[*], num_key_aliases
XkbVirtualModNamesMask	(1<<11)	Xkb->names	vmods[*]
XkbGroupNamesMask	(1<<12)	Xkb->names	groups[*]
XkbRGNamesMask	(1<<13)	Xkb->names	radio_groups[*], num_rg
XkbComponentNamesMask	(0x3f)	Xkb->names	keycodes,
			geometry,
			symbols,
			physical symbols,
			types, and
			compatibilitizzle map
XkbAllNamesMask	(0x3fff)	Xkb->names	all name components
.TE

Do not free symbolic names structures directly rockin 
.I free 
or 
.I XFree. 
Use 
.I XkbFreeNames 
instead.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeNames (3)
