'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbChangeDeviceInfo 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbChangeDeviceInfo \- Update tha serverz description of a thang wit tha chizzlez noted up in a 
XkbDeviceChangesRec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbChangeDeviceInfo
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceChangesPtr " "changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device_info
local copy of thang state n' configuration
.TP
.I \- chizzles
note specifyin chizzlez up in device_info
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbChangeDeviceInfo 
updates tha serverz description of tha thang specified up in 
.I device_info->device_spec 
with tha chizzlez specified up in 
.I chizzlez 
and contained up in 
.I device_info. 
Da update is made by a 
.I XkbSetDeviceInfo 
request.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Changes ta a Xkb extension thang may be tracked by listenin ta XkbDeviceExtensionNotify events 
and accumulatin tha chizzlez up in a XkbDeviceChangesRec structure. Da chizzlez noted up in tha 
structure may then be used up in subsequent operations ta update either a server configuration or a 
local copy of a Xkb extension thang configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da chizzlez structure is defined as bigs up:
.nf

typedef struct _XkbDeviceChanges {
    unsigned int         chizzled;        /\(** bits indicatin what tha fuck has chizzled */
    unsigned short       first_btn;      /\(** number of first button which chizzled, if any */
    unsigned short       num_btns;       /\(** number of buttons dat have chizzled */
    XkbDeviceLedChangesRec leds;
} XkbDeviceChangesRec,*XkbDeviceChangesPtr;

.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSetDeviceInfo (3)
