'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbChangeTypesOfKey 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbChangeTypesOfKey \- Chizzle tha number of crews n' tha types bound ta a key 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbChangeTypesOfKey
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "int " "key" "\^,"
.BI "int " "n_groups" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "groups" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "new_types_in" "\^,"
.BI "XkbMapChangesPtr " "p_changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta be chizzled
.TP
.I \- key
keycode fo' key of interest
.TP
.I \- n_groups
new number of crews fo' key
.TP
.I \- groups
mask indicatin crews ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- new_types_in
indices fo' freshly smoked up crews specified up in groups
.TP
.I \- p_changes
notes chizzlez made ta xkb
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
reallocates tha symbols n' actions bound ta tha key, if necessary, n' 
initializes any freshly smoked up symbols 
or actions ta NoSymbol or NoAction, as appropriate. If tha p_changes parameta 
is not NULL, 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
addz tha XkbKeySymsMask ta tha chizzlez field of 
.I p_changes 
and modifies tha 
.I first_key_sym 
and 
.I num_key_syms 
fieldz of 
.I p_changes 
to include tha 
.I key 
that was chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See STRUCTURE fo' mo' shiznit on tha XkbMapChangesPtr 
structure. If 
successful, 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
returns Success.

Da 
.I n_groups 
parameta specifies tha freshly smoked up number of crews fo' tha key. Da 
.I crews 
parameta be a mask specifyin tha crews fo' which freshly smoked up types is supplied n' 
is a funky-ass bitwise 
inclusive OR of tha followin masks: XkbGroup1Mask, XkbGroup2Mask, 
XkbGroup3Mask, n' XkbGroup4Mask.

Da 
.I new_types_in 
parameta be a integer array of length 
.I n_groups. 
Each entry represents tha type ta use fo' tha associated crew n' be a index 
into 
.I xkb->map->types. 
Da 
.I new_types_in 
array is indexed by crew index; if 
.I n_groups 
is four n' 
.I crews 
only has Group1Mask n' Group3Mask set, 
.I new_types_in 
looks like this:
.nf

    new_types_in[0] = type fo' Group1
    new_types_in[1] = ignored
    new_types_in[2] = type fo' Group3
    new_types_in[3] = ignored
    
.fi    
For convenience, Xkb serves up tha followin constants ta use as indices ta tha 
groups:

.TS
c s
l l
l l.
Table 1 Group Index Constants
_
Constant Name	Value
_
XkbGroup1Index	0
XkbGroup2Index	1
XkbGroup3Index	2
XkbGroup4Index	3
.TE

If tha Xkb extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
returns BadAccess. If tha 
.I xkb 
parameta it not valid (that is, it is NULL or it do not contain a valid 
client map), 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
returns BadMatch. If tha 
.I key 
is not a valid keycode, 
.I n_groups 
is pimped outa than XkbNumKbdGroups, or tha 
.I crews 
mask do not contain any of tha valid crew mask bits, 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
returns BadValue. If it is necessary ta resize tha key symbols or key actions 
arrays n' any 
allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
returns BadAlloc.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Use tha XkbMapChangesRec structure ta identify n' track partial modifications 
to tha mappin 
components n' ta reduce tha amount of traffic between tha server n' clients.
.nf

typedef struct _XkbMapChanges {
    unsigned short   chizzled;            /\(** identifies valid components up in 
structure */
    KeyCode          min_key_code;       /\(** lowest numbered keycode fo' thang 
*/
    KeyCode          max_key_code;       /\(** highest numbered keycode fo' thang 
*/
    unsigned char    first_type;         /\(** index of first key type modified */
    unsigned char    num_types;          /\(** # types modified */
    KeyCode          first_key_sym;      /\(** first key whose key_sym_map chizzled 
*/
    unsigned char    num_key_syms;       /\(** # key_sym_map entries chizzled */
    KeyCode          first_key_act;      /\(** first key whose key_acts entry 
changed */
    unsigned char    num_key_acts;       /\(** # key_acts entries chizzled */
    KeyCode          first_key_behavior; /\(** first key whose behaviors chizzled */
    unsigned char    num_key_behaviors;  /\(** # behaviors entries chizzled */
    KeyCode          first_key_explicit; /\(** first key whose explicit entry 
changed */
    unsigned char    num_key_explicit;   /\(** # explicit entries chizzled */
    KeyCode          first_modmap_key;   /\(** first key whose modmap entry chizzled 
*/
    unsigned char    num_modmap_keys;    /\(** # modmap entries chizzled */
    KeyCode          first_vmodmap_key;  /\(** first key whose vmodmap chizzled */
    unsigned char    num_vmodmap_keys;   /\(** # vmodmap entries chizzled */
    unsigned char    pad1;               /\(** reserved */
    unsigned short   vmods;              /\(** mask indicatin which vmodz chizzled 
*/
} XkbMapChangesRec,*XkbMapChangesPtr;

.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' 
range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
