.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbComputeShapeTop 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbComputeShapeTop \- Determines tha boundin box of tha top surface of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbComputeShapeTop
.BI "(\^XkbShapePtr " "shape" "\^,"
.BI "XkbBoundsPtr " "bounds_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- shape
shape ta be examined
.TP
.I \- bounds_rtrn
backfilled wit tha boundin box fo' tha shape
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up a fuckin shitload of convenience functions ta help bust a keyboard geometry. 
These include functions ta return tha boundin box of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shapez top surface n' 
to update tha boundin box of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape row or section.

A shape is made up of a fuckin shitload of outlines. Each outline be a polygon made up of 
a number of points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da boundin box of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape be a rectangle dat gotz nuff all 
the outlinez of dat shape. 

.I XkbComputeShapeTop 
returns a BoundsRec dat gotz nuff two x n' y coordinates. These coordinates
describe tha cornerz of a rectangle dat gotz nuff tha outline dat raps bout tha 
top surface of tha shape. Da top surface is defined ta be tha approximatin 
outline if tha 
.I approx 
field of 
.I shape 
is not NULL. If 
.I approx 
is NULL, tha top surface is defined as tha last outline up in tha 
.I shapez 
array of outlines. 
.I XkbComputeShapeTop 
returns False if 
.I shape 
is NULL or if there be no outlines fo' tha shape; otherwise, it returns True.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

typedef struct _XkbBoundz {
	short	x1,y1;	/\(** upper left corner of tha bounds, up in mm/10 */
	short	x2,y2;	/\(** lower right corner of tha bounds, up in mm/10 */
} XkbBoundsRec, *XkbBoundsPtr;

.fi
