.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbComputeSectionBoundz 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbComputeSectionBoundz \- Update tha boundin box of a section
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbComputeSectionBounds
.BI "(\^XkbGeometryPtr " "geom" "\^,"
.BI "XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- geom
geometry dat gotz nuff tha section
.TP
.I \- section
section ta be examined n' updated
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
 If you add or delete a row ta or from a section, or if you chizzle tha geometry 
of any of tha rows up in dat section, you may need ta update tha boundin box fo' 
that section. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
 
.I XkbComputeSectionBoundz 
examines all tha rowz of tha 
.I section 
and thugged-out shiznit tha boundin box of dat section so dat it gotz nuff all rows.
.I XkbComputeSectionBoundz 
returns False if any of tha arguments is NULL; otherwise, it returns True.
