'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbFreeServerMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbFreeServerMap \- Jacked memory used by tha server gangmember of a XkbDescRec 
structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbFreeServerMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "free_all" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description containin server map ta free
.TP
.I \- which
mask identifyin componentz of map ta free
.TP
.I \- free_all
True => free all server map components n' server itself
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I XkbFreeServerMap 
function frees tha specified componentz of server map up in tha XkbDescRec 
structure specified by tha 
.I xkb 
parameta n' sets tha correspondin structure component joints ta NULL. The
.I which parameta specifies a cold-ass lil combination of tha server map masks n' be a 
bitwise inclusive OR 
of tha masks listed up in Table 1. If 
.I free_all 
is True, 
.I which 
is ignored n' 
.I XkbFreeServerMap 
frees every last muthafuckin non-NULL structure component up in tha server map, frees tha 
XkbServerMapRec structure 
referenced by tha 
.I server 
gangmember of tha 
.I xkb 
parameter, n' sets tha 
.I server 
member ta NULL.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 XkbAllocServerMap Masks
_
Mask	Effect
_
XkbExplicitComponentsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used to
allocate tha explicit field of tha server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyActionsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta 
allocate tha key_acts 
field of tha server map. Da count_acts parameta is used ta allocate tha acts 
field of tha 
server map.
T}
.sp
XkbKeyBehaviorsMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta 
allocate tha behaviors 
field of tha server map.
T}
.sp
XkbVirtualModMapMask	T{
Da min_key_code n' max_key_code fieldz of tha xkb parameta is used ta 
allocate tha vmodmap 
field of tha server map.
T}

.TE
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Da complete description of a Xkb keyboard is given by a XkbDescRec. Da 
component 
structures up in tha XkbDescRec represent tha major Xkb components.

.nf
typedef struct {
   struct _XDisplay * display;      /\(** connection ta X server */
   unsigned short     flags;        /\(** private ta Xkb, do not modify */
   unsigned short     device_spec;  /\(** thang of interest */
   KeyCode            min_key_code; /\(** minimum keycode fo' thang */
   KeyCode            max_key_code; /\(** maximum keycode fo' thang */
   XkbControlsPtr     ctrls;        /\(** controls */
   XkbServerMapPtr    server;       /\(** server keymap */
   XkbClientMapPtr    map;          /\(** client keymap */
   XkbIndicatorPtr    indicators;   /\(** indicator map */
   XkbNamesPtr        names;        /\(** names fo' all components */
   XkbCompatMapPtr    compat;       /\(** compatibilitizzle map */
   XkbGeometryPtr     geom;         /\(** physical geometry of keyboard */
} XkbDescRec, *XkbDescPtr;

.fi
Da 
.I display 
field points ta a X display structure. Da 
.I flags field is private ta tha library: modifyin 
.I flags 
may yield unpredictable thangs up in dis biatch. Da 
.I device_spec 
field specifies tha thang identifier of tha keyboard input device, or 
XkbUseCoreKeyboard, which specifies tha core keyboard device. Da 
.I min_key_code
and 
.I max_key_code 
fieldz specify tha least n' top billin keycode dat can be returned by tha 
keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

Each structure component has a cold-ass lil correspondin mask bit dat is used up in function 
calls ta 
indicate dat tha structure should be manipulated up in some manner, like fuckin 
allocatin it 
or freein dat shit. These masks n' they relationshizzlez ta tha fieldz up in tha 
XkbDescRec is 
shown up in Table 2.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 2 Mask Bits fo' XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(0x7f)
.TE

Da Xkb server map gotz nuff tha shiznit tha server need ta interpret key 
events n' iz of 
type XkbServerMapRec:

.nf
\&#define XkbNumVirtualModz          16

typedef struct {                    /\(** Server Map */
    unsigned short    num_acts;     /\(** # of occupied entries up in acts */
    unsigned short    size_acts;    /\(** # of entries up in acts */
    XkbAction *       acts;         /\(** linear 2d tablez of key actions, 1 per keycode */
    XkbBehavior *     behaviors;    /\(** key behaviors,1 per keycode */
    unsigned short *  key_acts;     /\(** index tha fuck into acts, 1 per keycode */
    unsigned char *   explicit;     /\(** explicit overridez of core remapping, 1 per key */
    unsigned char     vmods[XkbNumVirtualMods]; /\(** real modz bound ta virtual modz */
    unsigned short *  vmodmap;      /\(** virtual modz bound ta key, 1 per keycode*/
} XkbServerMapRec, *XkbServerMapPtr;

.fi
