'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbFreeCompatMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbFreeCompatMap \- Jacked a entire compatibilitizzle map or selected portionz of one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbFreeCompatMap
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "free_map" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description up in which ta free compatibilitizzle map
.TP
.I \- which
mask of compatibilitizzle map components ta free
.TP
.I \- free_map
True => free XkbCompatMap structure itself
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I which 
specifies tha compatibilitizzle map components ta be freed (see XkbGetCompatMap). 
.I which 
is a inclusive OR of tha bits shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l.
Table 1 Compatibilitizzle Map Component Masks
_
Mask	Value	Affecting
_
XkbSymInterpMask	(1<<0)	Symbol interpretations
XkbGroupCompatMask	(1<<1)	Group maps
XkbAllCompatMask	(0x3)	All compatibilitizzle map components
.TE

.I free_map 
indicates whether tha XkbCompatMap structure itself should be freed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I free_map 
is True, 
.I which 
is ignored, all non-NULL compatibilitizzle map components is freed, n' tha 
.I compat 
field up in tha XkbDescRec referenced by 
.I xkb 
is set ta NULL.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbCompatMapRec {
        XkbSymInterpretPtr    sym_interpret;            /\(** symbol based key semantics*/
        XkbModsRec            groups[XkbNumKbdGroups];  /\(** crew => modifier map */
        unsigned short        num_si;                   /\(** # structures used up in sym_interpret */
        unsigned short        size_si;                  /\(** # structures allocated up in sym_interpret */
    } XkbCompatMapRec, *XkbCompatMapPtr;
    
.fi

Da complete description of a Xkb keyboard is given by a XkbDescRec. Da component 
structures up in tha XkbDescRec represent tha major Xkb components outlined up in Figure 1.1.

.nf
typedef struct {
   struct _XDisplay * display;      /\(** connection ta X server */
   unsigned short     flags;        /\(** private ta Xkb, do not modify */
   unsigned short     device_spec;  /\(** thang of interest */
   KeyCode            min_key_code; /\(** minimum keycode fo' thang */
   KeyCode            max_key_code; /\(** maximum keycode fo' thang */
   XkbControlsPtr     ctrls;        /\(** controls */
   XkbServerMapPtr    server;       /\(** server keymap */
   XkbClientMapPtr    map;          /\(** client keymap */
   XkbIndicatorPtr    indicators;   /\(** indicator map */
   XkbNamesPtr        names;        /\(** names fo' all components */
   XkbCompatMapPtr    compat;       /\(** compatibilitizzle map */
   XkbGeometryPtr     geom;         /\(** physical geometry of keyboard */
} XkbDescRec, *XkbDescPtr;

.fi
Da 
.I display 
field points ta a X display structure. Da 
.I flags field is private ta tha library: modifyin 
.I flags 
may yield unpredictable thangs up in dis biatch. Da 
.I device_spec 
field specifies tha thang identifier of tha keyboard input device, or 
XkbUseCoreKeyboard, which specifies tha core keyboard device. Da 
.I min_key_code
and 
.I max_key_code 
fieldz specify tha least n' top billin keycode dat can be returned by tha keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Da other fieldz specify structure componentz of tha keyboard description n' is 
busted lyrics bout up in detail up in other sectionz of dis document. Table 2 identifies tha 
subsequent sectionz of dis document dat say shit bout tha individual componentz of tha 
XkbDescRec.

.TS
c s
l l
l l.
Table 2 XkbDescRec Component References
_
XkbDescRec Field	For mo' info
_
ctrls	Chapta 10
server	Chapta 16
map	Chapta 15
indicators	Chapta 8
names	Chapta 18
compat	Chapta 17
geom	Chapta 13
.TE

Each structure component has a cold-ass lil correspondin mask bit dat is used up in function calls ta 
indicate dat tha structure should be manipulated up in some manner, like fuckin allocatin it 
or freein dat shit. These masks n' they relationshizzlez ta tha fieldz up in tha XkbDescRec is 
shown up in Table 3.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 3 Mask Bits fo' XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_	
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(0x7f)
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetCompatMap (3)
