.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbFreeGeomOverlays 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbFreeGeomOverlays \- Jacked rows up in a section
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbFreeGeomOverlays
.BI "(\^XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "int " "count" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "free_all" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- section
section up in which overlays should be freed 
.TP
.I \- first
first overlay ta be freed
.TP
.I \- count
number of overlays ta be freed
.TP
.I \- free_all
True => all overlays is freed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up a fuckin shitload of functions ta allocate n' free subcomponentz of a 
keyboard geometry. Use these functions ta create or modify keyboard geometries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! 
Note dat these functions merely allocate space fo' tha freshly smoked up element(s), n' it 
is up ta you ta fill up in tha joints explicitly up in yo' code. These allocation 
functions increase 
.I sz_* 
but never bust a nut on 
.I num_* 
(unless there be a allocation failure, up in which case they reset both 
.I sz_* 
and 
.I num_* 
to zero). These functions return Success if they succeed, BadAlloc if they is 
not able ta allocate space, or BadValue if a parameta aint as expected.

If 
.I free_all 
is True, all overlays is freed regardless of tha value of 
.I first 
and 
.I count. 
Otherwise, tha number of overlays specified by 
.I count 
are freed, beginnin wit tha overlay specified by 
.I first 
in tha specified section.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da XkbFreeGeomOverlays functions returns Success if there be no allocation or 
argument errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
