.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbFindOverlayForKey 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbFindOverlayForKey \- Find tha alternate name by rockin tha primary name fo' a 
key dat is part of a overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B char * XkbFindOverlayForKey
.BI "(\^XkbGeometryPtr " "geom" "\^,"
.BI "XkbSectionPtr " "section" "\^,"
.BI "char *" "under" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- geom
geometry dat gotz nuff tha section
.TP
.I \- section
section ta be searched fo' matchin keys
.TP
.I \- under
primary name of tha key ta be considered
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Keys dat can generate multiple keycodes may be associated wit multiple names. 
Such keys gotz a primary name n' a alternate name.

.I XkbFindOverlayForKey 
uses tha primary name of tha key, 
.I under,
to look up tha alternate name, which it returns.
