'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges \- Query tha chizzlez dat have occurred up in tha button 
actions or indicator names n' indicator maps associated wit a input extension 
device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceChangesPtr " "changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device_info
structure ta update wit thangs up in dis biatch
.TP
.I \- chizzles
gotz nuff notez of chizzlez dat have occurred
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I chizzles->changed 
field indicates which attributez of tha thang specified up in 
.I chizzles->device 
have chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da parametas describin tha chizzlez is contained up in tha other 
fieldz of 
.I chizzles. XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges 
uses dat shiznit ta booty-call 
.I XkbGetDeviceInfo 
to obtain tha current statuz of dem attributes dat have chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it then 
updates tha local description of tha thang up in 
.I device_info 
with tha freshly smoked up shiznit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetDeviceInfo (3)
