'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyboard 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyboard \-   Retrieves one or mo' componentz of a keyboard thang 
description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbDescPtr XkbGetKeyboard
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection ta tha X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I bits_to_change
determines events ta be selected / deselected
.TP
.I joints_for_bits
1=>select, 0->deselect; fo' events up in bits_to_change
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyboard 
allocates n' returns a pointa ta a keyboard description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it queries tha server fo' dem 
components specified up in tha 
.I which 
parameta fo' thang 
.I device_spec 
and copies tha thangs up in dis biatch ta tha XkbDescRec it allocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da remainin fieldz up in tha keyboard 
description is set ta NULL. Da valid masks fo' 
.I which 
are dem listed up in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Mask Bits fo' XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(1L<<7)
.TE

.I XkbGetKeyboard 
is used ta read tha current description fo' one or mo' componentz of a keyboard device. Well shiiiit, it calls
.I XkbGetKeyboardByName 
as bigs up:

.I XkbGetKeyboardByName(dpy, device_spec, 
NULL, 
.I which, which, 
False).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage

