.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap \- Obtain tha virtual modifier map (the vmodmap array) 
for a subset of tha keys up in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key ta fetch
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys fo' which virtual mod maps is desired
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description where thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be placed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyVirutalModmap 
sendz a request ta tha server ta obtain tha virtual modifier mappings fo' 
.I num 
keys on tha keyboard startin wit key 
.I first. 
It waits fo' a reply n' returns tha virtual modifier mappings up in the
.I server->vmodmap 
array of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 
returns Success. Da 
.I xkb 
parameta must be a pointa ta a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If tha 
.I server 
map up in tha 
.I xkb 
parameta has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 
allocates n' initializes it before obtainin tha virtual modifier mappings.

If tha server aint gots a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 
returns BadMatch. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or pimped outa than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyVirtualModMap 
returns BadAlloc.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da 
.I XkbGetKeyVirutalModmap 
function returns Success followin a successful reply from tha server ta obtain 
the virtual modifier mappings fo' 
.I num 
keys on tha keyboard startin wit key 
.I first. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
