'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 3 "20 Jul 1999" "X v11 Rel. 6.4" "XKB FUNCTION"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents \- Obtain tha explicit components (the explicit 
array) fo' a subset of tha keys up in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key ta fetch
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys fo' which ta git explicit info
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description up in which ta put thangs up in dis biatch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Whenever a cold-ass lil client remaps tha keyboard rockin core protocol requests, Xkb examines 
the map ta determine likely default joints fo' tha components dat cannot be 
specified rockin tha core protocol (see Core Keyboard Mappin ta Xkb Keyboard 
Mappin Transformation fo' mo' shiznit on how tha fuck Xkb chizzlez tha default 
values).

DO THE FOUR PAGES OF "CORE KEYBOARD MAPPING TO XKB KEYBOARD MAPPING 
TRANSFORMATION" NEED TO BE ADDED HERE?

This automatic remappin might replace definitions explicitly axed by a 
application, so tha Xkb keyboard description defines a explicit components mask 
for each key fo' realz. Any aspectz of tha automatic remappin listed up in tha explicit 
components mask fo' a key is not chizzled by tha automatic keyboard mapping.
 
Da explicit components masks is held up in tha 
.I explicit 
field of tha server map, which be a array indexed by keycode. Each entry up in 
this array be a mask dat be a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of tha joints shown up in Table 
1.
.TS
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 1 Explicit Component Masks
_
Bit up in Explicit Mask	Value	Protects Against
_
ExplicitKeyType1	(1<<0)	T{
Automatic determination of tha key type associated wit Group1.
T}
ExplicitKeyType2	(1<<1)	T{
Automatic determination of tha key type associated wit Group2.
T}
ExplicitKeyType3	(1<<2)	T{
Automatic determination of tha key type associated wit Group3.
T}
ExplicitKeyType4	(1<<3)	T{
Automatic determination of tha key type associated wit Group4.
T}
ExplicitInterpret	(1<<4)	T{
Application of any of tha fieldz of a symbol interpretation ta tha key up in 
question.
T}
ExplicitAutoRepeat	(1<<5)	T{
Automatic determination of auto-repeat status fo' tha key, as specified up in a 
symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitBehavior	(1<<6)	T{
Automatic assignment of tha XkbKB_Lock behavior ta tha key, if tha 
XkbSI_LockingKey flag is set up in a symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitVModMap	(1<<7)	T{
Automatic determination of tha virtual modifier map fo' tha key based on tha 
actions assigned ta tha key n' tha symbol interpretations dat match tha key.
T}
.TE

.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
sendz a request ta tha server ta obtain tha explicit components fo' 
.I num 
keys on tha keyboard startin wit key 
.I first. 
It waits fo' a reply n' returns tha explicit components up in tha 
.I server->explicit 
array of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns Success. Da 
.I xkb 
parameta must be a pointa ta a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If tha 
.I server 
map up in tha 
.I xkb 
parameta has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
allocates n' initializes it before obtainin tha actions.

If tha server aint gots a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadMatch. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or pimped outa than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadAlloc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
