'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetCompatMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetCompatMap \- Fetch any combination of tha current compatibilitizzle map 
components from tha server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetCompatMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescRec *" "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- which
mask of compatibilitizzle map components ta fetch
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description where thangs up in dis biatch placed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When another client modifies tha compatibilitizzle map, yo ass is notified if you have 
selected fo' XkbCompatMapNotify events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
is particularly useful when you receive a event of dis type, as it allows you 
to update yo' programz version of tha compatibilitizzle map ta match tha modified 
version now up in tha server n' shit. If yo' program is dealin wit multiple servers n' 
needz ta configure dem all up in a similar manner, tha updated compatibilitizzle map 
may be used ta reconfigure other servers. 

.I XkbGetCompatMap 
fetches tha componentz of tha compatibilitizzle map specified up in 
.I which 
from tha server specified by 
.I display 
and places dem up in tha 
.I compat 
structure of tha keyboard description 
.I xkb. 
Valid joints fo' 
.I which 
are a inclusive OR of tha joints shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Compatibilitizzle Map Component Masks
_
Mask	Value	Affecting
_
XkbSymInterpMask	(1<<0)	Symbol interpretations
XkbGroupCompatMask	(1<<1)	Group maps
XkbAllCompatMask	(0x3)	All compatibilitizzle map components
.TE

If no compatibilitizzle map structure be allocated up in 
.I xkb 
upon entry, 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
allocates one. If one already exists, its contents is overwritten wit tha 
returned thangs up in dis biatch.

.I XkbGetCompatMap 
fetches compatibilitizzle map shiznit fo' tha thang specified by the
.I device_spec 
field of 
.I xkb. 
Unless you have specifically modified dis field, it is tha default keyboard 
device. 
.I XkbGetCompatMap 
returns Success if successful, BadAlloc if it is unable ta obtain necessary 
storage fo' either tha return joints or work space, BadMatch if tha 
.I dpy 
field of tha 
.I xkb 
argument is non-NULL n' do not match tha 
.I display 
argument, n' BadLength under certain conditions caused by server or Xkb 
implementation errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadLength
Da length of a request is shorta or longer than dat required ta minimally contain tha arguments
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
