'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetDeviceLedInfo 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetDeviceLedInfo \- Query tha indicator names, maps, n' state associated 
with a LED feedback of a input extension device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetDeviceLedInfo
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "led_class" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "led_id" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device_info
structure ta update wit thangs up in dis biatch
.TP
.I \- led_class
LED feedback class assigned by input extension
.TP
.I \- led_id
LED feedback ID assigned by input extension
.TP
.I \- which
mask indicatin desired shiznit
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetDeviceLedInfo 
queries tha server fo' tha desired LED shiznit fo' tha feedback specified by
.I led_class 
and 
.I led_id 
for tha X input extension thang indicated by 
.I device_spec->device_info 
and waits fo' a reply. If successful, 
.I XkbGetDeviceLedInfo 
backfills tha relevant fieldz of 
.I device_info 
as determined by 
.I which 
with tha thangs up in dis biatch n' returns Success. Valid joints fo' 
.I which 
are tha inclusive OR of any of XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask, 
XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask, n' XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask.

Da fieldz of 
.I device_info 
that is filled up in when dis request succeedz is 
.I name, type, supported, 
and 
.I unsupported, 
and portionz of tha 
.I ledz 
structure correspondin ta 
.I led_class 
and 
.I led_id 
as indicated by tha bits set up in 
.I which. 
Da 
.I device_info->ledz 
vector be allocated if necessary n' 
.I sz_ledz 
and 
.I num_ledz 
filled in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da 
.I led_class, led_id 
and 
.I phys_indicators 
fieldz of tha 
.I device_info->ledz 
entry correspondin ta 
.I led_class 
and 
.I led_id 
are always filled in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

If 
.I which 
gotz nuff XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask, tha 
.I names_present 
and 
.I names 
fieldz of tha 
.I device_info->ledz 
structure correspondin ta 
.I led_class 
and 
.I led_id 
are updated, if 
.I which 
gotz nuff XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask, tha correspondin 
.I state 
field is updated, n' if 
.I which 
gotz nuff XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask, tha 
.I maps_present 
and 
.I maps 
fieldz is updated.

If a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb aint available up in tha server or tha Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetDeviceLedInfo 
returns BadAccess. If allocation errors occur, a BadAlloc status is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
the thang has no indicators, a BadMatch error is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I ledClass 
or 
.I ledID 
have illegal joints, a BadValue error is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If they have legal joints but 
do not specify a gangbangin' feedback dat gotz nuff LEDs n' be associated wit tha 
specified device, a BadMatch error is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
