'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetXlibControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetXlibControls \- Determines tha current state of tha Library Controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B unsigned int XkbGetXlibControls
.BI "(\^Display  *" "display" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetXlibControls 
returns tha current state of tha Library Controls as a lil' bit mask dat be a 
inclusive OR of tha control masks from Table 1 fo' tha controls dat is 
enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For tha optionizzle compose processin controls, tha fact dat a cold-ass lil control 
is enabled do not imply dat it is straight-up implemented.

.TS
c s
l l
l l.
Table 1 Library Control Masks
_
Library Control Mask	Value
_
XkbLC_ForceLatin1Lookup	(1 << 0)
XkbLC_ConsumeLookupMods	(1 << 1)
XkbLC_AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock	(1 << 2)
XkbLC_IgnoreNewKeyboards	(1 << 3)
XkbLC_ConsumeKeysOnComposeFail	(1 << 29)
XkbLC_ComposeLED	(1 << 30)
XkbLC_BeepOnComposeFail	(1 << 31)
XkbLC_AllControls	(0xc0000007)
.TE

