'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetDeviceButtonActions 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetDeviceButtonActions \- Query tha button actions associated wit a X Input 
Extension device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetDeviceButtonActions
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "all_buttons" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first_button" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num_buttons" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device_info
structure ta update wit thangs up in dis biatch
.TP
.I \- all_buttons
True => git shiznit fo' all buttons
.TP
.I \- first_button
number of first button fo' which info is desired
.TP
.I \- num_buttons
number of buttons fo' which info is desired
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetDeviceButtonActions 
queries tha server fo' tha desired button shiznit fo' tha thang indicated 
by tha 
.I device_spec 
field of 
.I device_info 
and waits fo' a reply. If successful, 
.I XkbGetDeviceButtonActions 
backfills tha button actions 
.I (btn_acts 
field of 
.I device_info) 
for only tha axed buttons, thugged-out shiznit tha 
.I name, type, supported, 
and 
.I unsupported 
fields, n' returns Success.

.I all_buttons, first_button 
and 
.I num_buttons 
specify tha thang buttons fo' which actions should be returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Setting
.I all_buttons 
to True requests actions fo' all thang buttons; if 
.I all_buttons 
is False, 
.I first_button 
and 
.I num_buttons 
specify a range of buttons fo' which actions is requested.

If a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb aint available up in tha server or tha Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetDeviceButtonActions 
returns BadAccess. If allocation errors occur, a BadAlloc status is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
the specified thang 
.I (device_info->device_spec) 
is invalid, a BadKeyboard status is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha thang has no buttons, a 
BadMatch status is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I first_button 
and 
.I num_buttons 
specify illegal buttons, a BadValue status is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadKeyboard
Da thang specified was not a valid core or input extension device
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
