'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyTypes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyTypes \- Obtain tha list of available key types up in tha serverz 
keyboard mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyTypes
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- first
index ta first type ta get, 0 => 1st type
.TP
.I \- num
number of key types ta be returned
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description containin client map ta update
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyTypes 
queries tha server fo' tha desired types, waits fo' a reply, n' returns tha 
desired types up in tha 
.I xkb->map->types. 
If successful, it returns Success.

.I XkbGetKeyTypes 
returns BadAccess if tha Xkb extension has not been properly initialized n' 
BadValue if tha combination of 
.I first 
and 
.I num 
results up in numbers outta valid range.

.B NOTE: 
.I XkbGetKeyTypes 
is used ta obtain descriptionz of tha key types theyselves, not tha key types 
bound ta individual keys. To obtain tha key types bound ta a individual key, 
refer ta tha 
.I key_sym_map 
field of tha client map.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbKeyType (3),
.BR XkbKeyTypeIndex (3)

