.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbChangeTypesOfKey 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbChangeTypesOfKey \- Obtain tha behaviors (the behaviors array) fo' a subset of tha keys up in 
a keyboard description from tha server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbChangeTypesOfKey
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key ta get
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys fo' which behaviors is desired
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description ta contain tha result
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
sendz a request ta tha server ta obtain tha behaviors fo' 
.I num 
keys on tha keyboard startin wit tha key whose keycode is 
.I first. 
It waits fo' a reply n' returns tha behaviors up in tha 
.I server->behaviors 
field of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns Success.

If tha 
.I server 
map up in tha 
.I xkb 
parameta has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
allocates n' initializes it before obtainin tha actions.

If tha server aint gots a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb extension has not been 
properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadAccess. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or pimped outa than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyBehaviors 
returns BadAlloc. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
