.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetAutoResetControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetAutoResetControls \- Gets tha current jointz of tha auto-reset controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbGetAutoResetControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int  *" "auto_ctrls" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int  *" "auto_values" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
 connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- auto_ctrls
 specifies which bits up in auto_values is relevant
.TP
.I \- auto_values
1 bit => correspondin control has auto-reset on
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Yo ass can configure tha boolean controls ta automatically be enabled or 
disabled when a program exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This capabilitizzle is controlled via two masks 
maintained up in tha X server on a per-client basis. There is no client-side Xkb 
data structure correspondin ta these masks. Whenever tha client exits fo' 
any reason, any boolean controls specified up in tha 
.I auto-reset mask 
are set ta tha correspondin value from tha 
.I auto-reset joints 
mask. This make it 
possible fo' clients ta "clean up afta theyselves" automatically, even if 
abnormally terminated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da bits used up in tha masks correspond ta tha 
EnabledControls control bits.

For example, a cold-ass lil client dat replaces tha keyboard bell wit some other audible 
cue might wanna turn off tha AudibleBell control ta prevent tha server from 
also generatin a sound n' avoid cacophony. If tha client was ta exit 
without resettin tha AudibleBell control, tha user would be left without any 
feedback at all. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Settin AudibleBell up in both tha auto-reset mask n' 
auto-reset joints guarantees dat tha audible bell is ghon be turned back on 
when tha client exits.

.I XkbGetAutoResetControls 
backfills 
.I auto_ctrls 
and 
.I auto_values 
with tha AutoReset control attributes fo' dis particular client. Well shiiiit, it returns 
True if successful, n' False otherwise.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbGetAutoResetControls 
function returns True when it successfully backfills 
.I auto_ctrls 
and 
.I auto_values 
with tha AutoReset control attributes fo' dis particular client.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbGetAutoResetControls 
function returns False when it do not successfully backfill
.I auto_ctrls 
and 
.I auto_values 
with tha AutoReset control attributes fo' dis particular client.
