.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetGeometry 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetGeometry \- Loadz a keyboard geometry if you already have tha keyboard 
description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetGeometry
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description dat gotz nuff tha ID fo' tha keyboard n' tha fuck into which tha 
geometry should be loaded
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Yo ass can load a keyboard geometry as part of tha keyboard description returned by
.I XkbGetKeyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if a keyboard description has been previously loaded, you can instead 
obtain tha geometry by callin tha 
.I XkbGetGeometry. 
In dis case, tha geometry returned is tha one associated wit tha keyboard 
whose thang ID is contained up in tha keyboard description.

.I XkbGetGeometry 
can return BadValue, BadImplementation, BadName, BadAlloc, or BadLength errors 
or Success if it succeeds.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.TP 15
.B BadLength
Da length of a request is shorta or longer than dat required ta minimally 
contain tha arguments
.TP 15
.B BadName
A font or color of tha specified name do not exist
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetKeyboard (3)
