.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyModifierMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyModifierMap \- Update tha modifier map fo' one or mo' of tha keys up in a 
keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyModifierMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key ta get
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys fo' which shiznit is desired
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta update
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I modmap 
entry of tha client map be a array, indexed by keycode, specifyin tha real 
modifiers bound ta a key. Each entry be a mask composed of a funky-ass bitwise inclusive 
OR of tha legal real modifiers: ShiftMask, LockMask, ControlMask, Mod1Mask, 
Mod2Mask, Mod3Mask, Mod4Mask, n' Mod5Mask. If a lil' bit is set up in a 
.I modmap 
entry, tha correspondin key is bound ta dat modifier.

Pressin or releasin tha key bound ta a modifier chizzlez tha modifier set n' 
unset state. Da particular manner up in which tha modifier set n' unset state 
changes is determined by tha behavior n' actions assigned ta tha key.

.I XkbGetKeyModifierMap 
sendz a request ta tha server fo' tha modifier mappings fo' 
.I num 
keys startin wit tha key whose keycode is 
.I first. 
It waits fo' a reply n' places tha thangs up in dis biatch up in tha 
.I xkb->map->modmap 
array. If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyModifier 
returns Success.
 
If tha map component of tha 
.I xkb 
parameta has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyModifierMap 
allocates n' initializes dat shit. 

If a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb aint available up in tha server or tha Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeySyms 
returns BadAccess. If any allocation errors occur while obtainin tha modifier 
map, 
.I XkbGetKeyModifierMap 
returns BadAlloc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
