'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetUpdatedMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetUpdatedMap \-  Update tha client or server map shiznit up in a existin 
keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetUpdatedMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- which
mask selectin subcomponents ta populate
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta be updated
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I which 
parameta be a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of tha masks up in Table 1. If tha needed 
componentz of tha 
.I xkb 
structure is not already allocated, 
.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
allocates em. 
.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
fetches tha axed shiznit fo' tha thang specified up in tha XkbDescRec 
passed up in tha 
.I xkb 
parameter.

.TS
c s s s s
c s s s s
l l l l l
l l l l l
lw(3i) l l lw(1i) lw(3i).
Table 1 Xkb Mappin Component Masks
and Convenience Functions
_
Mask	Value	Map	Fields	Convenience
				Functions
_
T{
XkbKeyTypesMask
T}	(1<<0)	client	T{
types
.br
size_types
.br
num_types
T}	T{
XkbGetKeyTypes
.br
XkbResizeKeyType
.br
XkbCopyKeyType
.br
XkbCopyKeyTypes
T}
T{
XkbKeySymsMask
T}	(1<<1)	client	T{
syms
.br
size_syms
.br
num_syms
.br
key_sym_map
T}	T{
XkbGetKeySyms
.br
XkbResizeKeySyms
.br
XkbChangeTypesOfKey
T}
T{
XkbModifierMapMask
T}	(1<<2)	client	modmap	T{
XkbGetKeyModifierMap
T}
T{
XkbExplicitComponentsMask
T}	(1<<3)	server	T{
explicit
T}	T{
XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents
T}
T{
XkbKeyActionsMask
T}	(1<<4)	server	T{
key_acts
.br
acts
.br
num_acts
.br
size_acts
T}	T{
XkbGetKeyActions
.br
XkbResizeKeyActions
T}
T{
XkbKeyBehaviorsMask
T}	(1<<5)	server	T{
behaviors
T}	T{
XkbGetKeyBehaviors
T}
T{
XkbVirtualModsMask
T}	(1<<6)	server	T{
vmods
T}	T{
XkbGetVirtualMods
T}
T{
XkbVirtualModMapMask
T}	(1<<7)	server	T{
vmodmap
T}	T{
XkbGetVirtualModMap
T}
.TE

.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
is synchronous; it queries tha server fo' tha desired shiznit, waits fo' a 
reply, n' then returns. If successful, 
.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
returns Success. If unsuccessful, 
.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
returns one of tha following: BadAlloc (unable ta allocate a cold-ass lil component up in tha 
XkbDescRec structure), BadValue (some mask bits up in 
.I which 
are undefined), BadImplementation (a compatible version of tha Xkb extension is 
not available up in tha server or tha reply from tha server was invalid).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da 
.I XkbGetUpdatedMap 
function returns Success if a reply is received ta tha server query fo' tha desired shiznit.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Da complete description of a Xkb keyboard is given by a XkbDescRec. Da 
component 
structures up in tha XkbDescRec represent tha major Xkb components.

.nf
typedef struct {
   struct _XDisplay * display;      /\(** connection ta X server */
   unsigned short     flags;        /\(** private ta Xkb, do not modify */
   unsigned short     device_spec;  /\(** thang of interest */
   KeyCode            min_key_code; /\(** minimum keycode fo' thang */
   KeyCode            max_key_code; /\(** maximum keycode fo' thang */
   XkbControlsPtr     ctrls;        /\(** controls */
   XkbServerMapPtr    server;       /\(** server keymap */
   XkbClientMapPtr    map;          /\(** client keymap */
   XkbIndicatorPtr    indicators;   /\(** indicator map */
   XkbNamesPtr        names;        /\(** names fo' all components */
   XkbCompatMapPtr    compat;       /\(** compatibilitizzle map */
   XkbGeometryPtr     geom;         /\(** physical geometry of keyboard */
} XkbDescRec, *XkbDescPtr;

.fi
Da 
.I display 
field points ta a X display structure. Da 
.I flags 
field is private ta tha library: modifyin 
.I flags 
may yield unpredictable thangs up in dis biatch. Da 
.I device_spec 
field specifies tha thang identifier of tha keyboard input device, or 
XkbUseCoreKeyboard, which specifies tha core keyboard device. Da 
.I min_key_code
and 
.I max_key_code 
fieldz specify tha least n' top billin keycode dat can be returned by tha 
keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

Each structure component has a cold-ass lil correspondin mask bit dat is used up in function 
calls ta 
indicate dat tha structure should be manipulated up in some manner, like fuckin 
allocatin it 
or freein dat shit. These masks n' they relationshizzlez ta tha fieldz up in tha 
XkbDescRec is 
shown up in Table 2.
.bp
.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 2 Mask Bits fo' XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(0x7f)
.TE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeTypesOfKey (3),
.BR XkbCopyKeyType (3),
.BR XkbCopyKeyTypes (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyActions (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyBehaviors (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyModifierMap (3),
.BR XkbGetKeySyms (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyTypes (3),
.BR XkbResizeKeyActions (3),
.BR XkbResizeKeySyms (3),
.BR XkbResizeKeyType (3),
.BR XkbGetVirtualModMap (3),
.BR XkbGetVirtualModz (3)
