'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetControls \- Findz tha current state of Xkb server controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- which
mask of controls requested
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description fo' controls shiznit
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetControls 
queries tha server fo' tha axed control shiznit, waits fo' a reply, n' 
then copies tha serverz joints fo' tha axed shiznit tha fuck into tha 
.I ctrls 
structure of tha 
.I xkb 
argument. Only dem components specified by tha 
.I which 
parameta is copied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Valid joints fo' 
.I which 
are any combination of tha masks listed up in Table 1 dat have "ok" up in the
.I which 
column.

Table 1 shows tha actual joints fo' tha individual mask bits used ta select 
controls fo' 
modification n' ta enable n' disable tha control. Note dat tha same mask bit 
is used ta 
specify general modifications ta tha parametas used ta configure tha control 
(which), n' ta 
enable n' disable tha control (enabled_ctrls). Da anomalies up in Table 1 (no 
"ok" up in column) 
are fo' controls dat have no configurable attributes; n' fo' controls dat is 
not boolean 
controls n' therefore cannot be enabled or disabled.

.TS
c s s s
l l l l
l l l l
l l l l. 
Table 1 Controls Mask Bits
_
Mask Bit	which or	enabled	Value
	changed_ctrls	_ctrls
_
XkbRepeatKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<0)
XkbSlowKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<1)
XkbBounceKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<2)
XkbStickyKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<3)
XkbMouseKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<4)
XkbMouseKeysAccelMask	ok	ok	(1L<<5)
XkbAccessXKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<6)
XkbAccessXTimeoutMask	ok	ok	(1L<<7)
XkbAccessXFeedbackMask	ok	ok	(1L<<8)
XkbAudibleBellMask		ok	(1L<<9)
XkbOverlay1Mask		ok	(1L<<10)
XkbOverlay2Mask		ok	(1L<<11)
XkbIgnoreGroupLockMask		ok	(1L<<12)
XkbGroupsWrapMask	ok		(1L<<27)
XkbInternalModsMask	ok		(1L<<28)
XkbIgnoreLockModsMask	ok		(1L<<29)
XkbPerKeyRepeatMask	ok		(1L<<30)
XkbControlsEnabledMask	ok		(1L<<31)
XkbAccessXOptionsMask	ok	ok	(XkbStickyKeysMask | 
			XkbAccessXFeedbackMask)
XkbAllBooleanCtrlsMask		ok	(0x00001FFF) 
XkbAllControlsMask	ok		(0xF8001FFF)
.TE


If 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is NULL, 
.I XkbGetControls 
allocates n' initializes it before obtainin tha joints specified by 
.I which. 
If 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is not NULL, 
.I XkbGetControls 
modifies only dem portionz of 
.I xkb->ctrls 
correspondin ta tha joints specified by 
.I which.

.I XkbGetControls 
returns Success if successful; otherwise, it returns BadAlloc if it cannot 
obtain sufficient storage, BadMatch if 
.I xkb 
is NULL or 
.I which 
is empty, or BadImplementation.

To free tha 
.I ctrls 
gangmember of a keyboard description, use 
.I XkbFreeControls.

Da 
.I num_groups 
field up in tha 
.I ctrls 
structure be always filled up in by 
.I XkbGetControls, 
regardless of which bits is selected by 
.I which.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da 
.I XkbGetControls 
function returns Success if successful.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeControls (3)
