.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyActions 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyActions \- Update tha actions (the key_acts array) fo' a subset of tha 
keys up in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyActions
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key of interest
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys desired
.TP
.I \- xkb
pointa ta keyboard description where result is stored
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
sendz a request ta tha server ta obtain tha actions fo' 
.I num 
keys on tha keyboard startin wit key 
.I first. 
It waits fo' a reply n' returns tha actions up in tha 
.I server->key_acts 
field of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns Success. Da 
.I xkb 
parameta must be a pointa ta a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If tha 
.I server 
map, up in tha 
.I xkb 
parameter, has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
allocates n' initializes it before obtainin tha actions.

If tha server aint gots a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAccess. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or pimped outa than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAlloc. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
