'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbGetNamedGeometry 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetNamedGeometry \- Loadz a keyboard geometry description from dis database 
by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetNamedGeometry
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^);"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description tha fuck into which tha geometry should be loaded
.TP
.I \- name
name of tha geometry ta be loaded
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
It be also possible ta load a keyboard geometry by name. Da X server maintains 
a database 
of keyboard components (see below).

.I XkbGetNamedGeometry 
can return BadName if tha name cannot be found.

Da X server maintains a thugged-out database of keyboard components, identified by 
component type. 
Da database gotz nuff all tha shiznit necessary ta build a cold-ass lil complete keyboard 
description fo' a particular device, as well as ta assemble partial 
descriptions. Table 1 identifies tha component types n' tha type of shiznit 
they contain.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l
l lw(2i) lw(2i).
Table 1 Server Database Keyboard Components
_
Component	Component Primary Contents	May also contain
Type
_
Keymap	T{
Complete keyboard description
.br 
Normally assembled rockin a cold-ass lil complete component from each of tha other types
T}
.sp
Keycodes	T{
Symbolic name fo' each key
.br
Minimum n' maximum legal keycodes
T}	T{
Aliases fo' some keys
.br
Symbolic names fo' indicators
.br
Description of indicators physically present
T}
.sp
Types	Key types	T{
Real modifier bindings n' symbolic names fo' some virtual modifiers
T}
.sp
Compatibility	T{
Rulez used ta assign actions ta keysyms
T}	T{
Maps fo' some indicators
.br
Real modifier bindings n' symbolic names fo' some virtual modifiers
T}
.sp
Symbols	T{
Symbol mappin fo' keyboard keys
.br
Modifier mapping
.br
Symbolic names fo' groups
T}	T{
Explicit actions n' behaviors fo' some keys
.br
Real modifier bindings n' symbolic names fo' some virtual modifiers
T}
.sp
Geometry	Layout of tha keyboard	T{
Aliases fo' some keys; overrides keycodes component aliases
.br
Symbolic names fo' some indicators
.br
Description of indicators physically present
T}
.TE

While a keymap be a thugged-out database entry fo' a cold-ass lil complete keyboard description, n' 
therefore 
logically different from tha individual component database entries, tha rulez 
for 
processin keymap entries is identical ta dem fo' tha individual components, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
In tha 
rap dat bigs up, tha term component is used ta refer ta either 
individual 
components or a keymap.

There may be multiple entries fo' each of tha component types fo' realz. An entry may be 
either
.I complete 
or 
.I partial. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. 
Partial entries describe only a piece of tha correspondin keyboard component 
and is 
designed ta be combined wit other entriez of tha same type ta form a cold-ass lil complete 
entry.

For example, a partial symbols map might describe tha differences between a 
common ASCII 
keyboard n' some nationistic layout. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such a partial map aint useful on its own 
because it 
does not include dem symbols dat is tha same on both tha ASCII n' nationistic 
layouts 
(like fuckin function keys). On tha other hand, dis partial map can be used ta 
configure 
.I any 
ASCII keyboard ta bust a nationistic layout.

When a keyboard description is built, tha components is processed up in tha order 
in which 
they step tha fuck up in Table 1; lata definitions override earlier ones.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadName
A font or color of tha specified name do not exist.
