.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbIgnoreExtension 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbIgnoreExtension \-  Prevents core X library keyboard functions from rockin tha 
X Keyboard Extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbIgnoreExtension
.BI "(\^Bool *" "ignore" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I ignore
True means ignore tha extension
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If a server supports tha Xkb extension, tha X library normally implements preXkb 
keyboard functions rockin tha Xkb keyboard description n' state. Da server Xkb 
keyboard state may differ from tha preXkb keyboard state. This difference do 
not affect most clients yo, but there be exceptions. To allow these clients ta 
work properly, you may instruct tha extension not ta use Xkb functionality.

Call 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
to prevent core X library keyboard functions from rockin 
the X Keyboard Extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass must call 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
before you open a 
server connection; Xkb do not provide a way ta enable or disable use of tha 
extension once a cold-ass lil connection is established.

.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
 drops some lyrics ta tha X library whether ta use tha X Keyboard Extension 
on any subsequently opened X display connections. If ignore is True, tha library 
does not initialize tha Xkb extension when it opens a freshly smoked up display. This forces 
the X server ta use compatibilitizzle mode n' rap wit tha client rockin 
only core protocol requests n' events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If ignore is False, tha library treats 
subsequent calls ta 
.I XOpenDisplay 
normally n' uses Xkb extension requests, 
events, n' state. Do not explicitly use Xkb on a cold-ass lil connection fo' which it is 
disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
returns False if dat shiznit was unable ta apply tha ignore 
request.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
returns True if 
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
function returns False if dat shiznit was unable ta apply tha ignore request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XOpenDisplay (3)
