.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbKeysymToModifiers 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbKeysymToModifiers \- Findz tha set of modifiers bound ta a particular keysym 
on tha core keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B unsigned int XkbKeysymToModifiers
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym " "ks" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- ks
keysym of interest
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbKeysymToModifiers 
findz tha set of modifiers currently bound ta tha keysym 
.I ks 
on tha core keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da value returned is tha mask of modifiers bound ta tha 
keysym 
.I ks. 
If no modifiers is bound ta tha keysym, 
.I XkbKeysymToModifiers 
returns zero; otherwise, it returns tha inclusive OR of zero or mo' of tha 
following: ShiftMask, ControlMask, LockMask, Mod1Mask, Mod2Mask, Mod3Mask, 
Mod4Mask, n' Mod5Mask.
