'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbKeySymsPtr 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbKeySymsPtr \- Returns tha pointa ta tha two-dimensionizzle array of keysyms fo' 
the key correspondin ta 
.I keycode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B KeySym * XkbKeySymsPtr
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "keycode" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description of interest
.TP
.I \- keycode
keycode of interest
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da key width n' number of crews associated wit a key is used ta form a 
small two-dimensionizzle array of KeySyms fo' a key. This array may be different 
sizes fo' different keys. Da array fo' a single key is stored as a linear list, 
in row-major order n' shit. Da arrays fo' all of tha keys is stored up in tha 
.I syms 
field of tha client map. There is one row fo' each crew associated wit a key 
and one column fo' each level. Da index correspondin ta a given crew n' 
shift level is computed as:
.nf

     idx = group_index * key_width + shift_level
     
.fi
Da 
.I offset 
field of tha 
.I key_sym_map 
entry fo' a key is used ta access tha beginnin of tha array.

.I XkbKeySymsPtr 
returns tha pointa ta tha two-dimensionizzle array of keysyms fo' tha key 
correspondin ta 
.I keycode.
