.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbKeycodeToKeysym 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbKeycodeToKeysym \- Findz tha keysym bound ta a particular key at a specified 
group n' shift level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B KeySym XkbKeycodeToKeysym
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "kc" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "group" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "level" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server 
.TP
.I \- kc
key of interest 
.TP
.I \- group
group of interest 
.TP
.I \- level
shift level of interest 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbKeycodeToKeysym 
returns tha keysym bound ta a particular crew n' shift level fo' a particular 
key on tha core keyboard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I kc 
is not a legal keycode fo' tha core keyboard, or if 
.I crew 
or 
.I level 
are outta range fo' tha specified key, 
.I XkbKeycodeToKeysym 
returns NoSymbol.
