.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLookupKeySym 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLookupKeySym \- Find tha symbol associated wit a key fo' a particular state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLookupKeySym
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "key" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "state" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "mods_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym *" "sym_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- key
key fo' which symbols is ta be found
.TP
.I \- state
state fo' which symbol should be found
.TP
.I \- mods_rtrn
backfilled wit unconsumed modifiers
.TP
.I \- sym_rtrn
backfilled wit symbol associated wit key + state
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLookupKeySym 
is tha equivalent of tha core 
.I XLookupKeySym 
function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For tha core keyboard, given a keycode 
.I key 
and a Xkb state 
.I state, XkbLookupKeySym 
returns tha symbol associated wit tha key up in 
.I sym_rtrn 
and tha list of modifiers dat should still be applied up in 
.I mods_rtrn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da 
.I state 
parameta is tha state from a KeyPress or KeyRelease event. 
.I XkbLookupKeySym 
returns True if it succeeds.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XLookupKeySym (3)

