'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLatchGroup 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLatchGroup \-  Latches tha keysym group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLatchGroup
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "group" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection ta tha X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I group
index of tha keysym crew ta latch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP

.I XkbLatchGroup 
sendz a request ta tha server ta latch tha specified 
.I group
and 
does not wait fo' a reply. Well shiiiit, it returns True if tha request was busted n' False 
otherwise.

Reference tha keysym crew indices wit these symbolic constants:

.TS
c s
l l
l l.
Table 1 Symbolic Group Names
_
Symbolic Name	Value
_
XkbGroup1Index	0
XkbGroup2Index	1
XkbGroup3Index	2
XkbGroup4Index	3
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbLatchGroup 
function returns True if a request was busted ta tha server ta latch tha specified 
.I group.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbLatchGroup 
function returns False if tha request was not sent.



