'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLockModifiers 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLockModifiers \-  Locks n' unlocks any of tha eight real keyboard modifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLockModifiers
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "affect" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "values" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection ta tha X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I affect
mask of real modifiers whose lock state is ta chizzle
.TP
.I joints
1 => lock, 0 => unlock; only fo' modifiers selected by affect
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLockModifiers 
sendz a request ta tha server ta lock tha real modifiers 
selected by both 
.I affect 
and 
.I joints
and ta unlock tha real modifiers selected by 
.I affect, 
but not selected by 
.I joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. XkbLockModifiers 
does not wait fo' a reply from tha server n' shit. Well shiiiit, it returns True if tha request was 
sent, n' False otherwise.

Da functions up in dis section dat chizzle tha use of modifiers bust a mask up in tha 
parameta affect. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of tha legal modifier masks: 

.TS
c 
l 
l.
Table 1 Real Modifier Masks
_
Mask
_
ShiftMask
LockMask
ControlMask
Mod1Mask
Mod2Mask
Mod3Mask
Mod4Mask
Mod5Mask
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbLockModifiers 
function returns True if a request is busted ta tha server ta lock tha real 
modifiers 
selected by both 
.I affect 
and 
.I joints
and ta unlock tha real modifiers selected by 
.I affect, 
but not selected by 
.I joints.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbLockModifiers 
function returns False if tha request was not sent.
