.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLookupKeyBindin 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLookupKeyBindin \- Find tha strang bound ta a key by XRebindKeySym
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B int XkbLookupKeyBinding
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym " "sym" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "state" "\^,"
.BI "char *" "buf" "\^,"
.BI "int " "nbytes" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "extra_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- sym
connection ta server
.TP
.I \- state
state fo' which strang is ta be looked up
.TP
.I \- buf
buffer tha fuck into which returned strang is written
.TP
.I \- nbytes
size of buffer up in bytes
.TP
.I \- extra_rtrn
backfilled wit number bytes overflow
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbLookupKeyBindin 
is tha equivalent of tha core 
.I XLookupStrin 
function.

.I XRebindKeysym 
bindz a ASCII strang ta a specified keysym, so dat tha strang n' keysym is 
returned when tha key is pressed n' a specified list of modifiers is also 
bein held down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.I XkbLookupKeyBindin 
returns up in 
.I buf 
the strang associated wit tha keysym 
.I sym 
and modifier state 
.I state. buf 
is NULL terminated unless there be a a overflow. If tha strang returned is larger 
than 
.I nbytes, 
a count of bytes dat do not fit tha fuck into tha buffer is returned up in 
.I extra_rtrn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.I XkbTranslateKeySym 
returns tha number of bytes dat it placed tha fuck into 
.I buf.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbTranslateKeySym (3),
.BR XLookupStrin (3),
.BR XRebindKeysym (3)
