.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbLibraryVersion 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbLibraryVersion \-  Determines tha compatibilitizzle of a library at runtime.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbLibraryVersion
.BI "(\^int *" "lib_major_in_out" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "lib_minor_in_out" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I lib_major_in_out
Specifies n' returns tha major Xkb library version.
.TP
.I lib_minor_in_out
Specifies n' returns tha minor Xkb library version.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If a application is dynamically linked, both tha X server n' tha client-side X 
library must contain tha Xkb extension up in order fo' tha client ta use tha Xkb 
extension capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Therefore a thugged-out dynamically linked application must check 
both tha library n' tha server fo' compatibilitizzle before rockin Xkb function 
calls fo' realz. A properly freestyled program must check fo' compatibilitizzle between tha 
version of tha Xkb library dat is dynamically loaded n' tha one used when tha 
application was built. Well shiiiit, it must then check tha server version fo' compatibilitizzle 
with tha version of Xkb up in tha library.

If yo' application is statically linked, you must still check fo' server 
compatibilitizzle n' may check library compatibility. (It be possible ta compile 
against one set of header filez n' link against a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different, incompatible, 
version of tha library, although dis should not normally occur.)

Pass tha symbolic value XkbMajorVersion up in 
.I lib_major_in_out 
and XkbMinorVersion up in 
.I lib_minor_in_out. 
These arguments represent tha version of tha library used 
at compile time. Da 
.I XkbLibraryVersion 
function backfills tha major n' minor version numberz of tha library used at 
run time up in 
.I lib_major_in_out n' 
.I lib_minor_in_out. 
If tha versionz of tha compile time n' run time libraries is 
compatible, 
.I XkbLibraryVersion 
returns True, otherwise, it returns False.

In addition, up in order ta use tha Xkb extension, you must ensure dat tha 
extension is present up in tha server n' dat tha server supports tha version of 
the extension expected by tha client. Use 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
to do this, as busted lyrics bout up in tha next section.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbLibraryVersion 
returns True if tha versionz of tha compile time n' run time libraries is 
compatible.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbLibraryVersion 
returns False if tha versionz of tha compile time n' run time libraries is not 
compatible.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbMajorVersion (3),
.BR XkbMinorVersion (3),
.BR XkbQueryExtension (3)
