'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbNoteDeviceChanges 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbNoteDeviceChanges \- Note thang chizzlez reported up in a XkbExtensionDeviceNotify event
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbNoteDeviceChanges
.BI "(\^XkbDeviceChangesPtr " "old" "\^,"
.BI "XkbExtensionDeviceNotifyEvent *" "new" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "wanted" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- old
structure trackin state chizzles
.TP
.I \- new
event indicatin state chizzles
.TP
.I \- wanted
mask indicatin chizzlez ta note
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I wanted 
field specifies tha chizzlez dat should be noted up in 
.I old, 
and is composed of tha bitwise inclusive OR of one or mo' of tha masks from Table 1. The
.I reason 
field of tha event up in 
.I freshly smoked up 
indicates tha typez of chizzlez tha event is reporting. 
.I XkbNoteDeviceChanges 
updates tha XkbDeviceChangesRec specified by 
.I oldschool 
with tha chizzlez dat is both specified up in 
.I wanted 
and contained up in 
.I new->reason.

.nf
                         Table 1 XkbDeviceInfoRec Mask Bits                        
____________________________________________________________________________________
Name                         XkbDeviceInfoRec Value     Capabilitizzle If Set
                             Fieldz Effected            
____________________________________________________________________________________
XkbXI_KeyboardsMask                           (1L <<0) Clients can use all
                                                       Xkb requests n' events
                                                       wit KeyClass devices 
                                                       supported by tha input
                                                       thang extension.

XkbXI_ButtonActionsMask       num_btns        (1L <<1) Clients can assign key 
                              btn_acts                 actions ta buttons 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                           
XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask      leds->names     (1L <<2) Clients can assign
                                                       names ta indicators on
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.
                                                             
XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask       leds->maps      (1L <<3) Clients can assign
                                                       indicator maps to
                                                       indicators on 
                                                       non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask      leds->state     (1L <<4) Clients can request 
                                                       tha statuz of indicators
                                                       on non-KeyClass input
                                                       extension devices.

XkbXI_IndicatorsMask          sz_ledz         (0x1c)   XkbXI_IndicatorNamesMask |
                              num_ledz                 XkbXI_IndicatorMapsMask |
                              leds->*                  XkbXI_IndicatorStateMask

XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask unsupported     (1L <<15)

XkbXI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask   Those selected  (0x1e)   XkbXI_IndicatorsMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_ButtonActionsMask
                              masks 

XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask         Those selected  (0x1f)   XkbSI_AllDeviceFeaturesMask |
                              by Value Column          XkbSI_KeyboardsMask
                              masks

XkbXI_AllDetailsMask          Those selected  (0x801f) XkbXI_AllFeaturesMask |
                              by Value column          XkbXI_UnsupportedFeaturesMask
                              masks
.fi

To update a local copy of tha state n' configuration of a X input extension thang wit tha chizzlez 
previously noted up in a XkbDeviceChangesRec structure, use
.I XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Changes ta a Xkb extension thang may be tracked by listenin ta XkbDeviceExtensionNotify events n' 
accumulatin tha chizzlez up in a XkbDeviceChangesRec structure. Da chizzlez noted up in tha structure may 
then be used up in subsequent operations ta update either a server configuration or a local copy of a 
Xkb extension thang configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da chizzlez structure is defined as bigs up:
.nf

typedef struct _XkbDeviceChanges {
    unsigned int         chizzled;       /\(** bits indicatin what tha fuck has chizzled */
    unsigned short       first_btn;     /\(** number of first button which chizzled, if any */
    unsigned short       num_btns;      /\(** number of buttons dat have chizzled */
    XkbDeviceLedChangesRec leds;
} XkbDeviceChangesRec,*XkbDeviceChangesPtr;

.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetDeviceInfoChanges (3)
