.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbOpenDisplay 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbOpenDisplay \-  Checks fo' a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha Xkb extension up in both 
the library n' tha server, n' initializes tha extension fo' use.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Display XkbOpenDisplay
.BI "(\^char *" "display_name" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "event_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "error_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "major_in_out" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "minor_in_out" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "reason_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display_name
hardware display name, which determines tha display n' communications domain ta 
be used
.TP
.I event_rtrn
backfilled wit tha extension base event code
.TP
.I error_rtrn
backfilled wit tha extension base error code
.TP
.I major_in_out
compile time lib major version in, server major version out
.TP
.I minor_in_out
compile time lib min version in, server minor version up 
.TP
.I reason_rtrn
backfilled wit a status code 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
As a cold-ass lil convenience, you can use tha function 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
to big-ass up these three 
tasks at once: open a cold-ass lil connection ta a X server, check fo' a cold-ass lil compatible version 
of tha Xkb extension up in both tha library n' tha server, n' initialize tha 
extension fo' use.

.I XkbOpenDisplay 
is a cold-ass lil convenience function dat opens a X display connection n' 
initializes tha X keyboard extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In all cases, upon return 
.I reason_rtrn 
gotz nuff a status value indicatin success or tha type of failure. If 
.I major_in_out 
and 
.I minor_in_out 
are not NULL, 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
first calls 
.I XkbLibraryVersion 
to determine whether tha client library is compatible, passin 
it tha joints pointed ta by 
.I major_in_out n' 
.I minor_in_out. If tha library is 
incompatible, 
.I XkbOpenDisplay backfills 
.I major_in_out 
and 
.I minor_in_out 
with tha 
major n' minor extension versionz of tha library bein used n' returns NULL. 
If tha library is compatible, 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
next calls 
.I XOpenDisplay 
with tha 
.I display_name. 
If dis fails, tha function returns NULL. If successful, 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
calls 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
and backfills tha major n' minor Xkb 
server extension version numbers up in 
.I major_in_out n' 
.I minor_in_out. If tha server 
extension version aint compatible wit tha library extension version or if tha 
server extension aint present, 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
closes tha display n' returns 
NULL. When successful, tha function returns tha display connection.

Da possible joints fo' reason_rtrn are:

.IP \(bu 5
XkbOD_BadLibraryVersion indicates XkbLibraryVersion returned False.
.IP \(bu 5
XkbOD_ConnectionRefused indicates tha display could not be opened.
.IP \(bu 5
XkbOD_BadServerVersion indicates tha library n' tha server have incompatible 
extension versions.
.IP \(bu 5
XkbOD_NonXkbServer indicates tha extension aint present up in tha X server.
.IP \(bu 5
XkbOD_Success indicates dat tha function succeeded.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
NULL
Da 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
function returns NULL if tha library is incompatible.
.sp
.in 20
Da 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
function returns NULL if tha call ta 
.I XOpenDisplay 
with tha 
.I display_name
fails.
.sp
.in 20
Da 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
function returns NULL n' closes tha display if tha server extension version aint 
compatible wit tha library extension version or if tha server extension aint present.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadAccess
Da Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbLibraryVersion (3),
.BR XkbQueryExtension (3),
.BR XOpenDisplay (3)
