.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbQueryExtension 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbQueryExtension \-  Determines tha compatibilitizzle of a library at runtime.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbQueryExtension
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "opcode_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "event_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "error_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "major_in_out" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "minor_in_out" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dpy
connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I opcode_rtrn
backfilled wit tha major extension opcode
.TP
.I event_rtrn
backfilled wit tha extension base event code
.TP
.I error_rtrn
backfilled wit tha extension base error code
.TP
.I major_in_out
compile time lib major version in, server major version out
.TP
.I minor_in_out
compile time lib min version in, server minor version up 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Call 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
to check fo' tha presence n' compatibilitizzle of tha 
extension up in tha server n' ta initialize tha extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Because of potential 
version mismatches, you cannot use tha generic extension mechanizzle functions 
(
.I XQueryExtension 
and 
.I XInitExtension
) fo' checkin fo' tha presence of, n' 
initializin tha Xkb extension.
 
Yo ass must call 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
or 
.I XkbOpenDisplay 
before rockin any other Xkb 
library intercourses, unless such usage is explicitly allowed up in tha intercourse 
description up in dis document. Da exceptions are: 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension, XkbLibraryVersion, 
and a handful of audible-bell functions. Yo ass should not use 
any other Xkb functions if tha extension aint present or is uninitialized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In 
general, calls ta Xkb library functions made prior ta initializin tha Xkb 
extension cause BadAccess protocol errors.

.I XkbQueryExtension 
both determines whether a cold-ass lil compatible Xkb extension is present 
in tha X server n' initializes tha extension when it is present.

Da 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
function determines whether a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha X 
Keyboard Extension is present up in tha server n' shit. If a cold-ass lil compatible extension is 
present, 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
returns True; otherwise, it returns False. 

If a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb is present, 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
initializes tha 
extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it backfills tha major opcode fo' tha keyboard extension in
.I opcode_rtrn, 
the base event code up in 
.I event_rtrn, 
the base error code in
.I error_rtrn, 
and tha major n' minor version numberz of tha extension in
.I major_in_out 
and 
.I minor_in_out. 
Da major opcode is reported up in tha 
.I req_major 
fieldz of some Xkb events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' rap of tha base event code. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
function returns True if it determines a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha X 
Keyboard Extension is present up in tha server n' shit. 
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbQueryExtension 
function returns False if it determines a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha X 
Keyboard Extension aint present up in tha server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbIgnoreExtension (3),
.BR XkbLibraryVersion (3),
.BR XkbOpenDisplay (3)
