'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbResizeKeySyms 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbResizeKeySyms \- Chizzle tha number of symbols bound ta a key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B KeySym * XkbResizeKeySyms
.BI "(\^XkbDescRec *" "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "int " "key" "\^,"
.BI "int " "needed" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta be chizzled
.TP
.I \- key
keycode fo' key ta modify
.TP
.I \- needed
new number of keysyms required fo' key
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
reserves tha space needed fo' 
.I needed 
keysyms n' returns a pointa ta tha beginnin of tha freshly smoked up array dat holdz tha 
keysyms. Well shiiiit, it adjusts tha 
.I offset 
field of tha 
.I key_sym_map 
entry fo' tha key if necessary n' can also chizzle tha 
.I syms, num_syms, 
and 
.I size_syms 
fieldz of 
.I xkb->map 
if it is necessary ta reallocate tha 
.I syms 
array. 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
does not modify either tha width or number of crews associated wit tha key.

If 
.I needed 
is pimped outa than tha current number of keysyms fo' tha key, 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
initializes all freshly smoked up keysyms up in tha array ta NoSymbol.

Because tha number of symbols needed by a key is normally computed as width * 
number of groups, n' 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
does not modify either tha width or number of crews fo' tha key, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' discrepancy 
exists upon return from 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
between tha space allocated fo' tha keysyms n' tha number required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da unused 
entries up in tha list of symbols returned by 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
are not preserved across future calls ta any of tha map editin functions, so 
you must update tha key symbol mappin (which thugged-out shiznit tha width n' number of 
groups fo' tha key) before callin another allocator function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A call to
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
will update tha mapping.

If any allocation errors occur while resizin tha number of symbols bound ta tha 
key, 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
returns NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeTypesOfKey (3),
.BR XkbResizeKeyActions (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
A chizzle ta tha number of symbols bound ta a key should be accompanied by a 
change up in tha number of actions bound ta a key. Refer ta XkbResizeKeyActions fo' 
more shiznit on changin tha number of actions bound ta a key.
