.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin \- Update tha keyboard description dat is internal ta tha X 
library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbRefreshKeyboardMapping
.BI "(\^XkbMapNotifyEvent *" "event" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- event
event initiatin remapping
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin 
is tha Xkb equivalent of tha core 
.I XRefreshKeyboardMappin 
function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it requests dat tha X server bust tha current key mappin shiznit ta 
this client fo' realz. A client probably invokes 
.I XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin 
afta receivin a XkbMapNotify event. 
.I XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin 
returns Success if it succeedz n' BadMatch if tha event aint a Xkb event.

Da XkbMapNotify event can be generated when some client calls 
.I XkbSetMap, XkbChangeMap, XkbGetKeyboardByName, 
or any of tha standard X library functions dat chizzle tha keyboard mappin or modifier 
mapping.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
Da 
.I XkbRefreshKeyboardMappin 
function returns Success when tha request dat tha X server bust tha current key mappin shiznit ta 
this client is successful.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has erect 
type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeMap (3),
.BR XkbGetKeyboardByName (3),
.BR XkbSetMap (3),
.BR XRefreshKeyboardMappin (3)
