'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbResizeKeyActions 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbResizeKeyActions \- Chizzle tha number of actions bound ta a key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbAction * XkbResizeKeyActions
.BI "(\^XkbDescRec *" "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "int " "key" "\^,"
.BI "int " "needed" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- key
keycode of key ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- needed
new number of actions required
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da 
.I xkb 
parameta points ta tha keyboard description containin tha 
.I key 
whose number of actions is ta be chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da 
.I key 
parameta is tha keycode of tha key ta chizzle, n' needed specifies tha freshly smoked up 
number of actions required fo' tha key.

.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
reserves tha space needed fo' tha actions n' returns a pointa ta tha beginnin 
of tha freshly smoked up array dat holdz tha actions. Well shiiiit, it can chizzle tha 
.I acts, num_acts, 
and 
.I size_acts 
fieldz of 
.I xkb->server 
if it is necessary ta reallocate tha 
.I acts 
array.

If 
.I needed 
is pimped outa than tha current number of keysyms fo' tha key, 
.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
initializes all freshly smoked up actions up in tha array ta NoAction.

Because tha number of actions needed by a key is normally computed as width * 
number of groups, n' 
.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
does not modify either tha width or number of crews fo' tha key, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' discrepancy 
exists on return from 
.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
between tha space allocated fo' tha actions n' tha number required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da unused 
entries up in tha list of actions returned by 
.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
are not preserved across future calls ta any of tha map editin functions, so 
you must update tha key actions (which thugged-out shiznit tha width n' number of crews 
for tha key) before callin another allocator function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A call to
.I XkbChangeTypesOfKey 
updates these.

If any allocation errors occur while resizin tha number of actions bound ta tha 
key, 
.I XkbResizeKeyActions 
returns NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeTypesOfKey (3),
.BR XkbResizeKeySyms (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
A chizzle ta tha number of actions bound ta a key should be accompanied by a 
change up in tha number of symbols bound ta a key. Refer ta 
.I XkbResizeKeySyms 
for mo' shiznit on changin tha number of symbols bound ta a key.
