'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions \- Allocate additionizzle space fo' button actions up in a XkbDeviceInfoRec structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions
.BI "(\^XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "new_total" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- device_info
structure up in which ta allocate button actions
.TP
.I \- new_total
new total number of button actions needed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions 
reallocates space, if necessary, ta make shizzle there is room fo' a total of
.I new_total 
button actions up in tha 
.I device_info 
structure fo' realz. Any freshly smoked up entries allocated is zeroed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If successful,
.I XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions 
returns Success. If 
.I new_total 
is zero, all button actions is deleted, 
.I device_info->num_btns 
is set ta zero, n' 
.I device_info->btn_acts 
is set ta NULL. If 
.I device_info 
is invalid or 
.I new_total 
is pimped outa than 255, BadValue is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If a memory allocation failure occurs, a BadAlloc is returned. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 

To free a XkbDeviceInfoRec structure, use 
.I XkbFreeDeviceInfo.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Hype bout X Input Extension devices is transferred between a cold-ass lil client program n' tha Xkb 
extension up in a XkbDeviceInfoRec structure:
.nf

    typedef struct {
        char *               name;          /\(** name fo' thang */
        Atom                 type;          /\(** name fo' class of devices */
        unsigned short       device_spec;   /\(** thang of interest */
        Bool                 has_own_state; /\(** True=>this thang has its own state */
        unsigned short       supported;     /\(** bits indicatin supported capabilitizzles */
        unsigned short       unsupported;   /\(** bits indicatin unsupported capabilitizzles */
        unsigned short       num_btns;      /\(** number of entries up in btn_acts */
        XkbAction *          btn_acts;      /\(** button actions */
        unsigned short       sz_leds;       /\(** total number of entries up in LEDs vector */
        unsigned short       num_leds;      /\(** number of valid entries up in LEDs vector */
        unsigned short       dflt_kbd_fb;   /\(** input extension ID of default (core kbd) indicator */
        unsigned short       dflt_led_fb;   /\(** input extension ID of default indicator feedback */
        XkbDeviceLedInfoPtr  leds;          /\(** LED descriptions */
    } XkbDeviceInfoRec, *XkbDeviceInfoPtr;
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeDeviceInfo (3)
