'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetModActionVModz 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetModActionVModz \- Sets tha vmods1 n' vmods2 fieldz of act rockin tha vmodz 
format of a Xkb modifier description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSetModActionVMods
.BI "(\^XkbAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned short " "vmods" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action up in which ta set vmods
.TP
.I \- vmods
virtual modz ta set
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbSetModActionVModz 
sets tha 
.I vmods1 
and 
.I vmods2 
fieldz of 
.I act 
usin tha 
.I vmodz 
format of a Xkb modifier description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.SH NOTES
.LP
Despite tha fact dat tha straight-up original gangsta parameta of these two macros iz of type 
XkbAction, these macros may be used only wit Actionz of type XkbModAction n' 
XkbISOAction.
