'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetIndicatorMap 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetIndicatorMap \- Downloadz tha chizzlez ta tha server based on modifications 
to a local copy of tha keyboard description which will update tha maps fo' one 
or mo' indicators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetIndicatorMap
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "desc" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I \- which
mask of indicators ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- desc
keyboard description from which tha maps is taken
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This section discusses tha effectz of explicitly changin indicators dependin 
upon different settings up in tha indicator map. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See Tablez 1 n' Table 2 fo' 
information on tha effectz of tha indicator map fieldz when explicit chizzlez is 
made.

.TS
c s s
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 1 XkbIndicatorMapRec which_groups n' groups, 
Indicator Drives Keyboard
_
which_groups	New State	Effect on Keyboard Group State
_
XkbIM_UseNone	On or Off	No effect
XkbIM_UseBase	On or Off	No effect
XkbIM_UseLatched	On	T{
Da crews field is treated as a crew mask. Da keyboard crew latch is chizzled 
to tha lowest numbered 
group specified up in groups; if crews is empty, tha  keyboard crew latch is 
changed ta zero.
T}
XkbIM_UseLatched	Off	T{
Da crews field is treated as a crew mask. If tha indicator is explicitly 
extinguished, keyboard crew 
latch is chizzled ta tha lowest numbered crew not specified up in groups; if crews 
is zero, tha keyboard 
group latch is set ta tha index of tha highest legal keyboard group.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	On	T{
If tha crews mask is empty, crew aint chizzled; otherwise, tha locked 
keyboard crew is chizzled ta tha 
lowest numbered crew specified up in groups.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked or
.br
XkbIM_UseEffective	Off	T{
Locked keyboard crew is chizzled ta tha lowest numbered crew dat aint 
specified up in tha crews mask, or 
to Group1 if tha crews mask gotz nuff all keyboard groups.
T}

.TE

.TS
c s s
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 2 XkbIndicatorMapRec which_modz n' mods,
Indicator Drives Keyboard
_
which_mods	New State	Effect on Keyboard Modifiers
_
XkbIM_UseNone or XkbIM_UseBase	On or Off	No Effect
XkbIM_UseLatched	On	T{
Any modifiers specified up in tha mask field of modz is added ta tha latched 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLatched	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified up in tha mask field of modz is removed from tha latched 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked, XkbIM_UseCompat, or XkbIM_UseEffective	On	T{
Any modifiers specified up in tha mask field of modz is added ta tha locked 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseLocked	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified up in tha mask field of modz is removed from tha locked 
modifiers.
T}
XkbIM_UseCompat or XkbIM_UseEffective	Off	T{
Any modifiers specified up in tha mask field of modz is removed from both tha 
locked n' latched modifiers.
T}
.TE

If XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set n' XkbIM_NoExplicit is not, n' if you call a 
function dat thugged-out shiznit tha serverz image of tha indicator map (such as
.I XkbSetIndicatorMap 
or 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator),
 Xkb chizzlez tha keyboard state n' controls ta reflect tha other fieldz of tha 
indicator map. If you attempt ta explicitly chizzle tha value of a indicator fo' 
which XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB be absent or fo' which XkbIM_NoExplicit is present, 
keyboard state or controls is unaffected.
 
If neither XkbIM_NoAutomatic nor XkbIM_NoExplicit is set up in a indicator map, 
Xkb honors any request ta chizzle tha state of tha indicator yo, but tha freshly smoked up state 
might be immediately superseded by automatic chizzlez ta tha indicator state if 
the keyboard state or controls chizzle.

Da effectz of changin a indicator dat drives tha keyboard is cumulative; it 
is possible fo' a single chizzle ta affect keyboard group, modifiers, n' 
controls simultaneously.

If you chizzle a indicator fo' which both tha XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB n' 
XkbIM_NoAutomatic flags is specified, Xkb applies tha keyboard chizzlez 
specified up in tha other indicator map fieldz n' chizzlez tha indicator ta reflect 
the state dat was explicitly requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da indicator remains up in tha freshly smoked up state 
until it is explicitly chizzled again.

If tha XkbIM_NoAutomatic flag aint set n' XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set, Xkb 
applies tha chizzlez specified up in tha other indicator map fieldz n' sets tha 
state of tha indicator ta tha joints specified by tha indicator map. Note dat 
it is possible up in dis case fo' tha indicator ta end up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different state 
than tha one dat was explicitly requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For example, Xkb do not extinguish 
an indicator wit 
.I which_modz 
of XkbIM_UseBase n' 
.I modz 
of Shift if, all up in tha time Xkb processes tha request ta extinguish tha indicator, 
one of tha Shift keys is physically pissed off.

If you explicitly light a indicator fo' which XkbIM_LEDDrivesKB is set, Xkb 
enablez all of tha boolean controls specified up in tha 
.I ctrls 
field of its indicator map. Explicitly extinguishin such a indicator causes 
Xkb ta disable all of tha boolean controls specified up in 
.I ctrls. 

For each bit set up in tha 
.I which 
parameter, 
.I XkbSetIndicatorMap 
sendz tha correspondin indicator map from tha 
.I desc 
parameta ta tha server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSetNamedIndicator (3)
