.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSelectEventDetails 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSelectEventDetails \-  Selects or deselects fo' a specific Xkb event n' 
optionally places conditions on when eventz of dat type is reported ta yo' 
client 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSelectEventDetails
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "event_type" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long int " "bits_to_change" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long int " "values_for_bits" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection ta tha X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I event_type
Xkb event type of interest
.TP
.I bits_to_change
determines events ta be selected / deselected
.TP
.I joints_for_bits
1=>select, 0->deselect; fo' events up in bits_to_change
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb events is selected rockin a event mask, much tha same as aiiight core X 
events is selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat unlike selectin core X events, where you must 
specify tha selection status (on or off) fo' all possible event types whenever 
you wish ta chizzle tha selection criteria fo' any one event, Xkb allows you ta 
restrict tha justification ta only tha event types you wish ta chizzle. This 
means dat you do not need ta remember tha event selection joints fo' all 
possible types each time you wanna chizzle one of em.

Many Xkb event types is generated under nuff muthafuckin different circumstances. When 
selectin ta receive a Xkb event, you may specify either dat you want it 
delivered under all circumstances, or dat you want it served up only fo' a 
subset of tha possible circumstances.
 
Yo ass can also deselect a event type dat was previously selected for, rockin tha 
same granularity.

Xkb serves up two functions ta select n' deselect delivery of Xkb events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.I XkbSelectEvents 
allows you ta select or deselect delivery of mo' than one Xkb event type at 
once. Events selected rockin 
.I XkbSelectEvents 
are served up ta yo' program under all circumstances dat generate tha events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
To restrict delivery of a event ta a subset of tha conditions under which it 
occurs, use 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails. XkbSelectEventDetails 
only allows you ta chizzle tha selection conditions fo' a single event at a time, 
but it serves up a meanz of fine-tunin tha conditions under which tha event is 
delivered.

To select or deselect fo' a specific Xkb event n' optionally place conditions 
on when eventz of dat type is reported ta yo' client, use 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails. 
This allows you ta exercise a gangbangin' finer granularitizzle of 
control over delivery of Xkb events wit 
.I XkbSelectEvents.

While 
.I XkbSelectEvents 
allows multiple events ta be selected, 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails 
changes tha selection criteria fo' a single type of Xkb 
event. Da interpretation of tha 
.I bits_to_change 
and 
.I joints_for_bits 
masks dependz on tha event type up in question.
 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails 
changes tha Xkb event selection mask fo' tha keyboard 
specified by 
.I device_spec 
and tha Xkb event specified by 
.I event_type. 
To turn on event selection fo' a event detail, set tha bit fo' tha 
detail up in tha 
.I bits_to_change 
parameta n' set tha correspondin bit up in tha 
.I joints_for_bits 
parameter n' shit. To turn off event detail selection fo' a thugged-out detail, set 
the bit fo' tha detail up in tha 
.I bits_to_change 
parameta n' do not set tha correspondin bit up in tha 
.I joints_for_bits 
parameter.

If a invalid event type is specified, a BadValue protocol error thangs up in dis biatch. If a 
bit aint set up in tha 
.I bits_to_change 
parameter yo, but tha correspondin bit is set up in the
.I joints_for_bits 
parameter, a BadMatch protocol error thangs up in dis biatch. If a undefined 
bit is set up in either tha 
.I bits_to_change 
or tha 
.I joints_for_bits 
parameter, a BadValue protocol error thangs up in dis biatch.

For each type of Xkb event, tha legal event details dat you can specify up in tha 
.I XkbSelectEventDetails 
request is listed up in tha chaptas dat describe each event up in detail.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.SM BadValue
An argument is outta range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSelectEvents (3),
.BR XkbUseCoreKbd (3)
