'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSAScreen 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSAScreen \- Returns tha screenXXX field of act converted ta a signed int
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B int XkbSAScreen 
.BI "(\^XkbSwitchScreenAction " "act" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action from which ta extract screen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated wit tha XkbSwitchScreen action structure chizzle tha actizzle 
screen on a multiscreen display.

Da 
.I type 
field of tha XkbSwitchScreenAction structure should always be 
XkbSA_SwitchScreen.

Da 
.I flags 
field is composed of tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha masks shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Switch Screen Action Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_SwitchAbsolute	T{
If set, tha screenXXX field represents tha index of tha freshly smoked up screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, 
it represents a offset from tha current screen ta tha freshly smoked up screen.
T}
XkbSA_SwitchApplication	T{
If not set, tha action should switch ta another screen on tha same server n' shit. 
Otherwise, it should switch ta another X server or application dat shares tha 
same physical display.
T}
.TE

Da 
.I screenXXX 
field be a signed characta value dat represents either tha relatizzle or 
absolute screen index, dependin on tha state of tha XkbSA_SwitchAbsolute bit up in 
the 
.I flags 
field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Xkb serves up tha followin macros ta convert between tha integer n' 
signed characta value fo' screen numbers up in XkbSwitchScreenAction structures.

.I XkbSAScreen 
macro returns tha 
.I screenXXX 
field of 
.I act 
converted ta a signed int. 
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbSwitchScreenAction {
        unsigned char    type;        /\(** XkbSA_SwitchScreen */
        unsigned char    flags;       /\(** controls screen switchin */
        char             screenXXX;   /\(** screen number or delta */
    } XkbSwitchScreenAction;

.fi

.SH NOTES
.LP
Da XkbSwitchScreen action is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Servers is free ta ignore tha action or 
any of its 
flags if they do not support tha axed behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If tha action is ignored, 
it behaves like XkbSA_NoAction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, key press n' key release events do 
not generate a event. 
