'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask \- Sets tha vmods_mask0 n' vmods_mask1 fieldz of act 
from vm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask
.BI "(\^XkbRedirectKeyAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "vm" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action up in which ta set vmods
.TP
.I \- vm
new value fo' virtual modifier mask
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated wit tha XkbRedirectKeyAction structure generate KeyPress n' 
KeyRelease events 
containin a keycode different from tha key dat was pressed or busted out.

Da 
.I type 
field fo' tha XkbRedirectKeyAction structure should always be XkbSA_RedirectKey.
Key presses cause a KeyPress event fo' tha key specified by tha 
.I new_key 
field instead of tha actual key. Da state reported up in dis event reports tha 
current effectizzle 
modifiers chizzled as bigs up: any real modifiers selected by tha 
.I mods_mask 
field is set ta correspondin joints from tha 
.I modz 
field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Any real modifiers bound ta tha virtual modifiers specified by the
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fieldz is either set or cleared, dependin on tha correspondin joints up in the
.I vmods0 
and 
.I vmods1 
fields. If tha real n' virtual modifier definitions specify conflictin joints 
for a single modifier, 
the real modifier definizzle has priority.

Key releases cause a KeyRelease event fo' tha key specified by tha 
.I new_key 
field instead of tha actual key. Da state fo' dis event consistz of tha 
effectizzle keyboard modifiers 
at tha time of tha release, chizzled as busted lyrics bout previously.

Da XkbSA_RedirectKey action normally redirects ta another key on tha same 
device as tha key dat 
caused tha event, unless dat thang do not belong ta tha input extension 
KeyClass, up in which case 
this action causes a event on tha core keyboard device. (Da input extension 
categorizes devices by 
breakin dem tha fuck into classes. Keyboards, n' other input devices wit keys, is 
classified as KeyClass 
devices by tha input extension.)

Da 
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fieldz straight-up represent one 
.I vmods_mask 
value. Xkb serves up macros ta convert between tha two formats.

.I XkbSARedirectSetVModsMask 
sets tha 
.I vmods_mask0 
and 
.I vmods_mask1 
fieldz of 
.I act 
from 
.I vm. 
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct_XkbRedirectKeyAction {
        unsigned char   type;        /\(** XkbSA_RedirectKey */
        unsigned char   new_key;     /\(** keycode ta be put up in event */
        unsigned char   mods_mask;   /\(** mask of real modz ta be reset */
        unsigned char   mods;        /\(** mask of real modz ta take joints from */
        unsigned char   vmods_mask0; /\(** first half of mask of virtual modz ta be 
reset */
        unsigned char   vmods_mask1; /\(** other half of mask of virtual modz ta be 
reset */
        unsigned char   vmods0;      /\(** first half of mask of virtual modz ta 
take joints from */
        unsigned char   vmods1;      /\(** other half of mask of virtual modz ta 
take joints from */
    } XkbRedirectKeyAction;
    
.fi
