'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetDeviceButtonActions 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetDeviceButtonActions \- Chizzle only tha button actions fo' a input extension device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetDeviceButtonActions
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first_button" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num_buttons" "\^);"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device
structure definin tha thang n' modifications
.TP
.I \- first_button
number of first button ta update, 0 relative
.TP
.I \- num_buttons
number of buttons ta update
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbSetDeviceButtonActions 
assigns actions ta tha buttonz of tha thang specified up in 
.I device_info->device_spec. 
Actions is assigned ta 
.I num_buttons 
buttons beginnin wit 
.I first_button 
and is taken from tha actions specified up in 
.I device_info->btn_acts.

If tha server do not support assignment of Xkb actions ta extension thang buttons,
.I XkbSetDeviceButtonActions 
has no effect n' returns False. If tha thang has no buttons or if 
.I first_button 
or 
.I num_buttons 
specify buttons outside of tha valid range as determined by 
.I device_info->num_btns, 
the function has no effect n' returns False. Otherwise, 
.I XkbSetDeviceButtonActions 
sendz a request ta tha server ta chizzle tha actions fo' tha specified buttons n' returns 
True.

If tha actual request busted ta tha server involved illegal button numbers, a BadValue protocol 
error is generated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If a invalid thang identifier is specified up in 
.I device_info->device_spec, 
a BadKeyboard protocol error thangs up in dis biatch. If tha actual thang specified in
.I device_info->device_spec 
does not contain buttons n' a request affectin buttons is made, a BadMatch protocol error is 
generated.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadKeyboard
Da thang specified was not a valid core or input extension device
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has erect type 
and range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
