'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetControls \- Copies chizzlez ta tha X server based on a modified ctrls 
structure up in a local copy of tha keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long " "which" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- which
mask of controls requested
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description fo' controls shiznit
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
For each bit dat is set up in tha 
.I which 
parameter, 
.I XkbSetControls 
sendz tha correspondin joints from tha 
.I xkb->ctrls 
field ta tha server n' shit. Valid joints fo' 
.I which 
are any combination of tha masks listed up in Table 1 dat have "ok" up in the
.I which 
column.

Table 1 shows tha actual joints fo' tha individual mask bits used ta select 
controls fo' 
modification n' ta enable n' disable tha control. Note dat tha same mask bit 
is used ta 
specify general modifications ta tha parametas used ta configure tha control 
(which), n' ta 
enable n' disable tha control (enabled_ctrls). Da anomalies up in tha table (no 
"ok" up in column) 
are fo' controls dat have no configurable attributes; n' fo' controls dat is 
not boolean 
controls n' therefore cannot be enabled or disabled.

.TS
c s s s
l l l l
l l l l
l l l l. 
Table 1 Controls Mask Bits
_
Mask Bit	which or	enabled	Value
	changed_ctrls	_ctrls
_
XkbRepeatKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<0)
XkbSlowKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<1)
XkbBounceKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<2)
XkbStickyKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<3)
XkbMouseKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<4)
XkbMouseKeysAccelMask	ok	ok	(1L<<5)
XkbAccessXKeysMask	ok	ok	(1L<<6)
XkbAccessXTimeoutMask	ok	ok	(1L<<7)
XkbAccessXFeedbackMask	ok	ok	(1L<<8)
XkbAudibleBellMask		ok	(1L<<9)
XkbOverlay1Mask		ok	(1L<<10)
XkbOverlay2Mask		ok	(1L<<11)
XkbIgnoreGroupLockMask		ok	(1L<<12)
XkbGroupsWrapMask	ok		(1L<<27)
XkbInternalModsMask	ok		(1L<<28)
XkbIgnoreLockModsMask	ok		(1L<<29)
XkbPerKeyRepeatMask	ok		(1L<<30)
XkbControlsEnabledMask	ok		(1L<<31)
XkbAccessXOptionsMask	ok	ok	(XkbStickyKeysMask | 
			XkbAccessXFeedbackMask)
XkbAllBooleanCtrlsMask		ok	(0x00001FFF) 
XkbAllControlsMask	ok		(0xF8001FFF)
.TE

If 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is NULL, tha server do not support a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbSetControls 
returns False. Otherwise, it sendz tha request ta tha X server n' returns True.

Note dat chizzlez ta attributez of controls up in tha XkbControlsRec structure is 
apparent only when tha associated control is enabled, although tha correspondin 
values is still updated up in tha X server n' shit. For example, tha 
.I repeat_delay 
and 
.I repeat_interval 
fieldz is ignored unless tha RepeatKeys control is enabled (that is, tha X 
serverz equivalent of 
.I xkb->ctrls 
has XkbRepeatKeyMask set up in 
.I enabled_ctrls). 
It be permissible ta modify tha attributez of a cold-ass lil control up in one call to
.I XkbSetControls 
and enable tha control up in a subsequent call. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.I XkbChangeEnabledControls 
for mo' shiznit on enablin n' disablin controls.

Note dat tha 
.I enabled_ctrls 
field is itself a cold-ass lil control - tha EnabledControls control fo' realz. As such, ta set a 
specific configuration of enabled n' disabled boolean controls, you must set
.I enabled_ctrls 
to tha appropriate bits ta enable only tha controls you want n' disable all 
others, then specify tha XkbControlsEnabledMask up in a cold-ass lil call ta 
.I XkbSetControls. 

Because dis is somewhat awkward if all you wanna do is enable n' disable 
controls, n' not modify any of they attributes, a cold-ass lil convenience function be also 
provided fo' dis purpose, 
.I XkbChangeEnabledControls.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbSetControls 
function returns True when it sendz tha request ta tha X server.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbSetControls 
function returns False when 
.I xkb->ctrls 
is NULL, tha server do not support a cold-ass lil compatible version of Xkb, or tha Xkb 
extension has not been properly initialized.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available up in tha server or a argument has 
correct type n' range yo, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbChangeEnabledControls (3),
.BR XkbFreeControls (3)

