.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetNamedIndicator 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetNamedIndicator \- Names a indicator if it aint already named; togglez 
the state of tha indicator; sets tha indicator ta a specified state n' sets tha 
indicator map fo' tha indicator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetNamedIndicator
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "Atom " "name" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "change_state" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "state" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "create_new" "\^,"
.BI "XkbIndicatorMapPtr " "map" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta tha X server
.TP
.I \- device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I \- name
name of tha indicator ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- chizzle_state
whether ta chizzle tha indicator state or not
.TP
.I \- state
desired freshly smoked up state fo' tha indicator
.TP
.I \- create_new
whether a freshly smoked up indicator wit tha specified name should be pimped when necessary
.TP
.I \- map
new map fo' tha indicator
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha Xkb extension aint available up in tha server, 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator 
returns False. Otherwise, it sendz a request ta tha X server ta chizzle tha 
indicator specified by 
.I name 
and returns True.
 
If 
.I chizzle_state 
is True, n' tha optionizzle parameter, 
.I state, 
is not NULL, 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator 
 drops some lyrics ta tha server ta chizzle tha state of tha named indicator ta tha value 
specified by 
.I state. 

If a indicator wit tha name specified by 
.I name 
does not already exist, tha 
.I create_new 
parameta  drops some lyrics ta tha server whether it should create a freshly smoked up named indicator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If 
.I create_new 
is True, tha server findz tha straight-up original gangsta indicator dat aint gots a name n' gives 
it tha name specified by 
.I name. 
If tha optionizzle parameter, 
.I map, aint NULL, 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator 
 drops some lyrics ta tha server ta chizzle tha indicatorz map ta tha joints specified up in 
.I map.

In addition, it can also generate XkbIndicatorStateNotify, 
XkbIndicatorMapNotify, n' XkbNamesNotify events.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator 
function returns True if a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha Xkb extension be available up in tha server.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbSetNamedIndicator 
function returns False if a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha Xkb extension aint available up in tha server.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAtom
A name is neither a valid Atom or None
.TP 15
.B BadImplementation
Invalid reply from server
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbIndicatorMapNotify (3),
.BR XkbIndicatorStateNotify (3),
.BR XkbNamesNotify (3)

