.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat \- Sets DetectableAutoRepeat
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "Bool " "detectable" "\^,"
.BI "Bool *" "supported_rtrn" "\^);"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- detectable
True => set DetectableAutoRepeat
.TP
.I \- supported_rtrn
backfilled True if DetectableAutoRepeat supported
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Auto-repeat is tha generation of multiple key events by a keyboard when tha user
presses a key n' holdz it down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Keyboard hardware n' device-dependent X server
software often implement auto-repeat by generatin multiple KeyPress events with
no intervenin KeyRelease event. Da standard behavior of tha X server is to
generate a KeyRelease event fo' every last muthafuckin KeyPress event. If tha keyboard hardware
and device-dependent software of tha X server implement auto-repeat by
generatin multiple KeyPress events, tha device-independent part of tha X server
by default synthetically generates a KeyRelease event afta each KeyPress event.
This serves up predictable behavior fo' X clients yo, but do not allow them
clients ta detect tha fact dat a key be auto-repeating.

Xkb allows clients ta request
.I detectable auto-repeat.
If a cold-ass lil client requests n' tha server supports DetectableAutoRepeat, Xkb generates
KeyRelease events only when tha key is physically busted out. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
DetectableAutoRepeat aint supported or has not been requested, tha server
synthesizes a KeyRelease event fo' each repeatin KeyPress event it generates.

DetectableAutoRepeat, unlike other controls, aint contained up in the
XkbControlsRec structure, nor can it be enabled or disabled via the
EnabledControls control. Instead, query n' set DetectableAutoRepeat using
.I XkbGetDetectableAutoRepeat
and
.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat.

DetectableAutoRepeat be a cold-ass lil condizzle dat applies ta all keyboard devices fo' a
clientz connection ta a given X server; it cannot be selectively set fo' some
devices n' not fo' others. For dis reason, none of tha Xkb library functions
involvin DetectableAutoRepeat involve a thang specifier.

This request affects all keyboard activitizzle fo' tha requestin client only; other
clients still peep tha expected nondetectable auto-repeat behavior, unless they
have axed otherwise.

.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
sendz a request ta tha server ta set DetectableAutoRepeat on fo' tha current
client if
.I detectable
is True, n' off if
.I detectable
is False; it then waits fo' a reply. If
.I supported_rtrn
is not NULL,
.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
backfills
.I supported_rtrn
with True if tha server supports DetectableAutoRepeat, n' False if it do not.
.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
returns tha current state of DetectableAutoRepeat fo' tha requestin client:
True if DetectableAutoRepeat is set, n' False otherwise.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The
.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
function returns True if DetectableAutoRepeat is set.
.TP 15
False
The
.I XkbSetDetectableAutoRepeat
function returns False if DetectableAutoRepeat aint set.
