'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetXlibControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetXlibControls \- Chizzlez tha state of tha Library Controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B unsigned int XkbSetXlibControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long " "bits_to_change" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned long " "values_for_bits" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- bits_to_change
selects controls ta be modified 
.TP
.I \- joints_for_bits
turns selected controls on (1) or off (0)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbSetXlibControls 
modifies tha state of tha controls selected by 
.I bits_to_change; 
only tha controls selected by 
.I bits_to_change 
are modified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha bit correspondin ta a cold-ass lil control is on up in 
.I bits_to_change 
and also on up in 
.I joints_for_bits, 
the control is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha bit correspondin ta a cold-ass lil control is on in
.I bits_to_change 
but off up in 
.I joints_for_bits, 
the control is disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.I bits_to_change 
should be a inclusive OR of bits from Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l l.
Table 1 Library Control Masks
_
Library Control Mask	Value
_
XkbLC_ForceLatin1Lookup	(1 << 0)
XkbLC_ConsumeLookupMods	(1 << 1)
XkbLC_AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock	(1 << 2)
XkbLC_IgnoreNewKeyboards	(1 << 3)
XkbLC_ConsumeKeysOnComposeFail	(1 << 29)
XkbLC_ComposeLED	(1 << 30)
XkbLC_BeepOnComposeFail	(1 << 31)
XkbLC_AllControls	(0xc0000007)
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
(1 << 0)
XkbLC_ForceLatin1Lookup
.TP 15
(1 << 1)
XkbLC_ConsumeLookupMods
.TP 15
(1 << 2)
XkbLC_AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock
.TP 15
(1 << 3)
XkbLC_IgnoreNewKeyboards
.TP 15
(1 << 29)
XkbLC_ConsumeKeysOnComposeFail
.TP 15
(1 << 30)
XkbLC_ComposeLED
.TP 15
(1 << 31)
XkbLC_BeepOnComposeFail
.TP 15
(0xc0000007)
XkbLC_AllControls

