'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetDebuggingFlags 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetDebuggingFlags \- Chizzle tha jointz of any of tha debug controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetDebuggingFlags
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "mask" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "flags" "\^,"
.BI "char *" "msg" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "ctrls_mask" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "ctrls" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "ret_flags" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "ret_ctrls" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- mask
mask selectin debug output flags ta chizzle
.TP
.I \- flags
values fo' debug output flags selected by mask
.TP
.I \- msg
message ta print right now
.TP
.I \- ctrls_mask
mask selectin debug controls ta chizzle 
.TP
.I \- ctrls
values fo' debug controls selected by ctrls_mask
.TP
.I \- ret_flags
resultin state of all debug output flags
.TP
.I \- ret_ctrls
resultin state of all debug controls
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da debuggin aidz is intended fo' use primarily by Xkb implementors n' is 
optionizzle up in any implementation.

There is two bitmasks dat may be used ta control debugging. One bitmask 
controls tha output of debuggin shiznit, n' tha other controls behavior. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
Both bitmasks is initially all zeros.

To chizzle tha jointz of any of tha debug controls, use 
.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags.

.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
modifies tha debug output flags as specified by 
.I mask 
and 
flags, 
modifies tha debug controls flags as specified by 
.I ctrls_mask 
and 
ctrls, 
prints tha message 
.I msg, 
and backfills 
.I ret_flags 
and 
.I ret_ctrls 
with tha resultin debug output n' debug controls flags. 

When bits is set up in tha debug output masks, 
.I mask 
and 
.I flags, 
Xkb prints debug shiznit correspondin ta each bit at appropriate points 
durin its processing. Da thang ta which tha output is freestyled is 
implementation-dependent yo, but is normally tha same thang ta which X server 
error lyrics is directed; thus tha bits dat can be set up in 
.I mask 
and 
.I flags 
is implementation-specific. To turn on a thugged-out debug output selection, set tha bit fo' 
the output up in tha 
.I mask 
parameta n' set tha correspondin bit up in tha 
.I flags 
parameter n' shit. To turn off event selection fo' a event, set tha bit fo' tha output 
in tha 
.I mask 
parameta n' do not set tha correspondin bit up in tha 
.I flags 
parameter.

When bits is set up in tha debug controls masks, 
.I ctrls_mask 
and 
.I ctrls, 
Xkb modifies its behavior accordin ta each controls bit. 
.I ctrls_mask 
and 
ctrls 
are related up in tha same way dat 
.I mask 
and 
.I flags 
are. Da valid controls bits is defined up in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l.
Table 1 Debug Control Masks
_
Debug Control Mask	Value	Meaning
_
XkbDF_DisableLocks	(1 << 0)	Disable actions dat lock modifiers
.TE

.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
returns True if successful n' False otherwise. Da only protocol error it may 
generate is BadAlloc, if fo' some reason it is unable ta allocate storage. 

.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
is intended fo' pimper use n' may be disabled up in thang X servers. If it 
is disabled, 
.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
has no effect n' do not generate any protocol errors.

Da message up in 
.I msg 
is freestyled immediately. Da thang ta which it is freestyled is implementation 
dependent but is normally tha same thang where X server error lyrics is 
directed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
function returns True when successful.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbSetDebuggingFlags 
function returns False when not successful.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable ta allocate storage
