'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetPtrActionX 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetPtrActionX \- Sets tha high_XXX n' low_XXX fieldz of act from tha signed 
integer value x
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSetPtrActionX
.BI "(\^XkbPtrAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "int " "x" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action up in which ta set X
.TP
.I \- x
new value ta set
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated wit tha XkbPtrAction structure move tha pointa when keys 
are pressed n' busted out.

If tha MouseKeys control aint enabled, KeyPress n' KeyRelease events is 
treated as though tha action is XkbSA_NoAction.

If tha MouseKeys control is enabled, a server action of type XkbSA_MovePtr 
instructs tha server ta generate core pointa MotionNotify events rather than 
the usual KeyPress event, n' tha correspondin KeyRelease event disablez any 
mouse keys timers dat was pimped as a result of handlin tha XkbSA_MovePtr 
action.

Da 
.I type 
field of tha XkbPtrAction structure be always XkbSA_MovePtr.

Da 
.I flags 
field be a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of tha masks shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Pointa Action Types
_
Action Type	Meaning
_
XkbSA_NoAcceleration	T{
If not set, n' tha MouseKeysAccel control is enabled, tha KeyPress initiates a 
mouse keys timer fo' dis key; every last muthafuckin time tha timer expires, tha cursor moves.
T}
XkbSA_MoveAbsoluteX	T{
If set, tha X portion of tha structure specifies tha freshly smoked up pointa X coordinate. 
Otherwise, tha X portion be added ta tha current pointa X coordinizzle ta 
determine tha freshly smoked up pointa X coordinate.
T}
XkbSA_MoveAbsoluteY	T{
If set, tha Y portion of tha structure specifies tha freshly smoked up pointa Y coordinate. 
Otherwise, tha Y portion be added ta tha current pointa Y coordinizzle ta 
determine tha freshly smoked up pointa Y coordinate.
T}
.TE

Each of tha X n' Y coordinatez of tha XkbPtrAction structure is composed of
two signed 16-bit joints, dat is, tha X coordinizzle is composed of 
.I high_XXX 
and 
.I low_XXX, 
and similarly fo' tha Y coordinate. Xkb serves up tha followin macros, ta 
convert between a signed integer n' two signed 16-bit joints up in XkbPtrAction 
structures.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbPtrAction {
        unsigned char    type;         /\(** XkbSA_MovePtr */
        unsigned char    flags;        /\(** determines type of pointa motion */
        unsigned char    high_XXX;     /\(** x coordinate, high bits*/
        unsigned char    low_XXX;      /\(** y coordinate, low bits */
        unsigned char    high_YYY;     /\(** x coordinate, high bits */
        unsigned char    low_YYY;      /\(** y coordinate, low bits */
    } XkbPtrAction;

.fi    
