.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetAutoRepeatRate \- Sets tha attributez of tha RepeatKeys control fo' a 
keyboard device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetAutoRepeatRate
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "timeout" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "interval" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- device_spec
device ta configure, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I \- timeout
initial delay, ms
.TP
.I \- interval
delay between repeats, ms
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da core protocol allows only control over whether or not tha entire keyboard or 
individual keys should auto-repeat when held down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. RepeatKeys be a funky-ass boolean 
control dat extendz dis capabilitizzle by addin control over tha delay until a 
key begins ta repeat n' tha rate at which it repeats, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. RepeatKeys is coupled 
with tha core auto-repeat control: when RepeatKeys is enabled or disabled, tha 
core auto-repeat is enabled or disabled n' vice versa.

Auto-repeatin keys is controlled by two attributes. Da first, 
.I timeout, 
is tha delay afta tha initial press of a auto-repeatin key n' tha straight-up original gangsta 
generated repeat event. Da second, 
.I interval, 
is tha delay between all subsequent generated repeat events fo' realz. As wit all boolean 
controls, configurin tha attributes dat determine how tha fuck tha control operates 
does not automatically enable tha control as a whole.

.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
sendz a request ta tha X server ta configure tha AutoRepeat control attributes 
to tha joints specified up in 
.I timeout 
and 
.I interval.
 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
does not wait fo' a reply; it normally returns True. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specifyin a zero value fo' 
either 
.I timeout 
or 
.I interval 
causes tha server ta generate a BadValue protocol error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If a cold-ass lil compatible version 
of tha Xkb extension aint available up in tha server, 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
returns False.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
function returns True normally.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
function returns False if a cold-ass lil compatible version of tha Xkb extension aint 
available up in tha server.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is outta range
