'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSASetPtrDfltValue 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSASetPtrDfltValue \- Sets tha valueXXX field of act from val
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSASetPtrDfltValue
.BI "(\^XkbAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "int " "val" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action up in which ta set valueXXX
.TP
.I \- val
value ta set up in valueXXX
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated wit tha XkbPtrDfltAction structure chizzle tha mk_dflt_btn 
attribute of tha MouseKeys control.

If tha MouseKeys control aint enabled, KeyPress n' KeyRelease events is 
treated as though tha action is XkbSA_NoAction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, dis action chizzlez 
the 
.I mk_dflt_btn 
attribute of tha MouseKeys control.

Da 
.I type 
field of tha XkbPtrDfltAction structure should always be XkbSA_SetPtrDflt.

Da 
.I flags 
field is composed of tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha joints shown up in Table 1 
(currently there is only one value defined).

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Pointa Default Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_DfltBtnAbsolute	T{
If set, tha value field represents a absolute pointa button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Otherwise, tha 
value field represents tha amount ta be added ta tha current default button.
T}
.TE

Da 
.I affect 
field specifies what tha fuck chizzlez as a result of dis action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da only valid value 
for tha 
.I affect 
field is XkbSA_AffectDfltBtn.

Da 
.I valueXXX 
field be a signed characta dat represents tha freshly smoked up button value fo' the
.I mk_dflt_btn 
attribute of tha MouseKeys control. If XkbSA_DfltBtnAbsolute is set up in 
.I flags, valueXXX 
specifies tha button ta be used; otherwise, 
.I valueXXX 
specifies tha amount ta be added ta tha current default button. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In either case, 
illegal button chizzlez is wrapped back round tha fuck into range. Xkb serves up macros, 
to convert between tha integer n' signed characta joints up in XkbPtrDfltAction 
structures.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbPtrDfltAction {
        unsigned char    type;      /\(** XkbSA_SetPtrDflt */
        unsigned char    flags;     /\(** controls tha pointa button number */
        unsigned char    affect;    /\(** XkbSA_AffectDfltBtn */
        char             valueXXX;  /\(** freshly smoked up default button member */
    } XkbPtrDfltAction;

.fi
