'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSAActionSetCtrls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSAActionSetCtrls \- Sets tha 
.I ctrls0 
all up in 
.I ctrls3
fieldz of 
.I act
from 
.I ctrls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B void XkbSAActionSetCtrls
.BI "(\^XkbCtrlsAction " "act" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "ctrls" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action up in which ta set ctrls0-ctrls3
.TP
.I \- ctrls
value ta set up in ctrls0-ctrls3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated wit tha XkbCtrlsAction structure chizzle tha state of tha 
boolean controls.

Da 
.I type 
field can have any one of tha joints shown up in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Controls Action Types
_
Type	Effect
_
XkbSA_SetControls	T{
A key press enablez any boolean controls specified up in tha ctrls fieldz dat was 
not already enabled at 
the time of tha key press.
A key release disablez any controls enabled by tha key press.
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
XkbSA_LockControls	T{
If tha XkbSA_LockNoLock bit aint set up in tha flags field, a key press enablez 
any controls specified up in 
the ctrls fieldz dat was not already enabled all up in tha time of tha key press.
.br
If tha XkbSA_LockNoUnlock bit aint set up in tha flags field, a key release 
disablez any controls 
specified up in tha ctrls fieldz dat was not already disabled all up in tha time of tha 
key press.
.br
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
.TE

Da 
.I flags 
field is composed of tha bitwise inclusive OR of tha masks shown up in Table 2.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 2 Control Action Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_LockNoLock	T{
If set, n' tha action type is XkbSA_LockControls, tha server only disablez 
controls.
T}
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock	T{
If set, n' tha action type is XkbSA_LockControls, tha server only enablez 
controls.
T}
.TE

Da XkbSA_SetControls action implements a key dat enablez a funky-ass boolean control 
when pressed n' disablez it 
when busted out. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da XkbSA_LockControls action is used ta implement a key dat 
togglez tha state of a 
boolean control each time it is pressed n' busted out. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da XkbSA_LockNoLock n' 
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock flags 
allow modifyin tha togglin behavior ta only unlock or only lock tha boolean 
control.

Da 
.I ctrls0, ctrls1, ctrls2, 
and 
.I ctrls3 
fieldz represent tha boolean controls up in tha 
.I enabled_ctrls 
field of tha controls structure. Xkb macros, ta convert between tha two formats.

.I XkbSAActionSetCtrls 
sets tha 
.I ctrls0 
all up in 
.I ctrls3 
fieldz of 
.I act 
from 
.I ctrls.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbCtrlsAction {
        unsigned char    type;    /\(** XkbSA_SetControls, XkbSA_LockControls */
        unsigned char    flags;   /\(** wit type, controls enablin n' disablin 
of controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls3;  /\(** ctrls0 all up in ctrls3 represent tha boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls2;  /\(** ctrls0 all up in ctrls3 represent tha boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls1;  /\(** ctrls0 all up in ctrls3 represent tha boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls0;  /\(** ctrls0 all up in ctrls3 represent tha boolean 
controls */
    } XkbCtrlsAction;
.fi
