.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbSetAutoResetControls 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetAutoResetControls \- Chizzlez tha current jointz of tha AutoReset control 
attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbSetAutoResetControls
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "changes" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "auto_ctrls" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "auto_values" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- chizzles
controls fo' which ta chizzle auto-reset joints
.TP
.I \- auto_ctrls
controls from chizzlez dat should auto reset 
.TP
.I \- auto_values
1 bit => auto-reset on
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbSetAutoResetControls 
changes tha auto-reset status n' associated auto-reset joints fo' tha controls 
selected by 
.I chizzles. 
For any control selected by 
.I chizzles, 
if tha correspondin bit is set up in 
.I auto_ctrls, 
the control is configured ta auto-reset when tha client exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha 
correspondin bit up in 
.I auto_values 
is on, tha control is turned on when tha client exits; if zero, tha control is 
turned off when tha client exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For any control selected by 
.I chizzles, 
if tha correspondin bit aint set up in 
.I auto_ctrls, 
the control is configured ta not reset when tha client exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 

For example:

.nf
To leave tha auto-reset controls fo' StickyKeys tha way they are:

	ok = XkbSetAutoResetControls(dpy, 0, 0, 0);
	
To chizzle tha auto-reset controls so dat StickyKeys is unaffected when tha 
client exits:

	ok = XkbSetAutoResetControls(dpy, XkbStickyKeysMask, 0, 0);
	
To chizzle tha auto-reset controls so dat StickyKeys is turned off when tha 
client exits:

	ok = XkbSetAutoResetControls(dpy, XkbStickyKeysMask, XkbStickyKeysMask, 0);
	
To chizzle tha auto-reset controls so dat StickyKeys is turned on when tha 
client exits:

	ok = XkbSetAutoResetControls(dpy, XkbStickyKeysMask, XkbStickyKeysMask, 
XkbStickyKeysMask);

.fi
.I XkbSetAutoResetControls 
backfills 
.I auto_ctrls 
and 
.I auto_values 
with tha auto-reset controls fo' dis particular client. Note dat all of tha 
bits is valid up in tha returned joints, not just tha ones selected up in tha 
.I chizzlez 
mask.
