.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbTranslateKeyCode 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbTranslateKeyCode \-  Translate a keycode ta a key symbol n' modifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbTranslateKeyCode
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "key" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "mods" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "mods_rtrn" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym *" "keysym_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta use fo' translation
.TP
.I \- key
keycode ta translate
.TP
.I \- mods
modifiers ta apply when translatin key
.TP
.I \- mods_rtrn
backfilled wit unconsumed modifiers
.TP
.I \- keysym_rtrn
keysym resultin from translation
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I mods_rtrn 
is backfilled wit tha modifiers consumed by tha translation process. 
.I modz 
is a funky-ass bitwise inclusive OR of tha legal modifier masks: ShiftMask, LockMask, 
ControlMask, Mod1Mask, Mod2Mask, Mod3Mask, Mod4Mask, Mod5Mask.Da 
AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock library control (see below), if enabled, causes
.I XkbTranslateKeyCode 
to consume shift n' lock. 
.I XkbTranslateKeyCode 
returns True if tha translation resulted up in a keysym, n' False if it resulted 
in NoSymbol.

Da AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock control, if enabled, forces 
.I XLookupStrin 
to consume tha Shift n' Lock modifiers when processin all keys, even if tha 
definizzle fo' tha key type do not specify these modifiers. Da 
AlwaysConsumeShiftAndLock control is unset by default. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XLookupStrin (3)
