.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbTranslateKeySym 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbTranslateKeySym \- Find tha strang n' symbol associated wit a keysym fo' a 
given keyboard state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B int XkbTranslateKeySym
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym *" "sym_inout" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "mods" "\^,"
.BI "char *" "buf" "\^,"
.BI "int " "nbytes" "\^,"
.BI "int *" "extra_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection ta X server
.TP
.I \- sym_inout
symbol ta be translated; result of translation
.TP
.I \- mods
modifiers ta apply ta sym_inout 
.TP
.I \- buf
buffer tha fuck into which returned strang is freestyled 
.TP
.I \- nbytes
size of buffer up in bytes
.TP
.I \- extra_rtrn
number of bytes overflow
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbTranslateKeySym 
applies tha transformations specified up in 
.I modz 
to tha symbol specified by 
.I sym_inout. 
It returns up in 
.I buf 
the string, if any, associated wit tha keysym fo' tha current locale. If tha 
transformations up in 
.I modz 
changes tha keysym, 
.I sym_inout 
is updated accordingly. If tha strang returned is larger than 
.I nbytes,
a count of bytes dat do not fit tha fuck into tha buffer is returned up in 
.I extra_rtrn, so check it before ya wreck it. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. XkbTranslateKeySym 
returns tha number of bytes it placed tha fuck into 
.I buf.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
buf
Returns tha string, if any, associated wit tha keysym fo' tha current locale.


