'\" t
.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbUpdateMapFromCore 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbUpdateMapFromCore \-  Update a local Xkb keyboard map ta reflect tha mappin 
expressed by a cold-ass lil core format mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbUpdateMapFromCore
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "KeyCode " "first_key" "\^,"
.BI "int " "num_keys" "\^,"
.BI "int " "map_width" "\^,"
.BI "KeySym *" "core_keysyms" "\^,"
.BI "XkbChangesPtr " "changes" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description ta update
.TP
.I \- first_key
keycode of first key description ta update
.TP
.I \- num_keys
number of key descriptions ta update
.TP
.I \- map_width
width of core protocol keymap
.TP
.I \- core_keysyms
symbols up in core protocol keymap
.TP
.I \- chizzles
backfilled wit chizzlez made ta Xkb
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb serves up nuff muthafuckin functions dat make it easier ta apply tha compatibilitizzle 
map ta configure a cold-ass lil client-side Xkb keyboard mapping, given a cold-ass lil core protocol 
representation of part or all of a keyboard mapping. Obtain a cold-ass lil core protocol 
representation of a keyboard mappin from a actual server (by using
.I XGetKeyboardMapping, 
for example), a thugged-out data file, or some other source.

.I XkbUpdateMapFromCore 
interprets input argument shiznit representin a keyboard map up in core format 
to update tha Xkb keyboard description passed up in 
.I xkb. 
Only a portion of tha Xkb map is updated - tha portion correspondin ta keys 
with keycodes up in tha range 
.I first_key 
all up in 
.I first_key + num_keys - 1. 
If 
.I XkbUpdateMapFromCore 
is bein called up in response ta a MappingNotify event, 
.I first_key 
and 
.I num_keys 
are reported up in tha MappingNotify event. 
.I core_keysyms 
gotz nuff tha keysyms correspondin ta tha keycode range bein updated, up in core 
keyboard description order n' shit. 
.I map_width 
is tha number of keysyms per key up in 
.I core_keysyms. 
Thus, tha straight-up original gangsta 
.I map_width 
entries up in 
.I core_keysyms 
are fo' tha key wit keycode 
.I first_key, 
the next 
.I map_width 
entries is fo' key 
.I first_key + 1, 
and so on.

In addizzle ta modifyin tha Xkb keyboard mappin up in 
.I xkb, XkbUpdateMapFromCore 
backfills tha chizzlez structure whose address is passed up in 
.I chizzlez 
to indicate tha modifications dat was made. Yo ass may then use 
.I chizzlez 
in subsequent calls like fuckin 
.I XkbSetMap, 
to propagate tha local modifications ta a server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbSetMap (3)
