.\" Copyright 1999 Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XkbVirtualModsToReal 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbVirtualModsToReal \- Determines tha mappin of virtual modifiers ta core X 
protocol modifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbVirtualModsToReal
.BI "(\^XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "virtual_mask" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int *" "mask_rtrn" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- xkb
keyboard description fo' input device
.TP
.I \- virtual_mask
virtual modifier mask ta translate
.TP
.I \- mask_rtrn
backfilled wit real modifiers
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb maintains a 
.I virtual modifier mapping, 
which lists tha virtual modifiers associated with, or bound to, each key. Da 
real modifiers bound ta a virtual modifier always include all of tha modifiers 
bound ta any of tha keys dat specify dat virtual modifier up in they virtual 
modifier mapping. Da 
.I server.vmodmap 
array indicates which virtual modifiers is bound ta each key; each entry be a 
bitmask fo' tha virtual modifier bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da 
.I server.vmodmap 
array is indexed by keycode.

Da 
.I vmodmap 
and 
.I vmodz 
thugz of tha server map is tha "master" virtual modifier definitions. Xkb 
automatically propagates any chizzlez ta these fieldz ta all other fieldz dat 
use virtual modifier mappings.

For example, if Mod3 is bound ta tha Num_Lock key by tha core protocol modifier 
mapping, n' tha NumLock virtual modifier is bound ta they Num_Lock key by tha 
virtual modifier mapping, Mod3 be added ta tha set of modifiers associated wit 
NumLock.

Da virtual modifier mappin is normally updated whenever actions is 
automatically applied ta symbols n' few applications should need ta chizzle tha 
virtual modifier mappin explicitly.

Use 
.I XkbGetMap
to git tha virtual modifiers from tha server or use 
.I XkbGetVirtualModz 
to update a local copy of tha virtual modifiers bindings from tha server n' shit. To set 
the bindin of a virtual modifier ta a real modifier, use 
.I XkbGetVirtualMods

If tha keyboard description defined by 
.I xkb 
includes bindings fo' virtual modifiers, 
.I XkbVirtualModsToReal 
uses dem bindings ta determine tha set of real modifiers dat correspond ta 
the set of virtual modifiers specified up in 
.I virtual_mask. 
Da 
.I virtual_mask 
parameta be a mask specifyin tha virtual modifiers ta translate; tha i-th bit 
(0 relative) of tha mask represents tha i-th virtual modifier n' shit. If 
.I mask_rtrn 
is non-NULL, 
.I XkbVirtualModsToReal 
backfills it wit tha resultin real modifier mask. If tha keyboard description 
in 
.I xkb 
does not include virtual modifier bindings, 
.I XkbVirtualModsToReal 
returns False; otherwise, it returns True.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
Da 
.I XkbVirtualModsToReal 
function returns True if tha keyboard description 
in 
.I xkb 
does include virtual modifier bindings.
.TP 15
False
Da 
.I XkbVirtualModsToReal 
function returns False if tha keyboard description 
in 
.I xkb 
does not include virtual modifier bindings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetMap (3),
.BR XkbGetVirtualModz (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
It be possible fo' a local (client-side) keyboard description (the 
.I xkb 
parameter) ta not contain any virtual modifier shiznit (simply cuz tha 
client has not axed it) while tha serverz correspondin definizzle may 
contain virtual modifier shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

