.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XListFonts 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XListFonts, XFreeFontNames, XListFontsWithInfo, XFreeFontInfo \- obtain or free font names n' shiznit
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
char **XListFonts\^(\^Display *\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\^\fIpattern\fP\^, int
\fImaxnames\fP\^, int *\^\fIactual_count_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreeFontNames\^(\^char *\fIlist\fP\^[\^]\^); 
.HP
char **XListFontsWithInfo\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIpattern\fP\^,
int \fImaxnames\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^, XFontStruct
**\fIinfo_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreeFontInfo(\^char **\fInames\fP\^, XFontStruct *\fIfree_info\fP, int
\fIactual_count\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIactual_count\fP 1i
Specifies tha actual number of font names.

.IP \fIactual_count_return\fP 1i
Returns tha actual number of font names.
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha actual number of matched font names.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIinfo_return\fP 1i
Returns tha font shiznit.
.IP \fIfree_info\fP 1i
Specifies tha font shiznit.

.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies tha array of strings you wanna free.
.IP \fImaxnames\fP 1i
Specifies tha maximum number of names ta be returned.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies tha list of font names.

.IP \fIpattern\fP 1i
Specifies tha null-terminated pattern strang dat can contain wildcard 
characters.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XListFonts
function returns a array of available font names 
(as controlled by tha font search path; see
.ZN XSetFontPath )
that match tha strang you passed ta tha pattern argument.
Da pattern strang can contain any characters,
but each asterisk (*) be a wildcard fo' any number of characters,
and each question mark (?) be a wildcard fo' a single character.
If tha pattern strang aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase do not matter.
Each returned strang is null-terminated.
If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable Characta Encoding,
then tha returned strings is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
If there be no matchin font names,
.ZN XListFonts
returns NULL.
Da client should call
.ZN XFreeFontNames
when finished wit tha result ta free tha memory.
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeFontNames
function frees tha array n' strings returned by
.ZN XListFonts 
or
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo .
.LP
The
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
function returns a list of font names dat match tha specified pattern n' their
associated font shiznit.
Da list of names is limited ta size specified by maxnames.
Da shiznit returned fo' each font is identical ta what
.ZN XLoadQueryFont
would return except dat tha per-characta metrics is not returned.
Da pattern strang can contain any characters,
but each asterisk (*) be a wildcard fo' any number of characters,
and each question mark (?) be a wildcard fo' a single character.
If tha pattern strang aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase do not matter.
Each returned strang is null-terminated.
If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable Characta Encoding,
then tha returned strings is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
If there be no matchin font names,
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
returns NULL.
.LP
To free only tha allocated name array,
the client should call
.ZN XFreeFontNames .
To free both tha name array n' tha font shiznit array
or ta free just tha font shiznit array,
the client should call
.ZN XFreeFontInfo .
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeFontInfo
function frees a gangbangin' font structure or a array of font structures
and optionally a array of font names.
If NULL is passed fo' names, no font names is freed.
If a gangbangin' font structure fo' a open font (returned by
.ZN XLoadQueryFont )
is passed, tha structure is freed,
but tha font aint closed; use
.ZN XUnloadFont
to close tha font.
.LP
Note that
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
is not thread-safe. If other threadz make X requests on tha same
.ZN Display ,
then dis functionz behavior is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XLoadFont(3),
XSetFontPath(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
