.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XMapWindow 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XMapWindow, XMapRaised, XMapSubwindows \- map windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XMapWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XMapRaised\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XMapSubwindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XMapWindow
function
maps tha window n' all of its
subwindows dat have had map requests.
Mappin a window dat has a unmapped ancestor do not display the
window but marks it as eligible fo' display when tha ancestor becomes
mapped.
Such a window is called unviewable.
When all its ancestors is mapped,
the window becomes viewable
and is ghon be visible on tha screen if it aint obscured by another window.
This function has no effect if tha window be already mapped.
.LP
If tha override-redirect of tha window is
.ZN False 
and if some other client has selected
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask
on tha parent window, then tha X server generates a
.ZN MapRequest
event, n' the
.ZN XMapWindow
function do not map tha window.
Otherwise, tha window is mapped, n' tha X server generates a
.ZN MapNotify
event.
.LP
If tha window becomes viewable n' no earlier contents fo' it is remembered,
the X server tilez tha window wit its background.
If tha windowz background is undefined,
the existin screen contents is not
altered, n' tha X server generates zero or mo' 
.ZN Expose
events.
If backing-store was maintained while tha window was unmapped, no 
.ZN Expose
events
are generated.
If backing-store will now be maintained, 
a full-window exposure be always generated.
Otherwise, only visible regions may be reported.
Similar tilin n' exposure take place fo' any newly viewable inferiors.
.LP
.IN "XMapWindow"
If tha window be an
.ZN InputOutput 
window,
.ZN XMapWindow
generates 
.ZN Expose 
events on each 
.ZN InputOutput
window dat it causes ta be displayed.
If tha client maps n' paints tha window 
and if tha client begins processin events, 
the window is painted twice.
To avoid this,
first ask fo' 
.ZN Expose 
events n' then map tha window,
so tha client processes input events as usual.
Da event list will include 
.ZN Expose 
for each
window dat has rocked up on tha screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da clientz aiiight response to
an 
.ZN Expose 
event should be ta repaint tha window.
This method probably leadz ta simpla programs n' ta proper interaction
with window managers.
.LP
.ZN XMapWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XMapRaised
function
essentially is similar to
.ZN XMapWindow
in dat it maps tha window n' all of its
subwindows dat have had map requests.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it also raises tha specified window ta tha top of tha stack.
.LP
.ZN XMapRaised
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XMapSubwindows
.IN "XMapSubwindows"
function maps all subwindows fo' a specified window up in top-to-bottom stackin 
order.
Da X server generates
.ZN Expose
events on each newly displayed window.
This may be much mo' efficient than mappin nuff windows
one at a time cuz tha server need ta big-ass up much of tha work
only once, fo' all of tha windows, rather than fo' each window.
.LP
.ZN XMapSubwindows
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(3),
XConfigureWindow(3),
XCreateWindow(3),
XDestroyWindow(3),
XRaiseWindow(3),
XUnmapWindow(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
