.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XmbDrawText 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbDrawText, XwcDrawText, Xutf8DrawText \- draw text rockin multiple font sets 
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XmbDrawText\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, GC
\fIgc\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^, XmbTextItem *\fIitems\fP\^, int
\fInitems\fP\^); 
.HP
void XwcDrawText\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, GC
\fIgc\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^, XwcTextItem *\fIitems\fP\^, int
\fInitems\fP\^); 
.HP
void Xutf8DrawText\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, GC
\fIgc\fP\^, int \fIx\fP\^, int \fIy\fP\^, XmbTextItem *\fIitems\fP\^, int \fInitems\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawable. 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies tha GC.
.IP \fIitems\fP 1i
Specifies a array of text items.
.IP \fInitems\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of text shit up in tha array.
.ds Xy
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XmbDrawText ,
.ZN XwcDrawText 
and 
.ZN Xutf8DrawText 
functions allow complex spacin n' font set shifts between text strings.
Each text item is processed up in turn, wit tha origin of a text
element advanced up in tha primary draw direction by tha escapement of the
previous text item.
A text item delta specifies a additionizzle escapement of tha text item
drawin origin up in tha primary draw direction.
A font_set member other than 
.ZN None
in a item causes tha font set ta be used fo' dis n' subsequent text items
in tha text_items list.
Leadin text shit wit a gangbangin' font_set member set to
.ZN None
will not be drawn.
.LP
.ZN XmbDrawText ,
.ZN XwcDrawText
and
.ZN Xutf8DrawText
do not big-ass up any context-dependent renderin between text segments.
Clients may compute tha drawin metrics by passin each text segment to
.ZN XmbTextExtents ,
.ZN XwcTextExtents ,
.ZN Xutf8TextExtents
or
.ZN XmbTextPerCharExtents ,
.ZN XwcTextPerCharExtents .
.ZN Xutf8TextPerCharExtents .
When tha 
.ZN XFontSet
has missin charsets, each unavailable characta is drawn 
with tha default strang returned by 
.ZN XCreateFontSet .
Da behavior fo' a invalid codepoint is undefined.
.LP
Da function
.ZN Xutf8DrawText
is a extension introduced by Da XFree86 Project, Inc. up in they 4.0.2
release. Its presence is
indicated by tha macro
.ZN X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XmbTextItem
structure gotz nuff:
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        char *chars;    /\&* pointa ta strang */
        int nchars;     /\&* number of bytes */
        int delta;      /\&* pixel delta between strings */
        XFontSet font_set;      /\&* fonts, None means don't chizzle */
} XmbTextItem;
.De
The
.ZN XwcTextItem
structure gotz nuff:
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        wchar_t *chars; /\&* pointa ta wide char strang */
        int nchars;     /\&* number of wide charactas */
        int delta;      /\&* pixel delta between strings */
        XFontSet font_set;      /\&* fonts, None means don't chizzle */
} XwcTextItem;
.De
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawImageString(3),
XDrawString(3),
XDrawText(3),
XmbDrawImageString(3),
XmbDrawString(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
