.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XmbResetIC 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbResetIC, XwcResetIC, Xutf8ResetIC \- reset tha state of a input context
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
char *XmbResetIC\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^); 
.HP
wchar_t *XwcResetIC\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^); 
.HP
char *Xutf8ResetIC\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIic\fP 1i
Specifies tha input context.
.SH DESCRIPTION
When
.ZN XNResetState
is set to
.ZN XIMInitialState ,
.ZN XmbResetIC ,
.ZN XwcResetIC
and
.ZN Xutf8ResetIC
reset a input context ta its initial state;
when
.ZN XNResetState
is set to
.ZN XIMPreserveState ,
the current input context state is preserved.
In both cases, any input pendin on dat context is deleted.
Da input method is required ta clear tha preedit area, if any,
and update tha status accordingly.
Callin 
.ZN XmbResetIC ,
.ZN XwcResetIC
or
.ZN Xutf8ResetIC
does not chizzle tha focus.
.LP
Da return value of
.ZN XmbResetIC
is its current preedit strang as a multibyte string.
Da return value of
.ZN XwcResetIC
is its current preedit strang as a wide characta string.
Da return value of
.ZN Xutf8ResetIC
is its current preedit strang as a UTF-8 string.
If there be any preedit text drawn or visible ta tha user,
then these procedures must return a non-NULL string.
If there is no visible preedit text, 
then it is input method implementation-dependent 
whether these procedures return a non-NULL strang or NULL.
.LP
Da client should free tha returned strang by calling
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
Da function
.ZN Xutf8ResetIC
is a extension introduced by Da XFree86 Project, Inc. up in they 4.0.2
release. Its presence is
indicated by tha macro
.ZN X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateIC(3),
XOpenIM(3),
XSetICFocus(3),
XSetICValues(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
