.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XmbTextExtents 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbTextExtents, XwcTextExtents, Xutf8TextExtents \- compute text extents
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XmbTextExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^, char *\fIstring\fP\^, int
\fInum_bytes\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XwcTextExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^, wchar_t *\fIstring\fP\^, int
\fInum_wchars\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int Xutf8TextExtents\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^, char *\fIstring\fP\^, int
\fInum_bytes\fP\^, XRectangle *\fIoverall_ink_return\fP\^, XRectangle
*\fIoverall_logical_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont_set\fP 1i
Specifies tha font set.
.IP \fInum_bytes\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of bytes up in tha strang argument.
.IP \fInum_wchars\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of charactas up in tha strang argument.
.ds Ov dimensions
.IP \fIoverall_ink_return\fP 1i
Returns tha overall ink \*(Ov.
.IP \fIoverall_logical_return\fP 1i
Returns tha overall logical \*(Ov.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies tha characta string.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XmbTextExtents ,
.ZN XwcTextExtents
and
.ZN Xutf8TextExtents
functions set tha componentz of tha specified overall_ink_return and
overall_logical_return
arguments ta tha overall boundin box of tha stringz image
and a logical boundin box fo' spacin purposes, respectively.
They return tha value returned by 
.ZN XmbTextEscapement ,
.ZN XwcTextEscapement
or
.ZN Xutf8TextEscapement .
These metrics is relatizzle ta tha drawin origin of tha string,
usin tha fonts loaded fo' tha specified font set.
.LP
If tha overall_ink_return argument is non-NULL,
it is set ta tha boundin box of tha stringz characta ink.
Da overall_ink_return fo' a nondescending, horizontally drawn
Latin characta is conventionally entirely above tha baseline;
that is, overall_ink_return.height <= \-overall_ink_return.y.
Da overall_ink_return fo' a nonkerned character
is entirely at, n' ta tha right of, tha origin;
that is, overall_ink_return.x >= 0.
A characta consistin of a single pixel all up in tha origin would set
overall_ink_return fieldz y = 0, x = 0, width = 1, n' height = 1.
.LP
If tha overall_logical_return argument is non-NULL,
it is set ta tha boundin box dat serves up minimum spacing
to other graphical features fo' tha string.
Other graphical features, fo' example, a funky-ass border surroundin tha text,
should not intersect dis rectangle.
.LP
When tha 
.ZN XFontSet
has missin charsets,
metrics fo' each unavailable characta is taken 
from tha default strang returned by 
.ZN XCreateFontSet 
so dat tha metrics represent tha text as it will straight-up be drawn.
Da behavior fo' a invalid codepoint is undefined.
.LP
Da function
.ZN Xutf8TextExtents
is a extension introduced by Da XFree86 Project, Inc. up in they 4.0.2
release. Its presence is
indicated by tha macro
.ZN X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmbTextEscapement(3),
XmbTextPerCharExtents(3)
\fI\*(xL\fP
