.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XOpenIM 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XOpenIM, XCloseIM, XSetIMValues, XGetIMValues, XDisplayOfIM, XLocaleOfIM, XRegisterIMInstantiateCallback, XUnregisterIMInstantiateCallback \- open, close, n' obtain input method shiznit
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XIM XOpenIM\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XrmDatabase \fIdb\fP\^, char
*\fIres_name\fP\^, char *\fIres_class\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XCloseIM\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XSetIMValues\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^, ...); 
.HP
char *XGetIMValues\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^, ...); 
.HP
Display *XDisplayOfIM\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XLocaleOfIM\^(\^XIM \fIim\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XRegisterIMInstantiateCallback\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XrmDatabase
\fIdb\fP\^, char *\fIres_name\fP\^, char *\fIres_class\fP\^, XIDProc
\fIcallback\fP\^, XPointa \fIclient_data\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XUnregisterIMInstantiateCallback\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^,
XrmDatabase \fIdb\fP\^, char *\fIres_name\fP\^, char *\fIres_class\fP\^,
XIDProc \fIcallback\fP\^, XPointa \fIclient_data\fP\^); 
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta tha input method instantiate callback.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha additionizzle client data.
.IP \fIdb\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta tha resource database.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIim\fP 1i
Specifies tha input method.
.IP \fIres_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha full class name of tha application.
.IP \fIres_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha full resource name of tha application.
.ds Al \ ta set or git XIM joints
.IP ... 1i
Specifies tha variable length argument list\*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XOpenIM
function opens a input method, 
matchin tha current locale n' modifiers justification.
Current locale n' modifiers is bound ta tha input method at openin time.
Da locale associated wit a input method cannot be chizzled dynamically.
This implies dat tha strings returned by
.ZN XmbLookupString
or
.ZN XwcLookupStrin ,
for any input context affiliated wit a given input method
will be encoded up in tha locale current all up in tha time tha input method is opened.
.LP
Da specific input method ta which dis call is ghon be routed
is identified on tha basiz of tha current locale. 
.ZN XOpenIM
will identify a thugged-out default input method correspondin ta the
current locale.
That default can be modified rockin 
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
for tha input method modifier.
.LP
Da db argument is tha resource database ta be used by tha input method
for lookin up resources dat is private ta tha input method.
It aint intended dat dis database be used ta look
up joints dat can be set as IC joints up in a input context.
If db is NULL,
no database is passed ta tha input method.
.LP
Da res_name n' res_class arguments specify tha resource name 
and class of tha application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
They is intended ta be used as prefixes by tha input method
when lookin up resources dat is common ta all input contexts
that may be pimped fo' dis input method.
Da charactas used fo' resource names n' classes must be up in the
X Portable Characta Set.
Da resources looked up is not straight-up specified
if res_name or res_class is NULL.
.LP
Da res_name n' res_class arguments is not assumed ta exist beyond
the call to
.ZN XOpenIM .
Da specified resource database be assumed ta exist fo' tha gametime
of tha input method.
.LP
.ZN XOpenIM
returns NULL if no input method could be opened.
.LP
The
.ZN XCloseIM
function closes tha specified input method.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetIMValues
function presents a variable argument list programmin intercourse
for settin attributez of tha specified input method.
It returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be set.
Xlib do not attempt ta set arguments from tha supplied list that
follow tha failed argument;
all arguments up in tha list precedin tha failed argument done been set
correctly.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetIMValues
function presents a variable argument list programmin intercourse
for queryin propertizzles or featurez of tha specified input method.
This function returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be obtained.
.LP
Each XIM value argument (followin a name) must point to
a location where tha XIM value is ta be stored.
That is, if tha XIM value iz of type T,
the argument must be of type T*.
If T itself be a pointa type,
then
.ZN XGetIMValues
allocates memory ta store tha actual data,
and tha client is responsible fo' freein dis data by calling
.ZN XFree
with tha returned pointer.
.LP
The
.ZN XDisplayOfIM
function returns tha display associated wit tha specified input method.
.LP
The
.ZN XLocaleOfIM
function returns tha locale associated wit tha specified input method.
.LP
The
.ZN XRegisterIMInstantiateCallback
function registas a cold-ass lil callback ta be invoked whenever a freshly smoked up input method
becomes available fo' tha specified display dat matches tha current
locale n' modifiers.
.LP
Da function returns 
.ZN True
if it succeeds; otherwise, it returns 
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XUnregisterIMInstantiateCallback
function removes a input method instantiation callback previously
registered.
Da function returns
.ZN True
if it succeeds; otherwise, it returns 
.ZN False .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateIC(3),
XSetICFocus(3),
XSetICValues(3),
XmbResetIC(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
