.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XOpenDisplay 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XOpenDisplay, XCloseDisplay \- connect or disconnect ta X server
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Display *XOpenDisplay\^(\^char *\fIdisplay_name\fP\^); 
.HP
int XCloseDisplay\^(Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIdisplay_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha hardware display name, which determines tha display
and communications domain ta be used.
On a POSIX-conformant system, if tha display_name is NULL, 
it defaults ta tha value of tha DISPLAY environment variable. 
.IN "Environment" "DISPLAY"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XOpenDisplay
function returns a 
.ZN Display 
structure dat serves as the
connection ta tha X server n' dat gotz nuff all tha shiznit
about dat X server.
.ZN XOpenDisplay
connects yo' application ta tha X server all up in TCP 
or DECnet communications protocols,
or all up in some local inter-process communication protocol.
.IN "Protocol" "TCP"
.IN "Protocol" "DECnet"
If tha hostname be a host machine name n' a single colon (:)
separates tha hostname n' display number,
.ZN XOpenDisplay
connects rockin TCP streams.
If tha hostname aint specified,
Xlib uses whatever it believes is tha fastest transport.
If tha hostname be a host machine name n' a thugged-out double colon (::)
separates tha hostname n' display number,
.ZN XOpenDisplay
connects rockin DECnet.
A single X server can support any or all of these transhiznit mechanisms
simultaneously.
A particular Xlib implementation can support nuff mo' of these transport
mechanisms.
.LP
.IN "Display"
If successful, 
.ZN XOpenDisplay 
returns a pointa ta a 
.ZN Display 
structure,
which is defined up in 
.hN X11/Xlib.h .
If 
.ZN XOpenDisplay 
does not succeed, it returns NULL.
Afta a successful call to
.ZN XOpenDisplay ,
all of tha screens up in tha display can be used by tha client.
Da screen number specified up in tha display_name argument is returned 
by tha 
.ZN DefaultScreen
macro (or the
.ZN XDefaultScreen
function).
Yo ass can access elementz of the
.ZN Display
and
.ZN Screen
structures only by rockin tha shiznit macros or functions.
For shiznit bout rockin macros n' functions ta obtain shiznit from 
the
.ZN Display 
structure,
see section 2.2.1.
.LP
The
.ZN XCloseDisplay
function closes tha connection ta tha X server fo' tha display specified up in the
.ZN Display
structure n' destroys all windows, resource IDs
.Pn ( Window ,
.ZN Font ,
.ZN Pixmap ,
.ZN Colormap ,
.ZN Cursor ,
and
.ZN GContext ),
or other resources dat tha client has pimped
on dis display, unless tha close-down mode of tha resource has been chizzled
(see
.ZN XSetCloseDownMode ).
Therefore, these windows, resource IDs, n' other resources should never be 
referenced again n' again n' again or a error is ghon be generated.
Before exiting, you should call
.ZN XCloseDisplay
explicitly so dat any pendin errors is reported as
.ZN XCloseDisplay
performs a gangbangin' final
.ZN XSync
operation.
.IN "Resource IDs"
.IN "XCloseDisplay"
.LP
.ZN XCloseDisplay
can generate a
.ZN BadGC
error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AllPlanes(3),
XFlush(3),
XSetCloseDownMode(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
