.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XOpenOM 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XOpenOM, XCloseOM, XSetOMValues, XGetOMValues, XDisplayOfOM, XLocaleOfOM \- open output methods
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XOM XOpenOM\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XrmDatabase \fIdb\fP\^, char
*\fIres_name\fP\^, char *\fIres_class\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XCloseOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XSetOMValues\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XGetOMValues\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.HP
Display *XDisplayOfOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XLocaleOfOM\^(\^XOM \fIom\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIdb\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta tha resource database.
.IP \fIres_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha full resource name of tha application.
.IP \fIres_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha full class name of tha application.
.IP \fIom\fP 1i
Specifies tha output method.
.ds Al \ ta set or git XOM joints
.IP ... 1i
Specifies tha variable length argument list\*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XOpenOM
function opens a output method
matchin tha current locale n' modifiers justification.
Da current locale n' modifiers is bound ta tha output method
when
.ZN XOpenOM
is called.
Da locale associated wit a output method cannot be chizzled.
.LP
Da specific output method ta which dis call is ghon be routed
is identified on tha basiz of tha current locale n' modifiers.
.ZN XOpenOM
will identify a thugged-out default output method correspondin ta the
current locale.
That default can be modified rockin 
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
to set tha output method modifier.
.LP
Da db argument is tha resource database ta be used by tha output method
for lookin up resources dat is private ta tha output method.
It aint intended dat dis database be used ta look
up joints dat can be set as OC joints up in a output context.
If db is NULL,
no database is passed ta tha output method.
.LP
Da res_name n' res_class arguments specify tha resource name 
and class of tha application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
They is intended ta be used as prefixes by tha output method
when lookin up resources dat is common ta all output contexts
that may be pimped fo' dis output method.
Da charactas used fo' resource names n' classes must be up in the
X Portable Characta Set.
Da resources looked up is not straight-up specified
if res_name or res_class is NULL.
.LP
Da res_name n' res_class arguments is not assumed ta exist beyond
the call to
.ZN XOpenOM .
Da specified resource database be assumed ta exist fo' tha gametime
of tha output method.
.LP
.ZN XOpenOM
returns NULL if no output method could be opened.
.LP
The
.ZN XCloseOM
function closes tha specified output method.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetOMValues
function presents a variable argument list programmin intercourse
for settin propertizzles or featurez of tha specified output method.
This function returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be set.
Xlib do not attempt ta set arguments from tha supplied list that
follow tha failed argument;
all arguments up in tha list precedin tha failed argument done been set
correctly.
.LP
No standard arguments is currently defined by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetOMValues
function presents a variable argument list programmin intercourse
for queryin propertizzles or featurez of tha specified output method.
This function returns NULL if it succeeds;
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be obtained.
.LP
The
.ZN XDisplayOfOM
function returns tha display associated wit tha specified output method.
.LP
The
.ZN XLocaleOfOM
returns tha locale associated wit tha specified output method.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateOC(3),
XCreateFontSet(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
