.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryPointa 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XQueryPointa \- git pointa coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Bool XQueryPointer\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, Window
*\fIroot_return\fP\^, Window *\fIchild_return\fP\^, int
*\fIroot_x_return\fP\^, int *\fIroot_y_return\fP\^, int *\fIwin_x_return\fP\^,
int *\fIwin_y_return\fP\^, unsigned int *\fImask_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIchild_return\fP 1i
Returns tha lil pimp window dat tha pointa is located in, if any.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fImask_return\fP 1i
Returns tha current state of tha modifier keys n' pointa buttons.
.ds Ro dat tha pointa is in
.IP \fIroot_return\fP 1i
Returns tha root window \*(Ro.
.IP \fIroot_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIroot_y_return\fP 1i
Return tha pointa coordinates relatizzle ta tha root windowz origin.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.IP \fIwin_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIwin_y_return\fP 1i
Return tha pointa coordinates relatizzle ta tha specified window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XQueryPointer
function returns tha root window tha pointa is logically on n' tha pointer
coordinates relatizzle ta tha root windowz origin.
If
.ZN XQueryPointer
returns 
.ZN False , 
the pointa aint on tha same screen as tha specified window, and
.ZN XQueryPointer
returns 
.ZN None
to child_return n' zero ta win_x_return n' win_y_return.
If 
.ZN XQueryPointer
returns 
.ZN True , 
the pointa coordinates moonwalked back ta win_x_return n' win_y_return
are relatizzle ta tha origin of tha specified window.
In dis case, 
.ZN XQueryPointer
returns tha lil pimp dat gotz nuff tha pointer, if any,
or else
.ZN None
to child_return.
.LP
.ZN XQueryPointer
returns tha current logical state of tha keyboard buttons 
and tha modifier keys up in mask_return.
It sets mask_return ta tha bitwise inclusive OR of one or more
of tha button or modifier key bitmasks ta match 
the current state of tha mouse buttons n' tha modifier keys.
.LP
.ZN XQueryPointer
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGetWindowAttributes(3),
XQueryTree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
