.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc
.\"
.\" Rewritten fo' X.org by Chris Lee <clee@freedesktop.org>
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, distribute, n' push dis documentation 
.\" fo' any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\" Chris Lee make no representations bout tha suitabilitizzle fo' any purpose
.\" of tha shiznit up in dis document.  It be provided \`\`as-is'' without
.\" express or implied warranty.
.\"
.ds xL Programmin wit Xlib
.TH XQueryExtension 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XQueryExtension, XListExtensions, XFreeExtensionList \- list available extensions
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Bool XQueryExtension(\^\fIdisplay, \fIname\fP, \fImajor_opcode_return\fP, \fIfirst_event_return\fP, \fIfirst_error_return\fP\^)
.HP
char **XListExtensions(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fInextensions_return\fP\^)
.HP
XFreeExtensionList(\^\fIlist\fP\^)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies tha extension name.
.IP \fImajor_opcode_return\fP 1i
Returns tha major opcode.
.IP \fIfirst_event_return\fP 1i
Returns tha straight-up original gangsta event code, if any.
.IP \fIfirst_error_return\fP 1i
Returns tha straight-up original gangsta error code, if any.
.IP \fInextensions_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of extensions listed.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies tha list of extension names.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Da \fIXQueryExtension\fP function determines if tha named extension is
present.  If tha extension aint present, \fIXQueryExtension\fP returns
\fIFalse\fP; otherwise, it returns \fITrue\fP.  If tha extension is present,
\fIXQueryExtension\fP returns tha major opcode fo' tha extension to
major_opcode_return; otherwise, it returns zero.  Any minor opcode n' the
request formats is specific ta tha extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha extension involves
additionizzle event types, \fIXQueryExtension\fP returns tha base event type code
to first_event_return; otherwise, it returns zero. Da format of tha events is
specific ta tha extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha extension involves additionizzle error codes,
\fIXQueryExtension\fP returns tha base error code ta first_error_return;
otherwise, it returns zero.  Da format of additionizzle data up in tha errors is
specific ta tha extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha extension name aint up in tha Host Portable
Characta Encodin tha result is implementation-dependent.  Uppercase and
lowercase matter; tha strings ``thing'', ``Thing'', n' ``thinG'' is all
considered different names.
.LP
Da \fIXListExtensions\fP function returns a list of all extensions supported
by tha server n' shit. If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable
Characta Encoding, then tha returned strings is up in tha Host Portable
Characta Encoding. Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
.LP
Da \fIXFreeExtensionList\fP function frees tha memory allocated by
\fIXListExtensions\fP.
