.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryBestSize 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XQueryBestSize, XQueryBestTile, XQueryBestStipple \- determine efficient sizes
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XQueryBestSize\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIclass\fP\^,
Drawable \fIwhich_screen\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int
\fIheight\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, unsigned int
*\fIheight_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XQueryBestTile\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable
\fIwhich_screen\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^,
unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, unsigned int *\fIheight_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XQueryBestStipple\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable
\fIwhich_screen\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^,
unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, unsigned int *\fIheight_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies tha class dat yo ass is interested in.
Yo ass can pass 
.ZN TileShape , 
.ZN CursorShape , 
or 
.ZN StippleShape .
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height.
.IP \fIwhich_screen\fP 1i
Specifies any drawable on tha screen.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return tha width n' height of tha object dopest supported 
by tha display hardware.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XQueryBestSize
function returns tha dopest or closest size ta tha specified size.
For 
.ZN CursorShape ,
this is tha phattest size dat can be straight-up displayed on tha screen specified by
which_screen.
For 
.ZN TileShape ,
this is tha size dat can be tiled fastest.
For 
.ZN StippleShape ,
this is tha size dat can be stippled fastest.
For 
.ZN CursorShape ,
the drawable indicates tha desired screen.
For 
.ZN TileShape 
and 
.ZN StippleShape ,
the drawable indicates tha screen n' possibly tha window class n' depth.
An 
.ZN InputOnly 
window cannot be used as tha drawable fo' 
.ZN TileShape
or 
.ZN StippleShape ,
or a
.ZN BadMatch 
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XQueryBestSize
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable ,
.ZN BadMatch ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XQueryBestTile
function returns tha dopest or closest size, dat is, tha size dat can be
tiled fastest on tha screen specified by which_screen.
Da drawable indicates tha screen n' possibly tha window class n' depth.
If a 
.ZN InputOnly 
window is used as tha drawable, a 
.ZN BadMatch 
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XQueryBestTile
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable
and
.ZN BadMatch 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XQueryBestStipple
function returns tha dopest or closest size, dat is, tha size dat can be
stippled fastest on tha screen specified by which_screen.
Da drawable indicates tha screen n' possibly tha window class n' depth.
If an
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as tha drawable, a
.ZN BadMatch
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XQueryBestStipple
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable
and
.ZN BadMatch 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value fo' a Drawable argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Da joints do not exist fo' an
.ZN InputOnly
window.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3),
XSetArcMode(3),
XSetClipOrigin(3),
XSetFillStyle(3),
XSetFont(3),
XSetLineAttributes(3),
XSetState(3),
XSetTile(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
