.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XRecolorCursor 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XRecolorCursor, XFreeCursor, XQueryBestCursor \- manipulate cursors
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XRecolorCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Cursor \fIcursor\fP\^, XColor
*\fIforeground_color\fP\^, XColor *\fIbackground_color\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreeCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Cursor \fIcursor\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XQueryBestCursor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^,
unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^, unsigned int
*\fIwidth_return\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIheight_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbackground_color\fP 1i
Specifies tha RGB joints fo' tha background of tha source.
.IP \fIcursor\fP 1i
Specifies tha cursor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
.ds Dr , which indicates tha screen
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawable\*(Dr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIforeground_color\fP 1i
Specifies tha RGB joints fo' tha foreground of tha source. 
.ds Wh  of tha cursor dat you want tha size shiznit for
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify tha width n' height\*(Wh.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return tha dopest width n' height dat is closest ta tha specified width 
and height.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XRecolorCursor
function chizzlez tha color of tha specified cursor, and
if tha cursor is bein displayed on a screen,
the chizzle is visible immediately.
Da pixel thugz of the
.ZN XColor
structures is ignored; only tha RGB joints is used.
.LP
.ZN XRecolorCursor
can generate a
.ZN BadCursor 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeCursor
function deletes tha association between tha cursor resource ID 
and tha specified cursor.
Da cursor storage is freed when no other resource references dat shit.
Da specified cursor ID should not be referred ta again.
.LP
.ZN XFreeCursor
can generate a
.ZN BadCursor 
error.
.LP
Some displays allow larger cursors than other displays.
The
.ZN XQueryBestCursor
function serves up a way ta smoke up what tha fuck size cursors is actually
possible on tha display.
.IN "Cursor" "limitations" 
It returns tha phattest size dat can be displayed.
Applications should be prepared ta use smalla cursors on displays that
cannot support big-ass ones.
.LP
.ZN XQueryBestCursor
can generate a
.ZN BadDrawable 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadCursor
A value fo' a Cursor argument do not name a thugged-out defined Cursor.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value fo' a Drawable argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window or Pixmap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateColormap(3),
XCreateFontCursor(3),
XDefineCursor(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
