'\" t
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
'\" t
.TH XrmEnumerateDatabase 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XrmEnumerateDatabase \- enumerate resource database entries
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
#include <X11/Xresource.h>
.TS
lw(.5i) lw(2i) lw(2.5i).
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN XrmEnumAllLevels
T}	T{
0
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN XrmEnumOneLevel
T}	T{
1
T}
.TE
.HP
Bool XrmEnumerateDatabase\^(\^XrmDatabase \fIdatabase\fP\^, XrmNameList
\fIname_prefix\fP\^, XrmClassList \fIclass_prefix\fP\^, int \fImode\fP\^, Bool
(\^*\fIproc\fP\^)\^(\^)\^, XPointa \fIarg\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdatabase\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database.
.IP \fIname_prefix\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource name prefix.
.IP \fIclass_prefix\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource class prefix.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of levels ta enumerate.
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is ta be called fo' each matchin entry.
.IP \fIarg\fP 1i
Specifies tha user-supplied argument dat is ghon be passed ta tha procedure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XrmEnumerateDatabase
function calls tha specified procedure fo' each resource up in tha database
that would match some completion of tha given name/class resource prefix.
Da order up in which resources is found is implementation-dependent.
If mode is
.ZN XrmEnumOneLevel ,
a resource must match tha given name/class prefix with
just a single name n' class appended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If mode is
.ZN XrmEnumAllLevels ,
the resource must match tha given name/class prefix wit one or mo' names and
classes appended.
If tha procedure returns
.ZN True ,
the enumeration terminates n' tha function returns
.ZN True . 
If tha procedure always returns
.ZN False ,
all matchin resources is enumerated n' tha function returns
.ZN False .
.LP
Da procedure is called wit tha followin arguments:
.LP
.\" Start marker code here
.Ds 0
(*\fIproc\fP\^)(\^\fIdatabase\fP, \fIbindings\fP, \fIquarks\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIvalue\fP, \fIarg\fP\^)
        XrmDatabase *\fIdatabase\fP\^;
        XrmBindingList \fIbindings\fP\^;
        XrmQuarkList \fIquarks\fP\^;
        XrmRepresentation *\fItype\fP\^;
        XrmValue *\fIvalue\fP\^;
        XPointa \fIarg\fP\^;
.De
.\" End marker code here
.LP
Da bindings n' quarks lists is terminated by
.ZN NULLQUARK .
Note dat pointers
to tha database n' type is passed yo, but these joints should not be modified.
.LP
Da procedure must not modify tha database.
If Xlib has been initialized fo' threads, tha procedure is called with
the database locked n' tha result of a cold-ass lil call by tha procedure ta any
Xlib function rockin tha same database aint defined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmGetResource(3),
XrmInitialize(3),
XrmPutResource(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
