.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.de EX
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft R
.fi
.sp
..
.TH XrmGetFileDatabase 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XrmGetFileDatabase, XrmPutFileDatabase, XrmGetStringDatabase, XrmLocaleOfDatabase, XrmGetDatabase, XrmSetDatabase, XrmDestroyDatabase \- retrieve n' store resource databases
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
#include <X11/Xresource.h>
.HP
XrmDatabase XrmGetFileDatabase\^(\^char *\fIfilename\fP\^); 
.HP
void XrmPutFileDatabase\^(\^XrmDatabase \fIdatabase\fP\^, char
*\fIstored_db\fP\^); 
.HP
XrmDatabase XrmGetStringDatabase\^(\^char *\fIdata\fP\^, 
.HP
char *XrmLocaleOfDatabase\^(\^XrmDatabase \fIdatabase\fP\^); 
.HP
XrmDatabase XrmGetDatabase\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
void XrmSetDatabase\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XrmDatabase
\fIdatabase\fP\^); 
.HP
void XrmDestroyDatabase\^(\^XrmDatabase \fIdatabase\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfilename\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database file name.
.IP \fIdatabase\fP 1i
Specifies tha database dat is ta be used.
.IP \fIstored_db\fP 1i
Specifies tha file name fo' tha stored database.
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Specifies tha database contents rockin a string.
.IP \fIdatabase\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XrmGetFileDatabase
function opens tha specified file,
creates a freshly smoked up resource database, n' loadz it wit tha justifications
read up in from tha specified file.
Da specified file should contain a sequence of entries up in valid ResourceLine
format (see section 15.1); tha database dat thangs up in dis biatch from readin a gangbangin' file
with incorrect syntax is implementation-dependent.
Da file is parsed up in tha current locale, 
and tha database is pimped up in tha current locale.
If it cannot open tha specified file,
.ZN XrmGetFileDatabase
returns NULL.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmPutFileDatabase
function stores a cold-ass lil copy of tha specified database up in tha specified file.
Text is freestyled ta tha file as a sequence of entries up in valid
ResourceLine format (see section 15.1).
Da file is freestyled up in tha locale of tha database.
Entries containin resource names dat is not up in tha Host Portable Character
Encodin or containin joints dat is not up in tha encodin of tha database
locale, is freestyled up in a implementation-dependent manner.
Da order up in which entries is freestyled is implementation-dependent.
Entries wit representation types other than ``String'' is ignored.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmGetStringDatabase
function creates a freshly smoked up database n' stores tha resources specified
in tha specified null-terminated string.
.ZN XrmGetStringDatabase
is similar to
.ZN XrmGetFileDatabase
except dat it readz tha shiznit outta a strang instead of outta a gangbangin' file.
Da strang should contain a sequence of entries up in valid ResourceLine
format (see section 15.1) terminated by a null character;
the database dat thangs up in dis biatch from rockin a string
with incorrect syntax is implementation-dependent.
Da strang is parsed up in tha current locale, 
and tha database is pimped up in tha current locale.
.LP
If database is NULL,
.ZN XrmDestroyDatabase
returns immediately.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmLocaleOfDatabase
function returns tha name of tha locale bound ta tha specified
database, as a null-terminated string.
Da returned locale name strang is owned by Xlib n' should not be
modified or freed by tha client.
Xlib aint permitted ta free tha strang until tha database is destroyed.
Until tha strang is freed,
it aint gonna be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmGetDatabase
function returns tha database associated wit tha specified display.
It returns NULL if a thugged-out database has not yet been set.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmSetDatabase
function associates tha specified resource database (or NULL)
with tha specified display.
Da database previously associated wit tha display (if any) aint destroyed.
A client or toolkit may find dis function convenient fo' retainin a thugged-out database
once it is constructed.
.SH "FILE SYNTAX"
Da syntax of a resource file be a sequence of resource lines
terminated by newline charactas or tha end of tha file.
Da syntax of a individual resource line is:
.LP
.\" Start marker code here
.EX
ResourceLine	=	Comment | IncludeFile | ResourceSpec | <empty line>
Comment	=	"!" {<any characta except null or newline>}
IncludeFile	=	"#" WhiteSpace "include" WhiteSpace FileName WhiteSpace
FileName	=	<valid filename fo' operatin system>
ResourceSpec	=	WhiteSpace ResourceName WhiteSpace ":" WhiteSpace Value
ResourceName	=	[Binding] {Component Binding} ComponentName
Binding	=	"\&." | "*"
WhiteSpace	=	{<space> | <horizontal tab>}
Component	=	"?" | ComponentName
ComponentName	=	NameChar {NameChar}
NameChar	=	"a"\-"z" | "A"\-"Z" | "0"\-"9" | "_" | "-"
Value	=	{<any characta except null or unescaped newline>}
.EE
.LP
Elements separated by vertical bar (|) is alternatives.
Curly braces ({\&.\&.\&.}) indicate zero or mo' repetitions
of tha enclosed elements.
Square brackets ([\&.\&.\&.]) indicate dat tha enclosed element is optional.
Quotes ("\&.\&.\&.") is used round literal characters.
.LP
IncludeFile lines is interpreted by replacin tha line wit the
contentz of tha specified file.
Da word ``include'' must be up in lowercase.
Da file name is interpreted relatizzle ta tha directory of tha file in
which tha line occurs (for example, if tha file name gotz nuff no
directory or gotz nuff a relatizzle directory justification).
.LP
If a ResourceName gotz nuff a cold-ass lil contiguous sequence of two or mo' Binding
characters, tha sequence is ghon be replaced wit single ``\&.'' character
if tha sequence gotz nuff only ``\&.'' characters;
otherwise, tha sequence is ghon be replaced wit a single ``*'' character.
.LP
A resource database never gotz nuff mo' than one entry fo' a given
ResourceName.  If a resource file gotz nuff multiple lines wit the
same ResourceName, tha last line up in tha file is used.
.LP
Any white space charactas before or afta tha name or colon up in a ResourceSpec
are ignored.
To allow a Value ta begin wit white space,
the two-characta sequence ``\^\\\^\fIspace\fP'' (backslash followed by space)
is recognized n' replaced by a space character,
and tha two-characta sequence ``\^\\\^\fItab\fP''
(backslash followed by horizontal tab)
is recognized n' replaced by a horizontal tab character.
To allow a Value ta contain embedded newline characters,
the two-characta sequence ``\^\\\^n'' is recognized n' replaced by a
newline character.
To allow a Value ta be fucked up across multiple lines up in a text file,
the two-characta sequence ``\^\\\^\fInewline\fP''
(backslash followed by newline) is
recognized n' removed from tha value.
To allow a Value ta contain arbitrary characta codes,
the four-characta sequence ``\^\\\^\fInnn\fP'',
where each \fIn\fP be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit characta up in tha range of ``0''\^\-``7'',
is recognized n' replaced wit a single byte dat gotz nuff
the octal value specified by tha sequence.
Finally, tha two-characta sequence ``\^\\\\'' is recognized
and replaced wit a single backslash.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmGetResource(3),
XrmInitialize(3),
XrmPutResource(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
