.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XrmMergeDatabases 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XrmMergeDatabases, XrmCombineDatabase, XrmCombineFileDatabase \- merge resource databases
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
#include <X11/Xresource.h>
.HP
void XrmMergeDatabases(\^XrmDatabase \fIsource_db\fP, XrmDatabase
*\fItarget_db\fP\^); 
.HP
void XrmCombineDatabase(\^XrmDatabase \fIsource_db\fP, XrmDatabase
*\fItarget_db\fP, Bool \fIoverride\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XrmCombineFileDatabase(\^char *\fIfilename\fP, XrmDatabase
*\fItarget_db\fP\^, Bool \fIoverride\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsource_db\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database dat is ta be merged tha fuck into tha target database.
.IP \fItarget_db\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database tha fuck into which tha source 
database is ta be merged.
.IP \fIfilename\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource database file name.
.IP \fIoverride\fP 1i
Specifies whether source entries override target ones.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Callin the
.ZN XrmMergeDatabases
function is equivalent ta callin the
.ZN XrmCombineDatabase
function wit a override argument of
.ZN True .
.LP
The
.ZN XrmCombineDatabase
function merges tha contentz of one database tha fuck into another.
If tha same specifier is used fo' a entry up in both databases,
the entry up in tha source_db will replace tha entry up in tha target_db
if override is
.ZN True ;
otherwise, tha entry up in source_db is discarded.
If target_db gotz nuff NULL,
.ZN XrmCombineDatabase
simply stores source_db up in dat shit.
Otherwise, source_db is destroyed by tha merge yo, but tha database pointed
to by target_db aint destroyed.
Da database entries is merged without changin joints or types,
regardless of tha localez of tha databases.
Da locale of tha target database aint modified.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmCombineFileDatabase
function merges tha contentz of a resource file tha fuck into a thugged-out database.
If tha same specifier is used fo' a entry up in both tha file and
the database,
the entry up in tha file will replace tha entry up in tha database
if override is
.ZN True ;
otherwise, tha entry up in tha file is discarded.
Da file is parsed up in tha current locale.
If tha file cannot be read,
a zero status is returned;
otherwise, a nonzero status is returned.
If target_db gotz nuff NULL,
.ZN XrmCombineFileDatabase
creates n' returns a freshly smoked up database ta dat shit.
Otherwise, tha database pointed ta by target_db aint destroyed by tha merge.
Da database entries is merged without changin joints or types,
regardless of tha locale of tha database.
Da locale of tha target database aint modified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmGetResource(3),
XrmInitialize(3),
XrmPutResource(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
