.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSelectInput 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSelectInput \- select input events
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSelectInput\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, long
\fIevent_mask\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIevent_mask\fP 1i
Specifies tha event mask.
.ds Wi whose events yo ass is interested in
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSelectInput
function requests dat tha X server report tha events associated wit tha 
specified event mask.
Initially, X aint gonna report any of these events.
Events is reported relatizzle ta a window.
If a window aint horny bout a thang event, it probably propagates to
the closest ancestor dat is interested,
unless tha do_not_propagate mask prohibits dat shit.
.IN "Event" "propagation"
.LP
Settin tha event-mask attribute of a window overrides any previous call
for tha same window but not fo' other clients.
Multiple clients can select fo' tha same events on tha same window
with tha followin restrictions:
.IP \(bu 5
Multiple clients can select events on tha same window cuz they event masks
are disjoint.
When tha X server generates a event, it reports it
to all interested clients.
.IP \(bu 5
Only one client at a time can select
.ZN CirculateRequest ,
.ZN ConfigureRequest ,
or
.ZN MapRequest
events, which is associated with
the event mask
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask . 
.IP \(bu 5
Only one client at a time can select
a
.ZN ResizeRequest
event, which be associated with
the event mask
.ZN ResizeRedirectMask . 
.IP \(bu 5
Only one client at a time can select a 
.ZN ButtonPress 
event, which be associated with
the event mask
.ZN ButtonPressMask .
.LP
Da server reports tha event ta all interested clients.
.LP
.ZN XSelectInput
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
