.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetErrorHandlez 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetErrorHandlez, XGetErrorText, XDisplayName, XSetIOErrorHandlez, XGetErrorDatabaseText \- default error handlezs
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int (*XSetErrorHandlez\^(\^int (\^*\^\fIhandlez\fP\^)\^(Display *, XErrorEvent
*)\^)\^)\^(\^); 
.HP
int XGetErrorText\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIcode\fP\^, char
*\fIbuffer_return\fP\^, int \fIlength\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XDisplayName\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.HP
int (*XSetIOErrorHandlez\^(\^int (\^*\^\fIhandlez\fP\^)(Display
*)\^)\^)\^(\^); 
.HP
int XGetErrorDatabaseText\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIname\fP, char
*\fImessage\fP\^, char *\fIdefault_string\fP\^, char *\fIbuffer_return\fP\^,
int \fIlength\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbuffer_return\fP 1i
Returns tha error description.
.IP \fIcode\fP 1i
Specifies tha error code fo' which you wanna obtain a thugged-out description.
.IP \fIdefault_string\fP 1i
Specifies tha default error message if none is found up in tha database.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIhandlez\fP 1i
Specifies tha programz supplied error handlez.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Specifies tha size of tha buffer.
.IP \fImessage\fP 1i
Specifies tha type of tha error message.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha application.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies tha characta string.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xlib generally calls tha program's
supplied error handlez whenever a error is received.
It aint called on
.ZN BadName
errors from
.ZN OpenFont ,
.ZN LookupColor ,
or
.ZN AllocNamedColor
protocol requests or on
.ZN BadFont
errors from a
.ZN QueryFont
protocol request.
These errors generally is reflected back ta tha program all up in the
procedural intercourse.
Because dis condizzle aint assumed ta be fatal, 
it be aaight fo' yo' error handlez ta return;
the returned value is ignored.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha error handlez should not
call any functions (directly or indirectly) on tha display
that will generate protocol requests or dat will look fo' input events.
Da previous error handlez is returned.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetErrorText
function copies a null-terminated strang describin tha specified error code
into tha specified buffer.
Da returned text is up in tha encodin of tha current locale.
It be recommended dat you use dis function ta obtain a error description
because extensions ta Xlib may define they own error codes
and error strings.
.LP
The
.ZN XDisplayName
function returns tha name of tha display dat 
.ZN XOpenDisplay
would attempt ta use.
If a NULL strang is specified,
.ZN XDisplayName
looks up in tha environment fo' tha display n' returns tha display name that
.ZN XOpenDisplay
would attempt ta use.
This make it easier ta report ta tha user precisely which display the
program attempted ta open when tha initial connection attempt failed.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetIOErrorHandlez
sets tha fatal I/O error handlez.
Xlib calls tha programz supplied error handlez if any sort of system call
error occurs (for example, tha connection ta tha server was lost).
This be assumed ta be a gangbangin' fatal condition,
and tha called routine should not return.
If tha I/O error handlez do return,
the client process exits.
.LP
Note dat tha previous error handlez is returned.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetErrorDatabaseText
function returns a null-terminated message
(or tha default message) from tha error message
database.
Xlib uses dis function internally ta look up its error lyrics.
Da text up in tha default_strin argument be assumed
to be up in tha encodin of tha current locale,
and tha text stored up in tha buffer_return argument
is up in tha encodin of tha current locale.
.LP
Da name argument should generally be tha name of yo' application.
Da message argument should indicate which type of error message you want.
If tha name n' message is not up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
Xlib uses three predefined ``application names'' ta report errors.
In these names,
uppercase n' lowercase matter.
.IP XProtoError 1i
Da protocol error number is used as a strang fo' tha message argument.
.IP XlibMessage 1i
These is tha message strings dat is used internally by tha library.
.IP XRequest 1i
For a cold-ass lil core protocol request,
the major request protocol number is used fo' tha message argument.
For a extension request,
the extension name (as given by
.ZN InitExtension )
followed by a period (\.) n' tha minor request protocol number 
is used fo' tha message argument.
If no strang is found up in tha error database,
the default_strin is moonwalked back ta tha buffer argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XOpenDisplay(3),
XSynchronize(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
