.\" Copyright \(co 2006 Josh Triplett
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XSetEventQueueOwner 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetEventQueueOwner \- set event queue balla on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared Xlib/XCB connection
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
 #include <X11/Xlib-xcb.h>
.HP
void XSetEventQueueOwner(Display *\fIdpy\fP, enum XEventQueueOwner \fIballer\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdpy\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIballer\fP 1i
Specifies tha event queue ballership:
.RS
.TP
\fIXlibOwnsEventQueue\fP (default)
Xlib owns tha event queue.  Use tha Xlib event-handlin functions.  Do not
call tha XCB event-handlin functions.
.TP
\fIXCBOwnsEventQueue\fP
XCB owns tha event queue.  Use tha XCB event-handlin functions.  Do not call
the Xlib event-handlin functions.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
While a cold-ass lil client rockin Xlib/XCB can issue requests n' handle they replies or
errors wit either Xlib or XCB, only one can own n' handle tha event queue.
By default, Xlib must own tha event queue, fo' compatibilitizzle wit legacy Xlib
clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Clients can call \fIXSetEventQueueOwner\fP immediately after
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP ta let XCB own tha event queue instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Clients may not
call \fIXSetEventQueueOwner\fP at any other time, as dis will potentially
lose responses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XOpenDisplay(3),
XGetXCBConnection(3),
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP
