.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetFontPath 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetFontPath, XGetFontPath, XFreeFontPath \- set, get, or free tha font search path
.SH SYNTAX
int XSetFontPath\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char **\fIdirectories\fP\^, int
\fIndirs\fP\^); 
.HP
char **XGetFontPath\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int *\fInpaths_return\fP\^);
.HP
int XFreeFontPath\^(\^char **\fIlist\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdirectories\fP 1i
Specifies tha directory path used ta look fo' a gangbangin' font.
Settin tha path ta tha empty list restores tha default path defined
for tha X server.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies tha array of strings you wanna free.
.IP \fIndirs\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of directories up in tha path.
.IP \fInpaths_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of strings up in tha font path array.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetFontPath
function defines tha directory search path fo' font lookup.
There is only one search path per X server, not one per client.
Da encodin n' interpretation of tha strings is implementation-dependent,
but typically they specify directories or font servers ta be searched 
in tha order listed.
An X server is permitted ta cache font shiznit internally;
for example, it might cache a entire font from a gangbangin' file n' not
check on subsequent openz of dat font ta peep if tha underlying
font file has chizzled.
However,
when tha font path is chizzled,
the X server is guaranteed ta flush all cached shiznit bout fonts 
for which there currently is no explicit resource IDs allocated.
Da meanin of a error from dis request is implementation-dependent.
.LP
.ZN XSetFontPath
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetFontPath
function allocates n' returns a array of strings containin tha search path.
Da contentz of these strings is implementation-dependent
and is not intended ta be interpreted by client applications.
When it is no longer needed,
the data up in tha font path should be freed by using
.ZN XFreeFontPath .
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeFontPath
function
frees tha data allocated by
.ZN XGetFontPath .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XListFont(3),
XLoadFonts(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
