.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetWMColormapWindows 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetWMColormapWindows, XGetWMColormapWindows \- set or read a windowz WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XSetWMColormapWindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
Window *\fIcolormap_windows\fP\^, int \fIcount\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetWMColormapWindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
Window **\fIcolormap_windows_return\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIcolormap_windows\fP 1i
Specifies tha list of windows.
.IP \fIcolormap_windows_return\fP 1i
Returns tha list of windows.
.ds Cn windows up in tha list
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of \*(Cn.
.ds Cn windows up in tha list
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.ZN XSetWMColormapWindows 
function replaces tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property on tha specified
window wit tha list of windows specified by tha colormap_windows argument.
It tha property do not already exist,
.ZN XSetWMColormapWindows
sets tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property on tha specified
window ta tha list of windows specified by tha colormap_windows argument.
Da property is stored wit a type of WINDOW n' a gangbangin' format of 32.
If it cannot intern tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS atom,
.ZN XSetWMColormapWindows
returns a zero status.
Otherwise, it returns a nonzero status.
.LP
.ZN XSetWMColormapWindows
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XGetWMColormapWindows 
function returns tha list of window identifiers stored 
in tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property on tha specified window.
These identifiers indicate tha colormaps dat tha window manager
may need ta install fo' dis window.
If tha property exists, iz of type WINDOW, iz of format 32, 
and tha atom WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS can be interned, 
.ZN XGetWMColormapWindows
sets tha windows_return argument ta a list of window identifiers, 
sets tha count_return argument ta tha number of elements up in tha list, 
and returns a nonzero status.
Otherwise, it sets neither of tha return arguments
and returns a zero status.
To release tha list of window identifiers, use
.ZN XJacked . 
.LP
.ZN XGetWMColormapWindows
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS\s+1
Da list of window IDs dat may need a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different colormap
from dat of they top-level window.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XFree(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
