.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetWMPropertizzles 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetWMProperties, XmbSetWMProperties, Xutf8SetWMPropertizzles \- set standard window properties
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XSetWMProperties\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fIwindow_name\fP\^, XTextProperty *\fIicon_name\fP\^, char
**\fIargv\fP\^, int \fIargc\fP\^, XSizeHints *\fInormal_hints\fP\^, XWMHints
*\fIwm_hints\fP\^, XClassHint *\fIclass_hints\fP\^); 
.HP
void XmbSetWMProperties\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, char
*\fIwindow_name\fP\^, char *\fIicon_name\fP\^, char *\fIargv\fP\^[], int
\fIargc\fP\^, XSizeHints *\fInormal_hints\fP\^, XWMHints *\fIwm_hints\fP\^,
XClassHint *\fIclass_hints\fP\^); 
.HP
void Xutf8SetWMProperties\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, char
*\fIwindow_name\fP\^, char *\fIicon_name\fP\^, char *\fIargv\fP\^[], int
\fIargc\fP\^, XSizeHints *\fInormal_hints\fP\^, XWMHints *\fIwm_hints\fP\^,
XClassHint *\fIclass_hints\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIargc\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of arguments.
.IP \fIargv\fP 1i
Specifies tha applicationz argument list.
.IP \fIclass_hints\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XClassHint
structure ta be used.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIicon_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha icon name,
which should be a null-terminated string.
.IP \fInormal_hints\fP 1i
Specifies tha size hints fo' tha window up in its aiiight state.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.IP \fIwindow_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha window name,
which should be a null-terminated string.
.IP \fIwm_hints\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XWMHints
structure ta be used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.ZN XSetWMPropertizzles 
convenience function serves up a single programmin intercourse 
for settin dem essential window propertizzles dat is used 
for communicatin wit other clients (particularly window n' session
managers).
.LP
If tha window_name argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetWMName ,
which up in turn, sets tha WM_NAME property (see section 14.1.4).
If tha icon_name argument is non-NULL,
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetWMIconName ,
which sets tha WM_ICON_NAME property (see section 14.1.5).
If tha argv argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetCommand ,
which sets tha WM_COMMAND property (see section 14.2.1).
Note dat a argc of zero be allowed ta indicate a zero-length command.
Note also dat tha hostname of dis machine is stored using
.ZN XSetWMClientMachine 
(see section 14.2.2).
.LP
If tha normal_hints argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetWMNormalHints ,
which sets tha WM_NORMAL_HINTS property (see section 14.1.7).
If tha wm_hints argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetWMHints ,
which sets tha WM_HINTS property (see section 14.1.6).
.LP
If tha class_hints argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XSetWMProperties
calls
.ZN XSetClassHint ,
which sets tha WM_CLASS property (see section 14.1.8).
If tha res_name member up in the
.ZN XClassHint
structure is set ta tha NULL pointa n' tha RESOURCE_NAME environment 
variable is set, 
then tha value of tha environment variable is substituted fo' res_name.
If tha res_name member is NULL, 
the environment variable aint set, 
and argv n' argv[0] is set, 
then tha value of argv[0], stripped of
any directory prefixes, is substituted fo' res_name.
.LP
The
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
convenience functions provide a simple programmin intercourse 
for settin dem essential window propertizzles dat is used 
for communicatin wit other clients
(particularly window n' session managers).
.LP
If tha window_name argument is non-NULL,
they set tha WM_NAME property.
If tha icon_name argument is non-NULL,
they set tha WM_ICON_NAME property.
Da window_name n' icon_name arguments is null-terminated strings, for
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
in tha encodin of tha current locale, for
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
in UTF-8 encoding.
If tha arguments can be straight-up converted ta tha STRING encoding,
the propertizzles is pimped wit type ``STRING''; 
otherwise, tha arguments is converted ta Compound Text, 
and tha propertizzles is pimped wit type ``COMPOUND_TEXT''.
.LP
If tha normal_hints argument is non-NULL,
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
call
.ZN XSetWMNormalHints ,
which sets tha WM_NORMAL_HINTS property (see section 14.1.7).
If tha wm_hints argument is non-NULL, 
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
call
.ZN XSetWMHints ,
which sets tha WM_HINTS property (see section 14.1.6).
.LP
If tha argv argument is non-NULL,
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
set tha WM_COMMAND property from argv n' argc.
An argc of zero indicates a zero-length command.
.LP
Da hostname of tha machine is stored rockin 
.ZN XSetWMClientMachine 
(see section 14.2.2).
.LP
If tha class_hints argument is non-NULL,
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
set tha WM_CLASS property.
If tha res_name member up in tha 
.ZN XClassHint
structure is set ta tha NULL pointa n' tha RESOURCE_NAME
environment variable is set,
the value of tha environment variable is substituted fo' res_name.
If tha res_name member is NULL,
the environment variable aint set, n' argv n' argv[0] is set,
then tha value of argv[0], stripped of any directory prefixes,
is substituted fo' res_name.
.LP
It be assumed dat tha supplied class_hints.res_name n' argv,
the RESOURCE_NAME environment variable, n' tha hostname of tha machine
are up in tha encodin of tha current locale.
Da correspondin WM_CLASS, WM_COMMAND, n' WM_CLIENT_MACHINE properties
are typed accordin ta tha local host locale announcer.
No encodin conversion is performed fo' these strings prior ta storage
in tha properties.
.LP
For clients dat need ta process tha property text up in a locale,
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
set tha WM_LOCALE_NAME property ta be tha name of tha current locale.
Da name be assumed ta be up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding
and is converted ta STRING fo' storage up in tha property.
.LP
.ZN XSetWMPropertizzles ,
.ZN XmbSetWMProperties
and
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
Da function
.ZN Xutf8SetWMProperties
is a extension introduced by Da XFree86 Project, Inc. up in they 4.0.2
release. Its presence is
indicated by tha macro
.ZN X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_CLASS\s+1
Set by application programs ta allow window n' session
managers ta obtain tha applicationz resources from tha resource database.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_CLIENT_MACHINE\s+1
Da strang name of tha machine on which tha client application is hustlin.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_COMMAND\s+1
Da command n' arguments, null-separated, used ta invoke the
application.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_HINTS\s+1
Additionizzle hints set by tha client fo' use by tha window manager.
Da C type of dis property is 
.ZN XWMHints .
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_ICON_NAME\s+1
Da name ta be used up in a icon.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_NAME\s+1
Da name of tha application.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_NORMAL_HINTS\s+1
Size hints fo' a window up in its aiiight state.
Da C type of dis property is
.ZN XSizeHints .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XParseGeometry(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3),
XTextListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
