.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetICValues 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetICValues, XGetICValues \- set n' obtain XIC joints
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
char * XSetICValues\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP, ...\^); 
.HP
char * XGetICValues\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP, ...\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIic\fP 1i
Specifies tha input context.
.ds Al \ ta set or git XIC joints
.IP ... 1i
Specifies tha variable length argument list\*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetICValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred; 
otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be set.
An argument might not be set fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument is read-only (for example,
.ZN XNFilterEvents ).
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
An implementation-dependent error occurs.
.LP
Each value ta be set must be a appropriate datum,
matchin tha data type imposed by tha semantics of tha argument.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetICValues
can generate
.ZN BadAtom ,
.ZN BadColor ,
.ZN BadCursor ,
.ZN BadPixmap ,
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetICValues
function returns NULL if no error occurred; otherwise,
it returns tha name of tha straight-up original gangsta argument dat could not be obtained.
An argument could not be obtained fo' any of tha followin reasons:
.IP \(bu 5
Da argument name aint recognized.
.IP \(bu 5
Da input method encountered a implementation-dependent error.
.LP
Each IC attribute value argument (followin a name) must point to
a location where tha IC value is ta be stored.
That is, if tha IC value iz of type T,
the argument must be of type T*.
If T itself be a pointa type,
then
.ZN XGetICValues
allocates memory ta store tha actual data,
and tha client is responsible fo' freein dis data by calling
.ZN XFree
with tha returned pointer.
Da exception ta dis rule is fo' a IC value of type
.ZN XNVaNestedList
(for preedit n' status attributes).
In dis case,  tha argument must also be of type
.ZN XVaNestedList .
Then, tha rule of changin type T ta T* n' freein tha allocated data
applies ta each element of tha nested list.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadCursor
A value fo' a Cursor argument do not name a thugged-out defined Cursor.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value fo' a Pixmap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateIC(3),
XOpenIM(3),
XSetICFocus(3),
XmbResetIC(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
