.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetCloseDownMode 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetCloseDownMode, XKillClient \- control clients
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSetCloseDownMode\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIclose_mode\fP\^); 
.HP
int XKillClient\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XID \fIresource\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclose_mode\fP 1i
Specifies tha client close-down mode.
Yo ass can pass 
.ZN DestroyAll , 
.ZN RetainPermanent , 
or
.ZN RetainTemporary . 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIresource\fP 1i
Specifies any resource associated wit tha client dat you wanna destroy or
.ZN AllTemporary .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetCloseDownMode
defines what tha fuck will happen ta tha clientz resources at connection close.
A connection starts in
.ZN DestroyAll
mode.
For shiznit on what tha fuck happens ta tha clientz resources when the
close_mode argument is
.ZN RetainPermanent
or
.ZN RetainTemporary ,
see section 2.6.
.LP
.ZN XSetCloseDownMode
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XKillClient
function
forces a cold-ass lil close down of tha client
that pimped tha resource
if a valid resource is specified.
If tha client has already terminated in
either 
.ZN RetainPermanent 
or 
.ZN RetainTemporary 
mode, all of tha client's
resources is destroyed.
If 
.ZN AllTemporary 
is specified, tha resourcez of all clients dat have terminated in
.ZN RetainTemporary 
are destroyed (see section 2.5).
This permits implementation of window manager facilitizzles dat aid debugging.
A client can set its close-down mode to
.ZN RetainTemporary .
If tha client then crashes,
its windows would not be destroyed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
Da programmer can then inspect tha applicationz window tree 
and use tha window manager ta destroy tha zombie windows.
.LP
.ZN XKillClient
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
