.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetWMIconName 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetWMIconName, XGetWMIconName, XSetIconName, XGetIconName \- set or read a windowz WM_ICON_NAME property
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XSetWMIconName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fItext_prop\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetWMIconName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fItext_prop_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XSetIconName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, char
*\fIicon_name\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetIconName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, char
**\fIicon_name_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIicon_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha icon name,
which should be a null-terminated string.
.IP \fIicon_name_return\fP 1i
Returns tha windowz icon name,
which be a null-terminated string.
.IP \fItext_prop\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure ta be used.
.IP \fItext_prop_return\fP 1i
Returns the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetWMIconName
convenience function calls
.ZN XSetTextProperty
to set tha WM_ICON_NAME property.
.LP
Da 
.ZN XGetWMIconName 
convenience function calls
.ZN XGetTextProperty 
to obtain tha WM_ICON_NAME property.
It returns a nonzero status on success;
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetIconName
function sets tha name ta be displayed up in a windowz icon.
.LP
.ZN XSetIconName
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetIconName
function returns tha name ta be displayed up in tha specified windowz icon.
If it succeeds, it returns a nonzero status; otherwise, 
if no icon name has been set fo' tha window,
it returns zero.
If you never assigned a name ta tha window,
.ZN XGetIconName
sets icon_name_return ta NULL.
If tha data returned by tha server is up in tha Latin Portable Characta Encoding,
then tha returned strang is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
Otherwise, tha result is implementation-dependent.
When finished wit it, a cold-ass lil client must free
the icon name strang using
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
.ZN XGetIconName
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_ICON_NAME\s+1
Da name ta be used up in a icon.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XFree(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
