.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetLineAttributes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetLineAttributes, XSetDashes \- GC convenience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSetLineAttributes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, unsigned
int \fIline_width\fP\^, int \fIline_style\fP\^, int \fIcap_style\fP\^, int
\fIjoin_style\fP\^); 
.HP
int XSetDashes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, int
\fIdash_offset\fP\^, char \fIdash_list\fP[]\^, int \fIn\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcap_style\fP 1i
Specifies tha line-style n' cap-style you wanna set fo' tha specified GC.
Yo ass can pass
.ZN CapNotLast ,
.ZN CapButt ,
.ZN CapRound ,
or
.ZN CapProjectin .
.IP \fIdash_list\fP 1i
Specifies tha dash-list fo' tha dashed line-style
you wanna set fo' tha specified GC. 
.IP \fIdash_offset\fP 1i
Specifies tha phase of tha pattern fo' tha dashed line-style you wanna set
for tha specified GC. 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies tha GC.
.IP \fIjoin_style\fP 1i
Specifies tha line join-style you wanna set fo' tha specified GC.
Yo ass can pass
.ZN JoinMita ,
.ZN JoinRound ,
or
.ZN JoinBevel .
.IP \fIline_style\fP 1i
Specifies tha line-style you wanna set fo' tha specified GC.
Yo ass can pass
.ZN LineSolid ,
.ZN LineOnOffDash ,
or
.ZN LineDoubleDash .
.IP \fIline_width\fP 1i
Specifies tha line-width you wanna set fo' tha specified GC.
.IP \fIn\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of elements up in dash_list. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetLineAttributes
function sets tha line drawin components up in tha specified GC.
.LP
.ZN XSetLineAttributes
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetDashes
function sets tha dash-offset n' dash-list attributes fo' dashed line styles
in tha specified GC.
There must be at least one element up in tha specified dash_list,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch. 
Da initial n' alternatin elements (second, fourth, n' so on) 
of tha dash_list is tha even dashes, and
the others is tha odd dashes.
Each element specifies a thugged-out dash length up in pixels.
All of tha elements must be nonzero,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
Specifyin a odd-length list is equivalent ta specifyin tha same list
concatenated wit itself ta produce a even-length list.
.LP
Da dash-offset defines tha phase of tha pattern,
specifyin how tha fuck nuff pixels tha fuck into tha dash-list tha pattern
should straight-up begin up in any single graphics request.
Dashin is continuous all up in path elements combined wit a join-style
but is reset ta tha dash-offset between each sequence of joined lines.
.LP
Da unit of measure fo' dashes is tha same ol' dirty fo' tha ordinary coordinizzle system.
Ideally, a thugged-out dash length is measured along tha slope of tha line yo, but implementations
are only required ta match dis ideal fo' horizontal n' vertical lines.
Failin tha ideal semantics, it is suggested dat tha length be measured along the
major axiz of tha line.
Da major axis is defined as tha x axis fo' lines drawn at a angle of between
\-45 n' +45 degrees or between 135 n' 225 degrees from tha x axis.
For all other lines, tha major axis is tha y axis.
.LP
.ZN XSetDashes
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value fo' a GContext argument do not name a thugged-out defined GContext.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3),
XQueryBestSize(3),
XSetArcMode(3),
XSetClipOrigin(3),
XSetFillStyle(3),
XSetFont(3),
XSetState(3),
XSetTile(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
