.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetTextProperty 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetTextProperty, XGetTextProperty \- set n' read text properties
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XSetTextProperty\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fItext_prop\fP\^, Atom \fIproperty\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetTextProperty\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fItext_prop_return\fP\^, Atom \fIproperty\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIproperty\fP 1i
Specifies tha property name.
.IP \fItext_prop\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure ta be used.
.IP \fItext_prop_return\fP 1i
Returns the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetTextProperty
function replaces tha existin specified property fo' tha named window 
with tha data, type, format, n' number of shit determined 
by tha value field, tha encodin field, tha format field, 
and tha nitems field, respectively, of tha specified
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
If tha property do not already exist,
.ZN XSetTextProperty
sets it fo' tha specified window.
.LP
.ZN XSetTextProperty
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadAtom ,
.ZN BadValue ,
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetTextProperty 
function readz tha specified property from tha window
and stores tha data up in tha returned
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
It stores tha data up in tha value field,
the type of tha data up in tha encodin field,
the format of tha data up in tha format field, 
and tha number of shit of data up in tha nitems field.
An extra byte containin null (which aint included up in tha nitems member) 
is stored all up in tha end of tha value field of text_prop_return.
Da particular interpretation of tha propertyz encodin 
and data as text is left ta tha callin application.
If tha specified property do not exist on tha window,
.ZN XGetTextProperty
sets tha value field ta NULL, 
the encodin field to
.ZN None , 
the format field ta zero, 
and tha nitems field ta zero.
.LP
If dat shiznit was able ta read n' store tha data up in the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure,
.ZN XGetTextProperty
returns a nonzero status; 
otherwise, it returns a zero status.
.LP
.ZN XGetTextProperty
can generate
.ZN BadAtom 
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_CLIENT_MACHINE\s+1
Da strang name of tha machine on which tha client application is hustlin.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_COMMAND\s+1
Da command n' arguments, null-separated, used ta invoke the
application.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_ICON_NAME\s+1
Da name ta be used up in a icon.
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_NAME\s+1
Da name of tha application.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3),
XStringListToTextProperty(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
