.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSetSelectionOwner 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetSelectionOwner, XGetSelectionOwner, XConvertSelection \- manipulate window selection
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSetSelectionOwner\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom \fIselection\fP\^,
Window \fIballer\fP\^, Time \fItime\fP\^); 
.HP
Window XGetSelectionOwner\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom
\fIselection\fP\^); 
.HP
int XConvertSelection\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom \fIselection\fP\^,
Atom \fItarget\fP\^, Atom \fIproperty\fP\^, Window \fIrequestor\fP\^, Time
\fItime\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIballer\fP 1i
Specifies tha balla of tha specified selection atom.
Yo ass can pass a window or
.ZN None .
.IP \fIproperty\fP 1i
Specifies tha property name.
Yo ass also can pass
.ZN None .
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies tha requestor.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies tha selection atom.
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies tha target atom.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies tha time.
Yo ass can pass either a timestamp or
.ZN CurrentTime .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetSelectionOwner
function chizzlez tha balla n' last-change time fo' tha specified selection
and has no effect if tha specified time is earlier than tha current
last-change time of tha specified selection 
or is lata than tha current X server time.
Otherwise, tha last-change time is set ta tha specified time,
with
.ZN CurrentTime
replaced by tha current server time.
If tha balla window is specified as
.ZN None ,
then tha balla of tha selection becomes 
.ZN None
(that is, no baller).
Otherwise, tha balla of tha selection becomes tha client executing
the request.
.LP 
If tha freshly smoked up balla (whether a cold-ass lil client or
.ZN None )
is not
the same as tha current balla of tha selection n' tha current
balla is not
.ZN None ,
the current balla is busted a 
.ZN SelectionClear 
event.
If tha client dat is tha balla of a selection is later
terminated (that is, its connection is closed)
or if tha balla window it has specified up in tha request is later
destroyed,
the balla of tha selection automatically
reverts to
.ZN None ,
but tha last-change time aint affected.
Da selection atom is uninterpreted by tha X server.
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
returns tha balla window, which is reported up in 
.ZN SelectionRequest
and
.ZN SelectionClear
events.
Selections is global ta tha X server.
.LP
.ZN XSetSelectionOwner
can generate
.ZN BadAtom
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
function
returns tha window ID associated wit tha window dat currently owns the
specified selection.
If no selection was specified, tha function returns tha constant
.ZN None .
If
.ZN None
is returned,
there is no balla fo' tha selection.
.LP
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.LP
.ZN XConvertSelection
requests dat tha specified selection be converted ta tha specified target
type:
.IP \(bu 5
If tha specified selection has a baller, tha X server sendz a
.ZN SelectionRequest
event ta dat baller.
.IP \(bu 5
If no balla fo' tha specified
selection exists, tha X server generates a
.ZN SelectionNotify
event ta the
requestor wit property
.ZN None .
.LP
Da arguments is passed on unchanged up in either of tha events.
There is two predefined selection atoms: PRIMARY n' SECONDARY.
.LP
.ZN XConvertSelection
can generate
.ZN BadAtom
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
