.\" Copyright (c) 1991  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Oracle and/or its affiliates fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software is furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice (includin tha next
.\" paragraph) shall be included up in all copies or substantial portionz of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" X Window System be a trademark of Da Open Group.
.\"
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XShm 3 "libXext 1.3.2" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XShmQueryExtension, XShmQueryVersion, XShmPixmapFormat, XShmAttach, XShmDetach
XShmCreateImage, XShmPutImage, XShmGetImage, XShmCreatePixmap, XShmGetEventBase - X Shared Memory extension functions
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
\&#include <X11/Xlib.h>
\&#include <sys/ipc.h>
\&#include <sys/shm.h>
\&#include <X11/extensions/XShm.h>
.LP
Bool	XShmQueryExtension(
	Display *display);
.LP
Bool XShmQueryVersion(
	Display *display;
	int *major, *minor;
	Bool *pixmaps);
.LP
int XShmPixmapFormat(
	Display *display);
.LP
Bool XShmAttach(
	Display *display;
	XShmSegmentInfo *shminfo);
.LP
Bool XShmDetach(
	Display *display;
	XShmSegmentInfo *shminfo);

.LP
XImage *XShmCreateImage (
	Display *display;
	Visual *visual;
	unsigned int depth;
	int format;
	char *data;
	XShmSegmentInfo *shminfo;
	unsigned int width, height);
.LP
Bool XShmPutImage(
	Display *display;
	Drawable d;
	GC gc;
	XImage *image;
	int src_x, src_y, dest_x, dest_y;
	unsigned int width, height;
	bool send_event);
.LP
Bool XShmGetImage (
	Display *display;
	Drawable d;
	XImage *image;
	int x, y;
	unsigned long plane_mask);
.LP
Pixmap XShmCreatePixmap(
        Display *display;
        Drawable d;
        char *data;
	XShmSegmentInfo *shminfo;
	unsigned int width, height, depth);
.LP
Status XShmGetEventBase(
	Display *display);
.LP

.fi
.SH STRUCTURES
.nf
.ta 3i
\fIEvents:\fP
typedef struct {
    int type;               /\&* of event */
    unsigned long serial;   /\&* # of last request processed by server*/
    Bool send_event;        /\&* legit if dis came from a SendEvent request*/
    Display *display;       /\&* Display tha event was read from */
    Drawable drawable;      /\&* drawable of request */
    int major_code;         /\&* ShmReqCode */
    int minor_code;         /\&* X_ShmPutImage */
    ShmSeg shmseg;          /\&* tha ShmSeg used up in tha request*/
    unsigned long offset;   /\&* tha offset tha fuck into ShmSeg used up in tha request*/
} XShmCompletionEvent;
.LP
\fIa structure of type XShmSegmentInfo :\fP

typedef struct {
    ShmSeg shmseg;      /\&* resource id */
    int shmid;          /\&* kernel id */
    char *shmaddr;      /\&* address up in client */
    Bool readOnly;      /\&* how tha fuck tha server should attach it */
} XShmSegmentInfo;

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.ZN XShmQueryExtension
checks ta peep if tha shared memory extensions is available fo' the
specified display.
.PP
.ZN XShmQueryVersion
returns tha version numberz of tha extension implementation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shared
memory pixmaps is supported if tha pixmaps argument returns true.
.PP
.ZN XShmAttach
 drops some lyrics ta tha server ta attach ta yo' shared memory segment. If all goes
well, yo big-ass booty is ghon git a non-zero status, back n' yo' XImage is ready
for use.
.PP
.ZN XShmDetach
 drops some lyrics ta tha server ta detach from yo' shared memory segment.
.PP
.ZN XShmPutImage
combines a image up in memory wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shape of tha specified drawable. If
XYBitmap format is used, tha depth must be one, or a ``BadMatch''
error thangs up in dis biatch. Da foreground pixel up in tha GC defines tha source for
the one bits up in tha image, n' tha background pixel defines tha source
for tha zero bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. For XYPixmap n' ZPixmap, tha depth must match the
depth of tha drawable, or a ``BadMatch'' error thangs up in dis biatch.
.PP
.ZN XShmGetImage
readz image data tha fuck into a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory XImage where display is the
display of interest, drawable is tha source drawable, image is the
destination XImage, x n' y is offsets within tha drawable, and
plane_mask defines which planes is ta be read.
.PP
.ZN XShmCreateImage
allocates tha memory needed fo' a XImage structure fo' tha specified
display but do not allocate space fo' tha image itself.
.PP
.ZN XShmPixmapFormat
gets tha format fo' tha server n' shit. If yo' application can deal wit the
server pixmap data format, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory segment n' shminfo
structure is pimped.
.PP
.ZN XShmCreatePixmap
points ta a pixmap which you can manipulate up in all of tha usual ways,
with tha added bonuz of bein able ta edit its contents directly
all up in tha shared memory segment.
.PP
.ZN XShmGetEventBase
gets tha completion event value.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIMIT-SHM - Da MIT Shared Memory Extension \fP
