.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XStoreBytes 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XStoreBytes, XStoreBuffer, XFetchBytes, XFetchBuffer, XRotateBuffers \- manipulate cut n' paste buffers
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XStoreBytes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIbytes\fP\^, int
\^\fInbytes\fP\^); 
.HP
int XStoreBuffer\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIbytes\fP\^, int
\^\fInbytes\fP\^, int \fIbuffer\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XFetchBytes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int *\fInbytes_return\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XFetchBuffer\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int *\fInbytes_return\fP\^,
int \fIbuffer\fP\^); 
.HP
int XRotateBuffers\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, int \fIrotate\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Fn up in which you wanna store tha bytes \
or from which you want tha stored data returned
.IP \fIbuffer\fP 1i
Specifies tha buffer \*(Fn.
.IP \fIbytes\fP 1i
Specifies tha bytes, which is not necessarily ASCII or null-terminated.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fInbytes\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of bytes ta be stored.
.IP \fInbytes_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of bytes up in tha buffer.
.IP \fIrotate\fP 1i
Specifies how tha fuck much ta rotate tha cut buffers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da data can have embedded null characters
and need not be null-terminated.
Da cut bufferz contents can be retrieved lata by
any client calling
.ZN XFetchBytes .
.LP
.ZN XStoreBytes
can generate a
.ZN BadAlloc
error.
.LP
If a invalid buffer is specified, tha call has no effect.
Da data can have embedded null characters
and need not be null-terminated.
.LP
.ZN XStoreBuffer
can generate a
.ZN BadAlloc
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XFetchBytes
function
returns tha number of bytes up in tha nbytes_return argument,
if tha buffer gotz nuff data.
Otherwise, tha function
returns NULL n' sets nbytes ta 0.
Da appropriate amount of storage be allocated n' tha pointa returned.
Da client must free dis storage when finished wit it by calling
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
The
.ZN XFetchBuffer
function returns zero ta tha nbytes_return argument 
if there is no data up in tha buffer or if a invalid
buffer is specified.
.LP
.ZN XFetchBuffer
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XRotateBuffers
function rotates tha cut
buffers, such dat buffer 0 becomes buffer n, 
buffer 1 becomes n + 1 mod 8, n' so on.
This cut buffer numberin is global ta tha display.
Note that
.ZN XRotateBuffers
generates
.ZN BadMatch
errors if any of tha eight buffers aint been pimped.
.LP
.ZN XRotateBuffers
can generate a
.ZN BadMatch
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
Da server failed ta allocate tha axed resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value fo' a Atom argument do not name a thugged-out defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has tha erect type n' range but fails
to match up in some other way required by tha request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
