.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XStoreColors 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XStoreColors, XStoreColor, XStoreNamedColor \- set colors
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XStoreColors\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XColor \fIcolor\fP\^[\^]\^, int \fIncolors\fP\^); 
.HP
int XStoreColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XColor *\fIcolor\fP\^); 
.HP
int XStoreNamedColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
char *\^\fIcolor\fP\^, unsigned long \fIpixel\fP\^, int \fIflags\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Co pixel n' RGB joints or tha color name strang (for example, red)
.IP \fIcolor\fP 1i
Specifies tha \*(Co.
.IP \fIcolor\fP 1i
Specifies a array of color definizzle structures ta be stored.
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies tha colormap.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIflags\fP 1i
Specifies which red, green, n' blue components is set.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
.\"Specifies tha number of color definizzle structures. 
Specifies tha number of 
.ZN XColor
structures up in tha color definizzle array.
.IP \fIpixel\fP 1i
Specifies tha entry up in tha colormap. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XStoreColors
function chizzlez tha colormap entriez of tha pixel joints
specified up in tha pixel thugz of the
.ZN XColor
structures.
Yo ass specify which color components is ta be chizzled by settin 
.ZN DoRed ,
.ZN DoChronic ,
and/or
.ZN DoBlue
in tha flags gangmember of the
.ZN XColor
structures.
If tha colormap be a installed map fo' its screen, the
changes is visible immediately.
.ZN XStoreColors 
changes tha specified pixels if they is allocated writable up in tha colormap 
by any client, even if one or mo' pixels generates a error.
If a specified pixel aint a valid index tha fuck into tha colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If a specified pixel either is unallocated or be allocated read-only, a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If mo' than one pixel is up in error, 
the one dat gets reported be arbitrary.
.LP
.ZN XStoreColors
can generate
.ZN BadAccess ,
.ZN BadColor ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XStoreColor
function chizzlez tha colormap entry of tha pixel value specified up in the
pixel gangmember of the
.ZN XColor
structure.
Yo ass specified dis value up in the
pixel gangmember of the
.ZN XColor
structure.
This pixel value must be a read/write cell n' a valid index tha fuck into tha colormap.
If a specified pixel aint a valid index tha fuck into tha colormap,
a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.ZN XStoreColor
also chizzlez tha red, green, and/or blue color components.
Yo ass specify which color components is ta be chizzled by setting
.ZN DoRed ,
.ZN DoChronic ,
and/or
.ZN DoBlue
in tha flags gangmember of the
.ZN XColor
structure.
If tha colormap be a installed map fo' its screen, 
the chizzlez is visible immediately.
.LP
.ZN XStoreColor
can generate
.ZN BadAccess ,
.ZN BadColor ,
and 
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XStoreNamedColor
function looks up tha named color wit respect ta tha screen associated with
the colormap n' stores tha result up in tha specified colormap.
Da pixel argument determines tha entry up in tha colormap.
Da flags argument determines which of tha red, green, n' blue components 
are set. 
Yo ass can set dis member ta the
bitwise inclusive OR of tha bits 
.ZN DoRed , 
.ZN DoChronic , 
and 
.ZN DoBlue .
If tha color name aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase do not matter.
If tha specified pixel aint a valid index tha fuck into tha colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error thangs up in dis biatch.
If tha specified pixel either is unallocated or be allocated read-only, a
.ZN BadAccess
error thangs up in dis biatch.
.LP
.ZN XStoreNamedColor
can generate
.ZN BadAccess ,
.ZN BadColor ,
.ZN BadName ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAccess
A client attempted
to free a cold-ass lil color map entry dat it did not already allocate.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAccess
A client attempted
to store tha fuck into a read-only color map entry.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value fo' a Colormap argument do not name a thugged-out defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadName
A font or color of tha specified name do not exist.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside tha range of joints accepted by tha request.
Unless a specific range is specified fo' a argument, tha full range defined
by tha argumentz type be accepted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate dis error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocColor(3),
XCreateColormap(3),
XQueryColor(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
