.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  Da XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XStringListToTextProperty 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XStringListToTextProperty, XTextPropertyToStringList, XFreeStringList, XTextProperty \- convert strang lists n' text property structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XStringListToTextProperty\^(\^char **\fIlist\fP\^, int \fIcount\fP\^,
XTextProperty *\fItext_prop_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XTextPropertyToStringList\^(\^XTextProperty *\fItext_prop\fP\^, char
***\fIlist_return\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^); 
.HP
void XFreeStringList\^(\^char **\fIlist\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Cn strings
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of \*(Cn.
.ds Cn strings
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns tha number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies tha list of strings ta be freed.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies a list of null-terminated characta strings.
.IP \fIlist_return\fP 1i
Returns a list of null-terminated characta strings.
.IP \fItext_prop\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure ta be used.
.IP \fItext_prop_return\fP 1i
Returns the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.ZN XStringListToTextProperty 
function sets tha specified 
.ZN XTextProperty
to be of type STRING (format 8) wit a value representin the
concatenation of tha specified list of null-separated characta strings.
An extra null byte (which aint included up in tha nitems member) 
is stored all up in tha end of tha value field of text_prop_return.
Da strings is assumed (without verification) ta be up in tha STRING encoding.
If insufficient memory be available fo' tha freshly smoked up value string, 
.ZN XStringListToTextProperty
does not set any fieldz up in the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure n' returns a zero status.
Otherwise, it returns a nonzero status.
To free tha storage fo' tha value field, use 
.ZN XJacked .
.LP
Da 
.ZN XTextPropertyToStringList 
function returns a list of strings representin tha null-separated elements 
of tha specified
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
Da data up in text_prop must be of type STRING n' format 8. 
Multiple elementz of tha property 
(for example, tha strings up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disjoint text selection) 
are separated by NULL (encodin 0).
Da contentz of tha property is not null-terminated.
If insufficient memory be available fo' tha list n' its elements, 
.ZN XTextPropertyToStringList
sets no return joints n' returns a zero status.
Otherwise, it returns a nonzero status.
To free tha storage fo' tha list n' its contents, use 
.ZN XFreeStringList .
.LP
Da 
.ZN XFreeStringList 
function releases memory allocated by 
.ZN XmbTextPropertyToTextList ,
.ZN Xutf8TextPropertyToTextList
and
.ZN XTextPropertyToStringList
and tha missin charset list allocated by 
.ZN XCreateFontSet .
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XTextProperty
structure gotz nuff:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        unsigned char *value;   /\&* property data */
        Atom encoding;  /\&* type of property */
        int format;     /\&* 8, 16, or 32 */
        unsigned long nitems;   /\&* number of shit up in value */
} XTextProperty;
.De
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3),
XAllocIconSize(3),
XAllocSizeHints(3),
XAllocWMHints(3),
XFree(3),
XSetCommand(3),
XSetTransientForHint(3),
XSetTextProperty(3),
XSetWMClientMachine(3),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3),
XSetWMIconName(3),
XSetWMName(3),
XSetWMProperties(3),
XSetWMProtocols(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
