.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XStringToKeysym 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XStringToKeysym, XKeysymToString, XKeycodeToKeysym, XKeysymToKeycode, XConvertCase \- convert keysyms
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
KeySym XStringToKeysym\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XKeysymToString\^(\^KeySym \fIkeysym\fP\^); 
.HP
KeySym XKeycodeToKeysym\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, KeyCode \fIkeycode\fP\^,
int \fIindex\fP\^); 
.HP
KeyCode XKeysymToKeycode\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, KeySym \fIkeysym\fP\^);
.HP
void XConvertCase(\^KeySym \fIkeysym\fP\^, KeySym *\fIlower_return\fP\^,
KeySym *\fIupper_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIindex\fP 1i
Specifies tha element of KeyCode vector.
.IP \fIkeycode\fP 1i
Specifies tha KeyCode.
.ds Fn searched fo' or converted
.IP \fIkeysym\fP 1i
Specifies tha KeySym dat is ta be \*(Fn.
.IP \fIlower_return\fP 1i
Returns tha lowercase form of keysym, or keysym.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha KeySym dat is ta be converted.
.IP \fIupper_return\fP 1i
Returns tha uppercase form of keysym, or keysym.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Standard KeySym names is obtained from
.hN X11/keysymdef.h
by removin tha XK_ prefix from each name.
KeySyms dat is not part of tha Xlib standard also may be obtained
with dis function.
Da set of KeySyms dat is available up in dis manner 
and tha mechanizzlez by which Xlib obtains dem is implementation-dependent.
.LP
If tha KeySym name aint up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
If tha specified strang do not match a valid KeySym,
.ZN XStringToKeysym
returns
.ZN NoSymbol .
.LP
Da returned strang is up in a static area n' must not be modified.
Da returned strang is up in tha Host Portable Characta Encoding.
If tha specified KeySym aint defined,
.ZN XKeysymToString
returns a NULL.
.LP
The
.ZN XKeycodeToKeysym
function uses internal Xlib tables
and returns tha KeySym defined fo' tha specified KeyCode and
the element of tha KeyCode vector.
If no symbol is defined,
.ZN XKeycodeToKeysym
returns
.ZN NoSymbol .
.ZN XKeycodeToKeysym
predates tha XKB extension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you wanna lookup a KeySym while
usin XKB you gotta use
.ZN XkbKeycodeToKeysym .
.LP
If tha specified KeySym aint defined fo' any KeyCode,
.ZN XKeysymToKeycode
returns zero.
.LP
The
.ZN XConvertCase
function returns tha uppercase n' lowercase formz of tha specified Keysym,
if tha KeySym is subject ta case conversion;
otherwise, tha specified KeySym is moonwalked back ta both lower_return and
upper_return.
Support fo' conversion of other than Latin n' Cyrillic KeySyms is
implementation-dependent.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XkbKeycodeToKeysym(3),
XLookupKeysym(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
