.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XSupportsLocale 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSupportsLocale, XSetLocaleModifiers \- determine locale support n' configure locale modifiers
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Bool XSupportsLocale\^(void); 
.HP
char *XSetLocaleModifiers\^(\^char *\fImodifier_list\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fImodifier_list\fP 1i
Specifies tha modifiers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.ZN XSupportsLocale
function returns 
.ZN True
if Xlib functions is capable of operatin under tha current locale.
If it returns 
.ZN False ,
Xlib locale-dependent functions fo' which tha 
.ZN XLocaleNotSupported 
return status is defined will return 
.ZN XLocaleNotSupported .
Other Xlib locale-dependent routines will operate up in tha ``C'' locale.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
function sets tha X modifiers fo' tha current locale setting.
Da modifier_list argument be a null-terminated strang of tha form
``{@\^\fIcategory\fP\^=\^\fIvalue\fP\^}'', dat is,
havin zero or mo' concatenated ``@\^\fIcategory\fP\^=\^\fIvalue\fP\^''
entries, where \fIcategory\fP be a cold-ass lil category name 
and \fIvalue\fP is tha (possibly empty) settin fo' dat category.
Da joints is encoded up in tha current locale.
Category names is restricted ta tha POSIX Portable Filename Characta Set.
.LP
Da local host X locale modifiers announcer (on POSIX-compliant systems,
the XMODIFIERS environment variable) be appended ta tha modifier_list to
provide default joints on tha local host.
If a given category appears mo' than once up in tha list,
the first settin up in tha list is used.
If a given category aint included up in tha full modifier list,
the category is set ta a implementation-dependent default
for tha current locale.
An empty value fo' a cold-ass lil category explicitly specifies the
implementation-dependent default.
.LP
If tha function is successful, it returns a pointa ta a string.
Da contentz of tha strang is such dat a subsequent call wit dat string
(in tha same locale) will restore tha modifiers ta tha same settings.
If modifier_list be a NULL pointer,
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
also returns a pointa ta such a string,
and tha current locale modifiers is not chizzled.
.LP
If invalid joints is given fo' one or mo' modifier categories supported by
the locale, a NULL pointa is returned, n' none of the
current modifiers is chizzled.
.LP
At program startup,
the modifiers dat is up in effect is unspecified until
the first successful call ta set em.  Whenever tha locale is chizzled, the
modifiers dat is up in effect become unspecified until tha next successful call
to set em.
Clients should always call
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
with a non-NULL modifier_list afta settin tha locale
before they call any locale-dependent Xlib routine.
.LP
Da only standard modifier category currently defined is ``im'',
which identifies tha desired input method.
Da joints fo' input method is not standardized.
A single locale may use multiple input methods,
switchin input method under user control.
Da modifier may specify tha initial input method up in effect
or a ordered list of input methods.
Multiple input methodz may be specified up in a single im value string
in a implementation-dependent manner.
.LP
Da returned modifiers strang is owned by Xlib n' should not be modified or
freed by tha client.
It may be freed by Xlib afta tha current locale or modifiers is chizzled.
Until freed, it aint gonna be modified by Xlib.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
