.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAdd-Grab wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAddGrab 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAddGrab, XtRemoveGrab \- redirect user input ta a modal widget
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAddGrab(Widget \fIw\fP, Boolean \fIexclusive\fP, Boolean
\fIspring_loaded\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveGrab(Widget \fIw\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIexclusive\fP 1i
Specifies whether user events should be dispatched exclusively ta dis widget
or also ta previous widgets up in tha cascade.
.IP \fIspring_loaded\fP 1i
Specifies whether dis widget was popped up cuz tha user pressed
a pointa button.
.ds Wi ta add ta or remove from tha modal cascade
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAddGrab
function appendz tha widget (and associated parameters) ta tha modal cascade
and checks dat exclusive is
.ZN True
if spring_loaded is
.ZN True .
If these is not
.ZN True ,
.ZN XtAddGrab
generates a error.
.LP
Da modal cascade is used by
.ZN XtDispatchEvent
when it tries ta dispatch a user event.
When at least one modal widget is up in tha widget cascade,
.ZN XtDispatchEvent
first determines if tha event should be delivered.
It starts at da most thugged-out recent cascade entry n' bigs up tha cascade up ta and
includin da most thugged-out recent cascade entry added wit tha exclusive parameter
.ZN True .
.LP
This subset of tha modal cascade along wit all descendantz of these widgets
comprise tha actizzle subset.
User events dat occur outside tha widgets up in dis subset is ignored
or remapped.
Modal menus wit submenus generally add a submenu widget ta tha cascade
with exclusive
.ZN False .
Modal dialog boxes dat need ta restrict user input ta da most thugged-out deeply nested
dialog box add a subdialog widget ta tha cascade wit exclusive
.ZN True .
User events dat occur within tha actizzle subset is served up ta the
appropriate widget, which is probably a cold-ass lil lil pimp or further descendant of tha modal
widget.
.LP
Regardless of where on tha screen they occur,
remap events is always served up ta da most thugged-out recent widget up in tha active
subset of tha cascade dat has spring_loaded
.ZN True ,
if any such widget exists.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveGrab
function removes widgets from tha modal cascade starting
at da most thugged-out recent widget up ta n' includin tha specified widget.
It thangs a error if tha specified widget aint on tha modal cascade.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
