.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAdd-Callback XtAdd-Callbacks XtRemove-Callback XtRemove-Callbacks XtRemove-All-Callbacks wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAddCallback 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAddCallback, XtAddCallbacks, XtRemoveCallback, XtRemoveCallbacks, XtRemoveAllCallbacks \- add n' remove callback procedures
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAddCallback(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIcallback_name\fP, XtCallbackProc
\fIcallback\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
void XtAddCallbacks(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIcallback_name\fP, XtCallbackList
\fIcallbacks\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveCallback(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIcallback_name\fP,
XtCallbackProc \fIcallback\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveCallbacks(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIcallback_name\fP,
XtCallbackList \fIcallbacks\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveAllCallbacks(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIcallback_name\fP,
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
Specifies tha callback procedure\*(Cb.
.IP \fIcallbacks\fP 1i
Specifies tha null-terminated list of callback procedures n' corresponding
client data.
.ds Cn \ ta which tha procedure is ta be appended or deleted
.IP \fIcallback_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha callback list\*(Cn.
.ds Cd it is invoked by XtCallbacks or NULL, \
or tha client data ta match on tha registered callback procedures
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument dat is ta be passed ta tha specified procedure
when \*(Cd.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAddCallback
function addz tha specified callback procedure ta tha specified widget's
callback list.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAddCallbacks
add tha specified list of callbacks ta tha specified widgetz callback list.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveCallback
function removes a cold-ass lil callback only if both tha procedure n' tha client
data match.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveCallbacks
function removes tha specified callback procedures from tha specified
widgetz callback list.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveAllCallbacks
function removes all tha callback procedures from tha specified
widgetz callback list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCallCallbacks(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
