.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAdd-Exposure-To-Region wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAddExposureToRegion 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAddExposureToRegion \- merge exposure events tha fuck into a region
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAddExposureToRegion(XEvent *\fIevent\fP, Region \fIregion\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta the
.ZN Expose
or
.ZN GraphicsExpose
event.
.IP \fIregion\fP 1i
Specifies tha region object (as defined in
.Pn < X11/Xutil.h >).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAddExposureToRegion
function computes tha union of tha rectangle defined by tha exposure
event n' tha specified region.
Then, it stores tha thangs up in dis biatch back up in region.
If tha event argument aint an
.ZN Expose
or
.ZN GraphicsExpose
event,
.ZN XtAddExposureToRegion
returns without a error n' without modifyin region.
.LP
This function is used by tha exposure compression mechanism
(see Section 7.9.3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
