.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAdd-Input XtAdd-TimeOut XtAddWorkProc wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAddInput 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAddInput, XtAddTimeOut, XtAddWorkProc \- regista input, timeout, n' workprocs
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtInputId XtAddInput(int \fIsource\fP, XtPointa \fIcondition\fP,
XtInputCallbackProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
XtIntervalId XtAddTimeOut(unsigned long \fIinterval\fP, XtInputCallbackProc
\fIproc\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
XtWorkProcId XtAddWorkProc(XtWorkProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointer
\fIclient_data\fP);
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument dat is ta be passed ta tha specified procedure
when input be available
.IP \fIcondition\fP 1i
Specifies tha mask dat indicates a read, write, or exception condition
or some operatin system dependent condition.
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is ta be called when input be available.
.IP \fIsource\fP 1i
Specifies tha source file descriptor on a UNIX-based system
or other operatin system dependent thang justification.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtAddInput
has been replaced by
.ZN XtAppAddInput.
.LP
.ZN XtAddTimeOut
has been replaced by
.ZN XtAppAddTimeOut.
.LP
.ZN XtAddWorkProc
has been replaced by
.ZN XtAppAddWorkProc .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddInput(3), XtAppAddTimeOut(3), XtAppAddWorkProc(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
