.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAllocate-GC wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAllocateGC 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAllocateGC \- obtain a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sharable GC wit modifiable fields
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
GC XtAllocateGC(Widget \fIw\fP, Cardinal \fIdepth\fP, XtGCMask
\fIvalue_mask\fP, XGCValues *\fIvalues\fP, XtGCMask \fIdynamic_mask\fP,
XtGCMask \fIunused_mask\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies tha actual joints fo' dis GC.
.ds Vm fieldz of tha joints is specified
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Specifies which \*(Vm.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies tha depth fo' which tha returned GC is valid, or 0.
.IP  \fIdynamic_mask\fP 1i
Specifies tha fieldz of tha GC dat is ghon be modified by tha caller.
.IP  \fIunused_mask\fP 1i
Specifies tha fieldz of tha GC dat aint gonna be needed by tha caller.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAllocateGC
function returns a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sharable GC dat may be modified by tha client.
Da \fIscreen\fP field of tha specified widget or of tha nearest
widget ancestor of tha specified object n' tha specified \fIdepth\fP
argument supply tha root n' drawable depths fo' which tha GC is to
be valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fIdepth\fP is zero tha depth is taken from tha \fIdepth\fP
field of tha specified widget or of tha nearest widget ancestor of the
specified object.
.LP
Da \fIvalue_mask\fP argument specifies tha fieldz of tha GC dat will
be initialized wit tha respectizzle thugz of tha \fIvalues\fP structure.
Da \fIdynamic_mask\fP argument specifies fieldz dat tha calla intends
to modify durin program execution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da calla must ensure dat the
correspondin GC field is set prior ta each use of tha GC. The
\fIunused_mask\fP argument specifies fieldz of tha GC dat iz of no
interest ta tha calla n' shit. Da calla may make no assumptions bout the
contentz of any fieldz specified up in \fIunused_mask\fP. Da calla may
assume dat at all times all fieldz not specified up in either
\fIdynamic_mask\fP or \fIunused_mask\fP have they default value if
not specified up in \fIvalue_mask\fP or tha value specified by \fIvalues\fP.
If a gangbangin' field is specified up in both \fIvalue_mask\fP n' \fPdynamic_mask\fP,
the effect be as if it was specified only up in \fIdynamic_mask\fP and
then immediately set ta tha value up in \fIvalues\fP. If a gangbangin' field is set
in \fIunused_mask\fP n' also up in either \fIvalue_mask\fP or
\fIdynamic_mask\fP, tha justification up in \fIunused_mask\fP is ignored.
.LP
.ZN XtAllocateGC
tries ta minimize tha number of unique GCs pimped by comparin the
arguments wit dem of previous calls n' returnin a existin GC
when there be no conflicts.
.ZN XtAllocateGC
may modify n' return a existin GC if dat shiznit was allocated wit a nonzero
\fIunused_mask\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ZN XtGetGC
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
