.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Add-Time-Out XtRemove-Time-Out wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppAddTimeOut 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppAddTimeOut, XtRemoveTimeOut \- regista n' remove timeouts
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtIntervalId XtAppAddTimeOut(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, unsigned long
\fIinterval\fP, XtTimerCallbackProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveTimeOut(XtIntervalId \fItimer\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Co fo' which tha timer is ta be set
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context \*(Co.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument dat is ta be passed ta tha specified procedure
when \*(Cd.
.IP \fIinterval\fP 1i
Specifies tha time interval up in milliseconds.
.ds Pr \ ta be called when time expires
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is\*(Pr.
.IP \fItimer\fP 1i
Specifies tha ID fo' tha timeout request ta be destroyed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppAddTimeOut
function creates a timeout n' returns a identifier fo' dat shit.
Da timeout value is set ta interval.
Da callback procedure is called when tha time interval elapses,
and then tha timeout is removed.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveTimeOut
function removes tha timeout.
Note dat timeouts is automatically removed once they trigger.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddInput(3),XtAppAddSignal(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
