.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Add-Input wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppAddInput 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppAddInput, XtRemoveInput \- regista n' remove a input source
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtInputId XtAppAddInput(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, int \fIsource\fP,
XtPointa \fIcondition\fP, XtInputCallbackProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointer
\fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveInput(XtInputId \fIid\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Co dat identifies tha application
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context \*(Co.
.ds Cd input be available
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument dat is ta be passed ta tha specified procedure
when \*(Cd.
.IP \fIcondition\fP 1i
Specifies tha mask dat indicates a read, write, or exception condition
or some operatin system dependent condition.
.IP \fIid\fP 1i
Specifies tha ID returned from tha corresponding
.ZN XtAppAddInput
call.
.ds Pr \ ta be called when input be available
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is\*(Pr.
.IP \fIsource\fP 1i
Specifies tha source file descriptor on a UNIX-based system
or other operatin system dependent thang justification.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppAddInput
function registas wit tha \*(xI read routine a freshly smoked up source of events,
which is probably file input but can also be file output.
Note dat file should be loosely interpreted ta mean any sink
or source of data.
.ZN XtAppAddInput
also specifies tha conditions under which tha source can generate events.
When input is pendin on dis source,
the callback procedure is called.
.LP
Da legal joints fo' tha condizzle argument is operating-system dependent.
On a UNIX-based system,
the condizzle is some union of
.ZN XtInputReadMask ,
.ZN XtInputWriteMask ,
and
.ZN XtInputExceptMask .
The
.ZN XtRemoveInput
function causes tha \*(xI read routine ta stop watchin fo' input
from tha input source.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddTimeOut(3),XtAppAddSignal(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
In ANSI C it is necessary ta cast tha condizzle ta a XtPointer, e.g.:
.RS 4
.br
XtAppAddInput(app_context,
.RS 4
.br
source,
.br
.B (XtPointer)
(XtInputReadMask | XtInputWriteMask),
.br
proc,
.br
client_data);
.RE
