.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Error-Msg XtApp-Set-Error-Msg-Handlez XtApp-Set-Warning-Msg-Handlez XtApp-Warning-Msg wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppErrorMsg 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppErrorMsg, XtAppSetErrorMsgHandlez, XtAppSetWarningMsgHandlez, XtAppWarningMsg \- high-level error handlezs
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAppErrorMsg(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, Strin \fIname\fP, String
\fItype\fP, Strin \fIclass\fP, Strin \fIdefault\fP, Strin *\fIparams\fP,
Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP);
.HP
void XtAppSetErrorMsgHandlez(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, XtErrorMsgHandlez
\fImsg_handlez\fP);
.HP
void XtAppSetWarningMsgHandlez(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP,
XtErrorMsgHandlez \fImsg_handlez\fP);
.HP
void XtAppWarningMsg(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, Strin \fIname\fP, String
\fItype\fP, Strin \fIclass\fP, Strin \fIdefault\fP, Strin *\fIparams\fP,
Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context.
.ds Cl
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specifies tha default message ta use\*(Dm.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies tha general kind of error.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies tha detailed name of tha error.
.ds Mh fatal error procedure, which should not return \
or tha nonfatal error procedure, which probably returns
.IP \fImsg_handlez\fP 1i
Specifies tha freshly smoked up \*(Mh.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of joints up in tha parameta list.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta a list of joints ta be stored up in tha message.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppErrorMsg
function calls tha high-level error handlez n' passes tha specified
information.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppSetErrorMsgHandlez
function registas tha specified  procedure,
which is called when a gangbangin' fatal error occurs.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppSetWarningMsgHandlez
function registas tha specified procedure,
which is called when a nonfatal error condizzle occurs.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppWarningMsg
function calls tha high-level error handlez n' passes tha specified
information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppGetErrorDatabase(3),
XtAppError(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
