.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Create-Shell XtVa-App-Create-Shell wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppCreateShell 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppCreateShell, XtVaAppCreateShell \- create top-level widget instance
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Widget XtAppCreateShell(Strin \fIapplication_name\fP, String
\fIapplication_class\fP, WidgetClass \fIwidget_class\fP, Display
*\fIdisplay\fP, ArgList \fIargs\fP, Cardinal \fInum_args\fP);
.HP
Widget XtVaAppCreateShell(Strin \fIapplication_name\fP, String
\fIapplication_class\fP, WidgetClass \fIwidget_class\fP, Display
*\fIdisplay\fP, ...\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapplication_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha application instance.
.ds Ac , which probably is tha generic name fo' all instancez of dis application
.IP \fIapplication_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha class name of dis application\*(Ac.
.ds Wc \ dat tha application top-level widget should be
.IP \fIwidget_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget class\*(Wc.
.ds Di \ from which ta git tha resources
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha display\*(Di.
.IP \fIargs\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument list\*(Di.
.IP \fInum_args\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of arguments up in tha argument list.
.IP \fI...\fP 1i
Specifies tha variable argument list\*(Di.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppCreateShell
function saves tha specified application name n' application class
for qualifyin all widget resource specifiers.
Da application name n' application class is used as tha left-most components
in all widget resource names fo' dis application.
.ZN XtAppCreateShell
should be used ta create a freshly smoked up logical application within a program
or ta create a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell on another display.
In tha straight-up original gangsta case,
it allows tha justification of a freshly smoked up root up in tha resource hierarchy.
In tha second case,
it uses tha resource database associated wit tha other display.
.LP
Note dat tha widget returned by
.ZN XtAppCreateShell
has tha \s-1WM_COMMAND\s+1
property set fo' session managers (see Chapta 4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCreateWidget(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
