.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Add-Signal wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppAddSignal 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppAddSignal, XtRemoveSignal, XtNoticeSignal \- regista n' remove a signal source
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtSignalId XtAppAddSignal(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, XtSignalCallbackProc
\fIproc\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
void XtRemoveSignal(XtSignalId \fIid\fP);
.HP
void XtNoticeSignal(XtSignalId \fIid\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument dat is ta be passed ta tha specified procedure
when a signal has been raised.
.IP \fIid\fP 1i
Specifies tha ID returned from tha corresponding
.ZN XtAppAddSignal
call.
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is ta be called when tha signal has been
raised.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppAddSignal
function initiates a mechanizzle fo' handlin signals within tha context
of tha Intrinsics. Prior ta establishin a operatin system dependent
signal handlez tha application may call
.ZN XtAppAddSignal
and store tha returned \fIid\fP up in a place accessible ta tha signal
handlez.
.LP
Upon receipt of a signal from tha operatin system, tha application may
call
.ZN XtNoticeSignal
passin tha \fIid\fP returned by tha call to
.ZN XtAppAddSignal .
.LP
.ZN XtNoticeSignal
is tha only Intrinsics function dat can safely be called from a signal
handlez n' shit. If
.ZN XtNoticeSignal
is called multiple times before tha Intrinsics is able ta invoke the
registered callback, tha callback is only called once. Logically the
Intrinsics maintain ``pending'' fo' each registered callback. This
flag is initially
.ZN False
and is set to
.ZN True
by
.ZN XtNoticeSignal ;
the Intrinsics invoke tha callback whenever tha flag is
.ZN True ,
and tha flag is set to
.ZN False
just before tha callback is invoked.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRemoveSignal
function is called ta remove tha specified Intrinsics signal handlez n' shit. The
client should disable tha source of tha signal before calling
.ZN XtRemoveSignal .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddTimeOut(3),XtAppAddInput(3),XtAppAddWorkProc(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
