.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Set-Type-Converta XtSet-Type-Converta wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppSetTypeConverta 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppSetTypeConverter, XtSetTypeConverta \- regista resource converter
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAppSetTypeConverter(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, String
\fIfrom_type\fP, Strin \fIto_type\fP, XtConverta \fIconverter\fP,
XtConvertArgList \fIconvert_args\fP, Cardinal \fInum_args\fP, XtCacheType
\fIcache_type\fP, XtDestructor \fIdestructor\fP);
.HP
void XtSetTypeConverter(Strin \fIfrom_type\fP, Strin \fIto_type\fP,
XtConverta \fIconverter\fP, XtConvertArgList \fIconvert_args\fP, Cardinal
\fInum_args\fP, XtCacheType \fIcache_type\fP, XtDestructor \fIdestructor\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context.
.IP \fIconverter\fP 1i
Specifies tha type converta procedure.
.IP \fIconvert_args\fP 1i
Specifies how tha fuck ta compute tha additionizzle arguments ta tha converta or NULL.
.IP \fIfrom_type\fP 1i
Specifies tha source type.
.IP \fInum_args\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of additionizzle arguments ta tha converta or zero.
.IP \fIto_type\fP 1i
Specifies tha destination type.
.IP \fIcache_type\fP 1i
Specifies whether or not resources produced by dis converta are
sharable or display-specific n' when they should be freed.
.IP \fIdestructor\fP 1i
Specifies a thugged-out destroy procedure fo' resources produced by dis conversion,
or NULL if no additionizzle action is required ta deallocate resources
produced by tha converter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtSetTypeConverter
registas tha specified type converta n' destructor up in all application
contexts pimped by tha callin process, includin any future application
contexts dat may be pimped.
.ZN XtAppSetTypeConverter
registas tha specified type converta up in tha single application context
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha same \fIfrom_type\fP n' \fIto_type\fP is specified
in multiple calls ta either function, da most thugged-out recent overrides the
previous ones.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
