.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtCall-Action-Proc wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtCallActionProc 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtCallActionProc \- invoke a action procedure directly
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtCallActionProc(Widget \fIwidget\fP, Strin \fIaction\fP, XEvent*
\fIevent\fP, String* \fIparams\fP, Cardinal \fInum_params\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget up in which tha action is ta be invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Must be
of class core of any subclass thereof.
.IP \fIaction\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha action routine.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Specifies tha contentz of tha \fIevent\fP passed ta tha action routine.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies tha contentz of tha \fIparams\fP passed ta tha action routine.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies tha num of entries up in \fIparams\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtCallActionProc
searches fo' tha named action routine up in tha same manner n' order as
translation tablez is bound. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If found, tha action routine is invoked
with tha specified widget, event pointer, n' parameters. Well shiiiit, it is the
responsibilitizzle of tha calla ta ensure dat tha contentz of \fIevent\fP,
\fIparams\fP, n' \fInum_params\fP arguments is appropriate fo' the
specified routine, n' if necessary, dat tha specified widget is
realized or sensitive. If tha named action routine cannot be found,
.ZN XtCallActionProc
generates a warnin message n' returns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
