.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtDirect-Convert wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtConvert 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtConvert, XtDirectConvert \- invoke resource converters
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtConvert(Widget \fIw\fP, Strin \fIfrom_type\fP, XrmValuePtr \fIfrom\fP,
Strin \fIto_type\fP, XrmValuePtr \fIto_return\fP);
.HP
void XtDirectConvert(XtConverta \fIconverter\fP, XrmValuePtr \fIargs\fP,
Cardinal \fInum_args\fP, XrmValuePtr \fIfrom\fP, XrmValuePtr \fIto_return\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Al dat gotz nuff tha additionizzle arguments needed ta big-ass up \
the conversion (often NULL)
.IP \fIargs\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument list \*(Al.
.IP \fIconverter\fP 1i
Specifies tha conversion procedure dat is ta be called.
.IP \fIfrom\fP 1i
Specifies tha value ta be converted.
.IP \fIfrom_type\fP 1i
Specifies tha source type.
.IP \fInum_args\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of additionizzle arguments (often zero).
.IP \fIto_type\fP 1i
Specifies tha destination type.
.IP \fIto_return\fP 1i
Returns tha converted value.
.ds Wi ta use fo' additionizzle arguments (if any is needed)
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtConvert
function looks up tha type converta registered ta convert from_type
to to_type, computes any additionizzle arguments needed, n' then calls
.ZN XtDirectConvert .
.ZN XtConvert
has been replaced by
.ZN XtConvertAndStore .
.LP
The
.ZN XtDirectConvert
function looks up in tha converta cache ta peep if dis conversion procedure
has been called wit tha specified arguments.
If so, it returns a thugged-out descriptor fo' shiznit stored up in tha cache;
otherwise, it calls tha converta n' entas tha result up in tha cache.
.LP
Before callin tha specified converter,
.ZN XtDirectConvert
sets tha return value size ta zero n' tha return value address ta NULL.
To determine if tha conversion was successful,
the client should check to_return.address fo' non-NULL.
.ZN XtDirectConvert
has been replaced by
.ZN XtCallConverta .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddConverter(3),
XtStringConversionWarning(3),
XtConvertAndStore(3),
XtCallConverter(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
