.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtConfigure-Widget XtMove-Widget XtResize-Widget wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtConfigureWidget 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtConfigureWidget, XtMoveWidget, XtResizeWidget \- move n' resize widgets
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtConfigureWidget(Widget \fIw\fP, Posizzle \fIx\fP, Posizzle \fIy\fP,
Dimension \fIwidth\fP, Dimension \fIheight\fP, Dimension \fIborder_width\fP);
.HP
void XtMoveWidget(Widget \fIw\fP, Posizzle \fIx\fP, Posizzle \fIy\fP);
.HP
void XtResizeWidget(Widget \fIw\fP, Dimension \fIwidth\fP, Dimension
\fIheight\fP, Dimension \fIborder_width\fP);
.HP
void XtResizeWindow(Widget \fIw\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIborder_width\fP 1i
Specify tha freshly smoked up widget size.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.ds Nu freshly smoked up widget
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify tha \*(Nu x n' y coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtConfigureWidget
function returns immediately if tha specified geometry fields
are tha same as tha oldschool joints.
Otherwise,
.ZN XtConfigureWidget
writes tha freshly smoked up x, y, width, height, n' border_width joints
into tha widget and, if tha widget is realized, make a Xlib
.ZN XConfigureWindow
call on tha widgetz window.
.LP
If either tha freshly smoked up width or height is different from its oldschool value,
.ZN XtConfigureWidget
calls tha widgetz resize procedure ta notify it of tha size chizzle;
otherwise, it simply returns.
.LP
The
.ZN XtMoveWidget
function returns immediately if tha specified geometry fields
are tha same as tha oldschool joints.
Otherwise,
.ZN XtMoveWidget
writes tha freshly smoked up x n' y joints tha fuck into tha widget
and, if tha widget is realized, thangs a Xlib
.ZN XMoveWindow
call on tha widgetz window.
.LP
The
.ZN XtResizeWidget
function returns immediately if tha specified geometry fields
are tha same as tha oldschool joints.
Otherwise,
.ZN XtResizeWidget
writes tha freshly smoked up width, height, n' border_width joints into
the widget and, if tha widget is realized, thangs an
.ZN XConfigureWindow
call on tha widgetz window.
.LP
If tha freshly smoked up width or height is different from tha oldschool joints,
.ZN XtResizeWidget
calls tha widgetz resize procedure ta notify it of tha size chizzle.
.LP
The
.ZN XtResizeWindow
function calls the
.ZN XConfigureWindow
Xlib function ta make tha window of tha specified widget match its width,
height, n' border width.
This request is done unconditionally cuz there is no way ta tell if these
values match tha current joints.
Note dat tha widgetz resize procedure aint called.
.LP
There is straight-up few times ta use
.ZN XtResizeWindow ;
instead, you should use
.ZN XtResizeWidget .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtMakeGeometryRequest(3),
XtQueryGeometry(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
