.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtCreate-Application-Context XtDestroy-Application-Context XtWidget-To-Application-Context XtToolkit-Initialize wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtCreateApplicationContext 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtCreateApplicationContext, XtDestroyApplicationContext, XtWidgetToApplicationContext, XtToolkitInitialize \- create, destroy, n' obtain a application context
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtAppContext XtCreateApplicationContext(void);
.HP
void XtDestroyApplicationContext(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP);
.HP
XtAppContext XtWidgetToApplicationContext(Widget \fIw\fP);
.HP
void XtToolkitInitialize(void);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context.
.ds wi dat you want tha application context for
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtCreateApplicationContext
function returns a application context,
which be a opaque type.
Every application must have at least one application context.
.LP
The
.ZN XtDestroyApplicationContext
function destroys tha specified application context as soon as it is safe
to do so.
If called from wit a event dispatch (for example, a cold-ass lil callback procedure),
.ZN XtDestroyApplicationContext
does not destroy tha application context until tha dispatch is complete.
.LP
The
.ZN XtWidgetToApplicationContext
function returns tha application context fo' tha specified widget.
.LP
The
.ZN XtToolkitInitialize
function initializes tha Intrinsics internals.
If
.ZN XtToolkitInitialize
was previously called it returns immediately.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtDisplayInitialize(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
