.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtCreate-Selection-Request XtSend-Selection-Request XtCancel-Selection-Request wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtCreateSelectionRequest 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtCreateSelectionRequest, XtSendSelectionRequest, XtCancelSelectionRequest \- bundle multiple selection conversion requests tha fuck into a single request rockin MULTIPLE target
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtCreateSelectionRequest(Widget \fIrequestor\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP):
.HP
void XtSendSelectionRequest(Widget \fIrequestor\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP, Time
\fItime\fP);
.HP
void XtCancelSelectionRequest(Widget \fIrequestor\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget makin tha request. Must be of class Core or a
subclass thereof.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies tha particular selection desired.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies tha timestamp ta be used up in makin tha request.
.SH DESCRIPTION
When
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
is called, subsequent calls to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
with tha requestor n' selection as specified to
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
will be bundled tha fuck into a single selection conversion request with
multiple targets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da request is straight-up initiated by calling
.ZN XtSendSelectionRequest .
.LP
When
.ZN XtSendSelectionRequest
is called wit a value of \fIrequestor\fP n' \fIselection\fP matching
a previous call to
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest ,
a selection conversion request is straight-up busted ta tha selection baller.
If a single target request is queued, dat request is made. If multiple
targets is queued they is bundled tha fuck into a single request wit the
target MULTIPLE rockin tha specified timestamp fo' realz. As tha conversions are
made, tha callbacks associated wit each
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
are invoked up in turn.
.LP
Multi-threaded applications should lock tha application context before
calling
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
and release tha lock afta calling
.ZN XtSendSelectionRequest
to ensure dat tha thread assemblin tha request is safe from interference
by another thread assemblin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different request namin tha same widget
and selection.
.LP
When
.ZN XtCancelSelectionRequest
is called, any requests queued since tha last call to
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
are cleaned up. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Subsequent calls to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue ,
.ZN XtGetSelectionValues ,
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremenstrual ,
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValuesIncremental
will not be deferred.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
