.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtError-Msg XtSet-Error-Msg-Handlez XtSet-Warning-Msg-Handlez XtWarning-Msg wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtErrorMsg 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtErrorMsg, XtSetErrorMsgHandlez, XtWarningMsg, XtSetWarningMsgHandlez \- high-level error handlezs
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtErrorMsg(Strin \fIname\fP, Strin \fItype\fP, Strin \fIclass\fP,
Strin \fIdefault\fP, Strin *\fIparams\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP);
.HP
void XtSetErrorMsgHandlez(XtErrorMsgHandlez \fImsg_handlez\fP);
.HP
void XtSetWarningMsgHandlez(XtErrorMsgHandlez \fImsg_handlez\fP);
.HP
void XtWarningMsg(Strin \fIname\fP, Strin \fItype\fP, Strin \fIclass\fP,
Strin \fIdefault\fP, Strin *\fIparams\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Cl
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specifies tha default message ta use\*(Dm.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies tha general kind of error.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies tha detailed name of tha error.
.ds Mh fatal error procedure, which should not return \
or tha nonfatal error procedure, which probably returns
.IP \fImsg_handlez\fP 1i
Specifies tha freshly smoked up \*(Mh.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of joints up in tha parameta list.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta a list of joints ta be stored up in tha message.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtErrorMsg
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppErrorMsg .
.LP
The
.ZN XtSetErrorMsgHandlez
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppSetErrorMsgHandlez .
.LP
The
.ZN XtSetWarningMsgHandlez
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppSetWarningMsgHandlez .
.LP
The
.ZN XtWarningMsg
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppWarningMsg
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XtAppErrorMsg (3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
