.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XTextExtents 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XTextExtents, XTextExtents16, XQueryTextExtents, XQueryTextExtents16 \- compute or query text extents
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XTextExtents\^(\^XFontStruct *\fIfont_struct\fP\^, char *\fIstring\fP\^,
int \fInchars\fP\^, int *\fIdirection_return\fP\^, int
*\fIfont_ascent_return\fP, int *\fIfont_descent_return\fP\^, XCharStruct
*\fIoverall_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XTextExtents16\^(\^XFontStruct *\fIfont_struct\fP\^, XChar2b
*\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInchars\fP\^, int *\fIdirection_return\fP\^, int
*\fIfont_ascent_return\fP, int *\fIfont_descent_return\fP\^, XCharStruct
*\fIoverall_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XQueryTextExtents\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XID \fIfont_ID\fP\^, char
*\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInchars\fP\^, int *\fIdirection_return\fP\^, int
*\fIfont_ascent_return\fP, int *\fIfont_descent_return\fP\^, XCharStruct
*\fIoverall_return\fP\^);
.HP
int XQueryTextExtents16\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, XID \fIfont_ID\fP\^,
XChar2b *\fIstring\fP\^, int \fInchars\fP\^, int *\fIdirection_return\fP\^,
int *\fIfont_ascent_return\fP, int *\fIfont_descent_return\fP\^, XCharStruct
*\fIoverall_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdirection_return\fP 1i
Returns tha value of tha direction hint
.Pn ( FontLeftToRight
or
.ZN FontRightToLeft ).
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIfont_ID\fP 1i
Specifies either tha font ID or tha 
.ZN GContext
ID dat gotz nuff tha font.
.IP \fIfont_ascent_return\fP 1i
Returns tha font ascent.
.IP \fIfont_descent_return\fP 1i
Returns tha font descent.
.IP \fIfont_struct\fP 1i
Specifies tha 
.ZN XFontStruct 
structure.
.IP \fInchars\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of charactas up in tha characta string.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies tha characta string.
.IP \fIoverall_return\fP 1i
Returns tha overall size up in tha specified
.ZN XCharStruct 
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XTextExtents
and
.ZN XTextExtents16
functions 
perform tha size computation locally and, thereby,
avoid tha round-trip overhead of
.ZN XQueryTextExtents 
and
.ZN XQueryTextExtents16 .
Both functions return an
.ZN XCharStruct
structure, whose thugz is set ta tha joints as bigs up.
.LP
Da ascent member is set ta tha maximum of tha ascent metrics of all
charactas up in tha string.
Da descent member is set ta tha maximum of tha descent metrics.
Da width member is set ta tha sum of tha character-width metrics of all
charactas up in tha string.
For each characta up in tha string,
let W be tha sum of tha character-width metrics of all charactas precedin 
it up in tha string.
Let L be tha left-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W.
Let R be tha right-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W.
Da lbearin member is set ta tha minimum L of all charactas up in tha string.
Da rbearin member is set ta tha maximum R.
.LP
For fonts defined wit linear indexin rather than 2-byte matrix indexing,
each 
.ZN XChar2b 
structure is interpreted as a 16-bit number wit byte1 as tha 
most dope byte.
If tha font has no defined default character,
undefined charactas up in tha strang is taken ta have all zero metrics.
.LP
The
.ZN XQueryTextExtents
and
.ZN XQueryTextExtents16
functions return tha boundin box of tha specified 8-bit n' 16-bit
characta strang up in tha specified font or tha font contained up in the
specified GC.
These functions query tha X server and, therefore, suffer tha round-trip
overhead dat be avoided by
.ZN XTextExtents
and 
.ZN XTextExtents16 .
Both functions return a
.ZN XCharStruct 
structure, whose thugz is set ta tha joints as bigs up.
.LP
Da ascent member is set ta tha maximum of tha ascent metrics 
of all charactas up in tha string.
Da descent member is set ta tha maximum of tha descent metrics.
Da width member is set ta tha sum of tha character-width metrics 
of all charactas up in tha string.
For each characta up in tha string,
let W be tha sum of tha character-width metrics of all charactas preceding
it up in tha string.
Let L be tha left-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W.
Let R be tha right-side-bearin metric of tha characta plus W.
Da lbearin member is set ta tha minimum L of all charactas up in tha string.
Da rbearin member is set ta tha maximum R.
.LP
For fonts defined wit linear indexin rather than 2-byte matrix indexing,
each 
.ZN XChar2b 
structure is interpreted as a 16-bit number wit byte1 as tha 
most dope byte.
If tha font has no defined default character,
undefined charactas up in tha strang is taken ta have all zero metrics.
.LP
Charactas wit all zero metrics is ignored.
If tha font has no defined default_char,
the undefined charactas up in tha strang is also ignored.
.LP
.ZN XQueryTextExtents
and
.ZN XQueryTextExtents16
can generate
.ZN BadFont
and
.ZN BadGC 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadFont
A value fo' a Font or GContext argument do not name a thugged-out defined Font.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value fo' a GContext argument do not name a thugged-out defined GContext.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XLoadFont(3),
XTextWidth(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
