.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtFind-File wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtFindFile 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtFindFile \- search fo' a gangbangin' file rockin substitutions up in tha path list
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Strin XtFindFile(Strin \fIpath\fP, Substitution \fIsubstitutions\fP,
Cardinal \fInum_substitutions\fP, XtFilePredicate \fIpredicate\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIpath\fP 1i
Specifies a path of file names, includin substitution characters.
.IP \fIsubstitutions\fP 1i
Specifies a list of substitutions ta make tha fuck into a path.
.IP \fInum_substitutions\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of substitutions passed in.
.IP \fIpredicate\fP 1i
Specifies a procedure ta booty-call ta judge a potential file name, or NULL.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIpath\fP parameta specifies a strang dat consistz of a series of
potential file names delimited by colons.  Within each name, the
percent characta specifies a strang substitution selected by the
followin character n' shit.  Da characta sequence ``%:'' specifies an
embedded colon dat aint a thugged-out delimiter; tha sequence is replaced by a
single colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da characta sequence ``%%'' specifies a cement
characta dat do not introduce a substitution; tha sequence is
replaced by a single cement character n' shit.  If a cement characta is
followed by any other character,
.ZN XtFindFile
looks all up in the
specified \fIsubstitutions\fP fo' dat characta up in tha \fImatch\fP field n' if
found replaces tha cement n' match charactas wit tha strang up in the
correspondin \fIsubstitution\fP field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  A \fIsubstitution\fP field entry of NULL
is equivalent ta a pointa ta a empty string.  If tha operating
system do not interpret multiple embedded name separators up in the
path (i.e., ``/'' up in POSIX) tha same way as a single separator,
.ZN XtFindFile
will collapse multiple separators tha fuck into a single one afta struttin
all strang substitutions.  Except fo' collapsin embedded separators,
the contentz of tha strang substitutions is not interpreted by
.ZN XtFindFile
and may therefore contain any operating-system-dependent
characters, includin additionizzle name separators.  Each resulting
strin is passed ta tha predicate procedure until a strang is found for
which tha procedure returns
.ZN True ;
this strang is tha return value for
.ZN XtFindFile .
If no strang yieldz a
.ZN True
return from tha predicate,
.ZN XtFindFile
returns NULL.
.LP
If tha \fIpredicate\fP parameta is NULL, a internal procedure dat checks
if tha file exists, is readable, n' aint a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is ghon be used.
.LP
It be tha responsibilitizzle of tha calla ta free tha returned strang using
.ZN XtFree
when it is no longer needed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
