.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Class-Extension wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetClassExtension 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetClassExtension \- locate a cold-ass lil class extension record
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtPointa XtGetClassExtension(WidgetClass \fIobject_class\fP, Cardinal
\fIbyte_offset\fP, XrmQuark \fItype\fP, long \fIversion\fP, Cardinal
\fIrecord_size\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIobject_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget class containin tha extension list ta be searched.
.IP \fIbyte_offset\fP 1i
Specifies tha offset up in bytes form tha base of tha widget class of the
extension field ta be searched.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha class extension ta be located.
.IP \fIversion\fP 1i
Specifies tha minimum aaight version of tha class extension
required fo' a match.
.IP \fIrecord_size\fP 1i
Specifies tha minimum aaight length of tha class extension record
required fo' match, or 0.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da list of extension recordz all up in tha specified offset up in tha specified
\fIwidget_class\fP is ghon be searched fo' a match on tha specified
\fItype\fP, a version pimped outa than or equal ta tha specified \fIversion\fP,
and a record size pimped outa than or equal tha specified \fIrecord_size\fP
if it is nonzero.
.ZN XtGetClassExtension
returns a pointa ta a matchin extension record or NULL if no match
is found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da returned extension record is owned by tha widget class
and must not be modified or freed by tha caller, except possibly to
be modified by tha widget class baller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
