.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Selection-Request wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetSelectionRequest 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetSelectionRequest \- retrieve tha event dat triggered tha XtConvertSelectionProc
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XSelectionRequestEvent* XtGetSelectionRequest(Widget \fIw\fP, Atom
\fIselection\fP, XtRequestId \fIrequest_id\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies tha selection bein processed.
.IP \fIrequest_id\fP 1i
Specifies tha requestor id up in tha case of incremenstrual selections, or
NULL up in tha case of atomic transfers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtGetSelectionRequest
may only be called from within an
.ZN XtConvertSelectionProc
procedure n' returns a pointa ta the
.ZN SelectionRequest
event dat caused tha conversion procedure ta be invoked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fIRequest_id\fP
specifies a unique id fo' tha individual request up in tha case that
multiple incremenstrual transfers is outstanding. For atomic transfers,
\fIrequest_id\fP must be specified as NULL. If no
.ZN SelectionRequest
event is bein processed fo' tha specified \fIwidget\fP, \fIselection\fP,
and \fIrequest_id\fP,
.ZN XtGetSelectionRequest
returns NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
