.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-GC XtRelease-GC wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetGC 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetGC, XtReleaseGC \- obtain n' destroy a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sharable GC
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
GC XtGetGC(Widget \fIw\fP, XtGCMask \fIvalue_mask\fP, XGCValues
*\fIvalues\fP);
.HP
void XtReleaseGC(Widget \fIw\fP, GC \fIgc\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies tha GC ta be deallocated.
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies tha actual joints fo' dis GC.
.ds Vm fieldz of tha joints is specified
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Specifies which \*(Vm.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtGetGC
function returns a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass sharable, read-only GC.
Da parametas ta dis function is tha same as dem for
.ZN XCreateGC
except dat a widget is passed instead of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' display.
.ZN XtGetGC
shares only GCs up in which all joints up in tha GC returned by
.ZN XCreateGC
are tha same.
In particular, it do not use tha value_mask provided to
determine which fieldz of tha GC a widget considaz relevant.
Da value_mask is used only ta tell tha server which fieldz should be
filled up in wit widget data n' which it should fill up in wit default joints.
For further shiznit bout value_mask n' joints,
see
.ZN XCreateGC
in tha \fI\*(xL\fP.
.LP
The
.ZN XtReleaseGC
function deallocate tha specified shared GC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
