.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Application-Resources, XtVa-Get-Application-Resources wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetApplicationResources 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetApplicationResources, XtVaGetApplicationResources \- obtain application resources
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtGetApplicationResources(Widget \fIw\fP, XtPointa \fIbase\fP,
XtResourceList \fIresources\fP, Cardinal \fInum_resources\fP, ArgList
\fIargs\fP, Cardinal \fInum_args\fP);
.HP
void XtVaGetApplicationResources(Widget \fIw\fP, XtPointa \fIbase\fP,
XtResourceList \fIresources\fP, Cardinal \fInum_resources\fP, ...\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Al ta override resources obtained from tha resource database
.IP \fIargs\fP 1i
Specifies tha argument list \*(Al.
.ds Ba written
.IP \fIbase\fP 1i
Specifies tha base address of tha subpart data structure where tha resources
should be \*(Ba.
.IP \fInum_args\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of arguments up in tha argument list.
.IP \fInum_resources\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of resources up in tha resource list.
.IP \fIresources\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource list fo' tha subpart.
.ds Wi dat wants resources fo' a subpart \
or dat identifies tha resource database ta search
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.IP \fI...\fP 1i
Specifies tha variable arguments \*(Al.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtGetApplicationResources
function first uses tha passed widget,
which is probably a application shell,
to construct a resource name n' class list,
Then, it retrieves tha resources from tha argument list,
the resource database, or tha resource list default joints.
Afta addin base ta each address,
.ZN XtGetApplicationResources
copies tha resources tha fuck into tha address given up in tha resource list.
If args is NULL,
num_args must be zero.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if num_args is zero,
the argument list aint referenced.
Da portable way ta specify application resources is ta declare them
as thugz of a structure n' pass tha address of tha structure
as tha base argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
