.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Error-Database XtGet-Error-Database-Text wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetErrorDatabase 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetErrorDatabase, XtGetErrorDatabaseText \- obtain error database
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XrmDatabase *XtGetErrorDatabase(void);
.HP
void XtGetErrorDatabaseText(char *\fIname\fP, char *\fItype\fP, char
*\fIclass\fP, char *\fIdefault\fP, char *\fIbuffer_return\fP, int
\fInbytes\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbuffer_return\fP 1i
Specifies tha buffer tha fuck into which tha error message is ta be returned.
.ds Cl \ of tha error message
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies tha resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specifies tha default message ta use\*(Dm.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies tha name n' type dat is concatenated ta form tha resource name
of tha error message.
.IP \fInbytes\fP 1i
Specifies tha size of tha buffer up in bytes.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtGetErrorDatabase
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppGetErrorDatabase .
.LP
The
.ZN XtGetErrorDatabaseText
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppGetErrorDatabaseText .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XtAppGetErrorDatabase (3)
.BR XtAppGetErrorDatabaseText (3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
