.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Resource-List XtGet-Constraint-Resource-List wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtGetResourceList 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetResourceList, XtGetConstraintResourceList \- obtain resource list
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtGetResourceList(WidgetClass \fIclass\fP, XtResourceList
*\fIresources_return\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_resources_return\fP);
.HP
void XtGetConstraintResourceList(WidgetClass \fIclass\fP, XtResourceList
*\fIresources_return\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_resources_return\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fInum_resources_return\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta where ta store tha number of entries up in the
resource list.
.IP \fIresources_return\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta where ta store tha returned resource list.
Da calla must free dis storage using
.ZN XtFree
when done wit dat shit.
.ds Cl \ fo' which you want tha list
.IP \fIwidget_class\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget class\*(Wc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.ZN XtGetResourceList
is called before tha widget class is initialized (that is,
before tha straight-up original gangsta widget of dat class has been pimped),
.ZN XtGetResourceList
returns tha resource list as specified up in tha widget class record.
If it is called afta tha widget class has been initialized,
.ZN XtGetResourceList
returns a merged resource list dat gotz nuff tha resources
for all superclasses. Da list returned by
.ZN XtGetResourceList
should be freed using
.ZN XtFree
when it is no longer needed.
.LP
If
.ZN XtGetConstraintResourceList
is called before tha widget class is initialized (that is,
before tha straight-up original gangsta widget of dat class has been pimped),
.ZN XtGetConstraintResourceList
returns tha resource list as specified up in tha widget class Constraint
part record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If it is called afta tha widget class has been initialized,
.ZN XtGetConstraintResourceList
returns a merged resource list dat gotz nuff tha Constraint resources
for all superclasses. If tha specified class aint a subclass of
.ZN constraintWidgetClass ,
\fI*resources_return\fP is set ta NULL n' \fI*num_resources_return\fP
is set ta zero. Da list returned by
.ZN XtGetConstraintResourceList
should be freed using
.ZN XtFree
when it is no longer needed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtGetSubresources(3),
XtOffset(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
