.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtMake-Resize-Request wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtMakeGeometryRequest 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtMakeGeometryRequest, XtMakeResizeRequest \- make geometry manager request
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtGeometryResult XtMakeGeometryRequest(Widget \fIw\fP, XtWidgetGeometry
*\fIrequest\fP, XtWidgetGeometry *\fIreply_return\fP);
.HP
XtGeometryResult XtMakeResizeRequest(Widget \fIw\fP, Dimension \fIwidth\fP,
\fIheight\fP, Dimension *\fIwidth_return\fP, Dimension *\fIheight_return\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIreply_return\fP 1i
Returns tha allowed widget size or may be NULL
if tha requestin widget aint horny bout handling
.ZN XtGeometryAlmost .
.IP \fIrequest\fP 1i
Specifies tha desired widget geometry (size, position, border width,
and stackin order).
.ds Wi dat is makin tha request
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return tha allowed widget width n' height.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dependin on tha condition,
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
performs tha following:
.IP \(bu 5
If tha widget is unmanaged or tha widgetz parent aint realized,
it make tha chizzlez n' returns
.ZN XtGeometryYes yes y'all, .
.IP \(bu 5
If tha parent aint a subclass of
.ZN compositeWidgetClass
or tha parentz geometry_manager is NULL,
it thangs a error.
.IP \(bu 5
If tha widgetz being_destroyed field is
.ZN True ,
it returns
.ZN XtGeometryNo .
.IP \(bu 5
If tha widget x, y, width, height n' border_width fieldz are
all equal ta tha axed joints,
it returns
.ZN XtGeometryYes yes y'all, ;
otherwise, it calls tha parentz geometry_manager procedure
with tha given parameters.
.IP \(bu 5
If tha parentz geometry manager returns
.ZN XtGeometryYes
and if
.ZN XtCWQueryOnly
is not set up in tha request_mode
and if tha widget is realized,
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
calls the
.ZN XConfigureWindow
Xlib function ta reconfigure tha widgetz window (set its size, location,
and stackin order as appropriate).
.IP \(bu 5
If tha geometry manager returns
.ZN XtGeometryDone ,
the chizzle has been approved n' straight-up has been done.
In dis case,
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
does no configurin n' returns
.ZN XtGeometryYes yes y'all, .
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
never returns
.ZN XtGeometryDone .
.LP
Otherwise,
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
returns tha resultin value from tha parentz geometry manager.
.LP
Lil Pimpz of primitizzle widgets is always unmanaged; thus,
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest
always returns
.ZN XtGeometryYes
when called by a cold-ass lil lil pimp of a primitizzle widget.
.LP
The
.ZN XtMakeResizeRequest
function, a simple intercourse to
.ZN XtMakeGeometryRequest ,
creates a
.ZN XtWidgetGeometry
structure n' specifies dat width n' height should chizzle.
Da geometry manager is free ta modify any of tha other window attributes
(posizzle or stackin order) ta satisfy tha resize request.
If tha return value is
.ZN XtGeometryAlmost ,
width_return n' height_return contain a cold-ass lil compromise width n' height.
If these is acceptable,
the widget should immediately make an
.ZN XtMakeResizeRequest
and request dat tha compromise width n' height be applied.
If tha widget aint interested in
.ZN XtGeometryAlmost
replies,
it can pass NULL fo' width_return n' height_return.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtConfigureWidget(3),
XtQueryGeometery(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
