.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtName-To-Widget XtWindow-To-Widget wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtNameToWidget 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtNameToWidget, XtWindowToWidget \- translatin strings ta widgets or widgets ta windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Widget XtNameToWidget(Widget \fIreference\fP, Strin \fInames\fP);
.HP
Widget XtWindowToWidget(Display *\fIdisplay\fP, Window \fIwindow\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Di \ on which tha window is defined
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha display\*(Di.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies tha straight-up qualified name of tha desired widget.
.IP \fIreference\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget from which tha search is ta start.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Specify tha window fo' which you want tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtNameToWidget
function looks fo' a widget whose name is tha straight-up original gangsta component up in tha specified
names n' dat be a pop-up lil pimp of reference (or a aiiight lil pimp if reference
is a subclass of
.ZN compositeWidgetClass ).
It then uses dat widget as tha freshly smoked up reference n' repeats tha search
afta deletin tha straight-up original gangsta component from tha specified names.
If it cannot find tha specified widget,
.ZN XtNameToWidget
returns NULL.
.LP
Note dat tha names argument gotz nuff tha name of a widget wit respect ta the
specified reference widget n' can contain mo' than one widget name
(separated by periods) fo' widgets dat is not direct children
of tha specified reference widget.
.LP
If mo' than one lil pimp of tha reference widget matches tha name,
.ZN XtNameToWidget
can return any of tha lil' thugs.
Da \*(xI do not require dat all lil pimpz of a widget have unique names.
If tha specified names contain mo' than one component
and if mo' than one lil pimp matches tha straight-up original gangsta component,
.ZN XtNameToWidget
can return NULL if tha single branch dat it bigs up do not
contain tha named widget.
That is,
.ZN XtNameToWidget
does not back up n' follow other matchin branchez of tha widget tree.
.LP
The
.ZN XtWindowToWidget
function translates tha specified window n' display pointa tha fuck into the
appropriate widget instance.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
