.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtOffset 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtOffset, XtOffsetOf, XtNumber \- determine tha byte offset or number of array elements
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Cardinal XtOffset(Type \fIpointer_type\fP, Field \fIfield_name\fP);
.HP
Cardinal XtOffsetOf(Type \fIstructure_type\fP, Field \fIfield_name\fP);
.HP
Cardinal XtNumber(ArrayVariable \fIarray\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIarray\fP 1i
Specifies a gangbangin' fixed-size array.
.IP \fIfield_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha field fo' which ta calculate tha byte offset.
.IP \fIpointer_type\fP 1i
Specifies a type dat is declared as a pointa ta tha structure.
.IP \fIstructure_type\fP 1i
Specifies a type dat is declared as a structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtOffset
macro is probably used ta determine tha offset of various resource fields
from tha beginnin of a widget n' can be used at compile time up in static
initializations.
.LP
The
.ZN XtOffsetOf
macro expandz ta a cold-ass lil constant expression dat gives tha offset up in bytes
to tha specified structure member from tha beginnin of tha structure.
It be normally used ta statically initialize resource lists n' is more
portable than
.ZN XtOffset ,
which serves tha same ol' dirty function.
.LP
The
.ZN XtNumber
macro returns tha number of elements up in tha specified argument lists,
resources lists, n' other counted arrays.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtGetResourceList(3),
XtSetArg(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
