.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtParse-Translation-Table XtAugment-Translations XtOverride-Translations XtUninstall-Translations wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtParseTranslationTable 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtParseTranslationTable, XtAugmentTranslations, XtOverrideTranslations, XtUninstallTranslations \- manage translation tables
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtTranslations XtParseTranslationTable(Strin \fItable\fP);
.HP
void XtAugmentTranslations(Widget \fIw\fP, XtTranslations \fItranslations\fP);
.HP
void XtOverrideTranslations(Widget \fIw\fP, XtTranslations
\fItranslations\fP);
.HP
void XtUninstallTranslations(Widget \fIw\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fItable\fP 1i
Specifies tha translation table ta compile.
.IP \fItranslations\fP 1i
Specifies tha compiled translation table ta merge up in (must not be NULL).
.ds Wi tha fuck into which tha freshly smoked up translations is ta be merged or removed
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtParseTranslationTable
function compilez tha translation table tha fuck into tha opaque internal representation
of type
.ZN XtTranslations .
Note dat if a empty translation table is required fo' any purpose,
one can be obtained by calling
.ZN XtParseTranslationTable
and passin a empty string.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAugmentTranslations
function nondestructively merges tha freshly smoked up translations tha fuck into tha existin widget
translations.
If tha freshly smoked up translations contain a event or event sequence that
already exists up in tha widgetz translations,
the freshly smoked up translation is ignored.
.LP
The
.ZN XtOverrideTranslations
function destructively merges tha freshly smoked up translations tha fuck into tha existin widget
translations.
If tha freshly smoked up translations contain a event or event sequence that
already exists up in tha widgetz translations,
the freshly smoked up translation is merged up in n' override tha widgetz translation.
.LP
To replace a widgetz translations straight-up, use
.ZN XtSetValues
on tha XtNtranslations resource n' specify a cold-ass lil compiled translation table
as tha value.
.LP
The
.ZN XtUninstallTranslations
function causes tha entire translation table fo' widget ta be removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddActions(3),
XtCreatePopupShell(3),
XtParseAcceleratorTable(3),
XtPopup(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
