.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtCallback-Popdown wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtPopdown 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtPopdown, XtCallbackPopdown \- unmap a pop-up
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtPopdown(Widget \fIpopup_shell\fP);
.HP
void XtCallbackPopdown(Widget \fIw\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP, XtPointer
\fIcall_data\fP);
.HP
void MenuPopdown(Strin \fIshell_name\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcall_data\fP 1i
Specifies tha callback data,
which aint used by dis procedure.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta the
.ZN XtPopdownID
structure.
.ds Ps \ ta pop down
.IP \fIpopup_shell\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget shell\*(Ps.
.ds Sn down
.IP \fIshell_name\fP 1i
Specifies tha name of tha widget shell ta pop \*(Sn.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtPopdown
function performs tha following:
.IP \(bu 5
Calls
.ZN XtCheckSubclass
.\".ZN XtCheckSubclass(popup_shell, popupShellWidgetClass)
to ensure popup_shell be a subclass of
.ZN Shell .
.IP \(bu 5
Checks dat popup_shell is currently popped_up;
otherwise, it generates a error.
.IP \(bu 5
Unmaps popup_shellz window.
.IP \(bu 5
If popup_shellz grab_kind is either
.ZN XtGrabNonexclusive
or
.ZN XtGrabExclusive ,
it calls
.ZN XtRemoveGrab .
.\".ZN XtRemoveGrab(popup_shell)
.IP \(bu 5
Sets pop-up shellz popped_up field to
.ZN False .
.IP \(bu 5
Calls tha callback procedures on tha shellz popdown_callback list.
.LP
The
.ZN XtCallbackPopdown
function casts tha client data parameta ta an
.ZN XtPopdownID
pointer:
.LP
.Ds 0
typedef struct {
        Widget shell_widget;
        Widget enable_widget;
} XtPopdownIDRec, *XtPopdownID;
.De
.LP
Da shell_widget is tha pop-up shell ta pop down,
and tha enable_widget is tha widget dat was used ta pop it up.
.LP
.ZN XtCallbackPopdown
calls
.ZN XtPopdown
with tha specified shell_widget
and then calls
.ZN XtSetSensitive
to resensitize tha enable_widget.
.LP
If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell name aint given,
.ZN MenuPopdown
calls
.ZN XtPopdown
with tha widget fo' which tha translation is specified.
If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell_name is specified up in tha translation table,
.ZN MenuPopdown
tries ta find tha shell by lookin up tha widget tree startin at the
parent of tha widget up in which it is invoked.
If it findz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell wit tha specified name up in tha pop-up children
of dat parent,
it pops down tha shell;
otherwise, it moves up tha parent chain as needed.
If
.ZN MenuPopdown
gets ta tha application top-level shell widget
and cannot find a matchin shell,
it generates a error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCreatePopupShell(3),
XtPopup(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
