.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtQueryGeometry 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtQueryGeometry \- query tha preferred geometry of a cold-ass lil lil pimp widget
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtGeometryResult XtQueryGeometry(Widget \fIw\fP\^, XtWidgetGeometry
*\fIintended\fP, XtWidgetGeometry *\fIpreferred_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIintended\fP 1i
Specifies any chizzlez tha parent plans ta make ta tha childz geometry or
NULL.
.IP \fIpreferred_return\fP 1i
Returns tha lil pimp widgetz preferred geometry.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
To discover a cold-ass lil childz preferred geometry,
the childz parent sets any chizzles
that it intendz ta make ta tha childz geometry up in tha correspondin fieldz of
the intended structure, sets tha correspondin bits up in intended.request_mode,
and calls
.ZN XtQueryGeometry .
.LP
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
clears all bits up in tha preferred_return->request_mode n' checks the
query_geometry field of tha specified widgetz class record.
If query_geometry aint NULL,
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
calls tha query_geometry procedure n' passes as arguments the
specified widget, intended, n' preferred_return structures.
If tha intended argument is NULL,
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
replaces it wit a pointa ta an
.ZN XtWidgetGeometry
structure wit request_mode=0 before callin query_geometry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtConfigureWidget(3),
XtMakeGeometryRequest(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
