.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtRegister-Drawable XtUnregister-Drawable XtWindow-To-Widget wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtRegisterDrawable 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtRegisterDrawable \- regista a thugged-out drawable wit tha Intrinsics event dispatcher
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtRegisterDrawable(Display* \fIdisplay\fP, Drawable \fIdrawable\fP,
Widget \fIwidget\fP);
.HP
void XtUnregisterDrawable(Display* \fIdisplay\fP, Drawable \fIdrawable\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawablez display.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Specifies tha drawable ta register.
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget ta regista tha drawable for.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtRegisterDrawable
associates tha specified drawable wit tha specified widget so that
future calls to
.ZN XtWindowToWidget
with tha drawable will return tha widget. Da default event dispatcher
will dispatch future core events dat arrive wit tha drawable ta the
widget as though tha event contained tha widgetz window yo, but tha event
itself aint gonna be chizzled up in any way when bein passed ta even handlez
or action procedures.
.LP
If tha drawable be already registered wit another widget, or if the
drawable is tha window of a widget up in tha clientz widget tree, the
resultz of calling
.ZN XtRegisterDrawable
are undefined.
.LP
.ZN XtUnregisterDrawable
removes a association pimped with
.ZN XtRegisterDrawable .
If tha drawable is tha window of a widget up in tha clientz widget tree
the thangs up in dis biatch of calling
.ZN XtUnregisterDrawable
are undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
