.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtRealize-Widget XtIs-Realized XtUnrealize-Widget wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtRealizeWidget 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtRealizeWidget, XtIsRealized, XtUnrealizeWidget \- realize n' unrealize widgets
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtRealizeWidget(Widget \fIw\fP);
.HP
Boolean XtIsRealized(Widget \fIw\fP);
.HP
void XtUnrealizeWidget(Widget \fIw\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If tha widget be already realized,
.ZN XtRealizeWidget
simply returns.
Otherwise, it performs tha following:
.IP \(bu 5
Bindz all action names up in tha widget's
translation table ta procedures (see Section 10.1.2).
.IP \(bu 5
Makes a post-order traversal of tha widget tree rooted
at tha specified widget n' calls tha chizzle_managed procedure
of each composite widget dat has one or mo' managed lil' thugs.
.IP \(bu 5
Constructs an
.ZN XSetWindowAttributes
structure filled up in wit shiznit derived from the
.ZN Core
widget fieldz n' calls tha realize procedure fo' tha widget,
which addz any widget-specific attributes n' creates tha X window.
.IP \(bu 5
If tha widget is
not a subclass of
.ZN compositeWidgetClass ,
.ZN XtRealizeWidget
returns; otherwise, it continues n' performs tha following:
.RS
.IP \- 5
Descendz recursively ta each of tha widget's
managed lil pimps n' calls tha realize procedures.
Primitizzle widgets dat instantiate lil pimps is responsible fo' realizing
those lil pimps theyselves.
.IP \- 5
Maps all of tha managed lil pimps windows dat have mapped_when_managed
.ZN True .
(If a widget is managed but mapped_when_managed is
.ZN False ,
the widget be allocated visual space but aint displayed.
Some playas seem ta like dis ta indicate certain states.)
.RE
.LP
If tha widget be a top-level shell widget (that is, it has no parent), and
mapped_when_managed is
.ZN True ,
.ZN XtRealizeWidget
maps tha widget window.
.LP
The
.ZN XtIsRealized
function returns
.ZN True
if tha widget has been realized,
that is, if tha widget has a nonzero X window ID.
.LP
Some widget procedures (for example, set_values) might wish to
operate differently
afta tha widget has been realized.
.LP
The
.ZN XtUnrealizeWidget
function destroys tha windowz of a existin widget n' all of its
lil pimps (recursively down tha widget tree).
To recreate tha windows at a lata time,
call
.ZN XtRealizeWidget
again.
If tha widget was managed,
it is ghon be unmanaged automatically before its window is freed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtManageChildren(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
