.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Sensitizzle XtIs-Sensitizzle wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetSensitizzle 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetSensitive, XtIsSensitizzle \- set n' check a widgetz sensitivitizzle state
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtSetSensitive(Widget \fIw\fP, Boolean \fIsensitive\fP);
.HP
Boolean XtIsSensitive(Widget \fIw\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsensitive\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value dat indicates whether tha widget should receive
keyboard n' pointa events.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtSetSensitive
function first calls
.ZN XtSetValues
on tha current widget wit a argument list specifyin dat the
sensitizzle field should chizzle ta tha freshly smoked up value.
It then recursively propagates tha freshly smoked up value
down tha managed lil pimps tree by calling
.ZN XtSetValues
on each lil pimp ta set tha ancestor_sensitizzle ta tha freshly smoked up value if tha new
values fo' sensitizzle n' tha childz ancestor_sensitizzle is not tha same.
.LP
.ZN XtSetSensitive
calls
.ZN XtSetValues
to chizzle sensitizzle n' ancestor_sensitive.
Therefore, when one of these chizzles,
the widgetz set_values procedure should
take whatever display actions is needed
(for example, greyin up or stipplin tha widget).
.LP
.ZN XtSetSensitive
maintains tha invariant dat if parent has either sensitive
or ancestor_sensitive
.ZN False ,
then all lil pimps have ancestor_sensitive
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XtIsSensitive
function returns
.ZN True
or
.ZN False
to indicate whether or not user input events is bein dispatched.
If both core.sensitizzle n' core.ancestor_sensitizzle are
.ZN True ,
.ZN XtIsSensitive
returns
.ZN True ;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
