.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Key-Translator XtTranslate-Keycode XtRegister-Case-Converta XtConvert-Case wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetKeyTranslator 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetKeyTranslator, XtTranslateKeycode, XtRegisterCaseConverter, XtConvertCase \- convert KeySym ta KeyCodes
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtSetKeyTranslator(Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XtKeyProc \fIproc\fP);
.HP
void XtTranslateKeycode(Display *\fIdisplay\fP, KeyCode \fIkeycode\fP,
Modifiers \fImodifiers\fP, Modifiers *\fImodifiers_return\fP, KeySym
*\fIkeysym_return\fP);
.HP
void XtRegisterCaseConverter(Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XtCaseProc \fIproc\fP,
KeySym \fIstart\fP, KeySym \fIstop\fP);
.HP
void XtConvertCase(Display *\fIdisplay\fP, KeySym \fIkeysym\fP, KeySym
*\fIlower_return\fP, KeySym *\fIupper_return\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Di
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha display\*(Di.
.IP \fIkeycode\fP 1i
Specifies tha KeyCode ta translate.
.IP \fIkeysym\fP 1i
Specifies tha KeySym ta convert.
.IP \fIkeysym_return\fP 1i
Returns tha resultin KeySym.
.IP \fIlower_return\fP 1i
Returns tha lowercase equivalent of tha KeySym.
.IP \fIupper_return\fP 1i
Returns tha uppercase equivalent of tha KeySym.
.IP \fImodifiers\fP 1i
Specifies tha modifiers ta tha KeyCode.
.IP \fImodifiers_return\fP 1i
Returns a mask dat indicates tha modifiers straight-up used
to generate tha KeySym.
.ds Pr \ ta big-ass up key translations or conversions
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha procedure dat is\*(Pr.
.IP \fIstart\fP 1i
Specifies tha straight-up original gangsta KeySym fo' which dis converta is valid.
.IP \fIstop\fP 1i
Specifies tha last KeySym fo' which dis converta is valid.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtSetKeyTranslator
function sets tha specified procedure as tha current key translator.
Da default translator is
.ZN XtTranslateKey ,
an
.ZN XtKeyProc
that uses Shift n' Lock modifiers wit tha interpretations defined
by tha core protocol.
It be provided so dat freshly smoked up translators can call it ta git default
KeyCode-to-KeySym translations n' so dat tha default translator
can be reinstalled.
.LP
The
.ZN XtTranslateKeycode
function passes tha specified arguments
directly ta tha currently registered KeyCode ta KeySym translator.
.LP
The
.ZN XtRegisterCaseConverter
registas tha specified case converter.
Da start n' stop arguments provide tha inclusive range of KeySyms
for which dis converta is ta be called.
Da freshly smoked up converta overrides any previous convertas fo' KeySyms up in dat range.
No intercourse exists ta remove converters;
you need ta regista a identitizzle converter.
When a freshly smoked up converta is registered,
the \*(xI  refreshes tha keyboard state if necessary.
Da default converta understandz case conversion fo' all
KeySyms defined up in tha core protocol.
.LP
The
.ZN XtConvertCase
function calls tha appropriate converta n' returns tha thangs up in dis biatch.
A user-supplied
.ZN XtKeyProc
may need ta use dis function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
