.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Selection-Parametas XtGet-Selection-Parametas wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetSelectionParametas 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetSelectionParametas \- specify target parametas fo' a selection request wit a single target
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtSetSelectionParameters(Widget \fIrequestor\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP,
Atom \fItype\fP, XtPointa \fIvalue\fP, unsigned long \fIlength\fP, int
\fIformat\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget makin tha request. Must be of class Core or any
subclass thereof.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies tha atom dat names tha selection.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies tha type of tha property up in which tha parametas is ghon be passed.
.IP \fIvalue\fP 1i
Specifies a pointa ta tha parameters.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of elements containin data up in \fIvalue\fP, each
element of a sized indicated by \fIformat\fP.
.IP \fIformat\fP 1i
Specifies tha size up in bitz of tha data up in tha elementz of \fIvalue\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da specified parametas is ghon be copied n' stored up in a freshly smoked up property of
the specified type n' format on tha requestorz window. To initiate a
selection request wit a target n' these parameters, a subsequent call to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
or to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
specifyin tha same requestor widget n' selection atom will generate a
.ZN ConvertSelection
request referrin referrin ta tha property containin tha parameters. If
.ZN XtSetSelectionParameters
is called mo' than once wit tha same widget n' selection without a
call ta specify a request, da most thugged-out recently specified parametas are
used up in tha subsequent request.
.LP
Da possible jointz of \fIformat\fP may be 8, 16, or 32. If tha \fIformat\fP
is 8, tha elementz of \fIvalue\fP is assumed ta be sizeof(char); if 16,
sizeof(short); if 32, sizeof(long).
.LP
To generate a MULTIPLE target request wit parametas fo' any of the
multiple targetz of tha selection request, precede individual calls to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
with correspondin individual calls to
.ZN XtSetSelectionParametas ,
and enclose these all within
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
and
.ZN XtSendSelectionRequest .
.ZN XtGetSelectionValues
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValuesIncremental
cannot be used  ta make selection requests wit parameterized targets.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtGetSelectionParameters(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
