.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtainin a
.\" copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the "Software"),
.\" ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, includin without limitation
.\" tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' ta permit peeps ta whom the
.\" Software furnished ta do so, subject ta tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall not
.\" be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or other
.\" dealin up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-WMColormap-Windows wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetWMColormapWindows 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetWMColormapWindows \- Set tha value of tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtSetWMColormapWindows(Widget \fIwidget\fP, Widget* \fIlist\fP, Cardinal
\fIcount\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget on whose window tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property
will be stored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Must be of class Core or any subclass thereof.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies a list of widgets whose windows is is potentially ta be
listed up in tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property.
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies tha number of widgets up in \fIlist\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtSetWMColormapWindows
returns immediately if \fIwidget\fP aint realized or if \fIcount\fP
is zero. Otherwise,
.ZN XtSetWMColormapWindows
constructs a ordered list of windows by examinin each widget in
\fIlist\fP up in turn n' ignorin tha widget if it aint realized,
or addin tha widgetz window ta tha window list if tha widget is
realized n' its colormap resource is different from tha colormap
resourcez of all widgets whose windows is already on tha window
list.
.LP
Finally,
.ZN XtSetWMColormapWindows
stores tha resultin window list up in tha WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS property
on tha specified widgetz window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
