.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Keyboard-Focus wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetKeyboardFocus 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetKeyboardFocus \- focus events on a cold-ass lil lil pimp widget
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtSetKeyboardFocus(Widget \fIsubtree\fP, Widget \fIdescendant\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsubtree\fP 1i
Specifies either tha widget up in tha subtree structure which is ta receive the
keyboard event, or
.ZN None .
Note dat it aint a error ta specify
.ZN None
when no input focus was previously set.
.ds Wi fo' which tha keyboard focus is ta be set
.IP \fIdescendant\fP 1i
Specifies tha widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If a gangbangin' future
.ZN KeyPress
or
.ZN KeyRelease
event occurs within tha specified subtree,
.ZN XtSetKeyboardFocus
causes
.ZN XtDispatchEvent
to remap n' bust tha event ta tha specified descendant widget.
.LP
When there is no modal cascade,
keyboard events can occur within a widget W up in one of three ways:
.IP \(bu 5
W has tha X input focus.
.IP \(bu 5
W has tha keyboard focuz of one of its ancestors,
and tha event occurs within tha ancestor or one of tha ancestorz descendants.
.IP \(bu 5
No ancestor of W has a thugged-out descendant within tha keyboard focus,
and tha pointa is within W.
.LP
When there be a modal cascade,
a widget W receives keyboard events if a ancestor of W is up in tha active
subset of tha modal cascade n' one or mo' of tha previous conditions is
.ZN True .
.LP
When subtree or one of its descendants acquires tha X input focus
or tha pointa moves tha fuck into tha subtree such dat keyboard events would
now be served up ta subtree, a
.ZN FocusIn
event is generated fo' tha descendant if
.ZN FocusNotify
events done been selected by tha descendant.
Similarly, when W loses tha X input focus
or tha keyboard focus fo' one of its ancestors, a
.ZN FocusOut
event is generated fo' descendant if
.ZN FocusNotify
events done been selected by tha descendant.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCallAcceptFocus(3)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
