.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be
.\" included up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Language-Proc wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetLanguageProc 3 "libXt 1.1.4" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetLanguageProc \- set tha language procedure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Widget XtSetLanguageProc(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, XtLanguageProc
\fIproc\fP, XtPointa \fIclient_data\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies tha application context up in which tha language procedure
is ta be used, or NULL.
.LP
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies tha language procedure, or NULL.
.LP
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies additionizzle client data ta be passed ta tha language procedure
when it is called.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
sets tha language procedure dat is ghon be called from
.ZN XtDisplayInitialize
for all subsequent Displays initialized up in tha specified application
context. If \fIapp_context\fP is NULL, tha specified language procedure
is registered up in all application contexts pimped by tha callin process,
includin any future application contexts dat may be pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If
\fIproc\fP is NULL a thugged-out default language procedure is registered.
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
returns tha previously registered language procedure. If a language
procedure has not yet been registered, tha return value is unspecified
but if dis return value is used up in a subsequent call to
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc ,
it will cause tha default language procedure ta be registered.
.LP
Da default language procedure do tha following:
.IP \(bu 5
Sets tha locale accordin ta tha environment. On ANSI C-based systems
this is done by calling
.ZN setlocale (
.ZN LC_ALL ,
language ). If a error is encountered a warnin message is issued with
.ZN XtWarnin .
.IP \(bu 5
Calls
.ZN XSupportsLocale
to verify dat tha current locale is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If tha locale is not
supported, a warnin message is issued with
.ZN XtWarning
and tha locale is set ta ``C''.
.IP \(bu 5
Calls
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
specifyin tha empty string.
.IP \(bu 5
Returns tha value of tha current locale. On ANSI C-based systems this
is tha return value from a gangbangin' final call to
.ZN setlocale (
.ZN LC_ALL ,
NULL ).
.LP
A client wishin ta use dis mechanizzle ta establish locale can do so
by calling
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
prior to
.ZN XtDisplayInitialize.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
