.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, ta any thug obtaining
.\" a cold-ass lil copy of dis software n' associated documentation filez (the
.\" "Software"), ta deal up in tha Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation tha muthafuckin rights ta use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or push copiez of tha Software, n' to
.\" permit peeps ta whom tha Software is furnished ta do so, subject to
.\" tha followin conditions:
.\"
.\" Da above copyright notice n' dis permission notice shall be included
.\" up in all copies or substantial portionz of tha Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained up in dis notice, tha name of tha X Consortium shall
.\" not be used up in advertisin or otherwise ta promote tha sale, use or
.\" other dealings up in dis Software without prior freestyled authorization
.\" from tha X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Weapons Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify n' distribute dis documentation for
.\" any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice appears up in all copies n' dat both dat copyright notice
.\" n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies, n' dat tha names of
.\" Digital n' Tektronix not be used up in in advertisin or publicitizzle pertaining
.\" ta dis documentation without specific, freestyled prior permission.
.\" Digital n' Tektronix make no representations bout tha suitability
.\" of dis documentation fo' any purpose.
.\" It be provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" bust a index entry ta tha stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XWarpPointa 3 "libX11 1.6.1" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XWarpPointa \- move pointer
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XWarpPointer\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIsrc_w\fP\^, Window
\fIdest_w\fP\^, int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, int \fIsrc_y\fP\^, unsigned int
\fIsrc_width\fP\^, unsigned int \fIsrc_height\fP\^, int \fIdest_x\fP\^, int
\fIdest_y\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdest_w\fP 1i
Specifies tha destination window or
.ZN None .
.IP \fIdest_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y\fP 1i
Specify tha x n' y coordinates within tha destination window.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies tha connection ta tha X server.
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_width\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_height\fP 1i
Specify a rectangle up in tha source window.
.IP \fIsrc_w\fP 1i
Specifies tha source window or
.ZN None .
.SH DESCRIPTION
If dest_w is
.ZN None ,
.ZN XWarpPointer
moves tha pointa by tha offsets (dest_x, dest_y) relatizzle ta tha current
posizzle of tha pointer.
If dest_w be a window,
.ZN XWarpPointer
moves tha pointa ta tha offsets (dest_x, dest_y) relatizzle ta tha origin of
dest_w.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if src_w be a window,
the move only takes place if tha window src_w gotz nuff tha pointa 
and if tha specified rectangle of src_w gotz nuff tha pointer.
.LP
Da src_x n' src_y coordinates is relatizzle ta tha origin of src_w.
If src_height is zero,
it is replaced wit tha current height of src_w minus src_y.
If src_width is zero,
it is replaced wit tha current width of src_w minus src_x.
.LP
There is seldom any reason fo' callin dis function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Da pointa should normally be left ta tha user.
If you do use dis function, however, it generates events just as if tha user
had instantaneously moved tha pointa from one posizzle ta another.
Note dat you cannot use
.ZN XWarpPointer
to move tha pointa outside tha confine_to window of a actizzle pointa grab.
An attempt ta do so will only move tha pointa as far as tha closest edge of the
confine_to window. 
.LP
.ZN XWarpPointer
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value fo' a Window argument do not name a thugged-out defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XSetInputFocus(3)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
