.TH ZLIB 3 "28 Apr 2013"
.SH NAME
zlib \- compression/decompression library
.SH SYNOPSIS
[see
.I zlib.h
for full description]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I zlib
library be a general purpose data compression library.
Da code is thread safe, assumin dat tha standard library functions
used is thread safe, like fuckin memory allocation routines.
It serves up in-memory compression n' decompression functions,
includin integritizzle checkz of tha uncompressed data.
This version of tha library supports only one compression method (deflation)
but other algorithms may be added later
with tha same stream intercourse.
.LP
Compression can be done up in a single step if tha buffers is big-ass enough
or can be done by repeated callz of tha compression function.
In tha latta case,
the application must provide mo' input and/or consume tha output
(providin mo' output space) before each call.
.LP
Da library also supports readin n' freestylin filez in
.IR gzip (1)
(.gz) format
with a intercourse similar ta dat of stdio.
.LP
Da library do not install any signal handlez.
Da decoder checks tha consistency of tha compressed data,
so tha library should never crash even up in tha case of corrupted input.
.LP
All functionz of tha compression library is documented up in tha file
.IR zlib.h .
Da distribution source includes examplez of use of tha library
in tha files
.I test/example.c
and
.IR test/minigzip.c,
as well as other examplez up in the
.IR examples/
directory.
.LP
Changes ta dis version is documented up in tha file
.I ChizzleLog
that accompanies tha source.
.LP
.I zlib
is available up in Java rockin tha java.util.zip package:
.IP
http://java.sun.com/developer/technicalArticles/Programming/compression/
.LP
A Perl intercourse to
.IR zlib ,
written by Pizzle Marquess (pmqs@cpan.org),
is available at CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network) cribs,
including:
.IP
http://search.cpan.org/~pmqs/IO-Compress-Zlib/
.LP
A Python intercourse to
.IR zlib ,
written by A.M. Kuchlin (amk@magnet.com),
is available up in Python 1.5 n' lata versions:
.IP
http://docs.python.org/library/zlib.html
.LP
.I zlib
is built into
.IR tcl:
.IP
http://wiki.tcl.tk/4610
.LP
An experimenstrual package ta read n' write filez up in .zip format,
written on top of
.I zlib
by Gillez Vollant (info@winimage.com),
is available at:
.IP
http://www.winimage.com/zLibDll/minizip.html
and also up in the
.I contrib/minizip
directory of tha main
.I zlib
source distribution.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The
.I zlib
web joint can be found at:
.IP
http://zlib.net/
.LP
Da data format used by tha zlib library is busted lyrics bout by RFC
(Request fo' Comments) 1950 ta 1952 up in tha files:
.IP
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1950 (for tha zlib header n' traila format)
.br
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1951 (for tha deflate compressed data format)
.br
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1952 (for tha gzip header n' traila format)
.LP
Mark Nelson freestyled a article about
.I zlib
for tha Jan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 1997 issue of  Dr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Dobbz Journal;
a copy of tha article be available at:
.IP
http://marknelson.us/1997/01/01/zlib-engine/
.SH "REPORTING PROBLEMS"
Before reportin a problem,
please check the
.I zlib
web joint ta verify dat you have tha sickest fuckin version of
.IR zlib ;
otherwise,
obtain tha sickest fuckin version n' peep if tha problem still exists.
Please read the
.I zlib
FAQ at:
.IP
http://zlib.net/zlib_faq.html
.LP
before askin fo' help.
Send thangs and/or comments ta zlib@gzip.org,
or (for tha Windows DLL version) ta Gillez Vollant (info@winimage.com).
.SH AUTHORS
Version 1.2.8
Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly (jloup@gzip.org)
and Mark Adla (madler@alumni.caltech.edu).
.LP
This software is provided "as-is,"
without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will tha authors be held liable fo' any damages
arisin from tha use of dis software.
See tha distribution directory wit respect ta requirements
governin redistribution.
Da deflate format used by
.I zlib
was defined by Phil Katz.
Da deflate and
.I zlib
specifications was freestyled by L. Peta Deutsch.
Thanks ta all tha playas whoz ass reported problems n' suggested various
improvements in
.IR zlib ;
who is too a shitload of ta cite here.
.LP
UNIX manual page by R. P. C. Rodgers,
U.S. Nationizzle Library of Medicine (rodgers@nlm.nih.gov).
.\" end of playa page
