.\"
.\" "$Id: backend.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   Backend playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH backend 7 "CUPS" "23 April 2012" "Applez Inc."

.SH NAME
backend \- cups backend transmission intercourses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backend
.br
.B backend
job user title num-copies options [
.I filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Backendz is a special type of \fIfilter(7)\fR which is used ta bust print data
to n' discover different devices on tha system.
.LP
Like filters, backendz must be capable of readin from a gangbangin' filename on the
command-line or from tha standard input, copyin tha standard input ta a
temporary file as required by tha physical intercourse.
.LP
Da command name (argv[0]) is set ta tha thang URI of tha destination printer.
Startin wit CUPS 1.1.22, any authentication shiznit up in argv[0] is removed,
so backend pimpers is urged ta use tha DEVICE_URI environment variable
whenever authentication shiznit is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da CUPS API includes a
\fIcupsBackendDeviceURI\fR function fo' retrievin tha erect thang URI.
.LP
Back-channel data from tha thang should be relayed ta tha thang
filtas by freestylin ta file descriptor 3. Da CUPS API includes
the \fIcupsBackChannelWrite\fR function fo' dis purpose.
.SH WARNING
CUPS backendz is not generally design ta be run directly by tha user n' shiznit fo' realz. Aside
from tha thang URI issue (argv[0] n' DEVICE_URI environment variable contain
the thang URI), CUPS backendz also expect specific environment variablez and
file descriptors, n' typically run up in a user session dat (on OS X) has
additionizzle restrictions dat affect how tha fuck it runs. Backendz can also be installed
with restricted permissions (0500 or 0700) dat tell tha schedula ta run them
as tha "root" user instead of a unprivileged user (typically "lp") on the
system.
.LP
Unless yo ass be a thugged-out pimper n' know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin, please do not run
backendz directly. Instead, use tha \fIlp(1)\fR or \fIlpr(1)\fR programs ta send
a print thang or \fIlpinfo(8)\fR program ta query fo' available printas rockin the
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Da one exception is tha SNMP backend - peep \fIsnmpbackend(8)\fR for
more shiznit.
.SH DEVICE DISCOVERY
When run wit no arguments, tha backend should list tha devices n' schemes it
supports or be advertisin ta stdout. Da output consistz of zero or mo' lines
consistin of any of tha followin forms:

.nf
    device-class scheme "Unknown" "device-info"
    device-class device-uri "device-make-and-model" "device-info"
    device-class device-uri "device-make-and-model" "device-info" "device-id"
    device-class device-uri "device-make-and-model" "device-info" "device-id" "device-location"
.fi
.LP
Da \fIdevice-class\fR field is one of tha followin joints:
.TP 5
direct
.br
Da device-uri refers ta a specific direct-access thang wit no options, such
as a parallel, STD, or SCSI device.
.TP 5
file
.br
Da device-uri refers ta a gangbangin' file on disk.
.TP 5
network
.br
Da device-uri refers ta a networked thang n' conforms ta tha general form for
network URIs.
.TP 5
serial
.br
Da device-uri refers ta a serial thang wit configurable baud rate n' other
options. If tha device-uri gotz nuff a funky-ass baud value, it represents tha maximum baud
rate supported by tha device.
.LP
Da \fIscheme\fR field serves up tha URI scheme dat is supported by tha backend.
Backendz should use dis form only when tha backend supports any URI rockin that
scheme. Da \fIdevice-uri\fR field specifies tha full URI ta use when
communicatin wit tha device.
.LP
Da \fIdevice-make-and-model\fR field specifies tha make n' model of the
device, e.g. "Example Foojet 2000". If tha make n' model aint known, you must
report "Unknown".
.LP
Da \fIdevice-info\fR field specifies additionizzle shiznit bout tha device.
Typically dis includes tha make n' model along wit tha port number or network
address, e.g. "Example Foojet 2000 STD #1".
.LP
Da optionizzle \fIdevice-id\fR field specifies tha IEEE-1284 thang ID strang for
the device, which is used ta select a matchin driver.
.LP
Da optionizzle \fIdevice-location\fR field specifies tha physical location of
the device, which is often used ta pre-populate tha printer-location attribute
when addin a printer.
.SH PERMISSIONS
Backendz without ghetto execute permissions is run as tha root user n' shit. Otherwise,
the backend is run rockin a unprivileged user account, typically "lp".
.SH EXIT CODES
Da followin exit codes is defined fo' backends; C API constants defined in
the <cups/backend.h> header file is defined up in parenthesis:
.TP 5
0 (CUPS_BACKEND_OK)
.br
Da print file was successfully transmitted ta tha thang or remote server.
.TP 5
1 (CUPS_BACKEND_FAILED)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted ta tha thang or remote server.
Da schedula will respond ta dis by cancelin tha thang, retryin tha thang, or
stoppin tha queue dependin on tha state of tha error-policy attribute.
.TP 5
2 (CUPS_BACKEND_AUTH_REQUIRED)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz valid authentication
information is required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da schedula will respond ta dis by holdin tha thang
and addin tha "cups-held-for-authentication" keyword ta tha "job-reasons"
attribute.
.TP 5
3 (CUPS_BACKEND_HOLD)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz it cannot be printed at
this time. Da schedula will respond ta dis by holdin tha thang.
.TP 5
4 (CUPS_BACKEND_STOP)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz it cannot be printed at
this time. Da schedula will respond ta dis by stoppin tha queue.
.TP 5
5 (CUPS_BACKEND_CANCEL)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz one or mo' attributes
are not supported or tha thang was canceled all up in tha printer n' shit. Da schedula will
respond ta dis by cancelin tha thang.
.TP 5
6 (CUPS_BACKEND_RETRY)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz of a temporary issue.
Da schedula will retry tha thang at a gangbangin' future time - other thangs may print before
this one.
.TP 5
7 (CUPS_BACKEND_RETRY_CURRENT)
.br
Da print file was not successfully transmitted cuz of a temporary issue.
Da schedula will retry tha thang immediately without allowin intervenin thangs.
.PP
All other exit code joints is reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcups-snmp(8)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR, \fIfilter(7)\fR,
\fIlpinfo(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: backend.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
