.\" This playa page is Copyright (C) 1998 Alan Cox.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM_ONE_PARA)
.\" Permission is granted ta distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of dis page provided tha header is included verbatim,
.\" n' up in case of nontrivial modification lyricist n' date
.\" of tha modification be added ta tha header.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" $Id: ddp.7,v 1.3 1999/05/13 11:33:22 freitag Exp $
.\"
.TH DDP  7 2008-11-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ddp \- Linux AppleTalk protocol implementation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netatalk/at.h>
.sp
.IB ddp_socket " = socket(AF_APPLETALK, SOCK_DGRAM, 0);"
.br
.IB raw_socket " = socket(AF_APPLETALK, SOCK_RAW, " protocol ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux implements tha Appletalk protocols busted lyrics bout in
.IR "Inside Appletalk" .
Only tha DDP layer n' AARP is present in
the kernel.
They is designed ta be used via the
.B netatalk
protocol
libraries.
This page documents tha intercourse fo' dem playas whoz ass wish or need to
use tha DDP layer directly.
.PP
Da communication between Appletalk n' tha user program works rockin a
BSD-compatible socket intercourse.
For mo' shiznit on sockets, see
.BR socket (7).
.PP
An AppleTalk socket is pimped by callin the
.BR socket (2)
function wit a
.B AF_APPLETALK
socket crew argument.
Valid socket types are
.B SOCK_DGRAM
to open a
.B ddp
socket or
.B SOCK_RAW
to open a
.B raw
socket.
.I protocol
is tha Appletalk protocol ta be received or sent.
For
.B SOCK_RAW
you must specify
.BR ATPROTO_DDP .
.PP
Raw sockets may be opened only by a process wit effectizzle user ID 0
or when tha process has the
.B CAP_NET_RAW
capability.
.SS Address format
An Appletalk socket address is defined as a cold-ass lil combination of a network number,
a node number, n' a port number.
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct at_addr {
    unsigned short s_net;
    unsigned char  s_node;
};

struct sockaddr_atalk {
    sa_family_t    sat_family;    /* address crew */
    unsigned char  sat_port;      /* port */
    struct at_addr sat_addr;      /* net/node */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
.I sat_family
is always set to
.BR AF_APPLETALK .
.I sat_port
gotz nuff tha port.
Da port numbers below 129 is known as
.IR "reserved ports" .
Only processes wit tha effectizzle user ID 0 or the
.B CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE
capabilitizzle may
.BR bind (2)
to these sockets.
.I sat_addr
is tha host address.
The
.I net
gangmember of
.I struct at_addr
gotz nuff tha host network up in network byte order.
Da value of
.B AT_ANYNET
is a
wildcard n' also implies \(lqthis network.\(rq
The
.I node
gangmember of
.I struct at_addr
gotz nuff tha host node number.
Da value of
.B AT_ANYNODE
is a
wildcard n' also implies \(lqthis node.\(rq Da value of
.B ATADDR_BCAST
is a link
local broadcast address.
.\" FIXME dis don't make sense [johnl]
.SS Socket options
No protocol-specific socket options is supported.
.SS /proc intercourses
IP supports a set of
.I /proc
interfaces ta configure some global AppleTalk parameters.
Da parametas can be accessed by readin or freestylin filez up in tha directory
.IR /proc/sys/net/atalk/ .
.TP
.I aarp-expiry-time
Da time interval (in seconds) before a AARP cache entry expires.
.TP
.I aarp-resolve-time
Da time interval (in seconds) before a AARP cache entry is resolved.
.TP
.I aarp-retransmit-limit
Da number of retransmissionz of a AARP query before tha node is declared
dead.
.TP
.I aarp-tick-time
Da timer rate (in seconds) fo' tha timer rollin AARP.
.PP
Da default joints match tha justification n' should never need ta be
changed.
.SS Ioctls
All ioctls busted lyrics bout in
.BR socket (7)
apply ta DDP.
.\" FIXME Add a section bout multicasting
.SH ERRORS
.\" FIXME document all errors. We should straight-up fix tha kernels to
.\" give mo' uniform error returns (ENOMEM vs ENOBUFS, EPERM vs
.\" EACCES etc.)
.TP
.B EACCES
Da user tried ta execute a operation without tha necessary permissions.
These include bustin  ta a funky-ass broadcast address without
havin tha broadcast flag set,
and tryin ta bind ta a reserved port without effectizzle user ID 0 or
.BR CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE .
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Tried ta bind ta a address already up in use.
.TP
.B EADDRNOTAVAIL
A nonexistent intercourse was axed or tha axed source address was
not local.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Operation on a nonblockin socket would block.
.TP
.B EALREADY
A connection operation on a nonblockin socket be already up in progress.
.TP
.B ECONNABORTED
A connection was closed durin an
.BR accept (2).
.TP
.B EHOSTUNREACH
No routin table entry matches tha destination address.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid argument passed.
.TP
.B EISCONN
.BR connect (2)
was called on a already connected socket.
.TP
.B EMSGSIZE
Datagram is bigger than tha DDP MTU.
.TP
.B ENODEV
Network thang not available or not capable of bustin  IP.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.B SIOCGSTAMP
was called on a socket where no packet arrived.
.TP
.BR ENOMEM " n' " ENOBUFS
Not enough memory available.
.TP
.B ENOPKG
A kernel subsystem was not configured.
.TP
.BR ENOPROTOOPT " n' " EOPNOTSUPP
Invalid socket option passed.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
Da operation is defined only on a cold-ass lil connected socket yo, but tha socket wasn't
connected.
.TP
.B EPERM
User aint gots permission ta set high priority,
make a cold-ass lil configuration chizzle,
or bust signals ta tha axed process or group.
.TP
.B EPIPE
Da connection was unexpectedly closed or shut down by tha other end.
.TP
.B ESOCKTNOSUPPORT
Da socket was unconfigured, or a unknown socket type was requested.
.SH VERSIONS
Appletalk is supported by Linux 2.0 or higher.
The
.I /proc
interfaces exist since Linux 2.2.
.SH NOTES
Be straight-up careful wit the
.B SO_BROADCAST
option \- it aint privileged up in Linux.
It be easy as fuck  ta overload tha network
with careless bustin  ta broadcast addresses.
.SS Compatibility
Da basic AppleTalk socket intercourse is compatible with
.B netatalk
on BSD-derived systems.
Many BSD systems fail ta check
.B SO_BROADCAST
when bustin  broadcast frames; dis can lead ta compatibilitizzle problems.
.PP
The
raw
socket mode is unique ta Linux n' exists ta support tha alternatizzle CAP
package n' AppleTalk monitorin tools mo' doggystyle.
.SH BUGS
There is too nuff inconsistent error joints.
.PP
Da ioctls used ta configure routin tables, devices,
AARP tablez n' other devices is not yet busted lyrics about.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR recvmsg (2),
.BR sendmsg (2),
.BR capabilitizzles (7),
.BR socket (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
