.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"   Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\" n' Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:45:30 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 1996 by Eric S. Raymond (esr@thyrsus.com)
.\" Modified Wed Aug 27 20:28:58 1997 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier (nick@debian.org)
.\" Modified Mon Sep 21 00:00:26 1998 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Wed Jan 24 06:37:24 2001 by Eric S. Raymond (esr@thyrsus.com)
.\" Modified Thu Dec 13 23:53:27 2001 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.TH ENVIRON 7 2009-07-25 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI "extern char **" environ ;
.br
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da variable
.I environ
points ta a array of pointas ta strings called tha "environment".
Da last pointa up in dis array has tha value NULL.
(This variable must be declared up in tha user program,
but is declared up in tha header file
.I <unistd.h>
in case tha header filez came from libc4 or libc5, and
in case they came from glibc and
.B _GNU_SOURCE
was defined.)
This array of strings is made available ta tha process by the
.BR exec (3)
call dat started tha process.

By convention tha strings in
.I environ
have tha form "\fIname\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP".
Common examplez are:
.TP
.B USER
Da name of tha logged-in user (used by some BSD-derived programs).
.TP
.B LOGNAME
Da name of tha logged-in user (used by some System-V derived programs).
.TP
.B HOME
A userz login directory, set by
.BR login (1)
from tha password file
.BR passwd (5).
.TP
.B LANG
Da name of a locale ta use fo' locale categories when not overridden
by
.B LC_ALL
or mo' specific environment variablez like
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
.BR LC_MONETARY ,
.BR LC_NUMERIC ,
.BR LC_TIME ,
cf.
.BR locale (5).
.TP
.B PATH
Da sequence of directory prefixes that
.BR sh (1)
and nuff other
programs apply up in searchin fo' a gangbangin' file known by a incomplete pathname.
Da prefixes is separated by \(aq\fB:\fP\(aq.
(Similarly one has
.B CDPATH
used by some shells ta find tha target
of a cold-ass lil chizzle directory command,
.B MANPATH
used by
.BR playa (1)
to find manual pages, n' so on)
.TP
.B PWD
Da current hustlin directory.
Set by some shells.
.TP
.B SHELL
Da pathname of tha userz login shell.
.TP
.B TERM
Da terminal type fo' which output is ta be prepared.
.TP
.B PAGER
Da userz preferred utilitizzle ta display text files.
.TP
.BR EDITOR / VISUAL
Da userz preferred utilitizzle ta edit text files.
.\" .TP
.\" .B BROWSER
.\" Da userz preferred utilitizzle ta browse URLs. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sequence of colon-separated
.\" browser commands. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See http://www.catb.org/~esr/BROWSER/ .
.PP
Further names may be placed up in tha environment by the
.I export
command n' "name=value" in
.BR sh (1),
or by the
.I setenv
command if you use
.BR csh (1).
Arguments may also be placed up in the
environment all up in tha deal wit an
.BR exec (3).
A C program can manipulate its environment rockin tha functions
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
and
.BR unsetenv (3).

Note dat tha behavior of nuff programs n' library routines is
influenced by tha presence or value of certain environment variables.
A random collection:
.LP
Da variables
.BR LANG ", " LANGUAGE ", " NLSPATH ", " LOCPATH ", "
.BR LC_ALL ", " LC_MESSAGES ", "
etc. influence locale handling, cf.
.BR locale (5).
.LP
.B TMPDIR
influences tha path prefix of names pimped by
.BR tmpnam (3)
and other routines, tha temporary directory used by
.BR sort (1)
and other programs, etc.
.LP
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH ", " LD_PRELOAD
and other LD_* variablez influence
the behavior of tha dynamic loader/linker.
.LP
.B POSIXLY_CORRECT
makes certain programs n' library routines follow
the prescriptionz of POSIX.
.LP
Da behavior of
.BR malloc (3)
is hyped up by
.B MALLOC_*
variables.
.LP
Da variable
.B HOSTALIASES
gives tha name of a gangbangin' file containin aliases
to be used with
.BR gethostbyname (3).
.LP
.BR TZ " n' " TZDIR
give timezone shiznit used by
.BR tzset (3)
and all up in dat by functions like
.BR ctime (3),
.BR localtime (3),
.BR mktime (3),
.BR strftime (3).
See also
.BR tzselect (8).
.LP
.B TERMCAP
gives shiznit on how tha fuck ta address a given terminal
(or gives tha name of a gangbangin' file containin such shiznit).
.LP
.BR COLUMNS " n' " LINES
tell applications bout tha window size, possibly overridin tha actual size.
.LP
.BR PRINTER " or " LPDEST
may specify tha desired printa ta use.
See
.BR lpr (1).
.LP
Etc.
.SH BUGS
Clearly there be a securitizzle risk here.
Many a system command has been
tricked tha fuck into mischizzle by a user whoz ass specified unusual joints for
.BR IFS " or " LD_LIBRARY_PATH .

There be also tha risk of name space bullshit.
Programs like
.I make
and
.I autoconf
allow overridin of default utilitizzle names from the
environment wit similarly named variablez up in all caps.
Thus one uses
.B CC
to select tha desired C compila (and similarly
.BR MAKE ,
.BR AR ,
.BR AS ,
.BR FC ,
.BR LD ,
.BR LEX ,
.BR RM ,
.BR YACC ,
etc.).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in some traditionizzle uses such a environment variable
gives options fo' tha program instead of a pathname.
Thus, one has
.BR MORE ,
.BR LESS ,
and
.BR GZIP .
Such usage is considered mistaken, n' ta be avoided up in new
programs.
Da authors of
.I gzip
should consider renamin they option to
.BR GZIP_OPT .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR tcsh (1),
.BR execve (2),
.BR clearenv (3),
.BR exec (3),
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR locale (5)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
