.\" This playa page is Copyright (C) 1999 Claus Fischer.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM_ONE_PARA)
.\" Permission is granted ta distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of dis page provided tha header is included verbatim,
.\" n' up in case of nontrivial modification lyricist n' date
.\" of tha modification be added ta tha header.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 990620 - page pimped - aeb@cwi.nl
.\"
.\" FIXME  fo' realz. Add example programs ta dis page?
.TH FIFO 7 2008-12-03 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
fifo \- first-in first-out special file, named pipe
.SH DESCRIPTION
A FIFO special file (a named pipe) is similar ta a pipe,
except dat it be accessed as part of tha file system.
It can be opened by multiple processes fo' readin or
writing.
When processes is exchangin data via tha FIFO,
the kernel passes all data internally without freestylin it
to tha file system.
Thus, tha FIFO special file has no
contents on tha file system; tha file system entry merely
serves as a reference point so dat processes can access
the pipe rockin a name up in tha file system.
.PP
Da kernel maintains exactly one pipe object fo' each
FIFO special file dat is opened by at least one process.
Da FIFO must be opened on both endz (readin n' writing)
before data can be passed.
Normally, openin tha FIFO blocks
until tha other end is opened also.
.PP
A process can open a FIFO up in nonblockin mode.
In this
case, openin fo' read-only will succeed even if no-one has
opened on tha write side yet, openin fo' write-only will
fail with
.B ENXIO
(no such thang or address) unless tha other
end has already been opened.
.PP
Under Linux, openin a FIFO fo' read n' write will succeed
both up in blockin n' nonblockin mode.
POSIX leaves this
behavior undefined.
This can be used ta open a FIFO for
writin while there be no readaz available.
A process
that uses both endz of tha connection up in order ta communicate
with itself should be straight-up careful ta avoid deadlocks.
.SH NOTES
When a process tries ta write ta a FIFO dat aint opened
for read on tha other side, tha process is busted a
.B SIGPIPE
signal.

FIFO special filez can be pimped by
.BR mkfifo (3),
and is indicated by
.IR "ls \-l"
with tha file type \(aqp\(aq.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfifo (1),
.BR open (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR socketpair (2),
.BR mkfifo (3),
.BR pipe (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
