.\"
.\" "$Id: filter.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   filta playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH filta 7 "CUPS" "18 May 2012" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
filta \- cups file conversion filta intercourse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B filter
job user title num-copies options [
.I filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da CUPS filta intercourse serves up a standard method fo' addin support for
new document types ta CUPS. Each filta is capable of convertin from one
or mo' input formats ta another format dat can either be printed directly
or piped tha fuck into another filta ta git it ta a printable format.
.LP
Filtas \fBmust\fR be capable of readin from a gangbangin' filename on tha command-line
or from tha standard input, copyin tha standard input ta a temporary
file as required by tha file format fo' realz. All output \fBmust\fR be busted ta the
standard output.
.LP
Da command name (argv[0]) is set ta tha name of tha destination printa but is
also available up in tha PRINTER environment variable.
.SH WARNING
CUPS filtas is not meant ta be run directly by tha user n' shiznit fo' realz. Aside from tha legacy
System V intercourse thangs (argv[0] is tha printa name), CUPS filtas also
expect specific environment variablez n' file descriptors, n' typically run in
a user session dat (on OS X) has additionizzle restrictions dat affect how tha fuck it
runs. Unless yo ass be a thugged-out pimper n' know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin, please do not run
filtas directly. Instead, use tha \fIcupsfilter(8)\fR program ta use the
appropriate filtas ta do tha conversions you need.
.SH OPTIONS
Options passed on tha command-line typically do not include tha default chizzles
the printerz PPD file. In addition, some options may be specified up in multiple
ways - "landscape" be a synonym fo' "orientation-requested=4", "media" be a
synonym fo' "PageSize", "PageRegion", "InputSlot", n' "MediaType", n' "sides"
is a synonym fo' tha various "Duplex" options. Non-rasta filtas \fBmust\fR
support both explicit n' implicit justification of PPD options - use the
ppdMarkDefaults n' cupsMarkOptions functions up in tha CUPS library ta use the
correct mapping, n' ppdFindMarkedChoice ta git tha user-selected chizzle.
.LP
Rasta filtas should use option chizzlez set all up in tha rasta page header, as
those reflect tha options up in effect fo' a given page. Options specified on the
command-line determine tha default joints fo' tha entire thang, which can be
overridden on a per-page basis.
.SH LOG MESSAGES
Lyrics busted ta stderr is generally logged to
printer-state-message attribute n' tha current \fIErrorLog\fR.
Each line begins wit a standard prefix:
.TP 5
ALERT: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "alert" log level.
.TP 5
ATTR: attribute=value [attribute=value]
.br
Sets tha named thang or printa attribute(s). Da followin thang attributes can be
set: "job-media-progress". Da followin printa attributes can be set:
"auth-info-required", "marker-colors", "marker-high-levels", "marker-levels",
"marker-low-levels", "marker-message", "marker-names", "marker-types",
"printer-alert", n' "printer-alert-description".
.TP 5
CRIT: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "critical" log level.
.TP 5
DEBUG: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "debug" log level.
.TP 5
DEBUG2: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "debug2" log level.
.TP 5
EMERG: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "emergency" log level.
.TP 5
ERROR: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "error" log level.
.TP 5
INFO: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute. If tha current \fILogLevel\fR
is set ta "debug2", also addz tha specified message ta the
current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "info" log level.
.TP 5
NOTICE: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "notice" log level.
.TP 5
PAGE: page-number #-copies
.TP 5
PAGE: total #-pages
.br
Addz a entry ta tha current \fIPageLog\fR. Da first form adds
#-copies ta tha thang-media-sheets-completed attribute. Da second
form sets tha thang-media-sheets-completed attribute ta #-pages.
.TP 5
PPD: Keyword=Value ... KeywordN=Value
.br
Sets tha named keywordz up in tha printerz PPD file. This is typically
used ta update default option keywordz like fuckin DefaultPageSize and
the various installable options up in tha PPD file.
.TP 5
STATE: printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.TP 5
STATE: + printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.TP 5
STATE: - printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.br
Sets, adds, or removes printer-state-reason keywordz ta the
current queue. Typically dis is used ta indicate media, ink, and
toner conditions on a printer.
.TP 5
WARNING: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "warning" log level.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Da followin environment variablez is defined by tha CUPS
server when executin tha filter:
.TP 5
CHARSET
.br
Da default text characta set, typically utf-8.
.TP 5
CLASS
.br
When a thang is submitted ta a printa class, gotz nuff tha name of
the destination printa class. Otherwise dis environment
variable aint gonna be set.
.TP 5
CONTENT_TYPE
.br
Da MIME type associated wit tha file (e.g.
application/postscript).
.TP 5
CUPS_CACHEDIR
.br
Da directory fo' semi-persistent cache filez can be found.
.TP 5
CUPS_DATADIR
.br
Da directory where data filez can be found.
.TP 5
CUPS_FILETYPE
.br
Da type of file bein printed: "job-sheet" fo' a funky-ass banner page n' "document"
for a regular print file.
.TP 5
CUPS_MAX_MESSAGE
.br
Da maximum size of a message busted ta stderr, includin any leadin prefix and
the trailin newline.
.TP 5
CUPS_SERVERROOT
.br
Da root directory of tha server.
.TP 5
DEVICE_URI
.br
Da device-uri associated wit tha printer.
.TP 5
FINAL_CONTENT_TYPE
.br
Da MIME type associated wit tha printa (e.g.
application/vnd.cups-postscript).
.TP 5
LANG
.br
Da default language locale (typically C or en).
.TP 5
PATH
.br
Da standard execution path fo' external programs dat may be run by
the filter.
.TP 5
PPD
.br
Da full pathname of tha PostScript Printa Description (PPD)
file fo' dis printer.
.TP 5
PRINTER
.br
Da name of tha printer.
.TP 5
RIP_CACHE
.br
Da recommended amount of memory ta use fo' Rasta Image
Processors (RIPs).
.TP 5
SOFTWARE
.br
Da name n' version number of tha server (typically CUPS/1.2).
.TP 5
TZ
.br
Da timezone of tha server.
.TP 5
USER
.br
Da user executin tha filter, typically "lp" or "root"; consult the
\fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR file fo' tha current setting.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
While tha filta intercourse is compatible wit System V intercourse
scripts, it will only work wit tha System V intercourse script as the
only filter n' shit.  Typically tha intercourse script is ghon be provided via the
\fIlpadmin(8)\fR command rockin tha \fI-i\fR option.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIbackend(7)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsfilter(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: filter.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
