.\" gnome-options.7 - Standard Command Line Options fo' Gnome Programs
.\" Copyright 2002, 2003  Jochen Voss <voss@debian.org>
.\" Yo ass may redistribute n' modify dis manual page
.\" under tha termz of tha GPL.
.TH gnome-options 7 "2003-10-20" "GNOME 2.2" "Gnome Userz Manual"
.SH NAME
gnome-options \- Standard Command Line Options fo' GNOME 2 Programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IR "program " [ "standard options" "] [" "specific options" "] " arguments
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page raps bout tha command line options, which is common
to all Gnome applications.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Help options
.TP
\fB-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show tha applications help message.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display a funky-ass brief usage message.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha applicationss version shiznit.
.SS Bonobo Activation support
.TP
\fB\-\-oaf\-ior\-fd\fR=\fIFD\fR
File descriptor ta print IOR on
.TP
\fB\-\-oaf\-activate\-iid\fR=\fIIID\fR
IID ta activate
.TP
\fB\-\-oaf\-private\fR
Prevent registerin of server wit OAF
.SS GNOME library options
.TP
\fB\-\-disable\-sound\fR
Disable sound server usage
.TP
\fB\-\-enable\-sound\fR
Enable sound server usage
.TP
\fB\-\-espeaker\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR:PORT
.IR Host : port
on which the
.B esd
sound server ta use is hustlin.  This is useful if you simultaneously
run programs on nuff muthafuckin machines.
.SS GNOME GUI options
.TP
\fB\-\-disable\-crash\-dialog\fR
Disable tha crash dialog, which is normally shown when tha application
segfaults.
.SS Session pimpment options
.TP
\fB\-\-sm\-client\-id\fR=\fIID\fR
Specify session pimpment ID.  Only used by tha session manager itself
while restartin tha application.
.TP
\fB\-\-sm\-config\-prefix\fR=\fIPREFIX\fR
Specify prefix of saved configuration.
.TP
\fB\-\-sm\-disable\fR
Disable connection ta session manager.
.SS Other options
.TP
\fB\-\-load\-modules\fR=\fIMODULE1\fR,MODULE2,...
Dynamic modulez ta load
.SH "SEE ALSO"

For most GNOME programs there is ghon be additionizzle command line options,
which is specific ta tha program.  These is ghon be explained up in the
.I Application options
section of the
.I --help
output n' up in tha applicationz online help.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Jochen Voss <voss@debian.org>.  A
first version was generated wit tha help of the
.I help2man
program.  Da programz output was manually edited later.
