.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:05:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat Feb 10 16:18:03 1996 by Urs Thuermann (urs@isnogud.escape.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 16 20:02:00 1997 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified Mon Feb  6 16:41:00 1999 by Nicol?s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified Tue Feb  8 16:46:45 2000 by Chris Pepper <pepper@tgg.com>
.\" Modified Fri Sep  7 20:32:45 2001 by Tammy Fox <tfox@redhat.com>
.TH HIER 7 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
hier \- description of tha file system hierarchy
.SH DESCRIPTION
A typical Linux system has, among others, tha followin directories:
.TP
.I /
This is tha root directory.
This is where tha whole tree starts.
.TP
.I /bin
This directory gotz nuff executable programs which is needed in
single user mode n' ta brang tha system up or repair dat shit.
.TP
.I /boot
Gotz Nuff static filez fo' tha boot loader.
This directory holdz only
the filez which is needed durin tha boot process.
Da map installer
and configuration filez should go to
.I /sbin
and
.IR /etc .
.TP
.I /dev
Special or thang files, which refer ta physical devices.
See
.BR mknod (1).
.TP
.I /etc
Gotz Nuff configuration filez which is local ta tha machine.
Some
larger software packages, like X11, can have they own subdirectories
below
.IR /etc .
Site-wide configuration filez may be placed here or in
.IR /usr/etc .
Nevertheless, programs should always look fo' these filez in
.I /etc
and you may have links fo' these filez to
.IR /usr/etc .
.TP
.I /etc/opt
Host-specific configuration filez fo' add-on applications installed
in
.IR /opt .
.TP
.I /etc/sgml
This directory gotz nuff tha configuration filez fo' SGML n' XML (optional).
.TP
.I /etc/skel
When a freshly smoked up user account is pimped, filez from dis directory are
usually copied tha fuck into tha userz home directory.
.TP
.I /etc/X11
Configuration filez fo' tha X11 window system (optional).
.TP
.I /home
On machines wit home directories fo' users, these is probably beneath
this directory, directly or not.
Da structure of dis directory
dependz on local administration decisions.
.TP
.I /lib
This directory should hold dem shared libraries dat is necessary
to boot tha system n' ta run tha commandz up in tha root file system.
.TP
.I /media
This directory gotz nuff mount points fo' removable media like fuckin CD
and STD disks or STD sticks.
.TP
.I /mnt
This directory be a mount point fo' a temporarily mounted file system.
In some distributions,
.I /mnt
gotz nuff subdirectories intended ta be used as mount points fo' several
temporary file systems.
.TP
.I /opt
This directory should contain add-on packages dat contain static files.
.TP
.I /proc
This be a mount point fo' the
.I proc
file system, which serves up shiznit bout hustlin processes and
the kernel.
This pseudo-file system is busted lyrics bout up in mo' detail in
.BR proc (5).
.TP
.I /root
This directory is probably tha home directory fo' tha root user (optional).
.TP
.I /sbin
Like
.IR /bin ,
this directory holdz commandz needed ta boot tha system yo, but which are
usually not executed by aiiight users.
.TP
.I /srv
This directory gotz nuff crib-specific data dat is served by dis system.
.TP
.I /tmp
This directory gotz nuff temporary filez which may be deleted wit no
notice, like fuckin by a regular thang or at system boot up.
.TP
.I /usr
This directory is probably mounted from a separate partition.
It should hold only sharable, read-only data, so dat it can be mounted
by various machines hustlin Linux.
.TP
.I /usr/X11R6
Da X\-Window system, version 11 release 6 (optional).
.TP
.I /usr/X11R6/bin
Binaries which belong ta tha X\-Window system; often, there be a
symbolic link from tha mo' traditional
.I /usr/bin/X11
to here.
.TP
.I /usr/X11R6/lib
Data filez associated wit tha X\-Window system.
.TP
.I /usr/X11R6/lib/X11
These contain miscellaneous filez needed ta run X;  Often, there be a
symbolic link from
.I /usr/lib/X11
to dis directory.
.TP
.I /usr/X11R6/include/X11
Gotz Nuff include filez needed fo' compilin programs rockin tha X11
window system.
Often, there be a symbolic link from
.I /usr/include/X11
to dis directory.
.TP
.I /usr/bin
This is tha primary directory fo' executable programs.
Most programs
executed by aiiight playas which is not needed fo' bootin or for
repairin tha system n' which is not installed locally should be
placed up in dis directory.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/X11
is tha traditionizzle place ta look fo' X11 executables; on Linux, it
usually be a symbolic link to
.IR /usr/X11R6/bin .
.TP
.I /usr/dict
Replaced by
.IR /usr/share/dict .
.TP
.I /usr/doc
Replaced by
.IR /usr/share/doc .
.TP
.I /usr/etc
Site-wide configuration filez ta be shared between nuff muthafuckin machines
may be stored up in dis directory.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat commandz should always
reference dem filez rockin the
.I /etc
directory.
Links from filez in
.I /etc
should point ta tha appropriate filez in
.IR /usr/etc .
.TP
.I /usr/games
Binaries fo' game n' ejaculationizzle programs (optional).
.TP
.I /usr/include
Include filez fo' tha C compiler.
.TP
.I /usr/include/X11
Include filez fo' tha C compila n' tha X\-Window system.
This is
usually a symbolic link to
.IR /usr/X11R6/include/X11 .
.TP
.I /usr/include/asm
Include filez which declare some assembla functions.
This used ta be a
symbolic link to
.IR /usr/src/linux/include/azzle .
.TP
.I /usr/include/linux
This gotz nuff shiznit which may chizzle from system release to
system release n' used ta be a symbolic link to
.I /usr/src/linux/include/linux
to git at operatin system specific shiznit.

(Note dat one should have include filez there dat work erectly with
the current libc n' up in user space.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat Linux kernel source is not
designed ta be used wit user programs n' do not know anything
about tha libc yo ass is using.
It be straight-up likely dat thangs will break
if you let
.I /usr/include/asm
and
.I /usr/include/linux
point at a random kernel tree.
Debian systems don't do this
and use headaz from a known phat kernel
version, provided up in tha libc*-dev package.)
.TP
.I /usr/include/g++
Include filez ta use wit tha GNU C++ compiler.
.TP
.I /usr/lib
Object libraries, includin dynamic libraries, plus some executables
which probably is not invoked directly.
Mo' fucked up programs may
have whole subdirectories there.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/X11
Da usual place fo' data filez associated wit X programs, and
configuration filez fo' tha X system itself.
On Linux, it probably is
a symbolic link to
.IR /usr/X11R6/lib/X11 .
.TP
.I /usr/lib/gcc-lib
gotz nuff executablez n' include filez fo' tha GNU C compiler,
.BR gcc (1).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/groff
Filez fo' tha GNU groff document formattin system.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/uucp
Filez for
.BR uucp (1).
.TP
.I /usr/local
This is where programs which is local ta tha joint typically go.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin
Binaries fo' programs local ta tha crib.
.TP
.I /usr/local/doc
Local documentation.
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc
Configuration filez associated wit locally installed programs.
.TP
.I /usr/local/games
Binaries fo' locally installed games.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib
Filez associated wit locally installed programs.
.TP
.I /usr/local/include
Header filez fo' tha local C compiler.
.TP
.I /usr/local/info
Info pages associated wit locally installed programs.
.TP
.I /usr/local/man
Man pages associated wit locally installed programs.
.TP
.I /usr/local/sbin
Locally installed programs fo' system administration.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share
Local application data dat can be shared among different architectures
of tha same OS.
.TP
.I /usr/local/src
Source code fo' locally installed software.
.TP
.I /usr/man
Replaced by
.IR /usr/share/man .
.TP
.I /usr/sbin
This directory gotz nuff program binaries fo' system administration
which is not essential fo' tha boot process, fo' mounting
.IR /usr ,
or fo' system repair.
.TP
.I /usr/share
This directory gotz nuff subdirectories wit specific application data, that
can be shared among different architecturez of tha same OS.
Often one findz shiznit here dat used ta live in
.I /usr/doc
or
.I /usr/lib
or
.IR /usr/man .
.TP
.I /usr/share/dict
Gotz Nuff tha word lists used by spell checkers.
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc
Documentation bout installed programs.
.TP
.I /usr/share/games
Static data filez fo' game in
.IR /usr/game .
.TP
.I /usr/share/info
Info pages go here.
.TP
.I /usr/share/locale
Locale shiznit goes here.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man
Manual pages go here up in subdirectories accordin ta tha playa page sections.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/<locale>/man[1\-9]
These directories contain manual pages fo' the
specific locale up in source code form.
Systems which bust a unique language n' code set fo' all manual pages
may omit tha <locale> substring.
.TP
.I /usr/share/misc
Miscellaneous data dat can be shared among different architecturez of the
same OS.
.TP
.I /usr/share/nls
Da message catalogs fo' natizzle language support go here.
.TP
.I /usr/share/sgml
Filez fo' SGML n' XML.
.TP
.I /usr/share/terminfo
Da database fo' terminfo.
.TP
.I /usr/share/tmac
Troff macros dat is not distributed wit groff.
.TP
.I /usr/share/zoneinfo
Filez fo' timezone shiznit.
.TP
.I /usr/src
Source filez fo' different partz of tha system, included wit some packages
for reference purposes.
Don't work here wit yo' own projects, as files
below /usr should be read-only except when installin software.
.TP
.I /usr/src/linux
This was tha traditionizzle place fo' tha kernel source.
Some distributions put here tha source fo' tha default kernel they ship.
Yo ass should probably use another directory when buildin yo' own kernel.
.TP
.I /usr/tmp
Obsolete.
This should be a link
to
.IR /var/tmp .
This link is present only fo' compatibilitizzle reasons n' shouldn't be used.
.TP
.I /var
This directory gotz nuff filez which may chizzle up in size, like fuckin spool
and log files.
.TP
.I /var/adm
This directory is superseded by
.I /var/log
and should be a symbolic link to
.IR /var/log .
.TP
.I /var/backups
Reserved fo' oldschool reasons.
.TP
.I /var/cache
Data cached fo' programs.
.TP
.IR /var/catman/cat[1\-9] " or " /var/cache/man/cat[1\-9]
These directories contain preformatted manual pages accordin ta their
man page section.
(Da use of preformatted manual pages is deprecated.)
.TP
.I /var/cron
Reserved fo' oldschool reasons.
.TP
.I /var/lib
Variable state shiznit fo' programs.
.TP
.I /var/local
Variable data for
.IR /usr/local .
.TP
.I /var/lock
Lock filez is placed up in dis directory.
Da namin convention for
device lock filez is
.I LCK..<device>
where
.I <device>
is tha devicez name up in tha file system.
Da format used is dat of HDU UUCP lock files, dat is, lock files
contain a PID as a 10-byte ASCII decimal number, followed by a newline
character.
.TP
.I /var/log
Miscellaneous log files.
.TP
.I /var/opt
Variable data for
.IR /opt .
.TP
.I /var/mail
Users' mailboxes.
Replaces
.IR /var/spool/mail .
.TP
.I /var/msgs
Reserved fo' oldschool reasons.
.TP
.I /var/preserve
Reserved fo' oldschool reasons.
.TP
.I /var/run
Run-time variable files, like filez holdin process identifiers (PIDs)
and logged user shiznit
.IR (utmp) .
Filez up in dis directory is probably cleared when tha system boots.
.TP
.I /var/spool
Spooled (or queued) filez fo' various programs.
.TP
.I /var/spool/at
Spooled thangs for
.BR at (1).
.TP
.I /var/spool/cron
Spooled thangs for
.BR cron (8).
.TP
.I /var/spool/lpd
Spooled filez fo' printing.
.TP
.I /var/spool/mail
Replaced by
.IR /var/mail .
.TP
.I /var/spool/mqueue
Queued outgoin mail.
.TP
.I /var/spool/news
Spool directory fo' news.
.TP
.I /var/spool/rwho
Spooled filez for
.BR rwhod (8).
.TP
.I /var/spool/smail
Spooled filez fo' the
.BR smail (1)
mail delivery program.
.TP
.I /var/spool/uucp
Spooled filez for
.BR uucp (1).
.TP
.I /var/tmp
Like
.IR /tmp ,
this directory holdz temporary filez stored fo' a unspecified duration.
.TP
.I /var/yp
Database filez fo' NIS.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Da Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, Version 2.2
.UR http://www.pathname.com\:/fhs/
.UE .
.SH BUGS
This list aint exhaustive; different systems may be configured
differently.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR ln (1),
.BR proc (5),
.BR mount (8)

Da Filesystem Hierarchy Standard
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
