.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)hostname.7	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/share/man/man7/hostname.7,v 1.7 2004/07/03 18:29:23 ru Exp $
.\"
.\" 2008-06-11, mtk, Taken from FreeBSD 6.2 n' modified fo' Linux.
.\"
.TH HOSTNAME 7 2010-11-07 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
hostname \- hostname resolution description
.SH DESCRIPTION
Hostnames is domains, where a thugged-out domain be a hierarchical, dot-separated
list of subdomains; fo' example, tha machine monet, up in tha Berkeley
subdomain of tha EDU domain would be represented as "monet.Berkeley.EDU".

Hostnames is often used wit network client n' server programs,
which must generally translate tha name ta a address fo' use.
(This task is generally performed by either
.BR getaddrinfo (3)
or tha obsolete
.BR gethostbyname (3).)
Hostnames is resolved by tha Internizzle name resolver up in tha following
fashion.

If tha name consistz of a single component, dat is, gotz nuff no dot,
and if tha environment variable
.B HOSTALIASES
is set ta tha name of a gangbangin' file,
that file is searched fo' any strang matchin tha input hostname.
Da file should consist of lines made up of two white-space separated strings,
the first of which is tha hostname alias,
and tha second of which is tha complete hostname
to be substituted fo' dat alias.
If a cold-ass lil case-insensitizzle match is found between tha hostname ta be resolved
and tha straight-up original gangsta field of a line up in tha file, tha substituted name is looked
up wit no further processing.

If tha input name endz wit a trailin dot,
the trailin dot is removed,
and tha remainin name is looked up wit no further processing.

If tha input name do not end wit a trailin dot, it is looked up
by searchin all up in a list of domains until a match is found.
Da default search list includes first tha local domain,
then its parent domains wit at least 2 name components (longest first).
For example,
in tha domain CS.Berkeley.EDU, tha name lithium.CChem is ghon be checked first
as lithium.CChem.CS.Berkeley.EDU n' then as lithium.CChem.Berkeley.EDU.
Lithium.CChem.EDU aint gonna be tried, as there is only one component
remainin from tha local domain.
Da search path can be chizzled from tha default
by a system-wide configuration file (see
.BR resolver (5)).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR resolver (5),
.BR mailaddr (7),
.BR named (8)
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" Hostname rocked up in
.\" 4.2BSD.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
