.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM_ONE_PARA)
.\" Permission is granted ta distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of dis page provided tha header is included verbatim,
.\" n' up in case of nontrivial modification lyricist n' date
.\" of tha modification be added ta tha header.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" $Id: icmp.7,v 1.6 2000/08/14 08:03:45 ak Exp $
.\"
.TH ICMP 7 2012-05-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
icmp \- Linux IPv4 ICMP kernel module.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This kernel protocol module implements tha Internizzle Control
Message Protocol defined up in RFC\ 792.
It be used ta signal error conditions n' fo' diagnosis.
Da user don't interact directly wit dis module;
instead it communicates wit tha other protocols up in tha kernel
and these pass tha ICMP errors ta tha application layers.
Da kernel ICMP module also lyrics ICMP requests.
.PP
A user protocol may receive ICMP packets fo' all local sockets by opening
a raw socket wit tha protocol
.BR IPPROTO_ICMP .
See
.BR raw (7)
for mo' shiznit.
Da typez of ICMP packets passed ta tha socket can be filtered rockin the
.B ICMP_FILTER
socket option.
ICMP packets is always processed by tha kernel too, even
when passed ta a user socket.
.LP
Linux limits tha rate of ICMP error packets ta each destination.
.B ICMP_REDIRECT
and
.B ICMP_DEST_UNREACH
are also limited by tha destination route of tha incomin packets.
.SS /proc intercourses
ICMP supports a set of
.I /proc
interfaces ta configure some global IP parameters.
Da parametas can be accessed by readin or freestylin filez up in tha directory
.IR /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ .
Most of these parametas is rate limitations fo' specific ICMP types.
Linux 2.2 uses a token bucket filta ta limit ICMPs.
.\" FIXME betta description needed
Da value is tha timeout up in jiffies until tha token bucket filta is
cleared afta a funky-ass burst.
A jiffy be a system dependent unit, probably 10ms on i386 and
about 1ms on alpha n' ia64.
.TP
.IR icmp_destunreach_rate " (Linux 2.2 ta 2.4.9)"
.\" Precisely: from 2.1.102
Maximum rate ta bust ICMP Destination Unreachable packets.
This limits tha rate at which packets is busted ta any individual
route or destination.
Da limit do not affect bustin  of
.B ICMP_FRAG_NEEDED
packets needed fo' path MTU discovery.
.TP
.IR icmp_echo_ignore_all " (since Linux 2.2)"
.\" Precisely: 2.1.68
If dis value is nonzero, Linux will ignore all
.B ICMP_ECHO
requests.
.TP
.IR icmp_echo_ignore_broadcasts " (since Linux 2.2)"
.\" Precisely: from 2.1.68
If dis value is nonzero, Linux will ignore all
.B ICMP_ECHO
packets busted ta broadcast addresses.
.TP
.IR icmp_echoreply_rate " (Linux 2.2 ta 2.4.9)"
.\" Precisely: from 2.1.102
Maximum rate fo' sending
.B ICMP_ECHOREPLY
packets up in response to
.B ICMP_ECHOREQUEST
packets.
.TP
.IR icmp_errors_use_inbound_ifaddr " (Boolean; default: disabled; since Linux 2.6.12)"
.\" Da followin taken from 2.6.28-rc4 Documentation/networking/ip-sysctl.txt
If disabled, ICMP error lyrics is busted wit tha primary address of
the exitin intercourse.

If enabled, tha message is ghon be busted wit tha primary address of
the intercourse dat received tha packet dat caused tha ICMP error.
This is tha behavior dat nuff network administrators will expect from
a router.
And it can make debuggin fucked up network layouts much easier.

Note dat if no primary address exists fo' tha intercourse selected,
then tha primary address of tha straight-up original gangsta non-loopback intercourse that
has one is ghon be used regardless of dis setting.
.TP
.IR icmp_ignore_bogus_error_responses " (Boolean; default: disabled; since Linux 2.2)"
.\" precisely: since 2.1.32
.\" Da followin taken from 2.6.28-rc4 Documentation/networking/ip-sysctl.txt
Some routas violate RFC1122 by bustin  bogus responses ta broadcast frames.
Such violations is normally logged via a kernel warning.
If dis parameta is enabled, tha kernel aint gonna give such warnings,
which will avoid log file clutter.
.TP
.IR icmp_paramprob_rate " (Linux 2.2 ta 2.4.9)"
.\" Precisely: from 2.1.102
Maximum rate fo' sending
.B ICMP_PARAMETERPROB
packets.
These packets is busted when a packet arrives wit a invalid IP header.
.TP
.IR icmp_ratelimit " (integer; default: 1000; since Linux 2.4.10)"
.\" Da followin taken from 2.6.28-rc4 Documentation/networking/ip-sysctl.txt
Limit tha maximum rates fo' bustin  ICMP packets whose type matches
.IR icmp_ratemask
(see below) ta specific targets.
0 ta disable any limiting,
otherwise tha minimum space between responses up in milliseconds.
.TP
.IR icmp_ratemask " (integer; default: peep below; since Linux 2.4.10)"
.\" Da followin taken from 2.6.28-rc4 Documentation/networking/ip-sysctl.txt
Mask made of ICMP types fo' which rates is bein limited.

Significant bits: IHGFEDCBA9876543210
.br
Default mask:     0000001100000011000 (0x1818)

Bit definitions (see tha Linux kernel source file
.IR include/linux/icmp.h ):

.RS 12
.TS
l l.
0 Echo Reply
3 Destination Unreachable *
4 Source Quench *
5 Redirect
8 Echo Request
B Time Exceeded *
C Parameta Problem *
D Timestamp Request
E Timestamp Reply
F Info Request
G Info Reply
H Address Mask Request
I Address Mask Reply
.TE
.RE

Da bits marked wit a asterisk is rate limited by default
(see tha default mask above).
.TP
.IR icmp_timeexceed_rate " (Linux 2.2 ta 2.4.9)"
Maximum rate fo' sending
.B ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED
packets.
These packets are
sent ta prevent loops when a packet has crossed too nuff hops.
.SH VERSIONS
Support fo' the
.B ICMP_ADDRESS
request was removed up in 2.2.
.PP
Support for
.B ICMP_SOURCE_QUENCH
was removed up in Linux 2.2.
.SH NOTES
As nuff other implementations don't support
.B IPPROTO_ICMP
raw sockets, dis feature
should not be relied on up in portable programs.
.\" not straight-up legit ATM
.\" .PP
.\" Linux ICMP should be compliant ta RFC 1122.
.PP
.B ICMP_REDIRECT
packets is not busted when Linux aint actin as a router.
They is also accepted only from tha oldschool gateway defined up in the
routin table n' tha redirect routes is expired afta some time.
.PP
Da 64-bit timestamp returned by
.B ICMP_TIMESTAMP
is up in millisecondz since tha Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).
.PP
Linux ICMP internally uses a raw socket ta bust ICMPs.
This raw socket may step tha fuck up in
.BR netstat (8)
output wit a zero inode.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (7)
.PP
RFC\ 792 fo' a thugged-out description of tha ICMP protocol.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
