.\" Jean Pt II - HPL - 03
.\" irda.7
.\"
.TH IRDA 7 "2 May 2003" "irda-utils" "Linux-IrDA playa pages"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
irda \- Da Linux-IrDA protocol stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/irda.h>
.br

.br
.IB stream_s " = socket(PF_INET, SOCK_STREAM, 0);"
.br
.IB seqpkt_s " = socket(PF_INET, SOCK_SEQPACKET, 0);"
.br
.IB dgram_s " = socket(PF_INET, SOCK_DGRAM, IRDAPROTO_UNITDATA);"
.br
.IB ultra_s " = socket(PF_INET, SOCK_DGRAM, IRDAPROTO_ULTRA);"
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Linux-IrDA
is a cold-ass lil complete implementation of tha various
.I IrDA protocols
and
.I IrDA drivers
for Linux.
.PP
Da configuration of tha low level of tha IrDA stack (IrDA ports) and
the various IrDA drivers is busted lyrics bout in
.IR irattach (8).
.PP
Da usage of tha higher layerz of tha IrDA stack (IrCOMM, IrLPT,
IrNET, IrLAN, OBEX...) is busted lyrics bout up in they respectizzle playa pages.
.PP
Da core of tha Linux-IrDA protocol stack is composed of the
.IR IrLAP ", " IrLMP ", " IrTTP " n' " IrIAS
protocols n' is implemented as a kernel module. Da programmer's
interface fo' tha IrDA stack is socket based. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For mo' shiznit on
sockets, peep socket(7).
.PP
Note dat higher level IrDA protocols may offer a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
programmerz intercourse. For example
.I IrCOMM
offers a TTY based intercourse and
.I OBEX
is available all up in a user space library.
.\"
.\" SOCKETS TYPE part
.\"
.SH SOCKETS TYPE
.PP
Da Linux-IrDA socket intercourse offers 4 typez of sockets:
.TP
.B Stream socket - SOCK_STREAM, 0
Stream sockets serves up a reliable, stream oriented, full duplex
connection between two sockets on top of
.IR IrTTP ,
similar ta TCP sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. IrTTP guarantees dat tha data arrives in
order n' manages flow control, IrLAP retransmits lost packets.
.br
Stream sockets do not preserve record boundaries.
.TP
.B SeqPacket socket - SOCK_SEQPACKET, 0
SeqPacket sockets serves up a reliable, datagram oriented, full duplex
connection between two sockets on top of
.IR IrTTP .
IrTTP guarantees dat tha data arrives up in order n' manages flow
control, IrLAP retransmits lost packets.
.br
SeqPacket sockets preserve record boundaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Big-Ass datagrams will be
fragmented as needed.
.TP
.B Datagram socket - SOCK_DGRAM, IRDAPROTO_UNITDATA
SeqPacket sockets serves up a reliable, datagram oriented, full duplex
connection between two sockets on top of
.IR IrLMP .
There is no guarantee dat tha data arrives up in order n' there is no
flow control, however IrLAP retransmits lost packets.
.br
Datagram sockets preserve record boundaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! No fragmentation is
provided, datagrams larger than tha IrDA link MTU is truncated or
discarded.
.TP
.B Ultra socket - SOCK_DGRAM, IRDAPROTO_ULTRA
Ultra sockets serves up a cold-ass lil connectionless, unreliable datagram packet
service on top of
.IR IrLAP-Ultra .
Ultra datagrams is busted n' received only when no IrLAP connection is
established n' otherwise discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! They is always transmitted at
9600 bauds. Datagrams may be lost or reordered, n' there is no flow
control.
.br
Ultra sockets preserve record boundaries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! No fragmentation is
provided, datagrams larger than tha Ultra MTU (382 bytes) are
truncated or discarded.
.\"
.\" ADDRESS FORMAT part
.\"
.SH ADDRESS FORMAT
An 
.B IrDA socket address
is defined as a cold-ass lil combination of a IrDA intercourse address n' a
.IR "service name" .
Service names is automatically resolved ta lsap all up in the
.I IrIAP
protocol.
.nf

    struct sockaddr_irda {
        sa_family_t sir_family;   /* AF_IRDA */
        __u8        sir_lsap_sel; /* LSAP selector */
        __u32       sir_addr;     /* Device address */
        char        sir_name[25]; /* Usually <service>:IrDA:TinyTP */
    };
.fi
.PP
.I sin_family
is always set ta AF_IRDA.
.I sir_lsap_sel
is probably not used.
.I sir_addr
is tha optionizzle address of tha peer (if no given tha straight-up original gangsta peer
discovered is ghon be used).
.I sir_name
is tha steez name of tha socket.
.\"
.\" SOCKET OPTIONS part
.\"
.SH SOCKET OPTIONS
IrDA sockets supports some protocol specific socket options dat can
be set with
.IR setsockopt (2)
and read with
.IR getsockopt (2).
Da socket option level fo' IrDA is SOL_IRLMP.
.PP
Options dat can be set:
.TP
.B IRLMP_IAS_SET
Set a entry up in tha local IAS database.
.TP
.B IRLMP_IAS_DEL
Delete a entry from tha local IAS database.
.TP
.B IRLMP_MAX_SDU_SIZE
Set maximum receive MTU fo' SeqPacket sockets.
.TP
.B IRLMP_HINTS_SET
Set IrDA hint bits ta be advertised ta peers.
.TP
.B IRLMP_HINT_MASK_SET
Set IrDA hint bits filta ta be used when struttin discovery.
.PP
Options dat can be get:
.TP
.B IRLMP_ENUMDEVICES
Perform link level discovery n' return tha content of tha discovery
log.
.TP
.B IRLMP_MAX_SDU_SIZE
Git maximum receive MTU.
.TP
.B IRLMP_IAS_GET
Git a entry from tha local IAS database.
.TP
.B IRLMP_IAS_QUERY
Query a entry up in IAS database of a peer rockin IrIAP.
.TP
.B IRLMP_WAITDEVICE
Block until a freshly smoked up thang is discovered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Experimenstrual feature, use with
caution.
.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Tourrilhes \- jt@hpl.hp.com
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR irattach (8),
.BR irdadump (8),
.BR irnet (4),
.BR irnetd (8).
