.\" $Id: isdn_cause.man.in,v 1.4 1998/12/02 16:53:28 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 1998/12/02 16:53:28 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii isdn_cause.7 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps isdn_cause.7 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH isdn_cause 7 "1998/12/02" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.13" Miscellaneous
.SH NAME
isdn_cause \- Description of ISDN cause lyrics.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document raps bout tha cause lyrics, used wit the
.SM ISDN
D-channel protocols EDSS1 n' 1TR6 n' they format, visible to
the user.
.SH FORMAT
Cause lyrics is 2-byte shiznit elements, describing
the state transitionz of an
.SM ISDN
line. Each cause message raps bout its origination (location) up in one byte,
while tha cause code is busted lyrics bout up in tha other byte. Internally, when
EDSS1 is used, tha straight-up original gangsta byte gotz nuff tha location while tha second
byte gotz nuff tha cause code. When rockin 1TR6, tha straight-up original gangsta byte gotz nuff
the cause code while tha location is coded up in tha second byte. In the
Linux
.SM ISDN
subsystem, tha cause lyrics visible ta tha user is unified ta avoid
confusion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. All user visible cause lyrics is displayed as hexadecimal
strings. These strings always have tha location coded up in tha straight-up original gangsta byte,
regardless if rockin 1TR6 or EDSS1. When rockin EDSS1, these strings are
preceeded by tha characta 'E'.
.SH CAUSE MESSAGES WITH EDSS1
.SS LOCATION
Da followin location codes is defined when rockin EDSS1:
.TP
.B 00
Message generated by user.
.TP
.B 01 
Message generated by private network servin tha local user.
.TP
.B 02
Message generated by hood network servin tha local user.
.TP
.B 03
Message generated by transit network.
.TP
.B 04
Message generated by hood network servin tha remote user.
.TP
.B 05
Message generated by private network servin tha remote user.
.TP
.B 07
Message generated by internationistic network.
.TP
.B 0A
Message generated by network beyond inter-workin point.
.SS CAUSE
Da followin cause codes is defined when rockin EDSS1:
.TP
.B 01
Unallocated (unassigned) number.
.TP
.B 02
No route ta specified transit network.
.TP
.B 03
No route ta destination.
.TP
.B 06
Channel unacceptable.
.TP
.B 07
Call awarded n' bein served up in a established channel.
.TP
.B 10
Normal call clearing.
.TP
.B 11
User busy.
.TP
.B 12
No user responding.
.TP
.B 13
No answer from user (user alerted).
.TP
.B 15
Call rejected.
.TP
.B 16
Number chizzled.
.TP
.B 1A
Non-selected user clearing.
.TP
.B 1B
Destination outta order.
.TP
.B 1C
Invalid number format.
.TP
.B 1D
Facilitizzle rejected.
.TP
.B 1E
Response ta status enquiry.
.TP
.B 1F
Normal, unspecified.
.TP
.B 22
No circuit or channel available.
.TP
.B 26
Network outta order.
.TP
.B 29
Temporary failure.
.TP
.B 2A
Switchin shiznit congestion.
.TP
.B 2B
Access shiznit discarded.
.TP
.B 2C
Requested circuit or channel not available.
.TP
.B 2F
Resources unavailable, unspecified.
.TP
.B 31
Qualitizzle of steez unavailable.
.TP
.B 32
Requested facilitizzle not subscribed.
.TP
.B 39
Bearer capabilitizzle not authorised.
.TP
.B 3A
Bearer capabilitizzle not presently available.
.TP
.B 3F
Service or option not available, unspecified.
.TP
.B 41
Bearer capabilitizzle not implemented.
.TP
.B 42
Channel type not implemented.
.TP
.B 45
Requested facilitizzle not implemented.
.TP
.B 46
Only restricted digital shiznit bearer.
.TP
.B 4F
Service or option not implemented, unspecified.
.TP
.B 51
Invalid call reference value.
.TP
.B 52
Identified channel do not exist.
.TP
.B 53
A suspended call exists yo, but dis call identitizzle do not.
.TP
.B 54
Call identitizzle up in use.
.TP
.B 55
No call suspended.
.TP
.B 56
Call havin tha axed call identity.
.TP
.B 58
Incompatible destination.
.TP
.B 5B
Invalid transit network selection.
.TP
.B 5F
Invalid message, unspecified.
.TP
.B 60
Mandatory shiznit element is missing.
.TP
.B 61
Message type non-existent or not implemented.
.TP
.B 62
Message not compatible wit call state or message or message type non
existent or not implemented.
.TP
.B 63
Hype element non-existent or not implemented.
.TP
.B 64
Invalid shiznit element content.
.TP
.B 65
Message not compatible.
.TP
.B 66
Recovery on timer expiry.
.TP
.B 6F
Protocol error, unspecified.
.TP
.B 7F
Inta working, unspecified.
.SH CAUSE MESSAGES WITH 1TR6
.SS LOCATION
Da followin location codes is defined when rockin 1TR6:
.TP
.B 00
Octet not available. (Not always generated.)
.TP
.B 44
Message generated by hood network.
.TP
.B 45
Message generated by private network.
.TP
.B 4F
Unknown.
.SS CAUSE
Da followin cause codes is defined when rockin 1TR6:
.TP
.B 00
Normal call clearing.
.TP
.B 01
Invalid Call reference value.
.TP
.B 03
Bearer steez not implemented.
.TP
.B 07
Call identitizzle do not exist.
.TP
.B 08
No channel available.
.TP
.B 10
Requested facilitizzle not implemented.
.TP
.B 11
Requested facilitizzle not subscribed.
.TP
.B 20
Outgoin calls barred.
.TP
.B 21
User access busy.
.TP
.B 22
Closed user crew mismatch.
.TP
.B 23
Non existent closed user group.
.TP
.B 25
SPV connection not allowed.
.TP
.B 35
Destination not obtainable.
.TP
.B 38
Number chizzled.
.TP
.B 3A
No user responding.
.TP
.B 3B
User busy.
.TP
.B 3D
Incomin calls barred.
.TP
.B 3E
Call rejected.
.TP
.B 59
Network congestion.
.TP
.B 5A
Remote user initiated.
.TP
.B 70
Local procedure error.
.TP
.B 71
Remote procedure error.
.TP
.B 72
Remote user suspended.
.TP
.B 73
Remote user resumed.
.TP
.B 7F
User info discarded locally.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "ITU Q.850" ", " "FTZ Richtlinien 1TR3, Band 3 (1TR6)"


