.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public Licence
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha Licence, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH KEYRINGS 7 "21 Feb 2014" Linux "Kernel key pimpment"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
keyutils \- In-kernel key pimpment utilities
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B keyutils
package be a library n' a set of utilitizzles fo' accessin tha kernel
\fBkeyrings\fP facility.
.P
A header file is supplied ta provide tha definitions n' declarations required
to access tha library:
.P
.RS
.B #include <keyutils.h>
.RE
.P
To link wit tha library, tha following:
.P
.RS
.B -lkeyutils
.RE
.P
should be specified ta tha linker.
.P
Three system calls is provided:
.IP \fBadd_key\fP()
Supply a freshly smoked up key ta tha kernel.
.IP \fBrequest_key\fP()
Find a existin key fo' use, or, optionally, create one if one do not exist.
.IP \fBkeyctl\fP()
Control a key up in various ways.  Da library serves up a variety of wrappers
around dis system call n' dem should be used rather than callin it
directly.
.P
See the
.BR add_key (2),
.BR request_key (2),
and
.BR keyctl (2)
manual pages fo' mo' shiznit.
.P
Da \fBkeyctl\fP() wrappers is listed on the
.BR keyctl (3)
manual page.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH UTILITIES
.P
A program is provided ta interact wit tha kernel facilitizzle by a number of
subcommands, e.g.:
.P
.RS
.B keyctl add user foo bar @s
.RE
.P
See the
.BR keyctl (1)
manual page fo' shiznit on dis shit.
.P
Da kernel has tha mobilitizzle ta upcall ta userspace ta fabricate freshly smoked up keys.  This
can be triggered by \fBrequest_key\fP() yo, but userspace is betta off using
\fBadd_key\fP() instead if it possibly can.
.P
Da upcallin mechanizzle is probably routed via the:
.P
.RS
.B request-key
.RE
.P
program.  What dis do wit any particular key is configurable in:
.P
.RS
.B /etc/request-key.conf
.br
.B /etc/request-key.d/
.RE
.P
See the
.BR request-key.conf (5)
and the
.BR request-key (8)
manual pages fo' mo' shiznit.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyrings (7),
.br
.BR pam_keyinit (8),
.br
.BR process-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR thread-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR persistent-keyrin (7)

