.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH LIBC 7 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
libc \- overview of standard C libraries on Linux
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da term "libc" is commonly used as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shorthand for
the "standard C library",
a library of standard functions dat can be used by all C programs
(and sometimes by programs up in other languages).
Because of some history (see below), use of tha term "libc"
to refer ta tha standard C library is somewhat ambiguous on Linux.
.SS glibc
By far da most thugged-out widely used C library on Linux is tha GNU C Library
.UR http://www.gnu.org\:/software\:/libc/
.UE ,
often referred ta as
.IR glibc .
This is tha C library dat is nowadays used up in all
major Linux distributions.
It be also tha C library whose details is documented
in tha relevant pagez of the
.I man-pages
project (primarily up in Section 3 of tha manual).
Documentation of glibc be also available up in tha glibc manual,
available via tha command
.IR "info libc" .
Release 1.0 of glibc was made up in September 1992.
(There was earlier 0.x releases.)
Da next major release of glibc was 2.0, all up in tha beginnin of 1997.

Da pathname
.I /lib/libc.so.6
(or suttin' similar) is normally a symbolic link that
points ta tha location of tha glibc library,
and executin dis pathname will cause glibc ta display
various shiznit bout tha version installed on yo' system.
.SS Linux libc
In tha early ta mid 1990s, there was fo' a while
.IR "Linux libc" ,
a fork of glibc 1.x pimped by Linux pimpers whoz ass felt dat glibc
development all up in tha time was not sufficin fo' tha needz of Linux.
Often, dis library was referred ta (ambiguously) as just "libc".
Linux libc busted out major versions 2, 3, 4, n' 5
(as well as nuff minor versionz of dem releases).
For a while,
Linux libc was tha standard C library up in nuff Linux distributions.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat notwithstandin tha original gangsta motivationz of tha Linux libc effort,
by tha time glibc 2.0 was busted out, dat shiznit was clearly superior ta Linux libc,
and all major Linux distributions dat had been rockin Linux libc
soon switched back ta glibc.
(Since dis switch occurred over a thugged-out decade ago,
.I man-pages
no longer takes care ta document Linux libc details.
Nevertheless, tha history is visible up in vestigez of shiznit
about Linux libc dat remain up in some manual pages,
in particular, references to
.IR libc4
and
.IR libc5 .)
.SS Other C libraries
There is various other less widely used C libraries fo' Linux.
These libraries is generally smalla than glibc,
both up in termz of features n' memory footprint,
and often intended fo' buildin lil' small-ass binaries,
like targeted at pimpment fo' embedded Linux systems.
Among such libraries are
.I uClibc
.RI ( http://www.uclibc.org/ )
and
.I dietlibc
.RI ( http://www.fefe.de/dietlibc/ ).
Detailz of these libraries is generally not covered by the
.I man-pages
project.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syscalls (2),
.BR feature_test_macros (7),
.BR man-pages (7),
.BR standardz (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
