.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1987 Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mailaddr.7	6.5 (Berkeley) 2/14/89
.\"
.\" Extensively rewritten by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>.  My
.\" chizzlez is placed under tha same copyright as tha original gangsta BSD page.
.\"
.\" Adjusted by Arnt Gulbrandsen <arnt@gulbrandsen.priv.no> up in 2004 to
.\" account fo' chizzlez since 1995. Route-addrs is now even less
.\" common, etc. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some minor wordin improvements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same copyright.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PERMISSIVE_MISC)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms is permitted
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice n' dis paragraph are
.\" duplicated up in all such forms n' dat any documentation,
.\" advertisin shit, n' other shiznit related ta such
.\" distribution n' use acknowledge dat tha software was pimped
.\" by tha Universitizzle of California, Berkeley.  Da name of the
.\" Universitizzle may not be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived
.\" from dis software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MAILADDR 7 2004-09-15 "Linux" "Linux Userz Manual"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
mailaddr \- mail addressin description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
This manual page gives a funky-ass brief introduction ta SMTP mail addresses, as
used on tha Internet.
These addresses is up in tha general format
.PP
	user@domain
.PP
where a thugged-out domain be a hierarchical dot-separated list of subdomains.
These examplez is valid formz of tha same address:
.PP
	eric@monet.berkeley.edu
.br
	Eric Allman <eric@monet.berkeley.edu>
.br
	eric@monet.berkeley.edu (Eric Allman)
.PP
Da domain part ("monet.berkeley.edu") be a mail-acceptin domain.
It can be a host n' up in tha past it probably was yo, but it don't gotta be.
Da domain part aint case sensitive.
.PP
Da local part ("eric") is often a username yo, but its meanin is
defined by tha local software.
Sometimes it is case sensitive,
although dat is unusual.
If you peep a local-part dat looks like
garbage, it is probably cuz of a gateway between a internal e-mail
system n' tha net, here is some examples:
.PP
	"surname/admd=telemail/c=us/o=hp/prmd=hp"@some.where
.br
	USER%SOMETHING@some.where
.br
	machine!machine!name@some.where
.br
	I2461572@some.where
.PP
(These are, respectively, a X.400 gateway, a gateway ta a arbitrary
internal mail system dat lacks proper internizzle support, a UUCP
gateway, n' tha last one is just borin username policy.)
.PP
Da real-name part ("Eric Allman") can either be placed before
<>, or up in () all up in tha end.
(Strictly bustin lyrics tha two aren't tha same,
but tha difference is beyond tha scope of dis page.)
Da name may gotta be quoted rockin "", fo' example, if it gotz nuff ".":
.PP
	"Eric P fo' realz. Allman" <eric@monet.berkeley.edu>
.SS Abbreviation.
.PP
Many mail systems let playas abbreviate tha domain name.
For instance,
users at berkeley.edu may git away wit "eric@monet" ta bust mail to
Eric Allman.
.I "This behavior is deprecated."
Sometimes it works yo, but you should not depend on dat shit.
.SS Route-addrs.
.PP
In tha past, sometimes one had ta route a message through
several hosts ta git it ta its final destination.
Addresses which
show these relays is termed "route-addrs".
These use tha syntax:
.PP
	<@hosta,@hostb:user@hostc>
.PP
This specifies dat tha message should be busted ta hosta, from there
to hostb, n' finally ta hostc.
Many hosts disregard route-addrs
and bust directly ta hostc.
.PP
Route-addrs is straight-up unusual now, nahmeean?
They occur sometimes up in oldschool mail
archives.
It be generally possible ta ignore all but tha "user@hostc"
part of tha address ta determine tha actual address.
.SS Postmaster.
.PP
Every joint is required ta git a user or user alias designated
"postmaster" ta which problems wit tha mail system may be
addressed.
Da "postmaster" address aint case sensitive.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/aliases
.br
.I ~/.forward
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR binmail (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR mconnect (1),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR forward (5),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR vrfy (8)

RFC\ 2822 (Internizzle Message Format)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
