.\" (C) Copyright 1992-1999 Rickard E. Faith n' Dizzy A. Wheeler
.\" (faith@cs.unc.edu n' dwheeler@ida.org)
.\" n' (C) Copyright 2007 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2007-05-30 pimped by mtk, rockin text from oldschool man.7 plus
.\" rewrites n' additionizzle text.
.\"
.TH MAN-PAGES 7 2013-07-24 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
man-pages \- conventions fo' freestylin Linux playa pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
.RI [ section ]
.I title
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page raps bout tha conventions dat should be employed
when freestylin playa pages fo' tha Linux \fIman-pages\fP project,
which documents tha user-space API provided by tha Linux kernel
and tha GNU C library.
Da project thus serves up most of tha pages up in Section 2,
as well as nuff of tha pages dat appear
in Sections 3, 4, 5, n' 7 of tha playa pages on a Linux system.
Da conventions busted lyrics bout on dis page may also be useful
for authors freestylin playa pages fo' other projects.
.SS Sectionz of tha manual pages
.PP
Da manual Sections is traditionally defined as bigs up:
.TP 10
.B 1 Commandz (Programs)
Those commandz dat can be executed by tha user from within
a shell.
.TP
.B 2 System calls
Those functions which must be performed by tha kernel.
.TP
.B 3 Library calls
Most of the
.I libc
functions.
.TP
.B 4 Special filez (devices)
Filez found in
.IR /dev .
.TP
.B 5 File formats n' conventions
Da format for
.I /etc/passwd
and other human-readable files.
.TP
.B 6 Games
.TP
.B 7 Overview, conventions, n' miscellaneous
Overviewz of various topics, conventions n' protocols,
characta set standards, n' miscellaneous other thangs.
.TP
.B 8 System pimpment commands
Commandz like
.BR mount (8),
many of which only root can execute.
.\" .TP
.\" .B 9 Kernel routines
.\" This be a obsolete manual section.
.\" Once dat shiznit was thought a phat scam ta document tha Linux kernel here,
.\" but up in fact straight-up lil has been documented, n' tha documentation
.\" dat exists is outdated already.
.\" There is betta sources of
.\" shiznit fo' kernel pimpers.
.SS Macro package
New manual pages should be marked up rockin the
.B groff an.tmac
package busted lyrics bout in
.BR playa (7).
This chizzle is mainly fo' consistency: tha vast majoritizzle of
existin Linux manual pages is marked up rockin these macros.
.SS Conventions fo' source file layout
Please limit source code line length ta no mo' than bout 75 characters
wherever possible.
This helps avoid line-wrappin up in some mail clients when patches are
submitted inline.

New sentences should be started on freshly smoked up lines.
This make it easier ta peep tha effect of patches,
which often operate all up in tha level of individual sentences.
.SS Title line
Da first command up in a playa page should be a
.B TH
command:
.RS
.sp
.B \&.TH
.I "title section date source manual"
.sp
.RE
where:
.RS
.TP 10
.I title
Da title of tha playa page, freestyled up in all caps (e.g.,
.IR MAN-PAGES ).
.TP
.I section
Da section number up in which tha playa page should be placed (e.g.,
.IR 7 ).
.TP
.I date
Da date of tha last revision\(emremember ta chizzle dis every last muthafuckin time a
change is made ta tha playa page,
since dis is da most thugged-out general way of bustin version control.
Dates should be freestyled up in tha form YYYY-MM-DD.
.TP
.I source
Da source of tha command, function, or system call.

For dem few \fIman-pages\fP pages up in Sections 1 n' 8,
probably you just wanna write
.IR GNU .

For system calls, just write
.IR "Linux" .
(An earlier practice was ta write tha version number
of tha kernel from which tha manual page was bein written/checked.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis was never done consistently, n' so was
probably worse than includin no version number.
Henceforth, avoid includin a version number.)

For library calls dat is part of glibc or one of the
other common GNU libraries, just use
.IR "GNU C Library" ", " GNU ,
or a empty string.

For Section 4 pages, use
.IR "Linux" .

In casez of doubt, just write
.IR Linux ", or " GNU .
.TP
.I manual
Da title of tha manual (e.g., fo' Section 2 n' 3 pages in
the \fIman-pages\fP package, use
.IR "Linux Programmerz Manual" ).
.RE
.SS Sections within a manual page
Da list below shows conventionizzle or suggested sections.
Most manual pages should include at least the
.B highlighted
sections.
Arrange a freshly smoked up manual page so dat sections
are placed up in tha order shown up in tha list.
.in +0.5i
.nf

\fBNAME\fP
\fBSYNOPSIS\fP
CONFIGURATION      [Normally only up in Section 4]
\fBDESCRIPTION\fP
OPTIONS            [Normally only up in Sections 1, 8]
EXIT STATUS        [Normally only up in Sections 1, 8]
RETURN VALUE       [Normally only up in Sections 2, 3]
.\" May 07: Few current playa pages have a ERROR HANDLING section,,,
.\" ERROR HANDLING,
ERRORS             [Typically only up in Sections 2, 3]
.\" May 07: Almost no current playa pages gotz a USAGE section,,,
.\" USAGE,
.\" DIAGNOSTICS,
.\" May 07: Almost no current playa pages gotz a SECURITY section,,,
.\" SECURITY,
ENVIRONMENT
FILES
ATTRIBUTES         [Normally only up in Sections 2, 3]
VERSIONS           [Normally only up in Sections 2, 3]
CONFORMING TO
NOTES
BUGS
EXAMPLE
.\" AUTHORS sections is discouraged
.\" AUTHORS             [Discouraged]
\fBSEE ALSO\fP

.fi
.in
.IR "Where a traditionizzle headin would apply" ", " "please use it" ;
this kind of consistency can make tha shiznit easier ta understand.
If you must, you can create yo' own
headings if they make thangs easier ta KNOW (this can
be especially useful fo' pages up in Sections 4 n' 5).
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat before bustin this, consider whether you could use the
traditionizzle headings, wit some subsections (\fI.SS\fP) within
those sections.

Da followin list elaborates on tha contentz of each of
the above sections.
.TP 14
.B NAME
Da name of dis manual page.
See
.BR playa (7)
for blingin detailz of tha line(s) dat should follow the
\fB.SH NAME\fP command.
All lyrics up in dis line (includin tha word immediately
followin tha "\\\-") should be up in lowercase,
except where Gangsta or technical terminological convention
dictates otherwise.
.TP
.B SYNOPSIS
briefly raps bout tha command or functionz intercourse.
For commands, dis shows tha syntax of tha command n' its arguments
(includin options);
boldface is used fo' as-is text n' italics is used to
indicate replaceable arguments.
Brackets ([]) surround optionizzle arguments, vertical bars (|)
separate chizzles, n' ellipses (\&...) can be repeated.
For functions, it shows any required data declarations or
.B #include
directives, followed by tha function declaration.

Where a gangbangin' feature test macro must be defined up in order ta obtain
the declaration of a gangbangin' function (or a variable) from a header file,
then tha SYNOPSIS should indicate this, as busted lyrics bout in
.BR feature_test_macros (7).
.\" FIXME . Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Say suttin' here bout compila options
.TP
.B CONFIGURATION
Configuration details fo' a thugged-out device.
This section normally appears only up in Section 4 pages.
.TP
.B DESCRIPTION
gives a explanation of what tha fuck tha program, function, or format do.
Discuss how tha fuck it interacts wit filez n' standard input, n' what tha fuck it
produces on standard output or standard error.
Omit internals n' implementation details unless they critical for
understandin tha intercourse.
Describe tha usual case;
for shiznit on command-line optionz of a program use the
.B OPTIONS
section.
.\" If there is some kind of input grammar or complex set of subcommands,
.\" consider describin dem up in a separate
.\" .B USAGE
.\" section (and just place a overview up in the
.\" .B DESCRIPTION
.\" section).

When describin freshly smoked up behavior or freshly smoked up flags for
a system call or library function,
be careful ta note tha kernel or C library version
that introduced tha chizzle.
Da preferred method of notin dis shiznit fo' flags be as part of a
.B .TP
list, up in tha followin form (here, fo' a freshly smoked up system call flag):
.RS 22
.TP
.BR XYZ_FLAG " (since Linux 3.7)"
Description of flag...
.RE
.IP
Includin version shiznit is  especially useful ta users
who is constrained ta rockin olda kernel or C library versions
(which is typical up in embedded systems, fo' example).
.TP
.B OPTIONS
raps bout tha command-line options accepted by a
program n' how tha fuck they chizzle its behavior.
This section should step tha fuck up only fo' Section 1 n' 8 manual pages.
.\" .TP
.\" .B USAGE
.\" raps bout tha grammar of any sublanguage dis implements.
.TP
.B EXIT STATUS
lists tha possible exit status jointz of a program and
the conditions dat cause these joints ta be returned.
This section should step tha fuck up only fo' Section 1 n' 8 manual pages.
.TP
.B RETURN VALUE
For Section 2 n' 3 pages, dis section gives a
list of tha joints tha library routine will return ta tha caller
and tha conditions dat cause these joints ta be returned.
.TP
.B ERRORS
For Section 2 n' 3 manual pages, dis be a list of the
values dat may be placed in
.I errno
in tha event of a error, along wit shiznit bout tha cause
of tha errors.
.IR "Da error list should be up in alphabetical order" .
.TP
.B ENVIRONMENT
lists all environment variablez dat affect tha program or function
and how tha fuck they affect dat shit.
.TP
.B FILES
lists tha filez tha program or function uses, such as
configuration files, startup files,
and filez tha program directly operates on.
Give tha full pathname of these files, n' use tha installation
process ta modify tha directory part ta match user preferences.
For nuff programs, tha default installation location is in
.IR /usr/local ,
so yo' base manual page should use
.I /usr/local
as tha base.
.\" May 07: Almost no current playa pages gotz a DIAGNOSTICS section;
.\"         "RETURN VALUE" or "EXIT STATUS" is preferred.
.\" .TP
.\" .B DIAGNOSTICS
.\" gives a overview of da most thugged-out common error lyrics n' how tha fuck to
.\" cope wit em.
.\" Yo ass don't need ta explain system error lyrics
.\" or fatal signals dat can step tha fuck up durin execution of any program
.\" unless they special up in some way ta tha program.
.\"
.\" May 07: Almost no current playa pages gotz a SECURITY section.
.\".TP
.\".B SECURITY
.\"discusses securitizzle thangs n' implications.
.\"Warn bout configurations or environments dat should be avoided,
.\"commandz dat may have securitizzle implications, n' so on, especially
.\"if they aren't obvious.
.\"Discussin securitizzle up in a separate section aint necessary;
.\"if itz easier ta understand, place securitizzle shiznit up in the
.\"other sections (like fuckin the
.\" .B DESCRIPTION
.\" or
.\" .B USAGE
.\" section).
.\" But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat please include securitizzle shiznit somewhere!
.TP
.B ATTRIBUTES
A summary of various attributez of tha function(s) documented on dis page,
broken tha fuck into subsections.
Da followin subsections is defined:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B "Multithreadin (see pthreads(7))"
This subsection notes attributes relatin ta multithreaded applications:
.RS
.IP * 3
Whether tha function is thread-safe.
.IP *
Whether tha function be a cold-ass lil cancellation point.
.IP *
Whether tha function be async-cancel-safe.
.RE
.IP
Detailz of these attributes can be found in
.BR pthreadz (7).
.RE
.TP
.B VERSIONS
A brief summary of tha Linux kernel or glibc versions where a
system call or library function rocked up,
or chizzled hella up in its operation.
As a general rule, every last muthafuckin freshly smoked up intercourse should
include a VERSIONS section up in its manual page.
Unfortunately,
many existin manual pages don't include dis shiznit
(since there was no policy ta do so when they was written).
Patches ta remedy dis is welcome,
but, from tha perspectizzle of programmers freestylin freshly smoked up code,
this shiznit probably mattas only up in tha case of kernel
interfaces dat done been added up in Linux 2.4 or later
(i.e., chizzlez since kernel 2.2),
and library functions dat done been added ta glibc since version 2.1
(i.e., chizzlez since glibc 2.0).

The
.BR syscalls (2)
manual page also serves up shiznit bout kernel versions
in which various system calls first rocked up.
.TP
.B CONFORMING TO
raps bout any standardz or conventions dat relate ta tha function
or command busted lyrics bout by tha manual page.
For a page up in Section 2 or 3,
this section should note tha POSIX.1
version(s) dat tha call conforms to,
and also whether tha call is specified up in C99.
(Don't worry too much bout other standardz like SUS, SUSv2, n' XPG,
or tha SVr4 n' 4.xBSD implementation standards,
unless tha call was specified up in dem standards,
but aint up in tha current version of POSIX.1.)
(See
.BR standardz (7).)

If tha call aint governed by any standardz but commonly
exists on other systems, note em.
If tha call is Linux-specific, note all dis bullshit.

If dis section consistz of just a list of standards
(which it commonly do),
terminizzle tha list wit a period (\(aq.\(aq).
.TP
.B NOTES
provides miscellaneous notes.
For Section 2 n' 3 playa pages you may find it useful ta include
subsections (\fBSS\fP) named \fILinux Notes\fP n' \fIGlibc Notes\fP.
.TP
.B BUGS
lists limitations, known defects or inconveniences,
and other questionable activities.
.TP
.B EXAMPLE
provides one or mo' examplez describin how tha fuck dis function, file or
command is used.
For details on freestylin example programs,
see \fIExample Programs\fP below.
.TP
.B AUTHORS
lists authorz of tha documentation or program.
\fBUse of a AUTHORS section is straight fuckin discouraged\fP.
Generally, it is betta not ta clutta every last muthafuckin page wit a list
of (over time potentially a shitload of) authors;
if you write or hella amend a page,
add a cold-ass lil copyright notice as a cold-ass lil comment up in tha source file.
If yo ass is tha lyricist of a thang driver n' wanna include
an address fo' reportin bugs, place dis under tha BUGS section.
.TP
.B SEE ALSO
provides a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of related playa pages,
ordered by section number and
then alphabetically by name, possibly followed by
other related pages or documents.
Do not terminizzle dis wit a period.
.IP
Where tha SEE ALSO list gotz nuff nuff long manual page names,
to improve tha visual result of tha output, it may be useful ta employ the
.I .ad l
(don't right justify)
and
.I .nh
(don't hyphenate)
directives.
Hyphenation of individual page names can be prevented
by precedin lyrics wit tha strang "\\%".
.SS Font conventions
.PP
For functions, tha arguments is always specified rockin italics,
.IR "even up in tha SYNOPSIS section" ,
where tha rest of tha function is specified up in bold:
.PP
.BI "    int myfunction(int " argc ", char **" argv );
.PP
Variable names should, like argument names, be specified up in italics.
.PP
Filenames (whether pathnames, or references ta filez up in the
.I /usr/include
directory)
are always up in italics (e.g.,
.IR <stdio.h> ),
except up in tha SYNOPSIS section, where included filez is up in bold (e.g.,
.BR "#include <stdio.h>" ).
When referrin ta a standard include file under
.IR /usr/include ,
specify tha header file surrounded by angle brackets,
in tha usual C way (e.g.,
.IR <stdio.h> ).
.PP
Special macros, which is probably up in upper case, is up in bold (e.g.,
.BR MAXINT ).
Exception: don't boldface NULL.
.PP
When enumeratin a list of error codes, tha codes is up in bold (this list
usually uses the
.B \&.TP
macro).
.PP
Complete commandz should, if long,
be freestyled as up in a indented line on they own, fo' example
.in +4n
.nf

man 7 man-pages

.fi
.in
If tha command is short, then it can be included inline up in tha text,
in italic format, fo' example,
.IR "man 7 man-pages" .
In dis case, it may be worth rockin nonbreakin spaces
("\e\ ") at suitable places up in tha command.
Command options should be freestyled up in italics, e.g.,
.IR \-l .
.PP
Expressions, if not freestyled on a separate indented line, should
be specified up in italics.
Again, tha use of nonbreakin spaces may be appropriate
if tha expression is inlined wit aiiight text.
.PP
Any reference ta tha subject of tha current manual page
should be freestyled wit tha name up in bold.
If tha subject be a gangbangin' function (i.e., dis be a Section 2 or 3 page),
then tha name should be followed by a pair of parentheses
in Roman (normal) font.
For example, up in the
.BR fcntl (2)
man page, references ta tha subject of tha page would be freestyled as:
.BR fcntl ().
Da preferred way ta write dis up in tha source file is:
.nf

    .BR fcntl ()

.fi
(Usin dis format, rather than tha use of "\\fB...\\fP()"
makes it easier ta write tools dat parse playa page source files.)
.PP
Any reference ta another playa page
should be freestyled wit tha name up in bold,
.I always
followed by tha section number,
formatted up in Roman (normal) font, without any
separatin spaces (e.g.,
.BR intro (2)).
Da preferred way ta write dis up in tha source file is:
.nf

    .BR intro (2)

.fi
(Includin tha section number up in cross references lets tools like
.BR man2html (1)
create properly hyperlinked pages.)
.SS Spelling
Startin wit release 2.59,
.I man-pages
bigs up Gangsta spellin conventions;
please write all freshly smoked up pages n' patches accordin ta these conventions.
.SS Capitalization
In subsection ("SS") headings
capitalize tha straight-up original gangsta word up in headin yo, but otherwise use lower case,
except where Gangsta usage (e.g., proper nouns) or programming
language requirements (e.g., identifier names) dictate otherwise.
.SS Example programs n' shell sessions
Manual pages can include example programs demonstratin how tha fuck to
use a system call or library function.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat note tha following:
.TP 3
*
Example programs should be freestyled up in C.
.TP
*
An example program is necessary n' useful only if it demonstrates
suttin' beyond what tha fuck can easily be provided up in a textual
description of tha intercourse.
An example program dat do nothing
other than call a intercourse probably serves lil purpose.
.TP
*
Example programs should be fairly short (preferably less than 100 lines;
ideally less than 50 lines).
.TP
*
Example programs should do error checkin afta system calls and
library function calls.
.TP
*
Example programs should be complete, n' compile without
warnings when compiled wit \fIcc\ \-Wall\fP.
.TP
*
Where possible n' appropriate, example programs should allow
experimentation, by varyin they behavior based on inputs
(ideally from command-line arguments, or alternatively, via
input read by tha program).
.TP
*
Example programs should be laid up accordin ta Kernighan and
Ritchie style, wit 4-space indents.
(Avoid tha use of TAB charactas up in source code!)
.PP
For some examplez of what tha fuck example programs should look like, see
.BR wait (2)
and
.BR pipe (2).

If you include a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell session demonstratin tha use of a program
or other system feature, boldface tha user input text,
to distinguish it from output produced by tha system.
.SS Indentation of structure definitions, shell session logs, etc.
When structure definitions, shell session logs, n' so on is included
in hustlin text, indent dem by 4 spaces (i.e., a funky-ass block enclosed by
.I ".in\ +4n"
and
.IR ".in" ).
.SH EXAMPLE
For canonical examplez of how tha fuck playa pages up in the
.I man-pages
package should look, see
.BR pipe (2)
and
.BR fcntl (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR playa (1),
.BR man2html (1),
.BR groff (7),
.BR groff_man (7),
.BR playa (7),
.BR mdoc (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
