.\" (C) Copyright 1992-1999 Rickard E. Faith n' Dizzy A. Wheeler
.\" (faith@cs.unc.edu n' dwheeler@ida.org)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat Jun  8 00:39:52 1996 by aeb
.\" Modified Wed Jun 16 23:00:00 1999 by Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheeler@ida.org)
.\" Modified Thu Jul 15 12:43:28 1999 by aeb
.\" Modified Sun Jan  6 18:26:25 2002 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\" Modified Tue Jul 27 20:12:02 2004 by Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
.\" 2007-05-30, mtk: various rewrites n' moved much text ta freshly smoked up man-pages.7.
.\"
.TH MAN 7 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
man \- macros ta format playa pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B groff \-Tascii \-man
.I file
\&...
.LP
.B groff \-Tps \-man
.I file
\&...
.LP
.B man
.RI [ section ]
.I title
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the
.B "groff an.tmac"
macro package (often called the
.B man
macro package).
This macro package should be used by pimpers when
writin or portin playa pages fo' Linux.
It be fairly compatible wit other
versionz of dis macro package, so portin playa pages should not be a major
problem (exceptions include tha NET-2 BSD release, which uses a straight-up
different macro package called mdoc; see
.BR mdoc (7)).
.PP
Note dat NET-2 BSD mdoc playa pages can be used with
.B groff
simply by specifyin the
.B \-mdoc
option instead of the
.B \-man
option.
Usin the
.B \-mandoc
option is, however, recommended, since dis will automatically detect which
macro package is up in use.
.PP
For conventions dat should be employed when freestylin playa pages
for tha Linux \fIman-pages\fP package, see
.BR man-pages (7).
.SS Title line
Da first command up in a playa page (afta comment lines,
that is, lines dat start wit \fB.\\"\fP) should be
.RS
.sp
.B \&.TH
.I "title section date source manual"
.sp
.RE
For detailz of tha arguments dat should be supplied ta the
.B TH
command, see
.BR man-pages (7).
.PP
Note dat BSD mdoc-formatted pages begin wit the
.B Dd
command, not the
.B TH
command.
.SS Sections
Sections is started with
.B \&.SH
followed by tha headin name.
.\" Da followin don't seem ta be required (see Debian bug 411303),
.\" If tha name gotz nuff spaces n' appears
.\" on tha same line as
.\" .BR \&.SH ,
.\" then place tha headin up in double quotes.

Da only mandatory headin is NAME, which should be tha straight-up original gangsta section and
be followed on tha next line by a one-line description of tha program:
.RS
.sp
\&.SH NAME
.br
item \\- description
.sp
.RE
It be mad blingin dat dis format is followed, n' dat there be a
backslash before tha single dash which bigs up tha item name.
This syntax is used by the
.BR mandb (8)
program ta create a thugged-out database of short descriptions fo' the
.BR whatis (1)
and
.BR apropos (1)
commands.
(See
.BR lexgrog (1)
for further details on tha syntax of tha NAME section.)
.PP
For a list of other sections dat might step tha fuck up in a manual page, see
.BR man-pages (7).
.SS Fonts
Da commandz ta select tha type grill are:
.TP 4
.B \&.B
Bold
.TP
.B \&.BI
Bold alternatin wit italics
(especially useful fo' function justifications)
.TP
.B \&.BR
Bold alternatin wit Roman
(especially useful fo' referrin ta other
manual pages)
.TP
.B \&.I
Italics
.TP
.B \&.IB
Italics alternatin wit bold
.TP
.B \&.IR
Italics alternatin wit Roman
.TP
.B \&.RB
Roman alternatin wit bold
.TP
.B \&.RI
Roman alternatin wit italics
.TP
.B \&.SB
Lil Small-Ass alternatin wit bold
.TP
.B \&.SM
Lil Small-Ass (useful fo' acronyms)
.LP
Traditionally, each command can have up ta six arguments yo, but tha GNU
implementation removes dis limitation (you might still wanna limit
yo ass ta 6 arguments fo' portabilityz sake).
Arguments is delimited by spaces.
Double quotes can be used ta specify a argument which gotz nuff spaces.
All of tha arguments is ghon be printed next ta each other without
intervenin spaces, so dat the
.B \&.BR
command can be used ta specify a word up in bold followed by a mark of
punctuation up in Roman.
If no arguments is given, tha command be applied ta tha followin line
of text.
.SS Other macros n' strings
.PP
Below is other relevant macros n' predefined strings.
Unless noted otherwise, all macros
cause a funky-ass break (end tha current line of text).
Many of these macros set or use tha "prevailin indent."
Da "prevailin indent" value is set by any macro wit tha parameter
.I i
below;
macros may omit
.I i
in which case tha current prevailin indent is ghon be used.
As a result, successive indented paragraphs can use tha same indent without
respecifyin tha indent value.
A aiiight (nonindented) paragraph resets tha prevailin indent value
to its default value (0.5 inches).
By default a given indent is measured up in ens;
try ta use ens or ems as units for
indents, since these will automatically adjust ta font size chizzles.
Da other key macro definitions are:
.SS Normal paragraphs
.TP 9m
.B \&.LP
Same as
.B \&.PP
(begin a freshly smoked up paragraph).
.TP
.B \&.P
Same as
.B \&.PP
(begin a freshly smoked up paragraph).
.TP
.B \&.PP
Begin a freshly smoked up paragraph n' reset prevailin indent.
.SS Relatizzle margin indent
.TP 9m
.BI \&.RS " i"
Start relatizzle margin indent: moves tha left margin
.I i
to tha right (if
.I i
is omitted, tha prevailin indent value is used).
A freshly smoked up prevailin indent is set ta 0.5 inches.
As a result, all followin paragraph(s) will be
indented until tha corresponding
.BR \&.RE .
.TP
.B \&.RE
End relatizzle margin indent and
restores tha previous value of tha prevailin indent.
.SS Indented paragraph macros
.TP 9m
.BI \&.HP " i"
Begin paragraph wit a hangin indent
(the first line of tha paragraph be all up in tha left margin of
normal paragraphs, n' tha rest of tha paragraphz lines is indented).
.TP
.BI \&.IP " x i"
Indented paragraph wit optionizzle hangin tag.
If tha tag
.I x
is omitted, tha entire followin paragraph is indented by
.IR i .
If tha tag
.I x
is provided, it is hung all up in tha left margin
before tha followin indented paragraph
(this is just like
.B \&.TP
except tha tag is included wit tha command instead of bein on the
followin line).
If tha tag is too long, tha text afta tha tag is ghon be moved down ta the
next line (text aint gonna be lost or garbled).
For bulleted lists, use dis macro wit \e(bu (bullet) or \e(em (em dash)
as tha tag, n' fo' numbered lists, use tha number or letta followed by
a period as tha tag;
this simplifies translation ta other formats.
.TP
.BI \&.TP " i"
Begin paragraph wit hangin tag.
Da tag is given on tha next line yo, but
its thangs up in dis biatch is like dem of the
.B \&.IP
command.
.SS Hypertext link macros
(Feature supported with
.B groff
only.)
In order ta use hypertext link macros, it is necessary ta load the
.B www.tmac
macro package.
Use tha request
.B .mso www.tmac
to do all dis bullshit.
.TP 9m
.BI \&.URL " url link trailer"
Inserts a hypertext link ta tha URI (URL)
.IR url ,
with
.I link
as tha text of tha link.
The
.I trailer
will be printed immediately afterward.
When generatin HTML dis should translate tha fuck into tha HTML command
\fB<A HREF="\fP\fIurl\fP\fB">\fIlink\fP\fB</A>\fP\fItrailer\fP.
.\" Da followin be a kludge ta git a paragraph tha fuck into tha listing.
.TP
.B " "
This n' other related macros is new, and
many tools won't do anythang wit dem yo, but
since nuff tools (includin troff) will simply ignore undefined macros
(or at most shitty bang they text) these is safe ta insert.
.\" Da followin be a kludge ta git a paragraph tha fuck into tha listing.
.TP
.B " "
It can be useful ta define yo' own
.B URL
macro up in manual pages fo' tha benefit of dem viewin it wit a roff
viewer other than
.BR groff .
That way, tha URL, link text, n' traila text (if any) is still visible.
.\" Da followin be a kludge ta git a paragraph tha fuck into tha listing.
.TP
.B " "
Herez a example:
.RS 1.5i
\&.de URL
.br
\\\\$2 \\(laURL: \\\\$1 \\(ra\\\\$3
.br
\&..
.br
\&.if \\n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.br
\&.TH
.I ...
.br
.I (lata up in tha page)
.br
This software be reppin the
.br
\&.URL "http://www.gnu.org/" "GNU Project" " of the"
.br
\&.URL "http://www.fsf.org/" "Jacked Software Foundation" .
.RE
.\" Da followin be a kludge ta git a paragraph tha fuck into tha listing.
.TP
.B " "
In tha above, if
.B groff
is bein used, the
.B www.tmac
macro packagez definizzle of tha URL macro will supersede tha locally
defined one.
.PP
A number of other link macros is available.
See
.BR groff_www (7)
for mo' details.
.SS Miscellaneous macros
.TP 9m
.B \&.DT
Reset tabs ta default tab joints (every 0.5 inches);
does not cause a funky-ass break.
.TP
.BI \&.PD " d"
Set inter-paragraph vertical distizzle ta d
(if omitted, d=0.4v);
does not cause a funky-ass break.
.TP
.BI \&.SS " t"
Subheading
.I t
(like
.BR \&.SH ,
but used fo' a subsection inside a section).
.SS Predefined strings
The
.B man
package has tha followin predefined strings:
.IP \e*R
Registration Symbol: \*R
.IP \e*S
Change ta default font size
.IP \e*(Tm
Trademark Symbol: \*(Tm
.IP \e*(lq
Left angled double quote: \*(lq
.IP \e*(rq
Right angled double quote: \*(rq
.SS Safe subset
Although technically
.B man
is a troff macro package, up in realitizzle a big-ass number of other tools
process playa page filez dat don't implement all of troffz abilities.
Thus, itz dopest ta avoid a shitload of troffz mo' horny-ass abilities
where possible ta permit these other tools ta work erectly.
Avoid rockin tha various troff preprocessors
(if you must, go ahead n' use
.BR tbl (1),
but try ta use the
.B IP
and
.B TP
commandz instead fo' two-column tables).
Avoid rockin computations; most other tools can't process em.
Use simple commandz dat is easy as fuck  ta translate ta other formats.
Da followin troff macros is believed ta be safe (though up in nuff cases
they is ghon be ignored by translators):
.BR \e" ,
.BR . ,
.BR ad ,
.BR bp ,
.BR br ,
.BR ce ,
.BR de ,
.BR dz ,
.BR el ,
.BR ie ,
.BR if ,
.BR fi ,
.BR ft ,
.BR hy ,
.BR ig ,
.BR up in ,
.BR na ,
.BR ne ,
.BR nf ,
.BR nh ,
.BR ps ,
.BR so ,
.BR sp ,
.BR ti ,
.BR tr .
.PP
Yo ass may also use nuff troff escape sequences (those sequences beginning
with \e).
When you need ta include tha backslash characta as aiiight text,
use \ee.
Other sequences you may use, where x or xx is any charactas n' N
is any digit, include:
.BR \e' ,
.BR \e` ,
.BR \e- ,
.BR \e. ,
.BR \e" ,
.BR \e% ,
.BR \e*x ,
.BR \e*(xx ,
.BR \e(xx ,
.BR \e$N ,
.BR \enx ,
.BR \en(xx ,
.BR \efx ,
and
.BR \ef(xx .
Avoid rockin tha escape sequences fo' drawin graphics.
.PP
Do not use tha optionizzle parameta for
.B bp
(break page).
Use only positizzle joints for
.B sp
(vertical space).
Don't define a macro
.RB ( de )
with tha same name as a macro up in dis or the
mdoc macro package wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different meaning; itz likely that
such redefinitions is ghon be ignored.
Every positizzle indent
.RB ( up in )
should be paired wit a matchin wack indent
(although you should be rockin the
.B RS
and
.B RE
macros instead).
Da condizzle test
.RB ( if,ie )
should only have \(aqt\(aq or \(aqn\(aq as tha condition.
Only translations
.RB ( tr )
that can be ignored should be used.
Font chizzles
.RB ( ft
and tha \fB\ef\fP escape sequence)
should only have tha joints 1, 2, 3, 4, R, I, B, P, or CW
(the ft command may also have no parameters).
.PP
If you use capabilitizzles beyond these, check the
results carefully on nuff muthafuckin tools.
Once you've confirmed dat tha additionizzle capabilitizzle is safe,
let tha maintainer of this
document know bout tha safe command or sequence
that should be added ta dis list.
.SH FILES
.IR /usr/share/groff/ [*/] tmac/an.tmac
.br
.I /usr/man/whatis
.SH NOTES
.PP
By all means include full URLs (or URIs) up in tha text itself;
some tools such as
.BR man2html (1)
can automatically turn dem tha fuck into hypertext links.
Yo ass can also use tha new
.B URL
macro ta identify links ta related shiznit.
If you include URLs, use tha full URL
(e.g.,
.UR http://www.kernelnotes.org
.UE )
to ensure dat tools can automatically find tha URLs.
.PP
Tools processin these filez should open tha file n' examine tha first
nonwhitespace character.
A period (.) or single quote (') all up in tha beginning
of a line indicates a troff-based file (like fuckin playa or mdoc).
A left angle bracket (<) indicates a SGML/XML-based
file (like fuckin HTML or Docbook).
Anythang else suggests simple ASCII
text (e.g., a "catman" result).
.PP
Many playa pages begin wit \fB\'\e"\fP followed by a
space n' a list of characters,
indicatin how tha fuck tha page is ta be preprocessed.
For portabilityz sake ta non-troff translators we recommend
that you avoid rockin anythang other than
.BR tbl (1),
and Linux can detect dat automatically.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat you might wanna include dis shiznit so yo' playa page
can be handled by other (less capable) systems.
Here is tha definitionz of tha preprocessors invoked by these characters:
.TP 3
.B e
eqn(1)
.TP
.B g
grap(1)
.TP
.B p
pic(1)
.TP
.B r
refer(1)
.TP
.B t
tbl(1)
.TP
.B v
vgrind(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Most of tha macros describe formattin (e.g., font type n' spacing) instead
of markin semantic content (e.g., dis text be a reference ta another page),
compared ta formats like mdoc n' DocBook (even HTML has mo' semantic
markings).
This thang make it harder ta vary the
.B man
format fo' different media,
to make tha formattin consistent fo' a given media, n' ta automatically
insert cross-references.
By stickin ta tha safe subset busted lyrics bout above, it should be easier to
automate transitionin ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different reference page format up in tha future.
.LP
Da Sun macro
.B TX
is not implemented.
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" .IP \(em 3m
.\" Jizzy Clark (jjc@jclark.com) freestyled tha implementation of tha macro package.
.\" .IP \(em
.\" Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) freestyled tha initial version of
.\" dis manual page.
.\" .IP \(em
.\" Jens Schweikhardt (schweikh@noc.fdn.de) freestyled tha Linux Man-Page Mini-HOWTO
.\" (which hyped up dis manual page).
.\" .IP \(em
.\" Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheeler@ida.org) heavily modified this
.\" manual page, like fuckin addin detailed shiznit on sections n' macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apropos (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR lexgrog (1),
.BR playa (1),
.BR man2html (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR groff_man (7),
.BR groff_www (7),
.BR man-pages (7),
.BR mdoc (7),
.BR mdoc.samplez (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
