.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"	@(#)mdoc.7	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\"	$Id: mdoc.7,v 1.8 1998/12/04 00:51:17 jkoshy Exp $
.\"
.\" Da December 30, 1993 version
.\" Modified by Dizzy A. Wheela (dwheeler@ida.org) on 1999-07-11
.\" ta conform ta Linux.
.\"
.\"
.Dd July 11, 1999
.Dt MDOC 7
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm mdoc
.Nd quick reference guide fo' the
.Nm \-mdoc
macro package
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm groff
.Fl m Ns Ar doc
.Ar filez ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm \-mdoc
package be a set of content-based n' domain-based macros
used ta format the
.Bx
man pages.
Da macro names n' they meanings are
listed below fo' quick reference; for
a detailed explanation on rockin tha package,
see tha tutorial sampler
.Xr mdoc.samplez 7 .
.Pp
Note dat dis aint tha usual macro package fo' Linux documentation,
although it is used fo' documentation of nuff muthafuckin widely used programs;
see
.Xr playa 7 .
.Pp
Da macros is busted lyrics bout up in two groups, tha first
includes tha structural n' physical page layout macros.
Da second gotz nuff tha manual n' general text domain
macros which differentiate the
.Nm \-mdoc
package from other
.Xr troff
formattin packages.
.Sh PAGE STRUCTURE DOMAIN
.Ss Title Macros
To create a valid manual page, these three macros, up in dis order,
are required:
.Bl -tag -width "xxxx.Os OPERATINGxSYSTEM [version/release]" -compact
.It Li "\&.Dd  " Ar "Month day, year"
Document date.
.It Li "\&.Dt  " Ar "DOCUMENT_TITLE [section] [volume]"
Title, up in upper case.
.It Li "\&.Os  " Ar "OPERATING_SYSTEM [version/release]"
Operatin system
.Pq Tn BSD .
.El
.Ss Page Layout Macros
Section headers, paragraph breaks, lists n' displays.
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li \&.Sh
Section Headers.
Valid headers, up in tha order of presentation:
.Bl -tag -width "RETURN VALUE" -compact
.It Ar NAME
Name section, should include the
.Ql \&.Nm
or
.Ql \&.Fn
and the
.Ql \&.Nd
macros.
.It Ar SYNOPSIS
Usage.
.It Ar DESCRIPTION
General description, should include
options n' parameters.
.It Ar RETURN VALUE
Sections two n' three function calls.
.It Ar ENVIRONMENT
Describe environment variables.
.It Ar FILES
Filez associated wit tha subject.
.It Ar EXAMPLES
Examplez n' suggestions.
.It Ar DIAGNOSTICS
Normally used fo' section four thang intercourse diagnostics.
.It Ar ERRORS
Sections two n' three error n' signal
handling.
.It Ar SEE ALSO
Cross references n' citations.
.It Ar CONFORMING TO
Conformizzle ta standardz if applicable.
.It Ar HISTORY
If a standard aint applicable, tha history
of tha subject should be given.
.It Ar BUGS
Gotchas n' caveats.
.It Ar other
Customized headaz may be added at
the authors discretion.
.El
.It Li \&.Ss
Subsection Headers.
.It Li \&.Pp
Paragraph Break.
Vertical space (one line).
.It Li \&.D1
(D-one) Display-one
Indent n' display one text line.
.It Li \&.Dl
(D-ell) Display-one literal.
Indent n' display one line of literal text.
.It Li \&.Bd
Begin-display block.
Display options:
.Bl -tag -width "xoffset strang " -compact
.It Fl ragged
Unjustified (ragged edges).
.It Fl filled
Justified.
.It Fl literal
Literal text or code.
.It Fl file Ar name
Read up in named
.Ar file
and display.
.It Fl offset Ar string
Offset display.
Acceptable
.Ar string
values:
.Bl -tag -width indent-two -compact
.It Ar left
Align block on left (default).
.It Ar center
Approximate centa margin.
.It Ar indent
Six constant width spaces (a tab).
.It Ar indent-two
Two tabs.
.It Ar right
Left aligns block 2 inches from
right.
.It Ar xx Ns Cm n
Where
.Ar xx
is a number from
.No \&4 Ns Cm n
to
.No \&9\&9 Ns Cm n .
.It Ar Aa
Where
.Ar Aa
is a cold-ass lil callable macro name.
.It Ar string
Da width of
.Ar string
is used.
.El
.El
.It Li \&.Ed
End-display (matches \&.Bd).
.It Li \&.Bl
Begin-list.
Smoke lists or columns.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Ar List-types
.Bl -column ".Fl bullet" -compact
.It Fl cap Ta "Cap Item List"
.It Fl item Ta "Unlabeled List"
.It Fl enum Ta "Enumerated List"
.It Fl tag Ta "Tag Labeled List"
.It Fl diag Ta "Diagnostic List"
.It Fl hang Ta "Hangin Labeled List"
.It Fl ohang Ta "Overhangin Labeled List"
.It Fl inset Ta "Inset or Run-on Labeled List"
.El
.It List-parameters
.Bl -tag -width "xcompact " -compact
.It Fl offset
(All lists.) See
.Ql \&.Bd
begin-display above.
.It Fl width
.Pf ( Fl tag
and
.Fl hang
lists only.)
See
.Ql \&.Bd .
.It Fl compact
(All lists.)
Suppresses blank lines.
.El
.El
.It Li \&.El
End-list.
.It Li \&.It
List item.
.El
.Sh MANUAL AND GENERAL TEXT DOMAIN MACROS
Da manual n' general text domain macros is special up in that
most of dem is parsed fo' callable macros
for example:
.Bl -tag -width ".Op Fl s Ar filex" -offset indent
.It Li "\&.Op Fl s Ar file"
Produces
.Op Fl s Ar file
.El
.Pp
In dis example, tha option enclosure macro
.Ql \&.Op
is parsed, n' calls tha callable content macro
.Ql \&Fl
which operates on tha argument
.Ql s
and then calls tha callable content macro
.Ql \&Ar
which operates on tha argument
.Ql file .
Some macros may be callable yo, but is not parsed n' vice versa.
These macros is indicated up in the
.Em parsed
and
.Em callable
columns below.
.Pp
Unless stated, manual domain macros share a cold-ass lil common syntax:
.Pp
.Dl \&.Va argument [\ .\ ,\ ;\ :\ (\ )\ [\ ]\ argument \...\ ]
.Pp
.Sy Note :
Openin n' closing
punctuation charactas is recognized as such only if they is presented
one at a time.
Da string
.Ql "),"
is not recognized as punctuation n' is ghon be output wit a leadin white
space n' up in what tha fuck eva font tha callin macro uses.
The
argument list
.Ql "] ) ,"
is recognized as three sequential closin punctuation characters
and a leadin white space aint output between tha characters
and tha previous argument (if any).
Da special meanin of a punctuation characta may be escaped
with tha string
.Ql \e& .
For example tha followin string,
.Bl -tag -width "&.Ar file1\ , file2\ , file3\ )\ ." -offset indent
.It Li "\&.Ar file1\ , file2\ , file3\ )\ ."
Produces
.Ar file1 , file2 , file3 ) .
.El
.ne 1i
.Ss Manual Domain Macros
.Bl -column "Name" "Parsed" Callable" -compact
.It Em "Name	Parsed	Callable	Description"
.It Li \&Ad Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Address. (This macro may be deprecated.)"
.It Li \&An Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Lyricist name."
.It Li \&Ar Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Command-line argument."
.It Li \&Cd Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Configuration declaration (section four only)."
.It Li \&Cm Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Command-line argument modifier."
.It Li \&Dv Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Defined variable (source code)."
.It Li \&Er Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Error number (source code)."
.It Li \&Ev Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Environment variable."
.It Li \&Fa Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Function argument."
.It Li \&Fd Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Function declaration."
.It Li \&Fn Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Function call (also .Fo n' .Fc)."
.It Li \&Ic Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Interactizzle command."
.It Li \&Li Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Literal text."
.It Li \&Nm Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Command name."
.It Li \&Op Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Option (also .Oo n' .Oc)."
.It Li \&Ot Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Oldskool steez function type (Fortran only)."
.It Li \&Pa Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Pathname or filename."
.It Li \&St Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Standardz (\-p1003.2, \-p1003.1 or \-ansiC)"
.It Li \&Va Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Variable name."
.It Li \&Vt Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Variable type (Fortran only)."
.It Li \&Xr Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Manual Page Cross Reference."
.El
.Ss General Text Domain Macros
.Bl -column "Name" "Parsed" Callable" -compact
.It Em "Name	Parsed	Callable	Description"
.It Li \&%A Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta \&No Ta "Reference lyricist."
.It Li \&%B Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Reference book title."
.It Li \&%\&C Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference place of publishin (city)."
.It Li \&%\&D Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference date."
.It Li \&%J Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Reference journal title."
.It Li \&%N Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference issue number."
.It Li \&%\&O Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference optionizzle shiznit."
.It Li \&%P Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference page number(s)."
.It Li \&%R Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference report Name."
.It Li \&%T Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Reference article title."
.It Li \&%V Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference volume."
.It Li \&Ac Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Angle close quote."
.It Li \&Ao Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Angle open quote."
.It Li \&Ap Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Apostrophe."
.It Li \&Aq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Angle quote."
.It Li \&At Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Tn "AT&T UNIX"
.It Li \&Bc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Bracket close quote."
.It Li \&Bf Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Begin font mode."
.It Li \&Bo Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Bracket open quote."
.It Li \&Bq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Bracket quote."
.It Li \&Bx Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Bx .
.It Li \&Db Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Debug (default is \*qoff\*q)"
.It Li \&Dc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Double close quote."
.It Li \&Do Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Double open quote."
.It Li \&Dq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Double quote."
.It Li \&Ec Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Enclose strang close quote."
.It Li \&Ef Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "End font mode."
.It Li \&Em Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Emphasis (traditionizzle Gangsta)."
.It Li \&Eo Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Enclose strang open quote."
.It Li \&Fx Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Tn "FreeBSD operatin system"
.It Li \&No Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Normal text (no-op)."
.It Li \&Ns Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "No space."
.It Li \&Pc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Parenthesis close quote."
.It Li \&Pf Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta \&No Ta "Prefix string."
.It Li \&Po Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Parenthesis open quote."
.It Li \&Pq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Parentheses quote."
.It Li \&Qc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Straight Double close quote."
.It Li \&Ql Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Quoted literal."
.It Li \&Qo Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Straight Double open quote."
.It Li \&Qq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Straight Double quote."
.It Li \&Re Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference end."
.It Li \&Rs Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Reference start."
.It Li \&Rv Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Return joints (sections two n' three only)."
.It Li \&Sc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Single close quote."
.It Li \&So Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Single open quote."
.It Li \&Sq Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Single quote."
.It Li \&Sm Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Space mode (default is \\*qon\\*q)"
.It Li \&Sx Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Section Cross Reference."
.It Li \&Sy Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Symbolic (traditionizzle Gangsta)."
.It Li \&Tn Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Trade or type name (small Caps)."
.It Li \&Ux Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Ux
.It Li \&Xc Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Extend argument list close."
.It Li \&Xo Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta Yes yes y'all, Ta "Extend argument list open."
.El
.\" .It Sy \&Hf Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta "Include file wit header"
.Pp
Macro names endin in
.Ql q
quote remainin shit on tha argument list.
Macro names endin in
.Ql o
begin a quote which may span mo' than one line of input and
are close quoted wit tha matchin macro name endin in
.Ql c .
Enclosure macros may be nested n' is limited to
eight arguments.
.Pp
Note: tha extended argument list macros
.Pf ( Ql \&.Xo ,
.Ql \&.Xc )
and tha function enclosure macros
.Pf ( Ql \&.Fo ,
.Ql \&.Fc )
are irregular.
Da extended list macros is used when tha number of macro arguments
would exceed the
.Xr troff
limitation of nine arguments.
.Pp
Da macros UR (startin a URI/URL hypertext reference), UE (endin one),
and UN (identifyin a target fo' a reference) is also available.
See
.Xr playa 7
for mo' shiznit on these macros.
.\" Da followin do not apply on Linux:
.\" .Sh CONFIGURATION
.\" For joint specific configuration of tha macro package,
.\" peep tha file
.\" .Pa /usr/src/share/tmac/README .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "tmac.doc-ditroff" -compact
.It Pa doc.tmac
Manual n' general text domain macros.
.It Pa tmac/doc-common
Common structural macros n' definitions.
.It Pa tmac/doc-nroff
Site dependent
.Xr nroff
style file.
.It Pa tmac/doc-ditroff
Site dependent
.Xr troff
style file.
.It Pa tmac/doc-syms
Special defines (like fuckin tha standardz macro).
.El
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr groff_mdoc 7 ,
.Xr mdoc.samplez 7 ,
.Xr playa 7 ,
.Xr man-pages 7
.Sh COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.Em man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
