.\"
.\" nfsd(7) - Da nfsd filesystem
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Neil Brown <neilb@cse.unsw.edu.au>
.\" Licensed fo' hood use under tha termz of tha FSF
.\" General Public License (GPL) version 2.
.TH nfsd 7 "3 July 2003"
.SH NAME
nfsd \- special filesystem fo' controllin Linux NFS server
.SH SYNPOSIS
.B "mount -t nfsd nfsd /proc/fs/nfsd"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nfsd
filesystem be a special filesystem which serves up access ta tha Linux
NFS server n' shit.  Da filesystem consistz of a single directory which
gotz nuff a fuckin shitload of files.  These filez is straight-up gateways into
the NFS server n' shit.  Freestylin ta dem can affect tha server n' shit.  Readin from
them can provide shiznit bout tha server.
.P
This file system is only available up in Linux 2.6 n' lata series
kernels (and up in tha lata partz of tha 2.5 pimpment series leading
up ta 2.6).  This playa page do not apply ta 2.4 n' earlier.
.P
As well as dis filesystem, there be a cold-ass lil collection of filez up in the
.B procfs
filesystem (normally mounted at
.BR /proc )
which is used ta control tha NFS server.
This manual page raps bout all of these files.
.P
The
.I exportfs
and
.I mountd
programs (part of tha nfs-utils package) expect ta find this
filesystem mounted at
.B /proc/fs/nfsd
or
.BR /proc/fs/nfs .
If it aint mounted, they will fall-back on 2.4 steez functionality.
This involves accessin tha NFS server via a systemcall.  This
systemcall is scheduled ta be removed afta tha 2.6 kernel series.
.SH DETAILS
Da three filez up in the
.B nfsd
filesystem are:
.TP
.B exports
This file gotz nuff a list of filesystems dat is currently exported
and clients dat each filesystem is exported to, together wit a list
of export options fo' dat client/filesystem pair. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  This is similar
to the
.B /proc/fs/nfs/exports
file up in 2.4.
One difference is dat a cold-ass lil client don't necessarily correspond ta just
one host.  It can respond ta a big-ass collection of hosts dat are
bein treated identically.

Each line of tha file gotz nuff a path name, a cold-ass lil client name, n' a
number of options up in parentheses.  Any space, tab, newline or
back-slash characta up in tha path name or client name is ghon be replaced
by a funky-ass backslash followed by tha octal ASCII code fo' dat character.

.TP
.B threads
This file represents tha number of
.B nfsd
thread currently hustlin.  Readin it will show tha number of
threads.  Freestylin a ASCII decimal number will cause tha number of
threadz ta be chizzled (increased or decreased as necessary) ta achieve
that number.

.TP
.B filehandle
This be a somewhat unusual file  up in dat what tha fuck is read from it depends
on what tha fuck was just freestyled ta dat shit.  It serves up a transactionizzle intercourse
where a program can open tha file, write a request, n' read a
response.  If two separate programs open, write, n' read all up in tha same
time, they requests aint gonna be mixed up.

Da request freestyled to
.B filehandle
should be a cold-ass lil client name, a path name, n' a fuckin shitload of bytes.  This
should be followed by a newline, wit white-space separatin the
fields, n' octal quotin of special characters.

On freestylin this, tha program is ghon be able ta read back a gangbangin' filehandle
for dat path as exported ta tha given client.  Da filehandlez length
will be at most tha number of bytes given.

Da filehandle is ghon be represented up in hex wit a leadin '\ex'.
.PP
Da directory
.B /proc/net/rpc
in the
.B procfs
filesystem gotz nuff a fuckin shitload of filez n' directories.
Da filez contain statistics dat can be display rockin the
.I nfsstat
program.
Da directories contain shiznit bout various caches dat tha NFS
server maintains ta keep track of access permissions dat different
clients have fo' different filesystems.
Da caches are:

.TP
.B auth.domain
This cache maps tha name of a cold-ass lil client (or domain) ta a internal data
structure.  Da only access dat is possible is ta flush tha cache.

.TP
.B auth.unix.ip
This cache gotz nuff a mappin from IP address ta tha name of the
authentication domain dat tha ipaddress should be treated as part of.

.TP
.B nfsd.export
This cache gotz nuff a mappin from directory n' domain ta export
options.

.TP
.B nfsd.fh
This cache gotz nuff a mappin from domain n' a gangbangin' filesystem identifier
to a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory.   Da filesystem identifier is stored up in the
filehandlez n' consistz of a number indicatin tha type of identifier
and a fuckin shitload of hex bytes indicatin tha content of tha identifier.

.PP
Each directory representin a cold-ass lil cache can hold from 1 ta 3 files.  They
are:
.TP
.B flush
When a fuckin shitload of secondz since epoch (1 Jan 1970) is freestyled ta this
file, all entries up in tha cache dat was last updated before dat file
become invalidated n' is ghon be flushed out.  Freestylin 1 will flush
everything.  This is tha only file dat will always be present.

.TP
.B content
This file, if present, gotz nuff a textual representation of eva entry
in tha cache, one per line.  If a entry is still up in tha cache
(because it be actively bein used) but has expired or is otherwise
invalid, it is ghon be presented as a cold-ass lil comment (with a leadin hash
character).

.TP
.B channel
This file, if present, acts a cold-ass lil channel fo' request from tha kernel-based
nfs server ta be passed ta a user-space program fo' handling.

When tha kernel needz some shiznit which aint up in tha cache, it
makes a line step tha fuck up in the
.B channel
file givin tha key fo' tha shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  A user-space program should
read this, find tha answer, n' write a line containin tha key, an
expiry time, n' tha content.
For example tha kernel might make
.ti +5
nfsd 127.0.0.1
.br
appear up in the
.B auth.unix.ip/content
file.  Da user-space program might then write
.ti +5
nfsd 127.0.0.1 1057206953 localhost
.br
to indicate dat 127.0.0.1 should map ta localhost, at least fo' now, nahmeean?

If tha program uses select(2) or poll(2) ta discover if it can read
from the
.B channel
then it aint NEVER gonna peep n' end-of-file but when all requests have been
answered, it will block until another request appears.

.PP
In the
.B /proc
filesystem there be 4 filez dat can be used ta enabled extra tracing
of nfsd n' related code.  They are:
.in +5
.B /proc/sys/sunrpc/nfs_debug
.br
.B /proc/sys/sunrpc/nfsd_debug
.br
.B /proc/sys/sunrpc/nlm_debug
.br
.B /proc/sys/sunrpc/rpc_debug
.br
.in -5
They control tracin fo' tha NFS client, tha NFS server, tha Network
Lock Manager (lockd) n' tha underlyin RPC layer respectively.
Decimal numbers can be read from or freestyled ta these files.  Each
number represents a funky-ass bit-pattern where bits dat is set cause certain
classez of tracin ta be enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Consult tha kernel header filez to
smoke up what tha fuck number correspond ta what tha fuck tracing.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc.nfsd (8),
.BR exports (5),
.BR nfsstat (8),
.BR mountd (8)
.BR exportfs (8).

.SH AUTHOR
NeilBrown
