.\"
.\" "$Id: notifier.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   notifier playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH notifier 7 "CUPS" "12 May 2009" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
notifier \- cups notification intercourse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notifier
.I recipient
[
.I user-data
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da CUPS notifier intercourse serves up a standard method fo' addin support for
new event notification methodz ta CUPS. Each notifier delivers one or mo' IPP
events from tha standard input ta tha specified recipient.
.LP
Notifiers \fBmust\fR read IPP lyrics from tha standard input rockin the
ippNew n' ippReadFile functions n' exit on error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Notifiers is encouraged to
exit afta a suitable period of inactivity, however they may exit afta reading
the first message or stay hustlin until a error is seen.
.SH LOG MESSAGES
Lyrics busted ta stderr is generally logged ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR.
Each line begins wit a standard prefix:

.TP 5
ALERT: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "alert" log level.

.TP 5
CRIT: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "critical" log level.

.TP 5
DEBUG: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "debug" log level.

.TP 5
DEBUG2: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "debug2" log level.

.TP 5
EMERG: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "emergency" log level.

.TP 5
ERROR: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "error" log level.

.TP 5
INFO: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute. If tha current \fILogLevel\fR
is set ta "debug2", also addz tha specified message ta the
current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "info" log level.

.TP 5
NOTICE: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "notice" log level.

.TP 5
WARNING: message
.br
Sets tha printer-state-message attribute n' addz tha specified
message ta tha current \fIErrorLog\fR rockin tha "warning" log level.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Da followin environment variablez is defined by tha CUPS server when
executin tha notifier:

.TP 5
CHARSET
.br
Da default text characta set, typically utf-8.

.TP 5
CUPS_CACHEDIR
.br
Da directory fo' semi-persistent cache filez can be found.

.TP 5
CUPS_DATADIR
.br
Da directory where data filez can be found.

.TP 5
CUPS_FILETYPE
.br
Da type of file bein printed: "job-sheet" fo' a funky-ass banner page n' "document"
for a regular print file.

.TP 5
CUPS_SERVERROOT
.br
Da root directory of tha server.

.TP 5
LANG
.br
Da default language locale (typically C or en).

.TP 5
PATH
.br
Da standard execution path fo' external programs dat may be run by
the filter.

.TP 5
SOFTWARE
.br
Da name n' version number of tha server (typically CUPS/1.2).

.TP 5
TZ
.br
Da timezone of tha server.

.TP 5
USER
.br
Da user executin tha filter, typically "lp"; consult tha \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR
file fo' tha current setting.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIbackend(7)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIfilter(7)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: notifier.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
