.TH NOTMUCH-SEARCH-TERMS 7 2013-08-03 "Notmuch 0.16"

.SH NAME
notmuch-search-terms \- syntax fo' notmuch queries

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch count
.RI  [ options... ]
.RI  < search-term ">..."

.B "notmuch dump"
.RI "[ <" filename "> ] [--]"
.RI "[ <" search-term ">...]"

.B notmuch search
.RI  [  options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.B notmuch show
.RI "[" options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.B notmuch tag
.RI  "+<" tag> "|\-<" tag "> [...] [\-\-] <" search-term ">..."


.SH DESCRIPTION
Several notmuch commandz accept a cold-ass lil common syntax fo' search terms.

Da search terms can consist of free-form text (and quoted phrases)
which will match all lyrics dat contain all of tha given
terms/phrases up in tha body, tha subject, or any of tha sender or
recipient headers.

As a special case, a search strang consistin of exactly a single
asterisk ("*") will match all lyrics.

In addizzle ta free text, tha followin prefixes can be used ta force
terms ta match against specific portionz of a email, (where
<brackets> indicate user-supplied joints):

	from:<name-or-address>

	to:<name-or-address>

	subject:<word-or-quoted-phrase>

	attachment:<word>

	tag:<tag> (or is:<tag>)

	id:<message-id>

	thread:<thread-id>

	folder:<directory-path>

	date:<since>..<until>

The
.B from:
prefix is used ta match tha name or address of tha sender of a email
message.

The
.B to:
prefix is used ta match tha names or addressez of any recipient of an
email message, (whether To, Cc, or Bcc).

Any term prefixed with
.B subject:
will match only text from tha subject of a email. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Searchin fo' a
phrase up in tha subject is supported by includin quotation marks around
the phrase, immediately following
.BR subject: .

The
.B attachment:
prefix can be used ta search fo' specific filenames (or extensions) of
attachments ta email lyrics.

For
.BR tag: " n' " is:
valid tag joints include
.BR inbox " n' " unread
by default fo' freshly smoked up lyrics added by
.B notmuch new
as well as any other tag joints added manually with
.BR "notmuch tag" .

For
.BR id: ,
message ID joints is tha literal contentz of tha Message\-ID: header
of email lyrics yo, but without tha '<', '>' delimiters.

The
.B thread:
prefix can be used wit tha thread ID joints dat is generated
internally by notmuch (and do not step tha fuck up in email lyrics). These
thread ID joints can be peeped up in tha straight-up original gangsta column of output from
.B "notmuch search"

The
.B folder:
prefix can be used ta search fo' email message filez dat are
contained within particular directories within tha mail store. Only
the directory components below tha top-level mail database path are
available ta be searched.

The
.B date:
prefix can be used ta restrict tha thangs up in dis biatch ta only lyrics within a
particular time range (based on tha Date: header) wit a range syntax
of:

	date:<since>..<until>

See \fBDATE AND TIME SEARCH\fR below fo' details on tha range
expression, n' supported syntax fo' <since> n' <until> date n' time
expressions.

Da time range can also be specified rockin timestamps wit a syntax
of:

	<initial-timestamp>..<final-timestamp>

Each timestamp be a number representin tha number of secondz since
1970\-01\-01 00:00:00 UTC.

In addizzle ta individual terms, multiple terms can be
combined wit Boolean operators (
.BR n' ", " or ", " not
, etc.). Each term up in tha query is ghon be implicitly connected by a
logical AND if no explicit operator is provided, (except dat terms
with a cold-ass lil common prefix is ghon be implicitly combined wit OR until we get
Xapian defect #402 fixed).

Parentheses can also be used ta control tha combination of tha Boolean
operators yo, but will gotta be protected from interpretation by the
shell, (like fuckin by puttin quotation marks round any parenthesized
expression).

.SH DATE AND TIME SEARCH

notmuch understandz a variety of standard n' natural ways of
expressin dates n' times, both up in absolute terms ("2012-10-24") and
in relatizzle terms ("yesterday") fo' realz. Any number of relatizzle terms can be
combined ("1 minute 25 minutes") n' a absolute date/time can be
combined wit relatizzle terms ta further adjust it fo' realz. A non-exhaustive
description of tha syntax supported fo' absolute n' relatizzle terms is
given below.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B Da range expression

date:<since>..<until>

Da above expression restricts tha thangs up in dis biatch ta only lyrics from
<since> ta <until>, based on tha Date: header.

<since> n' <until> can describe imprecise times, like fuckin "yesterday".
In dis case, <since> is taken as tha earliest time it could describe
(the beginnin of yesterday) n' <until> is taken as tha sickest fuckin time
it could describe (the end of yesterday). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Similarly,
date:january..february matches from tha beginnin of January ta the
end of February.

Currently, our phat asses do not support spaces up in range expressions. Yo ass can
replace tha spaces wit '_', or (in most cases) '-', or (in some
cases) leave tha spaces up altogether n' shit. Examplez up in dis playa page use
spaces fo' clarity.

Open-ended ranges is supported (since Xapian 1.2.1), i.e. it's
possible ta specify date:..<until> or date:<since>.. ta not limit the
start or end time, respectively. Pre-1.2.1 Xapian do not report an
error on open ended ranges yo, but it do not work as expected either.

Enterin date:expr without ".." (for example date:yesterday) won't
work, as it aint interpreted as a range expression at all. Yo ass can
achieve tha expected result by duplicatin tha expr both sidez of ".."
(for example date:yesterday..yesterday).
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B Relatizzle date n' time
[N|number] (years|months|weeks|days|hours|hrs|minutes|mins|seconds|secs) [...]

All refer ta past, can be repeated n' is ghon be accumulated.

Units can be abbreviated ta any length, wit tha otherwise ambiguous
single m bein m fo' minutes n' M fo' months.

Number can also be freestyled up one, two, ..., ten, dozen,
hundred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Additionally, tha unit may be preceded by "last" or "this"
(e.g., "last week" or "this month").

When combined wit absolute date n' time, tha relatizzle date n' time
specification is ghon be relatizzle from tha specified absolute date and
time.

Examples: 5M2d, two weeks
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B Supported absolute time formats
H[H]:MM[:SS] [(am|a.m.|pm|p.m.)]

H[H] (am|a.m.|pm|p.m.)

HHMMSS

now

noon

midnight

Examples: 17:05, 5pm
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B Supported absolute date formats
YYYY-MM[-DD]

DD-MM[-[YY]YY]

MM-YYYY

M[M]/D[D][/[YY]YY]

M[M]/YYYY

D[D].M[M][.[YY]YY]

D[D][(st|nd|rd|th)] Mon[thname] [YYYY]

Mon[thname] D[D][(st|nd|rd|th)] [YYYY]

Wee[kday]

Month names can be abbreviated at three or mo' characters.

Weekdizzle names can be abbreviated at three or mo' characters.

Examples: 2012-07-31, 31-07-2012, 7/31/2012, August 3
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B Time units
(+|-)HH:MM

(+|-)HH[MM]

Some time unit codes, e.g. UTC, EET.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5),
\fBnotmuch-insert\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
