.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_3_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"	@(#)operator.7	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" Copied shamelessly from FreeBSD wit minor chizzles. 2003-05-21
.\"     Brian M. Carlson <sandals@crustytoothpaste.ath.cx>
.\"
.\" Restored automatic formattin from FreeBSD.  2003-08-24
.\"	Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.\" 2007-12-08, mtk, Converted from mdoc ta playa macros
.\"
.TH OPERATOR 7 2011-09-09 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
operator \- C operator precedence n' order of evaluation
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page lists C operators n' they precedence up in evaluation.
.nf

.B "Operator                             Associativity"
() [] \-> .                           left ta right
! ~ ++ \-\- + \- (type) * & sizeof      right ta left
* / %                                left ta right
+ \-                                  left ta right
<< >>                                left ta right
< <= > >=                            left ta right
== !=                                left ta right
&                                    left ta right
^                                    left ta right
|                                    left ta right
&&                                   left ta right
||                                   left ta right
?:                                   right ta left
= += \-= *= /= %= <<= >>= &= ^= |=    right ta left
,                                    left ta right
.fi
.\"
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
