.\" @(#) $Header: /tcpdump/master/libpcap/pcap-linktype.manmisc.in,v 1.3 2008-10-27 22:52:30 muthafucka Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
.\" retain tha above copyright notice n' dis paragraph up in its entirety, (2)
.\" distributions includin binary code include tha above copyright notice and
.\" dis paragraph up in its entirety up in tha documentation or other shit
.\" provided wit tha distribution, n' (3) all advertisin shiznit mentioning
.\" features or use of dis software display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\" ``This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of California,
.\" Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory n' its contributors.'' Neither tha name of
.\" tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors may be used ta endorse
.\" or promote shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior
.\" freestyled permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH PCAP-LINKTYPE 7 "23 October 2008"
.SH NAME
pcap-linktype \- link-layer header types supported by libpcap
.SH DESCRIPTION
For a live capture or ``savefile'', libpcap supplies, as tha return
value of the
.BR pcap_datalink (3PCAP)
routine, a value dat indicates tha type of link-layer header at the
beginnin of tha packets it provides.  This aint necessarily tha type
of link-layer header dat tha packets bein captured have on tha network
from which they bein captured; fo' example, packets from a IEEE
802.11 network might be provided by libpcap wit Ethernet headaz that
the network adapta or tha network adapta driver generates from the
802.11 headers.  Da names fo' dem joints begin with
.BR DLT_ ,
so they is sometimes called "DLT_ joints".
.PP
Da joints stored up in tha link-layer header type field up in tha savefile
header are, up in most but not all cases, tha same as tha joints returned
by
.BR pcap_datalink() .
Da names fo' dem joints begin with
.BR LINKTYPE_ .
.PP
Da link-layer header types supported by libpcap is busted lyrics bout at
http://www.tcpdump.org/linktypes.html.
.SH SEE ALSO
pcap_datalink(3PCAP)
