.TH QOS 7 "April 20, 2000" "Linux" "Miscellaneous"
.SH NAME
qos \- Qualitizzle of Service justification
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBtext2qos\fP n' \fBqos2text\fP functions use tha format busted lyrics about
in dis playa page. Because all standard ATM tools on Linux use them
functions ta convert ta or from tha textual representation of QOS
specifications, they expect dem up in tha same format like a muthafucka.
.P
Da most fundamenstrual parametas is tha \fItraffic class\fP n' the
\fIAAL (ATM Adaption Layer) type\fP. If the
connection is bi-directional, both directions have tha same traffic
class n' tha same AAL type. Da traffic class n' tha AAL type is tha first
elements (in any order) up in a QOS justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da traffic class is tha only
required element. If tha AAL type is omitted, tha application will provide a
default value. Da followin traffic classes is recognized:
.IP \fBubr\fP
Unassigned Bit Rate
.IP \fBcbr\fP
Constant Bit Rate
.IP \fBabr\fP
Available Bit Rate
.P
Da followin AAL types is recognized:
.IP \fBaal0\fP
("raw ATM")
.IP \fBaal5\fP
.P
If both, tha traffic class n' tha AAL type is specified, they is separated
by a cold-ass lil comma.
.P
If mo' parametas is supplied, tha traffic class n' AAL type must be
followed by a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Traffic parametas can be specified independently for
the transmit n' tha receive direction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Their parameta lists is prefixed
with \fBtx:\fP n' \fBrx:\fP, respectively. If both parameta lists are
present, tha \fBtx:\fP list must precede tha \fBrx:\fP list. If a
parameta is equal fo' both directions, it can be placed up in a cold-ass lil common
parameta list (without prefix). Da general format be as bigs up:
.P
\fIclass_and_aal\fB:\fIcommon_list\fP,tx:\fIlist\fB,rx:\fIlist\fP
.P
Each list consistz of elements specifyin a parameter n' shit. Elements can
appear up in any order n' they is separated wit commas. Da following
elements is recognized:
.IP \fBpcr=\fIrate\fP
is a synonym fo' \fBmax_pcr=\fIrate\fP
.IP \fBmax_pcr=\fIrate\fP
Da upper limit fo' tha peak cell rate ta assign. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted, any rate up
to link speed may be chosen.
.IP \fBmin_pcr=\fIrate\fP
Da lower limit fo' tha peak cell rate ta assign. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If omitted, any rate above
zero can be chosen.
.IP \fBsdu=\fIsize\fP
is a synonym fo' \fBmax_sdu=\fIsize\fP
.IP \fBmax_sdu=\fIsize\fP
Da size of tha phattest packet dat may be busted or received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If omitted,
a context-dependent default value is used.
.P
Values is specified as bigs up:
.IP \fIrate\fP
Da (decimal) rate, optionally followed by a unit. Da unit may be prefixed
with one of tha multipliers \fBk\fP, \fBM\fP, or \fBG\fP, meanin 1'000,
1'000'000, or 1'000'000'000, respectively. Da units \fBcps\fP
(cells per second) n' \fBbps\fP (bits per second) is recognized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
multiplier n' unit is omitted, cells per second is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note
that tha rate be always converted ta cells per second, so roundin errors
may occur when specifyin tha rate up in bits per second. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Rates measured in
bits per second is considered ta be user data rates, i.e. one cell
correspondz ta 384 bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da rate can be a gangbangin' fractionizzle value, e.g.
\fB1.3Mbps\fP.  It be a error ta specify only a
multiplier without a unit. Link speed can be indicated by rockin tha keyword
\fBmax\fP as tha rate.
.IP \fIsize\fP
Da (decimal) number of bytes.
.P
Da \fBtx:\fP or \fBrx:\fP lists may also just contain tha single element
\fBnone\fP, which indicates dat tha correspondin direction aint used.
It be a error ta specify \fBnone\fP fo' both direction.
.P
Note dat commas must never follow colons or other commas fo' realz. Also,
whitespace aint allowed inside a QOS justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. QOS justifications
are case-insensitive.
.SH EXAMPLES
Each of tha followin lines gotz nuff a valid QOS justification:
.nf
.sp
  ubr
  ubr:pcr=100kbps
  cbr,aal0:pcr=64kbps
  CBR:max_pcr=11Mbps,min_pcr=10mbps,sdu=8192
  aal5,ubr:tx:none
  cbr:tx:pcr=30000,rx:none
.sp
.fi
Da followin specificiations is equivalent:
.nf
.sp
  CBR,AAL5:PCR=48Mbps
  cbr,aal5:max_pcr=125000
  cbr,aal5:tx:pcr=125kcps,rx:pcr=125kcps
.sp
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL LRC/ICA <werner.almesberger@epfl.ch>
.\" .SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" atmsigd(8), syslogd(8)
.\"{{{}}}
