.TH sane 7 "14 Jul 2008" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane

.SH NAME
sane \- Scanner Access Now Easy: API fo' accessin scanners

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B SANE
is a application programmin intercourse (API) dat serves up standardized
access ta any rasta image scanner hardware. Da standardized intercourse makes
it possible ta write just one driver fo' each scanner thang instead of one
driver fo' each scanner n' application.

While
.B SANE
is primarily targeted at a UNIX environment, tha standard has been carefully
designed ta make it possible ta implement tha API on virtually any hardware or
operatin system.
.PP
This manual page serves up a summary of tha shiznit available about
.BR SANE .
.PP
If you have shiznit gettin yo' scanner detected, read tha PROBLEMS section.

.SH TERMINOLOGY

An application dat uses tha 
.B SANE
interface is called a 
.B SANE frontend.
A driver dat implements tha 
.B SANE
interface is called a
.B SANE backend.
A 
.B meta backend
provides some means ta manage one or mo' other backends.


.SH "SOFTWARE PACKAGES"
Da package 
.RB ` sane\-backendz '
gotz nuff a shitload of backends, documentation (includin tha 
.B SANE
standard), networkin support, n' tha command line frontend 
.RB ` scanimage '.
Da frontendz 
.RB ` xscanimage "', `" xcam "', n' `" scanadf '
are included up in tha package
.RB ` sane\-frontendz '. 
Both packages can be downloaded from the
.B SANE
homepizzy 
.RI ( http://www.sane\-project.org/ ).
Hype bout other frontendz n' backendz can also be found on the
.B SANE
homepage.

.SH "GENERAL INFORMATION"
Da followin sections provide short descriptions n' links ta more
information bout nuff muthafuckin aspects of
.B SANE.
A name wit a number up in parenthesis (e.g. 
.RB ` sane\-dll (5)')
points ta a manual page. In dis case 
.RB ` "man 5 sane\-dll" '
will display tha page. Entries like
.RI ` /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/sane.tex '
are references ta text filez dat was copied ta the
.B SANE
documentation directory 
.RI ( /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/ )
durin installation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Everythang else be a URL ta a resource on tha web.

.TP 2
.B SANE homepage
Hype on all aspectz of SANE includin a tutorial n' a link ta tha SANE FAQUIZZY
can be found on tha SANE homepage:
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/ .
.TP
.B SANE thang lists
Da 
.B SANE
device lists contain shiznit bout tha statuz of 
.B SANE
support fo' a specific device. If yo' scanner aint listed there (either
supported or unsupported), please hollar at our asses. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See section HOW CAN YOU HELP
SANE fo' details. There is lists fo' specific releasez of SANE, fo' the
current pimpment version n' a search engine:
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html .
Da lists is also installed on yo' system at /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/.
.TP
.B SANE mailin list
There be a mailin list fo' tha purpose of discussin tha SANE standard n' its
implementations: sane\-devel.  Despite its name, tha list aint only intended
for pimpers yo, but also fo' users. There is also some mo' lists fo' special
topics, however, fo' users, sane\-devel is tha right list yo. How tha fuck ta subscribe and
unsubscribe:
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html .
.TP
.B SANE IRC channel
Da IRC (Internizzle Relay Chat) channel #sane can be found on tha Freenode
network (irc.freenode.net). It aint nuthin but fo' discussin 
.B SANE
problems, rappin' bout pimpment n' general 
.B SANE
related chatting. Before askin fo' help, please read tha other documentation
mentioned up in dis manual page. Da channelz topic be also used for
announcementz of problems wit SANE infrastructure (mailin lists, wizzy server,
etc.).
.TP
.B Compilin n' installin SANE
Look at
.I  /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/README
and tha os-dependent README filez fo' shiznit bout compilin and
installing
.B SANE.
.TP
.B SCSI configuration
For shiznit bout various systems n' SCSI controllaz see
.BR sane\-scsi (5).
.TP
.B STD configuration
For shiznit bout STD configuration see
.BR sane\-usb (5).

.SH "FRONTENDS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROGRAMS"
.TP 2
.B scanimage
Command-line frontend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR scanimage (1).
.TP
.B saned
.B SANE
network daemon dat allows remote clients ta access image acquisizzle devices
available on tha local host. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR saned (8).
.TP
.B sane\-find\-scanner
Command-line tool ta find SCSI n' STD scanners n' determine they Unix
device files. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1).
.PP
Also, gotz a peep the
.B sane\-frontends
package (including
.BR xscanimage ", " xcam ", n' " scanadf )
and tha frontend shiznit page at
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-frontends.html .

.SH "BACKENDS FOR SCANNERS"
.TP 2
.B abaton
Da SANE backend fo' Abaton flatbed scanners supports tha Scan 300/GS (8bit,
256 levelz of gray) n' tha Scan 300/S (black n' white, untested). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-abaton (5)
for details.
.TP
.B agfafocus
This backend supports AGFA Focus scanners n' tha Siemens S9036 (untested).
See
.BR sane\-agfafocus (5)
for details.
.TP
.B apple
Da SANE backend fo' Applez flatbed scanners supports tha followin scanners:
AppleScanner, OneScanner n' ColorOneScanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-apple (5)
for details.
.TP
.B artec
Da SANE Artec backend supports nuff muthafuckin Artec/Ultima SCSI flatbed scanners as
well as tha BlackWidow BW4800SP n' tha Plustek 19200S. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-artec (5)
for details.
.TP
.B artec_eplus48u
Da SANE artec_eplus48u backend supports tha scanner Artec E+ 48U n' re-badged
models like Tevion MD 9693, Medion MD 9693, Medion MD 9705 n' Trust Easy
Webscan 19200. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-artec_eplus48u (5)
for details.
.TP
.B as6e
This be a SANE backend fo' rockin tha Artec AS6E parallel port intercourse
scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-as6e (5)
for details.
.TP
.B avision
This backend supports nuff muthafuckin Avision based scanners. This includes the
original gangsta Avision scanners (like AV 630, AV 620, ...) as well as tha HP
ScanJet 53xx n' 74xx series, Fujitsu ScanPartner, some Mitsubishi and
Minolta film-scanners.
See 
.BR sane\-avision (5)
for details.
.TP
.B bh
Da bh backend serves up access ta Bell+Howell Copiscan Pt II series document
scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-bh (5)
for details.
.TP
.B canon
Da canon backend supports tha CanoScan 300, CanoScan 600, n' CanoScan
2700F SCSI flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-canon (5)
for details.
.TP
.B canon630u
Da canon630u backend supports tha CanoScan 630u n' 636u STD scanners.  See
.BR sane\-canon630u (5)
for details.
.TP
.B canon_dr
Da canon_dr backend supports tha Canon DR-Series ADF SCSI n' STD scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-canon_dr (5)
for details.
.TP
.B canon_pp
Da canon_pp backend supports tha CanoScan FB330P, FB630P, N340P n' N640P
parallel port scanners.  See
.BR sane\-canon_pp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B cardscan
This backend serves up support fo' Corex Cardscan STD scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR sane\-cardscan (5)
for details.
.TP
.B coolscan
This be a SANE backend fo' Nikon Coolscan film-scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-coolscan (5)
for details.
.TP
.B coolscan2
This be a SANE backend fo' Nikon Coolscan film-scanners.
See
.BR sane\-coolscan2 (5)
or
.I http://coolscan2.sourceforge.net
for details.
.TP
.B epjitsu
Da epjitsu backend serves up support fo' Epson-based Fujitsu STD scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-epjitsu (5)
for details.
.TP
.B epson
Da SANE epson backend serves up support fo' Epson SCSI, parallel port n' STD
flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-epson (5)
for details.
.TP
.B fujitsu
Da fujitsu backend serves up support fo' most Fujitsu SCSI n' STD, flatbed
and adf scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-fujitsu (5)
for details.
.TP
.B genesys
Da genesys backend serves up support fo' nuff muthafuckin scanners based on tha Genesys Logic 
GL646, GL841, GL843, GL847 n' GL124 chips like tha Medion 6471 n' Hewlett-Packard 2300c.
 See
.BR sane\-genesys (5)
for details.
.TP
.B gt68xx
Da gt68xx backend serves up support fo' scanners based on tha Grandtech
GT-6801 n' GT-6816 chips like tha Artec Ultima 2000 n' nuff muthafuckin Mustek
BearPaw CU n' TA models. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some Genius, Lexmark, Medion, Packard Bell, Plustek,
and Trust scanners is also supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hp
Da SANE hp backend serves up access ta Hewlett-Packard ScanJet scanners which
support SCL (Scanner Control Language by HP). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hpsj5s
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 5S scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hpsj5s (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hp3500
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 3500 series. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hp3500 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hp3900
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 3900 series. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hp3900 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hp4200
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 4200 series. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hp4200 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hp5400
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 54XXC series. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hp5400 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B hpljm1005
Da SANE backend fo' tha Hewlett-Packard LaserJet M1005 scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hpljm1005(5)
for details.
.TP
.B hs2p
Da SANE backend fo' tha Ricoh IS450 crew of SCSI scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-hs2p (5)
for details.
.TP
.B ibm
Da SANE backend fo' some IBM n' Ricoh SCSI scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-ibm (5)
for details.
.TP
.B kodak
Da SANE backend fo' some big-ass Kodak scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-kodak (5)
for details.
.TP
.B kodakaio
Da SANE backend fo' Kodak AiO printer/scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-kodakaio (5)
for details.
.TP
.B kvs1025
Da SANE backend fo' Panasonic KV-S102xC scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-kvs1025 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B leo
This backend supports tha Leo S3 n' tha Across FS-1130, which be a re-badged
LEO FS-1130 scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-leo (5)
for details.
.TP
.B lexmark
This backend supports tha Lexmark X1100 seriez of STD scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-lexmark (5)
for details.
.TP
.B ma1509
Da ma1509 backend supports tha Mustek BearPaw 1200F STD flatbed scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B magicolor
Da magicolor backend supports tha KONICA MINOLTA magicolor 1690MF multi-function printer/scanner/fax. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-magicolor (5)
for details.
.TP
.B matsushita
This backend supports some Panasonic KVSS high speed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-matsushita (5)
for details.
.TP
.B microtek
Da microtek backend serves up access ta tha "second generation" Microtek
scanners wit SCSI-1 command set. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR sane\-microtek (5)
for details.
.TP
.B microtek2
Da microtek2 backend serves up access ta some Microtek scanners wit a
SCSI-2 command set. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-microtek2 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B mustek
Da SANE mustek backend supports most Mustek SCSI flatbed scanners includin the
Paragon n' ScanExpress series n' tha 600 Pt II N n' 600 Pt II EP (non-SCSI). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some
Trust scanners is also supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-mustek (5)
for details.
.TP
.B mustek_pp
Da mustek_pp backend serves up access ta Mustek parallel port flatbed
scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B mustek_usb
Da mustek_usb backend serves up access ta some Mustek ScanExpress STD flatbed
scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5)
for details.
.TP
.B mustek_usb2
Da mustek_usb2 backend serves up access ta scanners rockin tha SQ113
chipset like tha Mustek BearPaw 2448 TA Pro STD flatbed scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-mustek_usb2 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B nec
Da SANE nec backend supports tha NEC PC-IN500/4C SCSI scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-nec (5)
for details.
.TP
.B niash
Da niash backend supports tha Agfa Snapscan Touch n' tha HP ScanJet 3300c,
3400c, n' 4300c STD flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-niash (5)
for details.
.TP
.B p5
Da SANE backend fo' Primax PagePartner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-p5 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B pie
Da pie backend serves up access ta Pacific Image Electronics (PIE) n' Devcom
SCSI flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-pie (5)
for details.
.TP
.B pixma
Da pixma backend supports Canon PIXMA MP series (multi-function devices). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-pixma (5)
or
.I http://home.arcor.de/wittawat/pixma/
for details.
.TP
.B plustek
Da SANE plustek backend supports STD flatbed scanners dat use tha National
Semiconductor LM983[1/2/3]-chipset aka Merlin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scanners rockin dis LM983x chips
include some models from Plustek, KYE/Genius, Hewlett-Packard, Mustek, Umax,
Epson, n' Canon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-plustek (5)
for details.
.TP
.B plustek_pp
Da SANE plustek_pp backend supports Plustek parallel port flatbed scanners.
Scanners rockin tha Plustek ASIC P96001, P96003, P98001 n' P98003 include some
models from Plustek, KYE/Genius, Primax. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-plustek_pp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B ricoh
Da ricoh backend serves up access ta tha followin Ricoh flatbed
scanners: IS50 n' IS60. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-ricoh (5)
for details.
.TP
.B s9036
Da s9036 backend serves up access ta Siemens 9036 flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-s9036 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B sceptre
Da sceptre backend serves up access ta tha Sceptre S1200 flatbed scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-sceptre (5)
for details.
.TP
.B sharp
Da SANE sharp backend supports Sharp SCSI scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-sharp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B sm3600
Da SANE sm3600 backend supports tha Microtek ScanMaker 3600 STD scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-sm3600 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B sm3840
Da SANE sm3840 backend supports tha Microtek ScanMaker 3840 STD scanner n' shit.  See
.BR sane\-sm3840 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B snapscan
Da snapscan backend supports AGFA SnapScan flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-snapscan (5)
for details.
.TP
.B sp15c
This backend supports tha Fujitsu FCPA ScanPartner 15C flatbed scanner n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-sp15c (5)
for details.
.TP
.B st400
Da sane\-st400 backend serves up access ta Siemens ST400 n' ST800. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-st400 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B tamarack
Da SANE tamarack backend supports Tamarack Artiscan flatbed scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-tamarack (5)
for details.
.TP
.B teco1 teco2 teco3
Da SANE teco1, teco2 n' teco3 backendz support some TECO scanners,
usually sold under tha Relisys, Trust, Primax, Piotech, Dextra
names. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-teco1 "(5), " sane\-teco2 "(5) n' " sane\-teco3 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B u12
Da sane\-u12 backend serves up STD flatbed scanners based on Plustekz ASIC 98003
(parallel-port ASIC) n' a GeneSys Logics' STD-parport bridge chip like the
Plustek OpticPro U(T)12. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-u12 (5)
for details.
.TP
.B umax
Da sane\-umax backend serves up access ta nuff muthafuckin UMAX-SCSI-scanners n' some
Linotype Hell SCSI-scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-umax (5)
for details.
.TP
.B umax_pp
Da sane\-umax_pp backend serves up access ta Umax parallel port flatbed scanners
and tha HP 3200C. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR sane\-umax_pp (5)
for details.
.TP
.B umax1200u
Da sane\-umax1220u backend supports tha UMAX Astra 1220U (STD) flatbed scanner
(and also tha UMAX Astra 2000U, sort of). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-umax1220u (5)
for details.
.PP
Also, gotz a peep tha backend shiznit page at
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html
and tha list of projects in
.IR /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/PROJECTS .

.SH "BACKENDS FOR DIGITAL CAMERAS"
.TP 2
.B dc210
Backend fo' Kodak DC210 Digital Camera. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-dc210 (5).
.TP
.B dc240
Backend fo' Kodak DC240 Digital Camera. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-dc240 (5).
.TP
.B dc25
Backend fo' Kodak DC20/DC25 Digital Cameras. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-dc25 (5).
.TP
.B dmc
Backend fo' tha Polarizzle Digital Microscope Camera. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-dmc (5).
.TP
.B gphoto2
Backend fo' digital cameras supported by tha gphoto2 library package.  (See
.I http://www.gphoto.org
for mo' shiznit n' a list of supported cameras.)  Gphoto2 supports over
140 different camera models.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat please note dat mo' pimpment and
testin is needed before all of these cameras is ghon be supported by
.B SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'.  See
.BR sane\-gphoto2 (5).
.TP
.B qcam
Backend fo' Connectix QuickCam cameras. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.BR sane\-qcam (5).
.TP
.B stv680
Da sane\-st680 backend serves up access ta webcams wit a stv680 chip. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-st680 (5)
for details.
.PP
Also, gotz a peep tha backend shiznit page at
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html
and tha list of projects in
.IR /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/PROJECTS .

.SH "MISCELLANEOUS BACKENDS"
.TP 2
.B dll
Da sane\-dll library implements a
.B SANE
backend dat serves up access ta a arbitrary number of other
.B SANE
backendz by dynamic loading. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-dll (5).
.TP
.B net
Da 
.B SANE
network daemon saned serves up access ta scanners located on different
computas up in connection wit tha net backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-net "(5) n' " saned (8).
.TP
.B pnm
PNM image reader pseudo-backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Da purpose of dis backend is primarily to
aid up in debuggin of
.B SANE
frontends. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-pnm (5).
.TP
.B pint
Backend fo' scanners dat use the
.B PINT
(Pint Is Not Twain) thang driver n' shit.  The
.B PINT
driver is bein actively pimped on tha OpenBSD platform, n' has been
ported ta all dem other *nix-like operatin systems. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-pint (5).
.TP
.B test
The
.B SANE
test backend is fo' testin frontendz n' the
.B SANE
installation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It serves up test pictures n' various test options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-test (5).
.TP
.B v4l
Da sane\-v4l library implements a
.B SANE
backend dat serves up generic access ta vizzle cameras n' similar shit
usin the
.B V4L
(Video fo' Linux) API. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR sane\-v4l (5) .
.PP
Also, gotz a peep tha backend shiznit page at
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/sane\-supported\-devices.html
and tha list of projects in
.IR /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/PROJECTS .

.SH "CHANGING THE TOP-LEVEL BACKEND"
By default, all 
.B SANE
backendz (drivers) is loaded dynamically by tha 
.B sane\-dll
meta backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. If you have any thangs bout tha dynamic loading,
read
.BR sane\-dll (5).
.B SANE
frontend can also be linked ta other backendz directly by copyin or linkin a
backend to
.B libsane.so
in
.IR /usr/lib64/sane .
.PP

.SH "DEVELOPER'S DOCUMENTATION"
It aint nuthin but not hard ta write a
.B SANE
backend yo, but it ain't no stoppin cause I be still poppin'. Well shiiiit, it can take some time, however n' shit. Yo ass should have basic knowledge of C
and enough patience ta work all up in tha documentation n' smoke up how tha fuck your
scanner works fo' realz. Appended be a list of some documents dat help ta write backends
and frontends. 
.PP 
The
.B SANE
standard defines tha application programmin intercourse (API) dat is used to
communicate between frontendz n' backends. Well shiiiit, it can be found at
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/sane.ps
(if latex is installed on yo' system) n' on the
.B SANE
website:
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/html/
(HTML), or
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/sane.ps
(Postscript).
.PP
There is some mo' shiznit fo' programmers in
.IR /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/backend\-writing.txt .
Most of tha internal
.B SANE
routines
.RB ( sanei )
are documented rockin doxygen:
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/sanei/ .
Before a freshly smoked up backend or frontend project is started, gotz a peep
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/PROJECTS
for projects dat is planned or not yet included tha fuck into the
.B SANE
distribution n' at our bug-trackin system:
.IR http://www.http://www.sane\-project.org/bugs.html .
.PP
There is some links on how tha fuck ta smoke up bout tha protocol of a scanner: 
.IR http://www.meier\-geinitz.de/sane/misc/develop.html .

.PP
If you start freestylin a funky-ass backend or frontend or any other part of
.BR SANE,
please contact tha sane\-devel mailin list fo' coordination so tha same work
aint done twice.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/*.conf
Da backend configuration files.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-*.a
Da static libraries implementin tha backends.
.TP
.I /usr/lib64/sane/libsane\-*.so
Da shared libraries implementin tha backendz (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/*
.B SANE
documentation: Da standard, READMEs, text filez fo' backendz etc.

.SH "PROBLEMS"
If yo' thang aint found but you know dat it is supported, make
sure dat it is detected by yo' operatin system. For SCSI n' STD scanners,
use the
.B sane\-find\-scanner
tool (see
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1)
for details). Well shiiiit, it prints one line fo' each scanner it has detected n' some
comments (#). If
.B sane\-find\-scanner
findz yo' scanner only as root but not as aiiight user, tha permissions for
the thang filez is not adjusted erectly. If tha scanner aint found at all,
the operatin system aint detected it n' may need some help. Dependin on
the type of yo' scanner, read
.BR sane\-usb (5)
or
.BR sane\-scsi (5).
If yo' scanner (or other device) aint connected over tha SCSI bus or STD,
read tha backendz manual page fo' details on how tha fuck ta set it up.
.PP

Now yo' scanner is detected by tha operatin system but not by 
.BR SANE ?
Try 
.BR "scanimage \-L" .
If tha scanner aint found, check dat tha backendz name is mentioned in
.IR /etc/sane.d/dll.conf .
Some backendz is commented up by default. Remove tha comment sign fo' your
backend up in dis case fo' realz. Also some backendz aren't compiled at all if one of their
prerequisites is missing. Examplez include dc210, dc240, canon_pp, hpsj5s,
gphoto2, pint, qcam, v4l, net, sm3600, snapscan, pnm. If you need one of these
backendz n' they aren't available, read tha build instructions up in tha 
.B README
file n' tha individual manual pagez of tha backends.
.PP

Another reason fo' not bein detected by
.B scanimage \-L
may be a missin or wack configuration up in tha backendz configuration
file. While
.B SANE
tries ta automatically find most scanners, some can't be setup erectly
without tha intervention of tha administrator fo' realz. Also on some operatin systems
auto-detection may not work. Peep tha backendz manual page fo' details.
.PP
If yo' scanner is still not found, try
settin tha various environment variablez dat is available ta assist in
debugging.  Da environment variablez is documented up in the
relevant manual pages.  For example, ta git tha maximum amount of debug
information when testin a Mustek SCSI scanner, set environment variables
.BR SANE_DEBUG_DLL ", " SANE_DEBUG_MUSTEK ", n' " SANE_DEBUG_SANEI_SCSI
to 128 n' then invoke 
.B scanimage
.B \-L .
Da debug lyrics fo' tha dll backend tell if tha mustek backend was found
and loaded at all. Da mustek lyrics explain what tha fuck tha mustek backend is
fuckin wit while tha SCSI debuggin shows tha low level handling. If you can't find
out what tha fuck be happenin by checkin tha lyrics carefully, contact tha sane\-devel
mailin list fo' help (see REPORTING BUGS below).
.PP
Now dat yo' scanner is found by
.BR "scanimage \-L" ,
try ta do a scan:
.BR "scanimage >image.pnm" .
This command starts a scan fo' tha default scanner wit default settings fo' realz. All
the available options is listed by hustlin
.BR "scanimage \-\-help" .
If scannin aborts wit a error message, turn on debuggin as mentioned
above. Maybe tha configuration file needz some tuning, e.g. ta setup tha path
to a gangbangin' firmware dat is needed by some scanners. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha backendz manual page
for details. If you can't smoke up whatz wrong, contact sane\-devel.
.PP
To check dat the
.B SANE
libraries is installed erectly you can use tha test backend, even if you
don't gotz a scanner or other
.B SANE
device:
.IP
.B scanimage \-d
.I test
.B \-T
.PP
Yo ass should git a list of PASSed tests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Yo ass can do tha same wit yo' backend
by changin "test" ta yo' backendz name.
.PP
So now scannin with
.B scanimage
works n' you wanna use one of tha graphical frontendz like
.BR xsane ,
.BR xscanimage ", or"
.B quiteinsane
but dem frontendz don't detect yo' scanner, biatch? One reason may be dat you
installed two versionz of 
.BR SANE .
E.g. tha version dat was installed by yo' distribution up in 
.I /usr
and one you installed from source up in 
.IR /usr/local/ .
Make shizzle dat only one version is installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Another possible reason is, that
your systemz dynamic loader can't find the
.B SANE
libraries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! For Linux, make shizzle that
.I /etc/ld.so.conf
gotz nuff
.I /usr/local/lib
and do
.B not
contain
.IR /usr/local/lib/sane .
See also tha documentation of tha frontends.
.PP

.SH "HOW CAN YOU HELP SANE"
We appreciate any help we can get. Please gotz a peep our wizzy page about
contributin ta 
.BR SANE :
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/contrib.html
.PP

.SH "CONTACT"
For reportin bugs or requestin freshly smoked up features, please use our bug-tracking
system:
.IR http://www.sane\-project.org/bugs.html .
Yo ass can also contact tha lyricist of yo' backend directly. Usually tha email
address can be found up in the
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/AUTHORS
file or tha backendz manpage. For general rap bout SANE, please use
the
.B SANE
mailin list sane\-devel (see
.I http://www.sane\-project.org/mailing\-lists.html
for details).
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR saned (8),
.BR sane\-find\-scanner (1),
.BR scanimage (1),
.BR sane\-abaton (5),
.BR sane\-agfafocus (5),
.BR sane\-apple (5),
.BR sane\-artec (5),
.BR sane\-artec_eplus48u (5),
.BR sane\-as6e (5),
.BR sane\-avision (5),
.BR sane\-bh (5),
.BR sane\-canon (5),
.BR sane\-canon630u (5),
.BR sane\-canon_dr (5),
.BR sane\-canon_pp (5),
.BR sane\-cardscan (5),
.BR sane\-coolscan2 (5),
.BR sane\-coolscan (5),
.BR sane\-dc210 (5),
.BR sane\-dc240 (5),
.BR sane\-dc25 (5),
.BR sane\-dll (5),
.BR sane\-dmc (5),
.BR sane\-epson (5),
.BR sane\-fujitsu (5),
.BR sane\-genesys (5),
.BR sane\-gphoto2 (5),
.BR sane\-gt68xx (5),
.BR sane\-hp (5),
.BR sane\-hpsj5s (5),
.BR sane\-hp3500 (5),
.BR sane\-hp3900 (5),
.BR sane\-hp4200 (5),
.BR sane\-hp5400 (5),
.BR sane\-hpljm1005 (5),
.BR sane\-ibm (5),
.BR sane\-kodak (5),
.BR sane\-leo (5),
.BR sane\-lexmark (5),
.BR sane\-ma1509 (5),
.BR sane\-matsushita (5),
.BR sane\-microtek2 (5),
.BR sane\-microtek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_pp (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb (5),
.BR sane\-mustek_usb2 (5),
.BR sane\-nec (5),
.BR sane\-net (5),
.BR sane\-niash (5),
.BR sane\-pie (5),
.BR sane\-pint (5),
.BR sane\-plustek (5),
.BR sane\-plustek_pp (5),
.BR sane\-pnm (5),
.BR sane\-qcam (5),
.BR sane\-ricoh (5),
.BR sane\-s9036 (5),
.BR sane\-sceptre (5),
.BR sane\-scsi (5),
.BR sane\-sharp (5),
.BR sane\-sm3600 (5),
.BR sane\-sm3840 (5),
.BR sane\-snapscan (5),
.BR sane\-sp15c (5),
.BR sane\-st400 (5),
.BR sane\-stv680 (5),
.BR sane\-tamarack (5),
.BR sane\-teco1 (5),
.BR sane\-teco2 (5),
.BR sane\-teco3 (5),
.BR sane\-test (5),
.BR sane\-u12 (5),
.BR sane\-umax1220u (5),
.BR sane\-umax (5),
.BR sane\-umax_pp (5),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR sane\-v4l (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger-Tang n' nuff many mo' (see
.I /usr/share/doc/sane-backends/AUTHORS
for details).  This playa page was freestyled by Hennin Meier-Geinitz. Quite a lot
of text was taken from the
.B SANE
standard, nuff muthafuckin playa pages, n' README files.
