.TH SAP 7 "November 6, 1997" "Linux" "Miscellaneous"
.SH NAME
sap \- Service Access Point justification
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBtext2sap\fP n' \fBsap2text\fP functions use tha format busted lyrics about
in dis playa page. Because all standard ATM tools on Linux use them
functions ta convert ta or from tha textual representation of SAP
specifications, they expect dem up in tha same format like a muthafucka.
.P
Da SAP is divided tha fuck into two parts: tha \fIbroadband high layer shiznit\fP
(BHLI) n' tha \fIbroadband low layer shiznit\fP (BLLI) fo' realz. A SAP can contain
one, both, or none of em. In tha latta case, tha SAP is probably considered
as a wildcard SAP, i.e. a SAP dat is compatible wit any other SAP.
.P
Each part begins wit its name (\fBbhli\fP or \fBblli\fP), followed by a
colon n' a (non-empty) list of attributes, which iz of tha form
\fIattribute\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some attributes have sub-attributes,
which follow em. Everythang dat aint separated by a cold-ass lil colon or a equal
sign is separated by a cold-ass lil comma.
.P
Values which is a fuckin shitload of bytes is specified as tha corresponding
sequence of pairz of hex digits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da sequence can be optionally prefixed
with \fB0x\fP. Values wit is integers up in a given range can be specified
in decimal (no prefix), octal (\fB0\fP prefix), n' hexadecimal (\fB0x\fP
prefix).
.P
Da following, mutually exclusive attributes is allowed up in tha \fBbhli\fP
part (see tha correspondin ATM Forum n' ITU documents fo' tha semantics):
.IP \fBiso=\fI1\-8\ bytes\fP
ISO
.IP \fBuser=\fI1\-8\ bytes\fP
User-specific
.IP \fBhlp=\fI4\ bytes\fP
High layer profile.
Note dat dis attribute only exists on UNI 3.0. \fBtext2sap\fP only
recognizes it if yo' system is configured ta accept UNI 3.0 message formats.
.IP \fBoui=\fI3\ bytes\fB,id=\fI4\ bytes\fP
Vendor-specific application identifier
.P
Da structure of tha \fBbhli\fP part is mo' complex. Well shiiiit, it distinguishes three
layers, \fBl1\fP, \fBl2\fP, n' \fBl3\fP, of which tha straight-up original gangsta one is presently
unsupported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. For layer two, tha followin (mutually exclusive) possibilities
exist:
.IP \fBl2=iso1745\fP
Basic mode ISO 1745
.IP \fBl2=q291\fP
ITU-T Q.291 (Rec. I.441)
.IP \fBl2=lapb\fP
Extended LAPB, half-duplex (Rec. T.71)
.IP \fBl2=iso8802\fP
LAN LLC (ISO/IEC 8802/2)
.IP \fBl2=x75\fP
ITU-T X.75, SLP
.IP \fBl2=x25_ll\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, link layer n' shit. This attribute n' tha followin attributes through
\fBl2=iso7776\fP can optionally be followed by one or mo' of tha following
sub-attributes: \fBmode=\fP\fImode\fP (mode of operation, either \fBnorm\fP or
\fBext\fP), n' \fBwindow=\fP\fIwindow size\fP (window size up in k, 1\-127).
.IP \fBl2=x25_ml\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, multilink
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_arm\fP\ ...
HDLC ARM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_nrm\fP\ ...
HDLC NRM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_abm\fP\ ...
HDLC ABM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=q992\fP\ ...
ITU-T Q.922
.IP \fBl2=iso7776\fP\ ...
ISO 7776 DTE-DTE
.IP \fBl2=user,info=\fIinformation\fP
User-specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fIinformation\fP be a integer up in tha range 0 ta 255.
.P
For layer three, tha followin (again, mutually exclusive) possibilities
exist:
.IP \fBl3=iso8473\fP
ITU-T X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473
.IP \fBl3=t70\fP
ITU-T T.70 minimum network layer
.IP \fBl3=h321\fP
ITU-T Recommendation H.321
.IP \fBl3=x25\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, packet layer n' shit. This attribute n' tha followin attributes through
\fBl3=x223\fP can optionally be followed by one or mo' of tha following
sub-attributes: \fBmode=\fP\fImode\fP (see above), \fBsize=\fP\fIdefault packet
size\fP (4\-12, correspondin ta 16\-4096), \fBwindow=\fP\fIwindow size\fP
(see above).
.IP \fBl3=iso8208\fP\ ...
ISO/IEC 8208
.IP \fBl3=x223\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.223 | ISO/IEC 8878
.IP \fBl3=tr9577,ipi=\fP\fIidentifier\fP\ ...
ISO/IEC TR 9577. \fIidentifier\fP is tha initial protocol identifier in
the range 0\-255. For SNAP (0x80), tha keyword \fBsnap\fP can be used, and
the followin sub-attributes gotta be specified: \fBoui=\fP\fI3 bytes\fP,
and \fBpid=\fP\fI2 bytes\fP.
.IP \fBl2=user,info=\fIinformation\fP
User-specified, peep above.
.IP \fBl3=h310\fP\ ...
ITU-T Recommendation H.310. Da sub-attribute \fBterm=\fP\fItype\fP (terminal
type, \fBrx\fP, \fBtx\fP, or \fBrxtx\fP) is recognized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If present, it
enablez tha two additionizzle sub-attributes \fBfw_mpx=\fP\fIcapability\fP
(forward multiplexin capability, \fBts\fP, \fBts_fec\fP, \fBps\fP,
\fBps_fec\fP, or \fBh221\fP) n' \fBbw_mpx=\fP\fIcapability\fP. Both are
optional.
.P
Note dat commas must never follow colons or other commas fo' realz. Also,
whitespace aint allowed inside a SAP justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SAP justifications
are case-insensitive. On input, shit must be freestyled up in exactly tha order
used up in dis document.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \fBblli:l2=iso8802\fP
Classical IP over ATM (RFC1577)
.IP \fBbhli:oui=0x0060D7,id=0x01000001,blli:l2=iso8802\fP
Arequipa (RFC2170)
.IP \fBblli:l3=tr9577,ipi=snap,oui=0x00A03E,pid=0x0002\fP
LAN Emulation
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL LRC <werner.almesberger@lrc.di.epfl.ch>
.\"{{{}}}
