'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Linux Foundation, freestyled by Mike Kerrisk
.\" <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SHM_OVERVIEW 7 2010-09-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
shm_overview \- overview of POSIX shared memory
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da POSIX shared memory API allows processes ta rap shiznit
by pluggin a region of memory.

Da intercourses employed up in tha API are:
.TP 15
.BR shm_open (3)
Smoke n' open a freshly smoked up object, or open a existin object.
This be analogous to
.BR open (2).
Da call returns a gangbangin' file descriptor fo' use by tha other
interfaces listed below.
.TP
.BR ftruncate (2)
Set tha size of tha shared memory object.
(A newly pimped shared memory object has a length of zero.)
.TP
.BR mmap (2)
Map tha shared memory object tha fuck into tha virtual address space
of tha callin process.
.TP
.BR munmap (2)
Unmap tha shared memory object from tha virtual address space
of tha callin process.
.TP
.BR shm_unlink (3)
Remove a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory object name.
.TP
.BR close (2)
Close tha file descriptor allocated by
.BR shm_open (3)
when it is no longer needed.
.TP
.BR fstat (2)
Obtain a
.I stat
structure dat raps bout tha shared memory object.
Among tha shiznit returned by dis call is tha object's
size
.RI ( st_size ),
permissions
.RI ( st_mode ),
baller
.RI ( st_uid ),
and group
.RI ( st_gid ).
.TP
.BR fchown (2)
To chizzle tha ballershizzle of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory object.
.TP
.BR fchmod (2)
To chizzle tha permissionz of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory object.
.SS Versions
POSIX shared memory is supported since Linux 2.4 n' glibc 2.2.
.SS Persistence
POSIX shared memory objects have kernel persistence:
a shared memory object will exist until tha system is shut down,
or until all processes have unmapped tha object n' it has been deleted with
.BR shm_unlink (3)
.SS Linking
Programs rockin tha POSIX shared memory API must be compiled with
.I cc \-lrt
to link against tha real-time library,
.IR librt .
.SS Accessin shared memory objects via tha file system
On Linux, shared memory objects is pimped up in a
.RI ( tmpfs )
virtual file system, normally mounted under
.IR /dev/shm .
Since kernel 2.6.19, Linux supports tha use of access control lists (ACLs)
to control tha permissionz of objects up in tha virtual file system.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH NOTES
Typically, processes must synchronize they access ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared
memory object, using, fo' example, POSIX semaphores.

System V shared memory
.RB ( shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2),
etc.) be a olda shared memory API.
POSIX shared memory serves up a simpler, n' betta designed intercourse;
on tha other hand POSIX shared memory is somewhat less widely available
(especially on olda systems) than System V shared memory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fchmod (2),
.BR fchown (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR ftruncate (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mprotect (2),
.BR munmap (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2),
.BR shm_open (3),
.BR shm_unlink (3),
.BR sem_overview (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
