
.\" includes some material by other authors dat was formerly
.\" up in intro.2.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH STANDARDS 7 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
standardz \- C n' UNIX Standards
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da CONFORMING TO section dat appears up in nuff manual pages identifies
various standardz ta which tha documented intercourse conforms.
Da followin list briefly raps bout these standards.
.TP
.B V7
Version 7, tha ancestral UNIX from Bell Labs.
.TP
.B 4.2BSD
This be a implementation standard defined by tha 4.2 release
of the
.IR "Berkeley Software Distribution",
released by tha Universitizzle of California at Berkeley.
This was tha straight-up original gangsta Berkeley release dat contained a TCP/IP
stack n' tha sockets API.
4.2BSD was busted out up in 1983.

Earlier major BSD releases included
.IR 3BSD
(1980),
.I 4BSD
(1980),
and
.I 4.1BSD
(1981).
.TP
.B 4.3BSD
Da successor ta 4.2BSD, busted out up in 1986.
.TP
.B 4.4BSD
Da successor ta 4.3BSD, busted out up in 1993.
This was tha last major Berkeley release.
.TP
.B System V
This be a implementation standard defined by AT&Tz milestone 1983
release of its commercial System V (five) release.
Da previous major AT&T release was
.IR "System Pt III" ,
released up in 1981.
.TP
.B System V release 2 (SVr2)
This was tha next System V release, made up in 1985.
Da SVr2 was formally busted lyrics bout up in the
.I "System V Interface Definizzle version 1"
.RI ( "SVID 1" )
published up in 1985.
.TP
.B System V release 3 (SVr3)
This was tha successor ta SVr2, busted out up in 1986.
This release was formally busted lyrics bout up in the
.I "System V Interface Definizzle version 2"
.RI ( "SVID 2" ).
.TP
.B System V release 4 (SVr4)
This was tha successor ta SVr3, busted out up in 1989.
This version of System V is busted lyrics bout up in tha "Programmerz Reference
Manual: Operatin System API (Intel processors)" (Prentice-Hall
1992, ISBN 0-13-951294-2)
This release was formally busted lyrics bout up in the
.I "System V Interface Definizzle version 3"
.RI ( "SVID 3" ),
and is considered tha definitizzle System V release.
.TP
.B SVID 4
System V Interface Definizzle version 4, issued up in 1995.
Available online at
.UR http://www.sco.com\:/developers\:/devspecs/
.UE .
.TP
.B C89
This was tha straight-up original gangsta C language standard, ratified by ANSI
(Gangsta Nationizzle Standardz Institute) up in 1989
.RI ( X3.159-1989 ).
Sometimes dis is known as
.IR "ANSI C" ,
but since C99 be also an
ANSI standard, dis term be ambiguous.
This standard was also ratified by
ISO (Internationistic Standardz Organization) up in 1990
.RI ( "ISO/IEC 9899:1990" ),
and is thus occasionally referred ta as
.IR "ISO C90" .
.TP
.B C99
This revision of tha C language standard was ratified by ISO up in 1999
.RI ( "ISO/IEC 9899:1999" ).
Available online at
.UR http://www.open-std.org\:/jtc1\:/sc22\:/wg14\:/www\:/standards
.UE .
.TP
.B POSIX.1-1990
"Portable Operatin System Interface fo' Computin Environments".
IEEE 1003.1-1990 part 1, ratified by ISO up in 1990
.RI ( "ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990" ).
Da term "POSIX" was coined by Slick Rick Stallman.
.TP
.B POSIX.2
IEEE Std 1003.2-1992,
describin commandz n' utilities, ratified by ISO up in 1993
.RI ( "ISO/IEC 9945-2:1993" ).
.TP
.BR POSIX.1b " (formerly known as \fIPOSIX.4\fP)"
IEEE Std 1003.1b-1993
describin real-time facilities
for portable operatin systems, ratified by ISO up in 1996
.RI ( "ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996" ).
.TP
.B POSIX.1c
IEEE Std 1003.1c-1995 describin tha POSIX threadz intercourses.
.TP
.B POSIX.1d
IEEE Std 1003.1c-1999 describin additionizzle real-time extensions.
.TP
.B POSIX.1g
IEEE Std 1003.1g-2000 describin networkin APIs (includin sockets).
.TP
.B POSIX.1j
IEEE Std 1003.1j-2000 describin advanced real-time extensions.
.TP
.B POSIX.1-1996
A 1996 revision of POSIX.1 which incorporated POSIX.1b n' POSIX.1c.
.TP
.B XPG3
Released up in 1989, dis was tha straight-up original gangsta dope release of the
.IR "X/Open Portabilitizzle Guide" ,
produced by the
X/Open Company, a multivendor consortium.
This multivolume guide was based on tha POSIX standards.
.TP
.B XPG4
A revision of tha X/Open Portabilitizzle Guide, busted out up in 1992.
.TP
.B XPG4v2
A 1994 revision of XPG4.
This be also referred ta as
.IR "Spec 1170" ,
where 1170 referred ta tha number of intercourses
defined by dis standard.
.TP
.B SUS  (SUSv1)
Single UNIX Justification.
This was a repackagin of XPG4v2 n' other X/Open standards
(X/Open Curses Issue 4 version 2,
X/Open Networkin Service (XNS) Issue 4).
Systems conformin ta dis standard can be branded
.IR "UNIX 95" .
.TP
.B SUSv2
Single UNIX Justification version 2.
Sometimes also referred ta as
.IR XPG5 .
This standard rocked up in 1997.
Systems conformin ta dis standard can be branded
.IR "UNIX 98" .
See also
.UR http://www.UNIX-systems.org\:/version2/
.UE .)
.TP
.B POSIX.1-2001, SUSv3
This was a 2001 revision n' consolidation of the
POSIX.1, POSIX.2, n' SUS standardz tha fuck into a single document,
conducted under tha auspicez of tha Austin group
.UR http://www.opengroup.org\:/austin/
.UE .
Da standard be available online at
.UR http://www.unix-systems.org\:/version3/
.UE ,
and tha intercourses dat it raps bout is also available up in tha Linux
manual pages package under sections 1p n' 3p (e.g., "man 3p open").

Da standard defines two levelz of conformance:
.IR "POSIX conformance" ,
which be a funky-ass baseline set of intercourses required of a cold-ass lil conformin system;
and
.IR "XSI Conformance",
which additionally mandates a set of intercourses
(the "XSI extension") which is only optionizzle fo' POSIX conformance.
XSI-conformant systems can be branded
.IR "UNIX 03" .
(XSI conformizzle constitutes the
.I "Single UNIX Justification version 3"
.RI ( SUSv3 ).)

Da POSIX.1-2001 document is fucked up tha fuck into four parts:

.BR XBD :
Definitions, terms n' concepts, header file justifications.

.BR XSH :
Specificationz of functions (i.e., system calls n' library
functions up in actual implementations).

.BR XCU :
Specificationz of commandz n' utilities
(i.e., tha area formerly busted lyrics bout by POSIX.2).

.BR XRAT :
Informatizzle text on tha other partz of tha standard.

POSIX.1-2001 be aligned wit C99, so dat all of the
library functions standardized up in C99 is also
standardized up in POSIX.1-2001.

Two Technical Corrigenda (minor fixes n' improvements)
of tha original gangsta 2001 standard have occurred:
TC1 up in 2003 (referred ta as
.IR POSIX.1-2003 ),
and TC2 up in 2004 (referred ta as
.IR POSIX.1-2004 ).
.TP
.B POSIX.1-2008, SUSv4
Work on tha next revision of POSIX.1/SUS was completed and
ratified up in 2008.

Da chizzlez up in dis revision is not as big-ass as them
that occurred fo' POSIX.1-2001/SUSv3,
but a fuckin shitload of freshly smoked up intercourses is added
and various detailz of existin justifications is modified.
Many of tha intercourses dat was optionizzle in
POSIX.1-2001 become mandatory up in tha 2008 revision of tha standard.
A few intercourses dat is present up in POSIX.1-2001 is marked
as obsolete up in POSIX.1-2008, or removed from tha standard altogether.

Da revised standard is fucked up tha fuck into tha same four parts as POSIX.1-2001,
and again n' again n' again there be two levelz of conformance: tha baseline
.IR "POSIX Conformance" ,
and
.IR "XSI Conformance" ,
which mandates a additionizzle set of intercourses
beyond dem up in tha base justification.

In general, where tha CONFORMING TO section of a manual page
lists POSIX.1-2001, it can be assumed dat tha intercourse also
conforms ta POSIX.1-2008, unless otherwise noted.

Further shiznit can be found on tha Austin crew wizzy crib,
.UR http://www.opengroup.org\:/austin/
.UE .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR feature_test_macros (7),
.BR libc (7),
.BR posixoptions (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
