
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 28 Dec 2006 - Initial Creation
.\"
.TH TERMIO 7 2013-02-12 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
termio \- System V terminal driver intercourse
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B termio
is tha name of tha oldschool System V terminal driver intercourse.
This intercourse defined a
.I termio
structure used ta store terminal settings, n' a range of
.BR ioctl (2)
operations ta git n' set terminal attributes.

The
.B termio
interface is now obsolete: POSIX.1-1990 standardized a modified
version of dis intercourse, under tha name
.BR termios .
Da POSIX.1 data structure differs slightly from the
System V version, n' POSIX.1 defined a suite of functions
to replace tha various
.BR ioctl (2)
operations dat existed up in System V.
(This was done cuz
.BR ioctl (2)
was unstandardized, n' its variadic third argument
does not allow argument type checking.)

If you lookin fo' page called "termio", then you can probably
find most of tha shiznit dat you seek up in either
.BR termios (3)
or
.BR tty_ioctl (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR reset (1),
.BR setterm (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR termios (3),
.BR tty (4),
.BR tty_ioctl (4)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
