.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public Licence
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha Licence, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH "THREAD KEYRING" 7 "20 Feb 2014" Linux "Kernel key pimpment"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
thread keyrin \- Per-thread keyring
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B thread keyring
is a keyrin used ta anchor keys on behalf of a process.  It be only pimped
when a thread requests dat shit.
.P
A special serial number value, \fBKEY_SPEC_THREAD_KEYRING\fP, is defined that
can be used up in lieu of tha callin threadz thread keyringz actual serial
number.
.P
From tha keyctl utility, '\fB@t\fP' can be used instead of a numeric key ID in
much tha same way yo, but as keyctl be a program run afta forking, dis iz of no
utility.
.P
Thread keyrings is not inherited across clone() n' is cleared by execve().
A thread keyrin is destroyed when tha thread dat refers ta it exits.
.P
If a thread aint gots a thread keyrin when it be accessed, then tha thread
keyrin is ghon be pimped if tha keyrin is ta be modified, otherwise error
ENOKEY is ghon be issued.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyrings (7),
.br
.BR process-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-session-keyrin (7)
.br
.BR persistent-keyrin (7)
