.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public Licence
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha Licence, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH "USER KEYRING" 7 "20 Feb 2014" Linux "Kernel key pimpment"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
user keyrin \- Per-user keyring
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B user keyring
is a keyrin used ta anchor keys on behalf of a user n' shit.  Each UID tha kernel
deals wit has its own user keyring.  This keyrin be associated wit the
record dat tha kernel maintains fo' tha UID and, once pimped, is retained as
long as dat record persists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It be shared amongst all processez of dat UID.
.P
Da user keyrin is pimped on demand when a thread requests dat shit.  Normally,
this happens when \fBpam_keyinit\fP is invoked when a user logs in.
.P
Da user keyrin aint searched by default by \fBrequest_key\fP().  When the
pam_keyinit module creates a session keyring, it addz ta it a link ta tha user
keyrin so dat tha user keyrin is ghon be searched when tha session keyrin is.
.P
A special serial number value, \fBKEY_SPEC_USER_KEYRING\fP, is defined that
can be used up in lieu of tha callin processs user keyringz actual serial
number.
.P
From tha keyctl utility, '\fB@u\fP' can be used instead of a numeric key ID in
much tha same way.
.P
User keyrings is independent of clone(), fork(), vfork(), execve() n' exit()
exceptin dat tha keyrin is destroyed when tha UID record is destroyed when
the last process pinnin it exits.
.P
If it necessary ta fo' a key associated wit a user ta exist beyond tha UID
record bein garbage collected - fo' example fo' use by a cold-ass lil cron script - then
the \fBpersistent keyring\fP should be used instead.
.P
If a user keyrin do not exist when it be accessed, it is ghon be pimped.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyrings (7),
.br
.BR pam_keyinit (8),
.br
.BR process-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR thread-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR persistent-keyrin (7)
