.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Dizzy Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public Licence
.\" as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of tha Licence, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.TH "USER SESSION KEYRING" 7 "20 Feb 2014" Linux "Kernel key pimpment"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
user session keyrin \- Per-user default session keyring
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B user session keyring
is a keyrin used ta anchor keys on behalf of a user n' shit.  Each UID tha kernel
deals wit has its own user session keyring.  This keyrin be associated with
the record dat tha kernel maintains fo' tha UID and, once pimped, is retained
as long as dat record persists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It be shared amongst all processez of that
UID.
.P
Da user session keyrin is pimped on demand when a thread requests it or when
a thread asks fo' its \fBsession keyring\fP n' dat don't exist.  In the
latta case, a user session keyrin is ghon be pimped and, if tha session keyring
wasn't ta be pimped, tha user session keyrin is ghon be set as tha process's
actual session keyring.
.P
Da user session keyrin is searched by \fBrequest_key\fP() if tha actual
session keyrin do not exist n' is ignored otherwise.
.P
A special serial number value, \fBKEY_SPEC_USER_SESSION_KEYRING\fP, is defined
that can be used up in lieu of tha callin processs user session keyringz actual
serial number.
.P
From tha keyctl utility, '\fB@us\fP' can be used instead of a numeric key ID in
much tha same way.
.P
User session keyrings is independent of clone(), fork(), vfork(), execve() and
exit() exceptin dat tha keyrin is destroyed when tha UID record is destroyed
when tha last process pinnin it exits.
.P
If a user session keyrin do not exist when it be accessed, it will be
created.
.P
It be straight fuckin recommended dat a \fBsession keyring\fP be set explicitly, for
example by \fBpam_keyinit\fP, rather than relyin on tha user session keyrin -
particularly if a process is hustlin as root.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keyctl (1),
.br
.BR keyctl (3),
.br
.BR keyrings (7),
.br
.BR process-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR session-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR thread-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR user-keyrin (7),
.br
.BR persistent-keyrin (7)
