.TH WESTON-DRM 7 "2012-11-27" "Weston 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
weston-drm \- tha DRM backend fo' Weston
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B westsideon-launch
.LP
.B westsideon --backend=drm-backend.so
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da DRM backend is tha natizzle Weston backend fo' systems dat support
the Linux kernel DRM, kernel mode settin (KMS), n' evdev input devices.
It be tha recommended backend fo' desktop PCs, n' aims ta provide
the full Wayland experience wit tha "every frame is perfect" concept.
It also relies on tha Mesa GBM intercourse.

With tha DRM backend,
.B westsideon
runs without any underlyin windowin system. Da backend uses the
Linux KMS API ta detect connected monitors. Monitor hot-pluggin is
supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Input devices is found automatically by
.BR udev (7).
Compositin happens mainly up in GL\ ES\ 2, initialized all up in EGL. It
is also possible ta take advantage of hardware cursors n' overlays,
when they exist n' is functional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Full-screen surfaces will be
scanned up directly without compositing, when possible.
Hardware accelerated clients is supported via EGL.

Da backend chizzlez tha DRM graphics thang first based on seat id.
If seat identifiers is not set, it looks fo' tha graphics device
that was used up in boot. If dat aint found, it finally chizzles
the first DRM thang returned by
.BR udev (7).
Combinin multiple graphics devices is not supported yet.

Da DRM backend relies on
.B westsideon-launch
for managin input thang access n' DRM masta status, so that
.B westsideon
can be run without root privileges. On switchin away from the
virtual terminal (VT) hostin Weston, all input devices is closed and
the DRM masta capabilitizzle is dropped, so dat other servers,
including
.BR Xorg (1),
can run on other VTs. On switchin back ta Westonz VT, input devices
and DRM masta is re-acquired all up in tha parent process
.BR westsideon-launch .
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH CONFIGURATION
.
Da DRM backend uses tha followin entries from
.BR westsideon.ini .
.SS Section output
.TP
\fBname\fR=\fIconnector\fR
Da KMS connector name identifyin tha output, fo' instance
.IR LVDS1 .
.TP
\fBmode\fR=\fImode\fR
Specify tha vizzle mode fo' tha output. Da argument
.I mode
can be one of tha lyrics
.BR off " ta turn tha output off, "
.BR preferred " ta use tha monitorz preferred vizzle mode, or "
.BR current " ta use tha current vizzle mode n' avoid a mode switch."
It can also be a resolution as
\fIwidth\fBx\fIheight\fR, or a thugged-out detailed mode line as below.
.TP
\fBmode\fR=\fIdotclock hdisp hsyncstart hsyncend htotal \
vdisp vsyncstart vsyncend vtotal hflag vflag\fR
Use tha given detailed mode line as tha vizzle mode fo' dis output.
Da definizzle is tha same ol' dirty as in
.BR xorg.conf "(5), n' " cvt (1)
can generate detailed mode lines.
.TP
\fBtransform\fR=\fItransform\fR
Transform fo' tha output, which can be rotated up in 90-degree steps
and possibly flipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Possible joints are
.BR aiiight ", " 90 ", " 180 ", " 270 ", "
.BR flipped ", " flipped-90 ", " flipped-180 ", n' " flipped-270 .
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.
When tha DRM backend is loaded,
.B westsideon
will KNOW tha followin additionizzle command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-connector\fR=\fIconnectorid\fR
Use tha connector wit id number
.I connectorid
as tha only initial output.
.TP
.B \-\-current\-mode
By default, use tha current vizzle mode of all outputs, instead of
switchin ta tha monitor preferred mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-seat\fR=\fIseatid\fR
Use graphics n' input devices designated fo' seat
.I seatid
instead of tha default seat
.BR seat0 .
.TP
\fB\-\-tty\fR=\fIx\fR
Launch Weston on tty
.I x
instead of rockin tha current tty.
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.B WESTON_TTY_FD
Da file descriptor (integer) of tha opened tty where
.B westsideon
will run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set by
.BR westsideon-launch .
.TP
.B WESTON_LAUNCHER_SOCK
Da file descriptor (integer) where
.B westsideon-launch
is listenin fo' realz. Automatically set by
.BR westsideon-launch .
.
.\" ***************************************************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR westsideon (1)
.\".BR westsideon-launch (1),
.\".BR westsideon.ini (5)
