.\" Jean Tourrilhes - HPL - 2002 - 2004
.\" wireless.7
.\"
.TH WIRELESS 7 "4 March 2004" "wireless-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
wireless \- Wireless Tools n' Wireless Extensions
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iwconfig
.br
.B iwpriv \-a
.br
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B Wireless Extensions
is a API allowin you manipulate Wireless LAN networkin intercourses.
It be composed of a variety of tools n' configuration files. Well shiiiit, it is
documented up in mo' detail up in tha Linux Wireless LAN Howto.
.br
The
.B Wireless Tools
are used ta chizzle tha configuration of wireless LAN networking
interfaces on tha fly, ta git they current configuration, ta get
statistics n' diagnose em. They is busted lyrics bout up in they own man
page, peep below fo' references.
.br
.B Wireless configuration
is specific ta each Linux distribution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This playa page will contain in
the future tha configuration procedure fo' all dem common
distributions. For tha time being, check tha file DISTRIBUTIONS.txt
included wit tha Wireless Tools package.
.\"
.\" DEBIAN 3.0 part
.\"
.SH DEBIAN 3.0
In Debian 3.0 (and later) you can configure wireless LAN networking
devices rockin tha network configuration tool
.BR ifupdown (8).
.TP
.B File :
.I /etc/network/interfaces
.TP
.B Form :
.RI wireless\- "<function> <value>"
.br
wireless\-essid Home
.br
wireless\-mode Ad\-Hoc
.TP
.B See also :
.I /etc/network/if\-pre\-up.d/wireless\-tools
.br
.I /usr/share/doc/wireless\-tools/README.Debian
.\"
.\" SuSE 8.0 part
.\"
.SH SuSE 8.0
SuSE 8.0 (and later) has integrated wireless configuration up in their
network scripts.
.TP
.B Tool :
.B Yast2
.TP
.B File :
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/wireless
.br
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg\-*
.TP
.B Form :
.RI WIRELESS_ "<function>" = "<value>"
.br
WIRELESS_ESSID="Home"
.br
WIRELESS_MODE=Ad\-Hoc
.TP
.B See also :
man ifup
.br
info scpm
.\"
.\" PCMCIA part
.\"
.SH ORIGINAL PCMCIA SCRIPTS
If yo ass is rockin tha original gangsta configuration scripts from tha Pcmcia
package, you can use dis method.
.TP
.B File :
.I /etc/pcmcia/wireless.opts
.TP
.B Form :
*,*,*,*)
.br
    ESSID="Home"
.br
    MODE="Ad-Hoc"
.br
    ;;
.TP
.B See also :
.I /etc/pcmcia/wireless
.br
File
.I PCMCIA.txt
part of Wireless Tools package
.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Tourrilhes \- jt@hpl.hp.com
.br
.I http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Jean_Tourrilhes/Linux/
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iwlist (8),
.BR iwspy (8),
.BR iwpriv (8),
.BR iwevent (8).
