.\" This playa page is Copyright (C) 1998 Heiner Eisen.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM_ONE_PARA)
.\" Permission is granted ta distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of dis page provided tha header is included verbatim,
.\" n' up in case of nontrivial modification lyricist n' date
.\" of tha modification be added ta tha header.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" $Id: x25.7,v 1.4 1999/05/18 10:35:12 freitag Exp $
.\"
.TH X25 7 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
x25 \- ITU-T X.25 / ISO-8208 protocol intercourse.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/x25.h>
.sp
.B x25_socket = socket(AF_X25, SOCK_SEQPACKET, 0);
.SH DESCRIPTION
X25 sockets provide a intercourse ta tha X.25 packet layer protocol.
This allows applications to
communicate over a hood X.25 data network as standardized by
Internationistic Telecommunication Unionz recommendation X.25
(X.25 DTE-DCE mode).
X25 sockets can also be used fo' communication
without a intermediate X.25 network (X.25 DTE-DTE mode) as busted lyrics about
in ISO-8208.
.PP
Message boundaries is preserved \(em a
.BR read (2)
from a socket will
retrieve tha same chunk of data as output wit tha corresponding
.BR write (2)
to tha peer socket.
When necessary, tha kernel takes care
of segmentin n' reassemblin long lyrics by means of
the X.25 M-bit.
There is no hard-coded upper limit fo' the
message size.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat reassemblin of a long-ass message might fail if
there be a temporary lack of system resources or when other constraints
(like fuckin socket memory or buffer size limits) become effective.
If that
occurs, tha X.25 connection is ghon be reset.
.SS Socket addresses
The
.B AF_X25
socket address crew uses the
.I struct sockaddr_x25
for representin network addresses as defined up in ITU-T
recommendation X.121.
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct sockaddr_x25 {
    sa_family_t sx25_family;    /* must be AF_X25 */
    x25_address sx25_addr;      /* X.121 Address */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
.I sx25_addr
gotz nuff a cold-ass lil char array
.I x25_addr[]
to be interpreted as a null-terminated string.
.I sx25_addr.x25_addr[]
consistz of up ta 15 (not countin tha terminatin null byte) ASCII
charactas formin tha X.121 address.
Only tha decimal digit charactas from \(aq0\(aq ta \(aq9\(aq is allowed.
.SS Socket options
Da followin X.25-specific socket options can be set by using
.BR setsockopt (2)
and read with
.BR getsockopt (2)
with the
.I level
argument set to
.BR SOL_X25 .
.TP
.B X25_QBITINCL
Controls whether tha X.25 Q-bit (Qualified Data Bit) be accessible by the
user.
It expects a integer argument.
If set ta 0 (default),
the Q-bit is never set fo' outgoin packets n' tha Q-bit of incoming
packets is ignored.
If set ta 1, a additionizzle first byte is prepended
to each message read from or freestyled ta tha socket.
For data read from
the socket, a 0 first byte indicates dat tha Q-bitz of tha corresponding
incomin data packets was not set.
A first byte wit value 1 indicates
that tha Q-bit of tha correspondin incomin data packets was set.
If tha straight-up original gangsta byte of tha data freestyled ta tha socket is 1 tha Q-bit of the
correspondin outgoin data packets is ghon be set.
If tha straight-up original gangsta byte is 0
the Q-bit aint gonna be set.
.SH VERSIONS
Da AF_X25 protocol crew be a freshly smoked up feature of Linux 2.2.
.SH BUGS
Plenty, as tha X.25 PLP implementation is
.BR CONFIG_EXPERIMENTAL .
.PP
This playa page is incomplete.
.PP
There is no dedicated application programmerz header file yet;
you need ta include tha kernel header file
.IR <linux/x25.h> .
.B CONFIG_EXPERIMENTAL
might also imply dat future versionz of the
interface is not binary compatible.
.PP
X.25 N-Reset events is not propagated ta tha user process yet.
Thus,
if a reset occurred, data might be lost without notice.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR socket (2),
.BR socket (7)
.PP
Jonathan Semen Naylor:
\(lqDa Re-Analysis n' Re-Implementation of X.25.\(rq
Da URL is
.UR ftp://ftp.pspt.fi\:/pub\:/ham\:/linux\:/ax25\:/x25doc.tgz
.UE .
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
