.\"  FIGlet
.\"  Copyright (C) 1991, 1993, 1994 Glenn Chappell n' Ian Chai
.\"  Internet: <info@figlet.org>
.\"  Portions Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 by Jizzy Cowan <cowan@ccil.org>
.\"  Portions Copyright 2002 by Christiaan Keet
.\"  Portions Copyright 2011, 2012 by Claudio Matsuoka
.\"  FIGlet, along wit tha various FIGlet fonts n' documentation, may
.\"  be freely copied n' distributed.
.\"  If you use FIGlet, please bust a e-mail message to
.\"  <info@figlet.org>
.\"
.TH FIGLET 6 "31 May 2012" "v2.2.5"

.SH NAME
FIGlet \- display big-ass charactas made up of ordinary screen characters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B figlet
[
.B \-cklnoprstvxDELNRSWX
]
[
.B \-d
.I fontdirectory
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
[
.B \-f
.I fontfile
]
[
.B \-m
.I layoutmode
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
[
.B \-w
.IR outputwidth
]
[
.B \-C
.I controlfile
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
[
.B \-I
.I infocode
]
[
.I message
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B FIGlet
prints its input rockin big-ass characters
(called ``FIGcharacters'')made up of ordinary
screen characters
(called ``sub-characters'').
.B FIGlet
output is generally reminiscent of the
sort of ``signatures'' nuff playas like ta put all up in tha end of e-mail
and UseNet lyrics.  It be also reminiscent of tha output of some banner
programs, although it is oriented normally, not sideways.

.B FIGlet
can print up in a variety of fonts, both left-to-right n' right-to-left,
with adjacent FIGcharactas kerned n' ``smushed'' together up in various ways.
.B FIGlet
fonts is stored in
separate files, which can be identified by tha suffix
.RB `` .flf ''.
In systems wit UTF-8 support
.B FIGlet
may also support TOIlet
.RB `` .tlf ''
fonts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Most
.B FIGlet
font filez is ghon be stored in
.B FIGlet's
default font directory.

.B FIGlet
can also use ``control files'', which tell it ta map certain input
charactas ta certain other characters, similar ta tha Unix
.B tr
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Control filez can be identified by tha suffix
.RB `` .flc ''.
Most
.B FIGlet
control filez is ghon be stored in
.B FIGlet's
default font directory.

Yo ass can store
.B FIGlet
fonts n' control files
in compressed form.
See
.BR "COMPRESSED FONTS" .

.SH USAGE
Just start up
.B FIGlet
(type
.RB `` figlet '')
and then type whatever you want.
Alternatively, pipe a gangbangin' file or tha output of another command through
.BR FIGlet ,
or put input on tha command line
afta tha options.
See
.B EXAMPLES
for other thangs ta do.

.SH OPTIONS
.B FIGlet
readz command line options from left ta right, n' only tha last
option dat affects a parameta has any effect.  Almost every last muthafuckin option
has a inverse, so that, fo' example, if
.B FIGlet
is customized wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell
.BR alias ,
all tha options is probably still available.

Commonly-used options are
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-k ,
.BR \-t ,
.B \-p
and
.BR \-v .

.TP
.BI \-f \ fontfile
Select tha font.  The
.B .flf
suffix may be left off of
.IR fontfile ,
in which case
.B FIGlet
automatically appendz dat shit.
.B FIGlet
looks fo' tha file first up in tha default font directory n' then
in tha current directory, or, if
.I fontfile
was given as a gangbangin' full pathname, up in tha given directory.
If the
.B \-f
option aint specified,
.B FIGlet
uses tha font dat was specified
when dat shiznit was compiled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To smoke up which font dis is, use the
.B \-I3
option.

.TP
.BI \-d \ fontdirectory
Change tha default font directory.
.B FIGlet
looks fo' fonts first up in the
default directory n' then up in tha current directory.
If the
.B \-d
option aint specified,
.B FIGlet
uses tha directory dat was specified
when dat shiznit was compiled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To smoke up which directory dis is, use the
.B \-I2
option.

.TP
.B \-c
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-l
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-r
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-x
.PD
These options handle tha justification of
.B FIGlet
output.
.B \-c
centas tha output horizontally.
.B \-l
makes tha output flush-left.
.B \-r
makes it flush-right.
.B \-x
(default) sets tha justification accordin ta whether left-to-right or
right-to-left text is selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Left-to-right text is ghon be flush-left,
while right-to-left text is ghon be flush-right.  (Left-to-right versus
right-to-left text is controlled by
.BR \-L ,
.B \-R
and
.BR \-X .)

.TP
.B \-t
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-w \ outputwidth
.PD
These options control the
.IR outputwidth ,
or tha screen width
.B FIGlet
assumes when formattin its output.
.B FIGlet
uses the
.I outputwidth
to determine when ta break lines n' how tha fuck ta center
the output.  Normally,
.B FIGlet
assumes 80 columns so dat playas wit wide terminals
won't annoy tha playas they e-mail
.B FIGlet
output to.
.B \-t
sets the
.I outputwidth
to tha terminal width.  If tha terminal width cannot be determined,
the previous
.I outputwidth
is retained.
.B \-w
sets the
.I outputwidth
to tha given integer n' shit.  An
.I outputwidth
of 1 be a special value dat tells
.B FIGlet
to print each non-space FIGcharacter, up in its entirety, on a separate line,
no matta how tha fuck wide it is.

.TP
.B \-p
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-n
.PD
These options control how
.B FIGlet
handlez newlines.
.B \-p
puts
.B FIGlet
into ``paragraph mode'', which eliminates some unnecessary line
breaks when pipin a multi-line file through
.BR FIGlet .
In paragraph mode,
.B FIGlet
treats line breaks within a paragraph as if they was merely blanks
between lyrics.  (Specifically,
.B \-p
causes
.B FIGlet
to convert any newline which aint preceded by a newline n' not
followed by a space characta tha fuck into a funky-ass blank.)
.B \-n
(default) puts
.B FIGlet
back ta normal, up in which every last muthafuckin newline
.B FIGlet
readz causes it ta produce a line break.

.TP
.B \-D
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-E
.PD
.B \-D
switches ta tha German (ISO 646-DE) characta set.  Turns `[', `\e'
and `]' tha fuck into umlauted A, O n' U, respectively.  `{', `|' n' `}' turn
into tha respectizzle lower case versionz of these n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  `~' turns tha fuck into s-z.
.B \-E
turns off
.B \-D
processing.
These options is deprecated,
which means they probably aint gonna appear
in tha next version of
.BR FIGlet .

.TP
.BI \-C \ controlfile
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-N
.PD
These options deal with
.B FIGlet
.IR controlfilez .
A 
.I controlfile
is a gangbangin' file containin a list of commandz that
.B FIGlet
executes each time it readz a cold-ass lil character n' shit.  These commandz can map certain
input charactas ta other characters, similar ta tha Unix
.B tr
command or the
.B FIGlet
.B \-D
option.
.B FIGlet
maintains a list of
.IR controlfilez ,
which is empty when
.B FIGlet
starts up.
.B \-C
addz tha given
.I controlfile
to tha list.
.B \-N
clears the
.I controlfile
list, cancellin tha effect of any previous
.BR \-C .
.B FIGlet
executes tha commandz up in all
.I controlfiles
in tha list.  See
the file
.IR figfont.txt ,
provided wit FIGlet,
for details on how tha fuck ta write a
.IR controlfile .

.TP
.B \-s
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-S
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-k
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-W
.PD
.TP
.B \-o
.PD
These options control how
.B FIGlet
spaces tha FIGcharactas dat it outputs.
.B \-s
(default) and
.B \-S
cause ``smushing''.
Da FIGcharactas is displayed
as close together as possible,
and overlappin sub-charactas is removed.
Exactly which sub-charactas count as ``overlapping''
dependz on tha font's
.IR layoutmode ,
which is defined by tha fontz lyricist.
.B \-k
causes ``kerning''.  As nuff blanks as possible are
removed between FIGcharacters, so dat they
touch yo, but tha FIGcharactas is not smushed.
.B \-W
makes
.B FIGlet
display all FIGcharactas at they full width,
which may be fixed or variable, dependin on tha font.

Da difference between
.B \-s
and
.B \-S
is that
.B \-s
will not smush a gangbangin' font whose lyricist specified
kernin or full width as tha default
.IR layoutmode ,
whereas
.B \-S
will attempt ta do so.

If there is no shiznit up in tha font
about how tha fuck ta smush,
or if the
.B \-o
option is specified,
then tha FIGcharactas is ``overlapped''.
This means dat afta kerning,
the first subcharacta of
each FIGcharacta is removed.
(This aint done if a FIGcharacter
gotz nuff only one subcharacter.)

.TP
.BI \-m \ layoutmode
Specifies a explicit
.I layoutmode
between
.B 1
and
.BR 63 .
.I Smushmodes
are explained in
.IR figfont.txt ,
which also serves up complete shiznit
on tha format of a
.B FIGlet
font.
For tha sake of backward compatibility
with versions of
.B FIGlet
before 2.2,
.B \-m0
is equivalent to
.BR \-k ,
.B \-m-1
is equivalent to
.BR \-W ,
and
.B \-m-2
is equivalent to
.BR \-s .
The
.B \-m
switch is normally
used only by font designers testin tha various
.I layoutmodes
with a freshly smoked up font.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-I \ infocode
.PD
These options print various shiznit about
.BR FIGlet ,
then exit.  If nuff muthafuckin of these options is given on tha command line, only
the last is executed, n' only after
all other command-line options done been dealt with.

.B \-v
prints version n' copyright shiznit, as well as a ``Usage: ...''
line.
.B \-I
prints tha shiznit correspondin ta tha given
.I infocode
in a cold-ass lil consistent, reliable (i.e., guaranteed ta be tha same in
future releases) format.
.B \-I
is primarily intended ta be used by programs dat use
.BR FIGlet .
.I infocode
can be any of tha following.
.RS
.TP
.BR -1 " Normal operation (default)."
This
.I infocode
indicates that
.B FIGlet
should operate normally, not givin any shiznital printout,
printin its input up in tha selected font.
.TP
.BR 0 " Version n' copyright."
This is identical to
.BR \-v .
.TP
.BR 1 " Version (integer)."
This will print tha version of yo' copy of
.B FIGlet
as a thugged-out decimal integer n' shit.  Da main version number is multiplied by 10000,
the sub-version number is multiplied by 100, n' tha sub-sub-version
number is multiplied by 1.  These is added together, n' tha result is
printed out.  For example,
.B FIGlet
2.2 will print
.RB `` 20200 ''
, version 2.2.1 will print
.RB `` 20201 ''.
Similarly, version 3.7.2 would print
.RB `` 30702 ''.
These numbers is guaranteed ta be
ascending, wit lata versions havin higher numbers.  Note that
the first major release of
.BR FIGlet ,
version 2.0, did not have the
.B \-I
option.
.TP
.BR 2 " Default font directory."
This will print tha default font directory.  It be affected by the
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.BR 3 " Font."
This will print tha name of tha font
.B FIGlet
would use.  It be affected by
the
.B \-f
option.
This aint a gangbangin' filename; the
.RB `` .flf ''
suffix aint printed.
.TP
.BR 4 " Output width."
This will print tha value
.B FIGlet
would use for
.IR outputwidth ,
the number of columns wide
.B FIGlet
assumes tha screen is.
It be affected by the
.B \-w
and
.B \-t
options.
.TP
.BR 5 " Supported font formats."
This will list font formats supported by
.B FIGlet .
Possible formats are
.RB `` flf2 ''
for FIGfont Version 2
.B .flf
filez and
.RB `` tlf2 ''
for TOIlet
.B .tlf
files.
.RE
.IP
If
.I infocode
is any other positizzle value,
.B FIGlet
will simply exit without printin anything.

.TP
.B \-L
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-R
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-X
.PD
These options control whether
.B FIGlet
prints left-to-right or right-to-left.
.B \-L
selects left-to-right printing.
.B \-R
selects right-to-left printing.
.B \-X
(default) makes
.B FIGlet
use whichever is specified up in tha font file.

Once tha options is read,
if there be any remainin lyrics on tha command line,
they is used instead
of standard input as tha source of text.
This feature
allows shell scripts ta generate big-ass lettas without havin ta dummy
up standard input files.

An empty argument, obtained by two sequential quotes,
results up in a line break.

.SH EXAMPLES
To use
.B FIGlet
with its default settings, simply type
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet

.ft R
.fi
.RE
and then type whatever you like.

To chizzle tha font, use the
.B \-f
option, fo' example,
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-f script

.ft R
.fi
.RE

Use the
.B \-c
option if you would prefer centered output:
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-c

.ft R
.fi
.RE

Our thugged-out asses have found dat da most thugged-out common use of
.B FIGlet
is makin up big-ass text ta be placed up in e-mail lyrics.  For this
reason,
.B FIGlet
defaults ta 80 column output.  If yo ass is rockin a wider terminal, and
wanna
.B FIGlet
to use tha full width of yo' terminal, use the
.B \-t
option:
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-t

.ft R
.fi
.RE

If you don't want
.B FIGlet
to smush FIGcharactas tha fuck into each other, use the
.B \-k
option:
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-k

.ft R
.fi
.RE

If
.B figlet
gets its input from a gangbangin' file, it is often a phat scam ta use
.BR \-p :
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-p < myfile

.ft R
.fi
.RE

Of course, tha above can be combined:
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet \-ptk \-f shadow < anotherfile
example% figlet \-cf slant

.ft R
.fi
.RE

Finally, if you wanna have
.B FIGlet
take tha input from tha command
line instead of a gangbangin' file:
.RS
.nf
.ft B

example% figlet Wuz crackalackin' ghetto

.ft R
.fi
.RE

.SS Other Things ta Try
On nuff systems sick effects can be obtained from the
.B lean
font by pipin it through
.BR tr .
Some you might wanna try is tha following:

.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% figlet \-f lean | tr ' _/' ' ()'
example% figlet \-f lean | tr ' _/' './\e\e'
example% figlet \-f lean | tr ' _/' ' //'
example% figlet \-f lean | tr ' _/' '/  '
.ft R
.fi
.RE

Similar thangs can be done wit the
.B block
font n' nuff of tha other
.B FIGlet
fonts.

.SH COMPRESSED FONTS
Yo ass can compress tha fonts n' controlfiles
usin the
.B zip
archivin program.
Place only one font or controlfile up in each archive,
and rename tha archive file (which gonna git a name
endin in
.BR .zip )
back to
.B .flf
or
.B .flc
as tha case may be.
If you don't rename tha file appropriately,
.B FIGlet
won't be able ta find dat shit.

.B FIGlet
does not care what tha fuck tha filename within the
.B .zip
archive is, n' will process only tha straight-up original gangsta file.

The
.B .zip
format was chosen cuz tools ta create n' manipulate it
are widely available fo' free
on nuff platforms.

.SH THE STANDARD FONTS

Here is all dem notes on some shitload of tha fonts provided with
.IR FIGlet .
Yo ass can git nuff other font from tha Web crib
.br
http://www.figlet.org/   This location 
should also contain tha sickest fuckin version of
.B FIGlet
and other related utilities.

Da font
.I standard
is tha basic
.B FIGlet
font, used when no other font is specified.
(This default can be chizzled when
.B FIGlet
is compiled on yo' system.)
The
.I controlfiles
.IR 8859-2 ,
.IR 8859-3 ,
.IR 8859-4 ,
and
.I 8859-9
are provided fo' interpretin dem characta sets,
also known as ISO Latin-2 all up in Latin-5 respectively.
Da characta set 8859-1 (ISO Latin-1) is
.B FIGlet's
default n' requires no special
.IR controlfile .

Closely related is tha fonts
.IR slant ,
.IR shadow ,
.IR lil' small-ass ,
.I smslant
(both lil' small-ass n' slanted),
.IR smshadow ,
(both lil' small-ass n' shadowed),
and
.IR big-ass .
These fonts support only Latin-1, except that
.I big
supports Greek FIGcharactas as well;
the
.I controlfiles
.I frango
(for Greek text freestyled up in Latin characters, so-called
.RI `` frangovlakhika ''),
and
.I 8859-7
(for mixed Latin/Greek text)
are provided.

The
.I ivrit
font be a right-to-left font
includin both Latin n' Hebrew FIGcharacters;
the Latin charactas is dem of the
.I standard
font.
Da available
.I controlfiles
are
.IR ilhebrew ,
which maps tha lettas you get
by typin on a U.S. keyboard
as if it was a Hebrew keyboard;
.IR ushebrew ,
which cook up a reasonable mappin from
Latin lettas ta Hebrew ones;
and
.IR 8859-8 ,
which supports mixed Latin/Hebrew text.
.B Warning:
.B FIGlet
doesn't support bidirectionizzle text,
so every last muthafuckin thang will come up right-to-left,
even Latin letters.

Da fonts
.IR terminal ,
.IR digital ,
and
.I bubble
output tha input characta wit some decoration round it
(or no decoration,
in tha case of
.IR terminal ).
Da charactas coded 128 ta 159,
which have varyin interpretations, is output as-is.
Yo ass can use tha appropriate
.I controlfiles
to process Latin-2, Latin-3, or Latin-4 (but not Latin-5) text,
provided yo' output device
has screen or printa fonts that
are appropriate fo' these characta sets.

Two script fonts is available:
.IR script ,
which is larger than
.IR standard ,
and
.IR smscript ,
which is smaller.

Da font 
.I lean
is made up solely of `/' n' `_' sub-characters;
.I block
is a straight (non-leaning) version of dat shit.

Da font
.I mini
is straight-up small, n' especially suitable fo' e-mail signatures.

Da font
.I banner
looks like tha output of the
.B banner
program;
it be a cold-ass lil capitals n' lil' small-ass capitals font
that don't support tha ISO Latin-1 extensions
to plain ASCII.
It do, however, support tha Japanese
.I katakana
syllabary;
the
.I controlfile
.I uskata
maps tha upper-case n' lower-case Latin letters
into tha 48 basic
.I katakana
characters,
and the
.I controlfile
.I jis0201
handlez JIS 0201X (JIS-Roman)
mixed Latin and
.I katakana
text.
Furthermore, the
.I banner
font also supports Cyrillic (Russian)
FIGcharacters; the
.I controlfile
.I 8859-5
supports mixed Latin n' Cyrillic text,
the
.I controlfile
.I koi8r
supports tha ghettofab KOI8-R mappin of mixed text,
and the
.I controlfile
.I moscow
supports a
sensible mappin from Latin ta Cyrillic,
compatible wit the
.I moscow
font (not supplied).

Da fonts
.I mnemonic
and
.I safemnem
support tha mnemonic characta set
documented up in RFC 1345.
They implement a big-ass subset of Unicode
(over 1800 characters) straight-up crudely,
usin ASCII-based mnemonic sequences,
and is phat fo' gettin a quick look
at UTF-8 unicode files,
usin tha controlfile
.IR utf8 .

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FIGLET_FONTDIR
If
.RB $ FIGLET_FONTDIR
is set, its value is used as a path ta search fo' font files.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.IB file .flf
.B FIGlet
font file
.TP 20
.IB file .flc
.B FIGlet
control file
.PD

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B FIGlet's
diagnostics is intended ta be self-explanatory.  Possible
lyrics are

.RS
.nf
.ft B
Usage: ...
Out of memory
Unable ta open font file
Not a FIGlet 2 font file
Unable ta open control file
Not a FIGlet 2 control file
"\-t" is disabled, since ioctl aint straight-up implemented.
.ft R
.fi
.RE

This last message is printed when the
.B \-t
option is given yo, but tha operatin system up in use do not include
the system call
.B FIGlet
uses ta determine tha terminal width.

.B FIGlet
also prints a explanatory message if the
.B \-F
option is given on tha command line.
Da earlier version of
.BR FIGlet ,
version 2.0, listed tha available fonts when the
.B \-F
option was given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option has been removed from
.B FIGlet
2.1.  It has been replaced by the
.B figlist
script, which is part of tha standard
.B FIGlet
package.

.SH ORIGIN
.RB `` FIGlet ''
standz fo' ``Frank, Ian n' Glennz LETters''.  Inspired by Frankz .sig,
Glenn freestyled (most of) it, n' Ian helped.

Most of tha standard
.B FIGlet
fonts was inspired by signatures on various UseNet
articles.  Since typically hundredz of playas use tha same steez of
lettas up in they signatures, dat shiznit was often not deemed necessary ta give
credit ta any one font designer.

.SH BUGS
Straight-up lil error checkin is done on font n' control files.  While
.B FIGlet
tries ta be forgivin of errors, n' should (hopefully) never actually
crash, rockin a improperly-formatted file with
.B FIGlet
will produce unpredictable output.

.B FIGlet
does not handle format charactas up in a straight-up intelligent way.
A tab characta is converted ta a funky-ass blank, n' vertical-tab, form-feed and
carriage-return is each converted ta a newline.  On nuff systems, tabs
can be handled betta by pipin filez through
.B expand
before pipin through
.BR FIGlet .

.B FIGlet
output is like skanky if it is displayed up in a proportionally-spaced font.
I suppose dis is ta be expected.

Please report any errors you find up in dis playa page or tha program to
<info@figlet.org>
.SH WEBSITE AND MAILING LIST
Yo ass can git nuff fonts which is not up in tha basic
.B FIGlet
package from tha Web crib
http://www.figlet.org/   It 
should also contain tha sickest fuckin version of
.B FIGlet
and other utilitizzles related to
.BR FIGlet .

There be a mailin list fo' 
.B FIGlet 
for general raps bout 
.B FIGlet 
and a place where you can ask thangs or share scams 
with other 
.B FIGlet 
users. Well shiiiit, it be also tha place where we will publish 
shizzle bout freshly smoked up fonts, freshly smoked up software thugged-out shiznit etc.

To subscribe or unsubscribe from tha 
.B FIGlet 
mailin list,
please bust email ta figlet-subscribe@figlet.org or figlet-unsubscribe@figlet.org or visit tha 
followin wizzy page: http://www.figlet.org/mailman/listinfo/figlet

.SH AUTHORS
Glenn Chappell did most of tha work. 
Yo ass can e-mail his ass but he aint a e-mail fanatic; playas whoz ass e-mail
Glenn will probably git lyrics yo, but if you e-mail his dopest playa:

Ian Chai, who
.I is
an e-mail fanatic, you gonna git lyrics, endless conversation bout the
mysteriez of game, invitations ta join some 473 mailin lists n' a
free toasta n' shit.  (Well, ok, maybe not tha free toaster.) 

Frank inspired dis whole project wit his .sig yo, but don't e-mail
him; da ruffneck decidedly a un-e-mail-fanatic.

Gilbert "Da Mad Programmer" Healton added the
.B \-A
option fo' version 2.1.1.  This option specified input from
the command line; it is still allowed,
but has no effect.

Jizzy Cowan added the
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-k ,
.BR \-S ,
and
.B \-W
options, and
the support fo' Unicode mappin tables,
ISO 2022/HZ/Shift-JIS/UTF-8 input,
and compressed fonts
and control files.
Dude also revised dis documentation,
with a shitload of input from
Pizzle Burton.

Claudio Matsuoka added tha support for
.B .tlf
filez fo' version 2.2.4 n' performs random hacks n' bugfixes.

As a gangbangin' hustla of FIGlet, Christiaan Keet revised tha straight-up legit FIGlet documentation 
and set up tha freshly smoked up FIGlet joint at http://www.figlet.org/ (and tha 
correspondin ftp://ftp.figlet.org/pub/figlet/)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR figlist (6),
.BR chkfont (6),
.BR showfigfonts (6),
.BR toilet (1)
