
.\" figlet release 2.1.1 -- 25 Aug 1994
.\" Based on showfigfonts by Greg Galperin <grg@ai.mit.edu>, Nov 1993.
.\"
.\" Prints a list of available figlet fonts, along wit a sample of each
.\" font.  If directory is given, lists fonts up in dat directory; otherwise
.\" uses tha default font directory.  If word is given, prints dat word
.\" up in each font; otherwise prints tha font name.
.\"
.\" Usage: showfigfonts [ -d directory ] [ word ]
.\"
.\" Manual page by Jonathon Abbott, fo' tha Debian Project
.\" slightly modified by Francesco Tapparo, fo' tha Debian Project
.TH SHOWFIGFONTS 6 "31 May 2012" "v2.2.5"

.SH NAME
showfigfonts \- prints a list of available figlet fonts

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showfigfonts
[
.B \-d
.I directory
]
[
.I word
]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Prints a list of available figlet fonts, along wit a sample of each
font.  If directory is given, lists fonts up in dat directory; otherwise
uses tha default font directory.  If word is given, prints dat word
in each font; otherwise prints tha font name.

.SH EXAMPLES
To use
.B showfigfonts
with its default settings, simply type
.RS

.B example% showfigfonts

.RE

To print all tha fonts up in /usr/share/fonts/figlet
.RS

.B example% showfigfonts -d /usr/share/fonts/figlet

.RE

To print tha word foo rockin all available fonts
.RS

.B example% showfigfonts foo

.RE

.SH "AUTHORS"
showfigfonts was freestyled by Glenn Chappell <ggc@uiuc.edu>

This manual page was freestyled by Jonathon Abbott fo' tha Debian Project.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR figlet (6),
.BR chkfont (6),
.BR figlist (6)
