
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 3,
.\" or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\"with dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.TH SOL 6 "March 22, 2007" "AisleRiot"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME
AisleRiot \- a cold-ass lil collection of card game which is easy as fuck  ta fuck wit tha aid of a mouse.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sol
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B sol
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For mo' shiznit, please refer ta tha pimpin GNOME help for
.B AisleRiot

.PP
.B AisleRiot
(also known as 
.BR Solitaire " or " sol )
is a cold-ass lil collection of card game which is easy as fuck  ta fuck wit tha aid of a mouse.
Da rulez fo' tha game done been coded fo' yo' pleasure up in tha GNOME
scriptin language (Scheme). Well shiiiit, it is part of the
.I gnome-games
package.

Da followin game can be selected from within tha program, or by rockin a cold-ass lil command line switch:

.RS
Peek, Auld Lang Syne, Fortunes, Seahaven, Mackdaddy Albert, First Law, Straight Up,
Jumbo, Accordion, Ten Across, Plait, Lady Jane, Gypsy, Neighbor, Jamestown,
Osmosis, Mackdaddys Audience, Glenwood, Gay Gordons, Monte Carlo, Kansas, Camelot,
Fourteen, Scorpion, Isabel, Escalator, Agnes, Bristol, Quatorze, Bear River,
Gold Mine, Athena, Spiderette, Chessboard, Backbone, Yukon, Union Square,
Eight Off, Napoleons Tomb, Forty Thieves, Streets And Alleys, Maze, Clock,
Pileon, Canfield, Thirteen, Bakers Game, Triple Peaks, Easthaven, Terrace,
Aunt Mary, Carpet, Sir Tommy, Diamond Mine, Yield, Labyrinth, Thieves,
Saratoga, Wack, Block Ten, Will O Da Wisp, Odessa, Eagle Wing, Treize, Zebra,
Cover, Elevator, Fortress, Giant, Spider, Gaps, Bakers Dozen, Whitehead,
Freecell, Helsinki, Spider Three Decks, Scuffle, Poker, Klondike Three Decks,
Valentine, Royal East, Thumb And Pouch, Klondike, Doublets, Template, Golf,
Westhaven, Beleaguered Castle, Hopscotch, Eliminator, Aunt Mary
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
AisleRiot accepts tha followin options, besides tha usual Gtk+/GNOME
switches:
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-variation=NAME
Select tha game ta play
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
X display ta use

.SH USAGE
This text is taken verbatim from tha AisleRiot Manual V2.12.

Movin tha cardz is reasonably obvious fo' realz. Assumin you gotz a right-handed mouse,
left-click on a cold-ass lil card n' drag it somewhere, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. Release tha mouse button ta deposit
the card.
 
If a cold-ass lil card can be moved ta tha foundation(s), you do not need ta drag dat shit. You
can double-click on it n' it will move. If a sequence of cardz can be moved to
the foundations, you can generally move tha sequence as one move.

Double clickin a cold-ass lil card will bust it ta a gangbangin' foundation, if dat is possible. This
is useful fo' cleanin up big-ass numberz of cardz all up in tha end of a successful
game.

In game which gotz a stock pile you can redeal it by clickin on tha empty
space where it was. Be warned dat some game only let you do dis a limited
number of time. Watch fo' tha Redeals Left message all up in tha bottom of the
window.
 
A useful tip ta know is dat right-clickin on a gangbangin' face-up card which is
partially obscured by a cold-ass lil card laid over it will raise it so dat you can see
what it is.
 
There be a alternatizzle way ta move cards. By selecting
.B Click ta move
from tha 
.B Control
menu you can click once ta pick up a cold-ass lil card n' then click again n' again n' again ta place dat shit.
This can be fasta than draggin n' is ghon be easier on yo' hand since you
don't gotta hold tha mouse down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it may take a while ta git used to.
 
Some game have options ta chizzle tha way tha game is played. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For example
Klondike can be played wit either single card deals or three-card deals. In
these game there be a separate menu wit tha gamez name. Yo ass can only chizzle
the rulez of tha game all up in tha beginnin of tha game -- tha menu will be
inactizzle durin tha game.

Statistics on how tha fuck well you have done at a particular game is available by
selecting
.B Statistics
from tha Game menu fo'sho. Only game where you straight-up start movin cardz are
counted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da statistics is here fo' yo' own enjoyment, there be a shitload of
ways ta cheat n' it is unwise ta make comparisons.

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://www.gnome.org/projects/gnome-games/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Martin Ferrari <martin.ferrari@gmail.com>,
for tha Debian system (but may be used by others).
Yo ass can find tha list of authors n' mo' shiznit bout AisleRiot in
.IR /usr/share/doc/gnome-game .
