.TH  "abrt_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "abrt" "SELinux Policy abrt"
.SH "NAME"
abrt_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha abrt processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha abrt processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da abrt processes execute wit tha abrt_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep abrt_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da abrt_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBabrt_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha abrt_t domain is tha following:

/usr/sbin/abrt-harvest.*, /usr/sbin/abrtd, /usr/sbin/abrt-dbus, /usr/sbin/abrt-install-ccpp-hook
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux abrt policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they abrt processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' abrt:

.EX
.B abrt_handle_event_t, abrt_helper_t, abrt_retrace_coredump_t, abrt_t, abrt_retrace_worker_t, abrt_upload_watch_t, abrt_dump_oops_t, abrt_watch_log_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a abrt_t
can be used ta make tha process type abrt_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  abrt policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run abrt wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow ABRT ta run up in abrt_handle_event_t domain ta handle ABRT event scripts, you must turn on tha abrt_handle_event boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_handle_event 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta write corefilez ta /, you must turn on tha daemons_dump_core boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_dump_core 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable clusta mode fo' daemons, you must turn on tha daemons_enable_cluster_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_enable_cluster_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta use tcp wrappers, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tcp_wrapper boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tcp_wrapper 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons tha mobilitizzle ta read/write terminals, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tty boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha abrt_helper_t, abrt_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha abrt_helper_t, abrt_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type abrt_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B abrt_etc_t

	/etc/abrt(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B abrt_tmp_t


.br
.B abrt_upload_watch_tmp_t


.br
.B abrt_var_cache_t

	/var/tmp/abrt(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/abrt(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/abrt(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/debug(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/abrt-di(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/rhsm/debug(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B abrt_var_log_t

	/var/log/abrt-logger.*
.br

.br
.B abrt_var_run_t

	/var/run/abrt(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/abrtd?\.lock
.br
	/var/run/abrtd?\.socket
.br
	/var/run/abrt\.pid
.br

.br
.B cluster_conf_t

	/etc/cluster(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pcsd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cluster(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openais(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pengine(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/corosync(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pacemaker(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_run_t

	/var/run/crm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cman_.*
.br
	/var/run/rsctmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/aisexec.*
.br
	/var/run/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cpglockd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/corosync\.pid
.br
	/var/run/rgmanager\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cluster/rgmanager\.sk
.br

.br
.B mock_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/mock(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B public_content_rw_t

	/var/spool/abrt-upload(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B root_t

	/
.br
	/initrd
.br

.br
.B rpm_log_t

	/var/log/yum\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/up2date.*
.br

.br
.B rpm_var_cache_t

	/var/cache/yum(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/dnf(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/up2date(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/PackageKit(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B rpm_var_run_t

	/var/run/yum.*
.br
	/var/run/PackageKit(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B sysfs_t

	/sys(/.*)?
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux abrt policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they abrt processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
abrt policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/cache/abrt directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/cache/abrt /srv/abrt
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/abrt
.PP

.PP
abrt policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/spool/abrt directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/spool/abrt /srv/abrt
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/abrt
.PP

.PP
abrt policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/run/abrt directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/abrt /srv/abrt
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/abrt
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha abrt, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t abrt_dump_oops_exec_t '/srv/abrt/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myabrt_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' abrt:


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_dump_oops_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_dump_oops_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_dump_oops_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/bin/abrt-dump-.*, /usr/bin/abrt-uefioops-oops

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_etc_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_etc_t type, if you wanna store abrt filez up in tha /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/sbin/abrt-harvest.*, /usr/sbin/abrtd, /usr/sbin/abrt-dbus, /usr/sbin/abrt-install-ccpp-hook

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_handle_event_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_handle_event_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_handle_event_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_helper_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_helper_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_helper_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_initrc_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_initrc_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_retrace_cache_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_retrace_cache_t type, if you wanna store tha filez under tha /var/cache directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/cache/abrt-retrace(/.*)?, /var/cache/retrace-server(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_retrace_coredump_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_retrace_coredump_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_retrace_coredump_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_retrace_spool_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_retrace_spool_t type, if you wanna store tha abrt retrace filez under tha /var/spool directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/spool/faf(/.*)?, /var/spool/abrt-retrace(/.*)?, /var/spool/retrace-server(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_retrace_worker_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_retrace_worker_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_retrace_worker_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/bin/abrt-retrace-worker, /usr/bin/retrace-server-worker

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_tmp_t type, if you wanna store abrt temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_unit_file_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as abrt unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_upload_watch_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_upload_watch_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_upload_watch_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_upload_watch_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_upload_watch_tmp_t type, if you wanna store abrt upload peep temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_var_cache_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_var_cache_t type, if you wanna store tha filez under tha /var/cache directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/tmp/abrt(/.*)?, /var/cache/abrt(/.*)?, /var/spool/abrt(/.*)?, /var/spool/debug(/.*)?, /var/cache/abrt-di(/.*)?, /var/spool/rhsm/debug(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_var_lib_t type, if you wanna store tha abrt filez under tha /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_var_log_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_var_log_t type, if you wanna treat tha data as abrt var log data, probably stored under tha /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B abrt_var_run_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_var_run_t type, if you wanna store tha abrt filez under tha /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/abrt(/.*)?, /var/run/abrtd?\.lock, /var/run/abrtd?\.socket, /var/run/abrt\.pid

.EX
.PP
.B abrt_watch_log_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha abrt_watch_log_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha abrt_watch_log_t domain.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow abrt servers ta read tha /var/abrt directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/abrt(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/abrt
.pp
.TP
Allow abrt servers ta read n' write /var/abrt/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha abrt_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/abrt/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/abrt/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P abrt_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna allow ABRT ta modify hood filez used fo' hood file transfer skillz., you must turn on tha abrt_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), abrt(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), abrt_dump_oops_selinux(8), abrt_dump_oops_selinux(8), abrt_handle_event_selinux(8), abrt_handle_event_selinux(8), abrt_helper_selinux(8), abrt_helper_selinux(8), abrt_retrace_coredump_selinux(8), abrt_retrace_coredump_selinux(8), abrt_retrace_worker_selinux(8), abrt_retrace_worker_selinux(8), abrt_upload_watch_selinux(8), abrt_upload_watch_selinux(8), abrt_watch_log_selinux(8), abrt_watch_log_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
