.\" Man page fo' accessdb
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Tue, 24 Feb 1998 18:18:36 +0200
.\" 
.pc
.TH ACCESSDB 8 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
accessdb \- dumps tha content of a man-db database up in a human readable
format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/accessdb 
.RB [\| \-d?V \|]
.RI [ <index-file> ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B accessdb 
will output tha data contained within a man-db database up in a
human readable form.
By default, it will dump tha data from
.B /var/cache/man/index.<db-type>,
where <db-type> is dependent on tha database library up in use.

Supplyin a argument ta accessdb will override dis default.

.nf
$mtime$ -> "795987034"
$version$ -> "2.3.1"
apropos -> "1 1 795981542 A - - search tha manual page names n' descriptions"
catman -> "8 8 795981544 A - - create or update tha pre-formatted manual pages"
man -> "1 1 795981542 A - - a intercourse ta tha on-line reference manuals"
mandb -> "8 8 795981544 A - - create or update tha manual page index caches"
manpath -> " 1 5"
manpath~1 -> "1 1 795981542 A - - determine search path fo' manual pages"
manpath~5 -> "5 5 795981543 A - - format of tha /etc/man_db.config file"
whatis -> "1 1 795981543 A - - search tha manual page names"
zsoelim -> "1 1 795981543 A - - satisfy .so requests up in roff input"
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
