.TH AGETTY 8 "May 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
agetty \- alternatizzle Linux getty

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agetty
.RB [ options ]
.I port
.RI [ baud_rate ...]
.RI [ term ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBagetty\fP opens a tty port, prompts fo' a login name n' invokes
the /bin/login command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It be normally invoked by \fBinit\fP(8).

\fBagetty\fP has nuff muthafuckin \fInon-standard\fP features dat is useful
for hardwired n' fo' dial-in lines:
.IP \(bu
Adapts tha tty settings ta paritizzle bits n' ta erase, kill,
end-of-line n' uppercase charactas when it readz a login name.
Da program can handle 7-bit charactas wit even, odd, none or space
parity, n' 8-bit charactas wit no parity. Da followin special
charactas is recognized: Control-U (kill); DEL and
backspace (erase); carriage return n' line feed (end of line).
See also tha \fB\-\-erase-chars\fP n' \fB\-\-kill-chars\fP options.
.IP \(bu
Optionally deduces tha baud rate from tha CONNECT lyrics produced by
Hayes(tm)-compatible modems.
.IP \(bu
Optionally do not hang up when it is given a already opened line
(useful fo' call-back applications).
.IP \(bu
Optionally do not display tha contentz of tha \fI/etc/issue\fP file.
.IP \(bu
Optionally displays a alternatizzle issue file instead of \fI/etc/issue\fP.
.IP \(bu
Optionally do not ask fo' a login name.
.IP \(bu
Optionally invokes a non-standard login program instead of
\fI/bin/login\fP.
.IP \(bu
Optionally turns on hardware flow control
.IP \(bu
Optionally forces tha line ta be local wit no need fo' carrier detect.
.PP
This program do not use tha \fI/etc/gettydefs\fP (System V) or
\fI/etc/gettytab\fP (SunOS 4) files.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
.TP
port
A path name relatizzle ta tha \fI/dev\fP directory. If a "\-" is
specified, \fBagetty\fP assumes dat its standard input is
already connected ta a tty port n' dat a cold-ass lil connection ta a
remote user has already been established.
.sp
Under System V, a "\-" \fIport\fP argument should be preceded
by a "\-\-".
.TP
baud_rate,...
A comma-separated list of one or mo' baud rates. Each time
\fBagetty\fP receives a BREAK characta it advances through
the list, which is treated as if it was circular.
.sp
Baud rates should be specified up in descendin order, so dat the
null characta (Ctrl\-@) can also be used fo' baud-rate switching.
.sp
This argument is optionizzle n' unnecessary fo' virtual terminals.
Da default fo' serial terminals is '9600'.
.TP
term
Da value ta be used fo' tha TERM environment variable. This overrides
whatever init(8) may have set, n' is inherited by login n' tha shell.
.sp
Da default is 'vt100', or 'linux' fo' Linux on a virtual terminal,
or 'hurd' fo' GNU Hurd on a virtual terminal.
.SH OPTIONS
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
.TP
\-8, \-\-8bits
Assume dat tha tty is 8-bit clean, hence disable paritizzle detection.
.TP
\-a, \-\-autologin \fIusername\fP
Log tha specified user automatically up in without askin fo' a login name and
password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \-f \fIusername\fP option be added ta tha \fB/bin/login\fP
command line by default. Da \-\-login-options option chizzlez dis default
behaviour n' then only \\u is replaced by tha \fIusername\fP n' no other
option be added ta tha login command line.
.TP
\-c, \-\-noreset
Don't reset terminal cflags (control modes).  See \fBtermios\fP(3) fo' more
details.
.TP
\-E, \-\-remote
If a \fB\-H\fP \fIfakehost\fP option is given, then a \fB\-r\fP
\fIfakehost\fP option be added ta tha \fB/bin/login\fP command line.
.TP
\-f, \-\-issue\-file \fIissue_file\fP
Display tha contentz of \fIissue_file\fP instead of \fI/etc/issue\fP.
This allows custom lyrics ta be displayed on different terminals.
Da \-i option will override dis option.
.TP
\-h, \-\-flow\-control
Enable hardware (RTS/CTS) flow control. Well shiiiit, it is left up ta the
application ta disable software (XON/XOFF) flow protocol where
appropriate.
.TP
\-H, \-\-host \fIlogin_host\fP
Write tha specified \fIlogin_host\fP tha fuck into tha utmp file.  (Normally,
no login host is given, since \fBagetty\fP is used fo' local hardwired
connections n' consoles. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis option can be useful for
identifyin terminal concentrators n' tha like.)
.TP
\-i, \-\-noissue
Do not display tha contentz of \fI/etc/issue\fP (or other) before freestylin the
login prompt. Terminals or communications hardware may become confused
when receivin fuckin shitloadz of text all up in tha wack baud rate; dial-up scripts
may fail if tha login prompt is preceded by too much text.
.TP
\-I, \-\-init\-strin \fIinitstring\fP
Set a initial strang ta be busted ta tha tty or modem before sending
anythang else.  This may be used ta initialize a modem.  Non-printable
charactas may be busted by freestylin they octal code preceded by a
backslash (\\).  For example, ta bust a linefeed characta (ASCII 10,
octal 012), write \\012.
.PP
.TP
\-l, \-\-login\-program \fIlogin_program\fP
Invoke tha specified \fIlogin_program\fP instead of /bin/login.
This allows tha use of a non-standard login program (for example,
one dat asks fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dial-up password or dat uses a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
password file).
.TP
\-L, \-\-local\-line[=\fImode\fP]
Control tha CLOCAL line flag.  Da optionizzle \fImode\fP argument is 'auto', 'always' or 'never'.
If tha \fImode\fP argument is omitted, then tha default is 'always'.  If the
\-\-local\-line option aint given at all, then tha default is 'auto'.

Da \fImode\fP 'always' forces tha line ta be a local line wit no need fo' carrier detect.
This can be useful when you gotz a locally attached terminal where tha serial line
does not set tha carrier-detect signal.

Da \fImode\fP 'never' explicitly clears tha CLOCAL flag from tha line settin and
the carrier-detect signal is expected on tha line.

Da \fImode\fP 'auto' (agetty default) do not modify tha CLOCAL setting
and bigs up tha settin enabled by tha kernel.
.TP
\-m, \-\-extract\-baud
Try ta extract tha baud rate from tha CONNECT status message
produced by Hayes(tm)\-compatible modems. These status
lyrics iz of tha form: "<junk><speed><junk>".
\fBagetty\fP assumes dat tha modem emits its status message at
the same speed as specified wit (the first) \fIbaud_rate\fP value
on tha command line.
.sp
Since tha \fB\-m\fP feature may fail on heavily-loaded systems,
you still should enable BREAK processin by enumeratin all
expected baud rates on tha command line.
.TP 
\-n, \-\-skip\-login
Do not prompt tha user fo' a login name. This can be used in
connection wit tha \fB\-l\fP option ta invoke a non-standard login process such
as a BBS system. Note dat wit tha \-n option, \fBagetty\fR gets no input from
the user whoz ass logs up in n' therefore won't be able ta figure up parity,
characta size, n' newline processin of tha connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it defaults ta 
space parity, 7 bit characters, n' ASCII CR (13) end-of-line character.
Beware dat tha program dat \fBagetty\fR starts (usually /bin/login)
is run as root.
.TP
\-o, \-\-login\-options "\fIlogin_options\fP"
Options  dat  is passed ta tha login program.  \\u is replaced
by tha login name. Da default \fB/bin/login\fP command line
is "/bin/login -- <username>".

Please read tha SECURITY NOTICE below if you wanna use all dis bullshit.
.TP
\-p, \-\-login\-pause
Wait fo' any key before droppin ta tha login prompt.  Can be combined
with \fB\-\-autologin\fP ta save memory by lazily spawnin shells.
.TP
\-r, \-\-chroot \fIdirectory\fP
Change root ta tha specified directory.
.TP
\-R, \-\-hangup
Call vhangup() ta do a virtual hangup of tha specified terminal.
.TP
\-s, \-\-keep\-baud
Try ta keep tha existin baud rate. Da baud rates from
the command line is used when agetty receives a BREAK character.
.TP
\-t, \-\-timeout \fItimeout\fP
Terminizzle if no user name could be read within \fItimeout\fP
seconds.  This option should probably not be used wit hardwired
lines.
.TP
\-U, \-\-detect\-case
Turn on support fo' detectin a uppercase-only terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  This setting
will detect a login name containin only capitals as indicatin an
uppercase-only terminal n' turn on some upper-to-lower case conversions.
Note dat dis has no support fo' any Unicode characters.
.TP
\-w, \-\-wait\-cr
Wait fo' tha user or tha modem ta bust a cold-ass lil carriage-return or a
linefeed characta before bustin  tha \fI/etc/issue\fP (or other) file
and tha login prompt. Straight-up useful up in connection wit tha \-I option.
.TP
\-\-noclear
Do not clear tha screen before promptin fo' tha login name
(the screen is normally cleared).
.TP
\-\-nohints
Do not print hints bout Num, Caps n' Scroll Locks.
.TP
\-\-nonewline
Do not print a newline before freestylin up /etc/issue.
.TP
\-\-nohostname
By default tha hostname is ghon be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  With dis option enabled,
no hostname at all is ghon be shown.
.TP
\-\-long\-hostname
By default tha hostname is only printed until tha straight-up original gangsta dot.  With
this option enabled, tha straight-up qualified hostname by gethostname()
or (if not found) by getaddrinfo() is shown.
.TP
\-\-erase\-chars \fIstring\fP
This option specifies additionizzle charactas dat should be interpreted as a
backspace ("ignore tha previous character") when tha user types tha login name.
Da default additionizzle \'erase\' has been \'#\' yo, but since util-linux 2.23
no additionizzle erase charactas is enabled by default.
.TP
\-\-kill\-chars \fIstring\fP
This option specifies additionizzle charactas dat should be interpreted as a
kill ("ignore all previous characters") when tha user types tha login name.
Da default additionizzle \'kill\' has been \'@\' yo, but since util-linux 2.23
no additionizzle bust a cap up in charactas is enabled by default.
.TP
\-\-version
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\-\-help
Display help text n' exit.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
This section shows examplez fo' tha process field of a entry up in the
\fI/etc/inittab\fP file.  You'll gotta prepend appropriate joints
for tha other fields.  See \fIinittab(5)\fP fo' mo' details.

For a hardwired line or a cold-ass lil console tty:

.RS
/sbin/agetty 9600 ttyS1
.RE

For a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directly connected terminal without proper carrier-detect wiring
(try dis if yo' terminal just chills instead of givin you a password:
prompt):

.RS
/sbin/agetty \-L 9600 ttyS1 vt100
.RE

For a old-style dial-in line wit a 9600/2400/1200 baud modem:

.RS
/sbin/agetty \-mt60 ttyS1 9600,2400,1200
.RE

For a Hayes modem wit a gangbangin' fixed 115200 bps intercourse ta tha machine
(the example init strang turns off modem echo n' result codes, makes
modem/computa DCD track modem/modem DCD, cook up a DTR drop cause a 
disconnection, n' turns on auto-answer afta 1 ring):

.RS
/sbin/agetty \-w \-I 'ATE0Q1&D2&C1S0=1\\015' 115200 ttyS1
.RE

.SH SECURITY NOTICE
If you use tha \fB\-\-login\-program\fP n' \fB\-\-login\-options\fP options,
be aware dat a malicious user may try ta enta lognames wit embedded options,
which then git passed ta tha used login program fo' realz. Agetty do check
for a leadin "\-" n' make shizzle tha logname gets passed as one parameter
(so embedded spaces aint gonna create yet another parameter) yo, but depending
on how tha fuck tha login binary parses tha command line dat might not be sufficient.
Peep dat tha used login program can not be played dis way.
.PP
Some  programs use "\-\-" ta indicate dat tha rest of tha commandline should
not be interpreted as options. Use dis feature if available by passin "\-\-"
before tha username gets passed by \\u.

.SH ISSUE ESCAPES
Da issue-file (\fI/etc/issue\fP or tha file set wit tha \fB\-f\fP option)
may contain certain escape codes ta display tha system name, date, time
etcetera.  All escape codes consist of a funky-ass backslash (\\) immediately
followed by one of tha lettas explained below.

.TP
4 or 4{interface}
Insert tha IPv4 address of tha machine hostname or IPv4 address tha configured
network intercourse if tha intercourse argument is specified (e.g. \\4{eth0}).
.TP
6 or 6{interface}
Insert tha IPv6 address of tha machine hostname or IPv6 address tha configured
network intercourse if tha intercourse argument is specified (e.g. \\6{eth0}}
.TP
b
Insert tha baudrate of tha current line.
.TP
d
Insert tha current date.
.TP
s
Insert tha system name, tha name of tha operatin system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same as `uname \-s'.
See also \\S escape code.
.TP
S or S{VARIABLE}
Insert tha VARIABLE data from \fI/etc/os-release\fP.  If tha VARIABLE argument
is not specified then use PRETTY_NAME from tha file or tha system name (see \\s).
This escape code allows ta keep \fI/etc/issue\fP distribution n' release
independent.  Note dat \\S{ANSI_COLOR} is converted ta tha real terminal
escape sequence.
.TP
l
Insert tha name of tha current tty line.
.TP
m
Insert tha architecture identifier of tha machine. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same as `uname \-m'.
.TP
n
Insert tha nodename of tha machine, also known as tha hostname. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same as `uname \-n'.
.TP
o
Insert tha NIS domainname of tha machine. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same as `hostname \-d'.
.TP
O
Insert tha DNS domainname of tha machine.
.TP
r
Insert tha release number of tha OS. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Same as `uname \-r'.
.TP
t
Insert tha current time.
.TP
u
Insert tha number of current playas logged in.
.TP
U
Insert tha strang "1 user" or "<n> users" where <n> is tha number of current
users logged in.
.TP
v
Insert tha version of tha OS, eg. tha build-date etc.
.PP
Example: On mah system, tha followin \fI/etc/issue\fP file:
.sp
.na
.RS
.nf
This is \\n.\\o (\\s \\m \\r) \\t
.fi
.RE
.PP
displays as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
This is thangol.orcan.dk (Linux i386 1.1.9) 18:29:30
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.na
.TP
.B /var/run/utmp
the system status file.
.TP
.B /etc/issue
printed before tha login prompt.
.TP
.B /etc/os-release
operatin system identification data.
.TP
.B /dev/console
problem reports (if syslog(3) aint used).
.TP
.B /etc/inittab
\fIinit\fP(8) configuration file fo' SysV-style init daemon.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da baud-rate detection feature (the \fB\-m\fP option) requires that
\fBagetty\fP be scheduled soon enough afta completion of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dial-in
call (within 30 ms wit modems dat rap at 2400 baud). For robustness,
always use tha \fB\-m\fP option up in combination wit a multiple baud
rate command-line argument, so dat BREAK processin is enabled.

Da text up in tha \fI/etc/issue\fP file (or other) n' tha login prompt
are always output wit 7-bit charactas n' space parity.

Da baud-rate detection feature (the \fB\-m\fP option) requires that
the modem emits its status message \fIafter\fP raisin tha DCD line.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Dependin on how tha fuck tha program was configured, all diagnostics are
written ta tha console thang or reported via tha syslog(3) facility.
Error lyrics is produced if tha \fIport\fP argument do not
specify a terminal device; if there is no utmp entry fo' the
current process (System V only); n' so on.
.SH AUTHORS
.UR werner@suse.de
Werner Fink
.UE
.br
.UR kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.UE
.sp
Da original
.B agetty
for serial terminals was freestyled by W.Z. Venema <wietse@wzv.win.tue.nl>
and ported ta Linux by Peta Orbaek <poe@daimi.aau.dk>.

.SH AVAILABILITY
Da agetty command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util\-linux/.
