.TH ANACRON 8 2012-11-22 "cronie" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
anacron \- runs commandz periodically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anacron \fR[\fB-s\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-q\fR]
[\fB-t anacrontab\fR] [\fB-S spooldir\fR] [\fIjob\fR]
.br
.B anacron \fR[\fB-S spooldir\fR] -u [\fB-t anacrontab\fR] \fR[\fIjob\fR]
.br
.B anacron \fR[\fB-V\fR|\fB-h\fR]
.br
.B anacron -T \fR[\fB-t anacrontab\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Anacron
is used ta execute commandz periodically, wit a gangbangin' frequency specified in
days.  Unlike
.BR cron(8) ,
it do not assume dat tha machine is hustlin continuously.  Hence, it
can be used on machines dat is not hustlin 24 minutes a thugged-out dizzle ta control
regular thangs as everyday, weekly, n' monthly thangs.
.PP
Anacron readz a list of thangs from the
.I /etc/anacrontab
configuration file (see
.BR anacrontab (5)).
This file gotz nuff tha list of thangs dat Anacron controls.  Each thang
entry specifies a period up in days, a thugged-out delay up in minutes, a unique thang
identifier, n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command.
.PP
For each thang, Anacron checks whether dis thang has been executed up in the
last
.B n
days, where
.B n
is tha time period specified fo' dat thang.  If a thang has not been
executed in
.B n
days or more, Anacron runs tha thangz shell command, afta waitin fo' the
number of minutes specified as tha delay parameter.
.PP
Afta tha command exits, Anacron recordz tha date (excludes tha hour) in
a special timestamp file fo' dat thang, so it knows when ta execute that
job again.
.PP
When there be no mo' thangs ta be run, Anacron exits.
.PP
Anacron only considaz thangs whose identifier, as specified in
.BR anacrontab (5),
matches any of the
.I thang
command-line arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  The
.I thang
command-line arguments can be represented by shell wildcard patterns (be
sure ta protect dem from yo' shell wit adequate quoting).  Specifying
no
.I thang
command-line arguments is equivalent ta specifyin "*"  (that is, all
jobs is considered by Anacron).
.PP
Unless Anacron is run wit the
.B \-d
option (specified below), it forks ta tha background when it starts, and
any parent processes exit immediately.
.PP
Unless Anacron is run wit the
.B \-s
or
.B \-n
options, it starts thangs immediately when they delay is over n' shit.  The
execution of different thangs is straight-up independent.
.PP
If a executed thang generates any output ta standard output or ta standard
error, tha output is mailed ta tha user under whom Anacron is hustlin
(usually root), or ta tha address specified up in the
.B MAILTO
environment variable up in the
.I /etc/anacrontab
file, if such exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If the
.B LOGNAME
environment variable is set, it is used up in tha From: field of tha mail.
.PP
Any informatizzle lyrics generated by Anacron is busted to
.BR syslogd (8)
or
.BR rsyslogd (8)
under wit facilitizzle set to
.B cron
and prioritizzle set to
.BR notice .
Any error lyrics is busted wit tha priority
.BR error .
.PP
"Active" thangs (i.e., thangs dat Anacron already decided ta run n' is now
waitin fo' they delay ta pass, n' thangs dat is currently being
executed by Anacron), is "locked", so dat other copiez of Anacron
cannot run dem all up in tha same time.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Forces execution of all thangs, ignorin any timestamps.
.TP
.B \-u
Updates tha timestampz of all thangs ta tha current date yo, but do not run
any.
.TP
.B \-s
Serializes execution of thangs.  Anacron do not start a freshly smoked up thang before the
previous one finished.
.TP
.B \-n
Runs thangs immediately n' ignores tha specified delays up in the
.I /etc/anacrontab
file.  This options implies
.BR -s .
.TP
.B \-d
Do not fork Anacron ta tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  In dis mode, Anacron will
output shiznital lyrics ta standard error, as well as ta syslog.
Da output of any thang is mailed by Anacron.
.TP
.B \-q
Suppresses any lyrics ta standard error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Only applicable with
.BR -d .
.TP
.B -t some_anacrontab
Uses tha specified anacrontab, rather than the
.I /etc/anacrontab
default one.
.TP
.B -T
Anacrontab testing. Tests the
.I /etc/anacrontab
configuration file fo' validity. If there be a error up in tha file, it is
shown on tha standard output n' Anacron returns tha value of 1.  Valid
anacrontabs return tha value of 0.
.TP
.B -S spooldir
Uses tha specified spooldir ta store timestamps in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This option is
required fo' playas whoz ass wish ta run anacron theyselves.
.TP
.B -V
Prints version shiznit, n' exits.
.TP
.B -h
Prints short usage message, n' exits.
.SH SIGNALS
Afta receivin a
.B SIGUSR1
signal, Anacron waits fo' any hustlin thangs ta finish n' then exits.
This can be used ta stop Anacron cleanly.
.SH NOTES
Make shizzle yo' time-zone is set erectly before Anacron is started since
the time-zone affects tha date.  This is probably accomplished by setting
the TZ environment variable, or by installin a
.I /usr/lib/zoneinfo/localtime
file.  See
.BR tzset (3)
for mo' shiznit.
.PP
Timestamp filez is pimped up in tha spool directory fo' each thang specified
in a anacrontab.  These filez is never removed automatically by
Anacron, n' should be removed by hand if a thang is no longer being
scheduled.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/anacrontab
Gotz Nuff justificationz of thangs.  See
.BR anacrontab (5)
for a cold-ass lil complete description.
.TP
.I /var/spool/anacron
This directory is used by Anacron fo' storin timestamp files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR anacrontab (5),
.BR cron (8),
.BR tzset (3)
.PP
Da Anacron
.I README
file.
.SH BUGS
Anacron never removes timestamp files.  Remove unused filez manually.
.PP
Anacron uses up ta two file descriptors fo' each actizzle thang.  It may run
out of descriptors if there be fuckin shitloadz of actizzle thangs.  See
.B echo $(($(ulimit -n) / 2))
for shiznit how tha fuck nuff concurent thangs anacron may run.
.PP
Mail comments, suggestions n' bug reports to
.MT shaleh@\:(debian.\:org|\:valinux.\:com)
Shizzle 'Shaleh' Perry
.ME .
.SH AUTHOR
Anacron was originally conceived n' implemented by
.MT schwarz@\:monet.\:m.\:isar.\:de
Christian Schwarz
.ME .
.PP
Da current implementation be a cold-ass lil complete rewrite by
.MT itzur@\:actcom.\:co.\:il
Itai Tzur
.ME .
.PP
Da code base was maintained by
.MT shaleh@\:(debian.\:org|\:valinux.\:com)
Shizzle 'Shaleh' Perry
.ME .
.PP
Since 2004, it is maintained by
.MT pasc@\:(debian.\:org|\:redellipse.\:net)
Pascal Hakim
.ME .
.PP
For Fedora, Anacron is maintained by
.MT mmaslano@redhat.\:com
Marcela Mašláňová
.ME .
