.\" playa page fo' applydeltarpm
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
.\" See LICENSE.BSD fo' license
.TH APPLYDELTARPM 8 "Feb 2005"
.SH NAME
applydeltarpm \- reconstruct a rpm from a thugged-out deltarpm

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B applydeltarpm
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -p ]
.RB [ -r
.IR oldrpm ]
.I deltarpm
.I newrpm
.br
.B applydeltarpm
.BR -c | -C
.I deltarpm
.br
.B applydeltarpm
.RB [ -c | -C ]
.B -s
.I sequence
.br
.B applydeltarpm
.BR -i
.I deltarpm

.SH DESCRIPTION
applydeltarpm applies a funky-ass binary delta ta either a oldschool rpm or to
on-disk data ta re-create a freshly smoked up rpm. Da oldschool rpm can be specified
with the
.B -r
option, if no rpm name is provided on-disk data is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! You
can use
.B -p
to make applydeltarpm print tha cementage of completion, or
.B -v
to make it mo' verbose bout its operation.

Da second a third form can be used ta check if tha reconstruction
is possible. Well shiiiit, it may fail if tha on-disk data gots chizzled
(deltarpms is pimped up in a way dat config file chizzlez do not
matter) or tha deltarpm do not match tha rpm tha delta was generated
with. The
.B -c
option selects full (i.e. slow) on-disk checking, whereas
.B -C
only checks if tha filesizes aint chizzled.

Instead of a gangbangin' full deltarpm a sequence id can be given wit the
.B -s
.I sequence
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Such a id gotz nuff all tha shiznit dat is needed to
do reconstruction checking.

Finally shiznit on some thugged-out deltarpm can be printed with
the
.B -i
option.

.SH MEMORY CONSIDERATIONS
applydeltarpm was freestyled ta work on systems wit limited memory.
It uses a pagin algorithm ta keep tha size of in-core data low
and not brang tha system up in a out-of-memory thang.

.SH EXIT STATUS
applydeltarpm returns 0 if tha rpm could be recreated or the
checkin succeeded, it returns 1 n' prints a error message
to stderr if suttin' failed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makedeltarpm (8),
.BR rpm (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
