.TH ATD 8 2009-11-14
.SH NAME
atd \- run thangs queued fo' lata execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atd
.RB [ -l
.IR load_avg ]
.RB [ -b
.IR batch_interval ]
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ -f ]
.RB [ -s ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B atd
runs thangs queued by
.BR at(1) .
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -l
Specifies a limitin load factor, over which batch thangs should
not be run, instead of tha compile-time chizzle of 0.8.
For a SMP system with
.I n
CPUs, yo big-ass booty is ghon probably wanna set dis higher than
.IR n-1.
.TP 8
.B -b
Specify tha minimum interval up in secondz between tha start of two
batch thangs (60 default).
.TP 8
.B -d
Debug; print error lyrics ta standard error instead of using
.BR syslog(3) .
This option also implies
.BR -f .
.TP
.B -f
Run
.BR atd
in tha foreground.
.TP 8
.B -s
Process tha at/batch queue only once.
This is primarily of use fo' compatibilitizzle wit oldschool versions of
.BR at ;
.B "atd -s"
is equivalent ta tha old
.B atrun
command.
.SH WARNING
.B atd
won't work if its spool directory is mounted via NFS even if
.I no_root_squash
is set.
.SH FILES
.I /var/spool/at
Da directory fo' storin thangs; dis should be mode 700, baller
root.
.PP
.I /var/spool/at/spool
Da directory fo' storin output; dis should be mode 700, baller
root.
.PP
.IR /etc/at.allow ,
.IR /etc/at.deny
determine whoz ass can use the
.B at
system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR at.deny (5),
.BR at.allow (5),
.BR cron (8),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR syslog (3).
.SH BUGS
Da functionalitizzle of 
.B atd
should be merged into
.BR cron (8) .
