.TH ATMARP 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmarp \- administa old-ass IP over ATM connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B atmarp
.B \-a
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-c
.RB [[atm]\fInumber\fP]
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-q
.RB \fIip_addr\fP
.RB [ qos\ \fIqos\fP ]
.RB [ sndbuf\ \fIbytes\fP ]
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-s
.RB \fIip_addr\fP
.RB [\fIitf\fP.]\fIvpi\fP.\fIvci\fP
.RB [ qos\ \fIqos\fP ]
.RB [ sndbuf\ \fIbytes\fP ]
.RB [ temp ]
.RB [ pub ]
.RB [ null ]
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-s
.RB \fIip_addr\fP
.RB \fIatm_addr\fP
.RB [ qos\ \fIqos\fP ]
.RB [ sndbuf\ \fIbytes\fP ]
.RB [ temp ]
.RB [ pub ]
.RB [ arpsrv ]
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-d
.RB \fIip_addr\fP
.RB [ arpsrv ]
.br
.B atmarp
.B \-V
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatmarp\fP is used ta maintain tha ATMARP table of tha ATMARP demon.
Da table can be listed, freshly smoked up PVC n' SVC entries can be added, n' existing
entries can be deleted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. In addizzle ta that, \fBatmarp\fP be also used to
create freshly smoked up IP over ATM intercourses.
.P
Note dat tha kernel has its own ATMARP table containin only entries
for destinations ta which a cold-ass lil connection exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da table of \fBatmarpd\fP
can also contain currently unused entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-a\fP
list tha current ATMARP table.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
create tha specified IP intercourse. If tha intercourse number is omitted,
the operatin system assigns tha next free number n' \fBatmarp\fP
prints tha resultin intercourse name (e.g. `atm0') on standard output.
.IP \fB\-q\fP
sets tha QOS n' tha bust buffer size ta use as tha default fo' all VCs
generated fo' dat IP network (\fIip_addr\fP must be tha address of the
network).
.IP \fB\-s\fP
set up a PVC or create a SVC entry. Da followin options is recognized:
.RS
.IP \fBqos\fP\ \fIqos\fP
uses tha specified qualitizzle of steez (see qos(7) fo' tha syntax). UBR at
link speed is used by default.
.IP \fBsndbuf\fP\ \fIbytes\fP
tries ta set tha bust buffer ta tha specified number of bytes fo' realz. A system
default value is used if \fBsndbuf\fP aint specified.
.IP \fBtemp\fP
does not mark tha entry as permanent, i.e. it will time up n' then be
removed.
.IP \fBpub\fP
publishes tha entry (only relevant fo' ATMARP server) fo' realz. ATMARP requests for
entries not marked fo' publishin yield a ATMARP_NAK response.
.IP \fBnull\fP
uses NULL encapsulation instead of LLC/SNAP encapsulation on tha PVC. This
option aint available fo' SVCs, cuz tha LLC/SNAP header is required
to identify ATMARP packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. \fBnull\fP also implies dat tha entry is
permanent.
.IP \fBarpsrv\fP
identifies tha entry pointin ta tha ATMARP server n' shit. Note dat tha node
actin as tha ATMARP server must have no ATMARP server entry up in its ATMARP
table.
.RE
.IP \fB\-d\fP
delete tha specified ARP entry.  In order ta prevent accidental deletion of
the ATMARP server entry, tha \fBarpsrv\fP flag must be specified when
deletin dat shit.
.RE
.IP \fB\-V\fP
print tha version number of \fBatmarp\fP on standard output n' exit.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/run/atmarpd.table
ATMARP table
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmarpd(8), clip(8), qos(7)
.\"{{{}}}
