.TH ATMARPD 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmarpd \- ATMARP demon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atmarpd
.RB [ \-b ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-D\ \fIdirectory\fP ]
.RB [ \-l\ \fIlogfile\fP ]
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.br
.B atmarpd
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatmarpd\fP implements tha ATMARP protocol as specified up in RFC1577 and
RFC1755 fo' realz. Address resolution requests is busted from tha kernel (usin a
comparably simple protocol) ta tha ATMARP demon, which then performs
the dialog wit tha network.
.P
\fBatmarpd\fP can operate as a ATMARP client n' as a ATMARP server.
If also supports tha concurrent use of nuff muthafuckin IP over ATM intercourses.
.P
\fBatmarpd\fP is configured from tha command line rockin tha \fBatmarp\fP
program. Unless debuggin is enabled, tha ATMARP table is freestyled after
every chizzle ta tha file \fB/var/run/atmarpd.table\fP (or ta a gangbangin' file with
the same name up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory, if tha \fB\-D\fP option is
used).
.P
Note dat \fBatmarpd\fP disablez support fo' SVCs if signalin is not
available at start time, i.e. if \fBatmsigd\fP aint hustlin.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-b\fP
Run up in background (i.e. up in a gangbangin' forked lil pimp process) afta initializing.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Enablez (lots of) debuggin output. By default, \fBatmarpd\fP is comparably
quiet.
.IP \fB\-D\ \fIdump_dir\fP
Changes tha directory where \fBatmarpd\fP writes its table
(\fBatmarpd.table\fP). By default, \fB/var/run\fP is used.
.IP \fB\-l\ \fIlogfile\fP
Write diagnostic lyrics ta tha specified file instead of ta standard
error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da special name \fBsyslog\fP is used ta bust diagnostics ta the
system logger.
.IP \fB\-m\fP
Enablez mergin of incomin calls if tha address is known. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
An incomin connection on which no InARP reply has been received yet yo, but
which originates from a ATM address fo' which a ATMARP entry already
exists, be automatically added ta dat entry. This assumes dat there be a
1:1 mappin between IP addresses n' ATMARP addresses. By default, this
assumption aint made, which frequently thangs up in dis biatch up in tha setup of duplicate
connections. Note dat RFC1577 requires dat a ATMARP server sendz a InARP
request on a incomin connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Mergin may therefore violate RFC1577 in
this case.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Prints addresses up in numeric format only, i.e. no address ta name translation
is attempted.
.IP \fB\-V\fP
Prints tha version number of \fBatmarpd\fP on standard output n' exits.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/run/atmarpd.table
ATMARP table
.TP 25
.B /proc/atm/arp
table of currently actizzle IP over ATM VCs
.PD
.SH BUGS
\fBatmarpd\fP removes ATMARP entries from tha kernel table while refreshing
them.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <werner.almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmarp(8), atmsigd(8)
.\"{{{}}}
