.TH ATMDUMP 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmdump \- capture or generate ATM cells
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atmdump
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [
.B \-t\ \fItype\fB
.RB [ \-g\ \fIgfc\fB ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB ]
.RB [\fIitf\fP.]\fIvpi\fP.\fIvci\fP
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B atmdump
captures or generates single ATM cells ("AAL0"). When capturin cells, a
time stamp, tha cell header contents, n' a hex dump of tha cell payload
are shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When bustin  cells, tha payload type, tha generic flow control
(GFC), n' tha cell loss prioritizzle (CLP) can be set.
.P
In both modez of operation, tha intercourse number, tha VPI, n' tha VCI
have ta be specified.
.P
When sending, \fBatmdump\fP expects tha cell payload on standard input.
If only less than 48 bytes can be read, tha remainin space is padded
with zero bytes.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-i\fP
displays timestamps as tha interval since tha last cell reception. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. By
default, tha absolute time is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This options is ignored in
transmit mode.
.IP \fB\-t\ \fItype\fP
selects transmit mode n' specifies tha payload type fo' realz. A list of valid
payload type numbers can be obtained by invoking
.B atmdump
without any arguments.
.IP \fB\-g\ \fIgfc\fP
specifies tha value of tha GFC field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! \fIgfc\fP has ta be up in tha range from
0 ta 15, default is zero.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
sets tha cell loss prioritizzle flag, indicatin low priority. By default, CLP
is not set.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Some thang drivers may not pass OAM cells transparently.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmdiag(8), clip(8), sonetdiag(8)
.\"{{{}}}
