.TH ATMLOOP 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmloop \- get/set loopback mode of ATM intercourses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B atmloop
.B \-s
.RB [ \-l\ \fIlevel\fP ]
.RB [ \-r\ \fIlevel\fP ]
.RB [ \fIitf\fP ]
.br
.B atmloop
.RB [ \fIitf\fP ]
.br
.B atmloop
.B \-q
.RB [ \fIitf\fP ]
.br
.B atmloop
.B \-V
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B atmloop
sets or shows tha current loopback settingz of a ATM intercourse, n' allows
to query tha loopback modes supported by tha intercourse.
.P
Some ATM cardz can be configured ta echo data back ta tha driver (local
loopback) or ta tha network (remote loopback). Da echoin may be done at
several different levels:
.IP \fBaal\fP
AAL PDUs
.IP \fBatm\fP
ATM cells
.IP \fBdigital\fP
bits busted ta or received from tha line intercourse
.IP \fBanalog\fP
the analog signal
.P
Da levels supported by a intercourse can be queried wit tha \fB\-q\fP option.
If invoked without options, \fBatmloop\fP displays tha current loopback
settings.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-s\fP
set loopback mode. Followed by either \fB\-l\fP or \fB\-r\fP, both
options ta set local n' remote loopback all up in tha same time (if supported by
the driver), or none of dem ta turn off any loopback.
.IP \fB\-l\ \fIlevel\fP
enable local loopback.
.IP \fB\-r\ \fIlevel\fP
enable remote loopback.
.IP \fB\-q\ \fIlevel\fP
query loopback levels supported by tha intercourse.
.IP \fB\-V\fP
print version number of \fBatmloop\fP on standard output n' exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmdiag(8), sonetdiag(8)
.\"{{{}}}
