.TH ATMSIGD 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmsigd \- ATM signalin demon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atmsigd
.RB [ \-b ]
.RB [ \-c\ \fIconfig_file\fP ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-D\ \fIdump_dir\fP ]
.RB [ \-l\ \fIlogfile\fP ]
.RB [ \-m\ \fImode\fP ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-q\ \fIqos\fP ]
.RB [ \-t\ \fItrace_length\fP ]
.RB [ \-u\ \fIuni_version\fP ]
.RB [ [\fIitf\fP.]\fIvpi\fP.\fIvci\fP
.RB [ \fIinput\ output\fP ] ]
.br
.B atmsigd
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatmsigd\fP implements tha ATM UNI signalin protocol. Requests to
establish, accept, or close ATM SVCs is busted from tha kernel (usin a
comparably simple protocol) ta tha signalin demon, which then performs
the dialog wit tha network.
.P
Note dat \fBatmsigd\fP aint able ta accept or establish connections
until tha local ATM address of tha intercourse is configured by \fBilmid\fP
or manually rockin \fBatmaddr\fP.
.P
Da default signalin VC (interface 0, VPI 0, VCI 5) can be overridden on
the command line by specifyin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different PVC address.
.P
When overridin tha default VC, optionally a pair of named pipes ta use for
communicatin wit tha user of signalin can be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Normally, the
kernel is tha user of signalin n' \fBatmsigd\fP opens a special socket for
communication wit dat shit.
.P
If \fBatmsigd\fP is capped, all system calls requirin interaction wit it
will return wit a error n' set \fBerrno\fP ta \fBEUNATCH\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-b\fP
Run up in background (i.e. up in a gangbangin' forked lil pimp process) afta initializing.
.IP \fB\-c\ \fIconfig_file\fP
Use tha specified configuration file instead of \fB/etc/atmsigd.conf\fP
If a option is specified up in tha configuration file n' on tha command
line, tha command line has priority.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Enablez (lots of) debuggin output. By default, \fBatmsigd\fP is comparably
quiet.
.IP \fB\-D\ \fIdump_dir\fP
Specifies tha directory ta which \fBatmsigd\fP will write status n' trace
dumps. If \fB\-D\fP aint specified, dumps is freestyled ta /var/tmp.
.IP \fB\-l\ \fIlogfile\fP
Write diagnostic lyrics ta tha specified file. Da special name
\fBsyslog\fP is used ta bust diagnostics ta tha system logger, \fBstderr\fP
is used ta bust diagnostics ta standard error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If \fB\-l\fP be absent, the
settin up in \fBatmsigd.conf\fP is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fBatmsigd\fP don't specify a
destination either, lyrics is freestyled ta standard error.
.IP \fB\-m\ \fImode\fP
Set tha mode of operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da followin modes is available: \fBuser\fP for
the user side (the default), \fBnetwork\fP fo' tha network side (useful if you
have two PCs but no switch), n' \fBswitch\fP fo' operation wit a signaling
relay up in a switch.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Prints addresses up in numeric format only, i.e. no address ta name translation
is attempted.
.IP \fB\-q\ \fIqos\fP
Configures tha signalin VC ta use tha specified qualitizzle of steez (see
qos(7) fo' tha syntax).
By default, UBR at link speed is used on tha signalin VC.
.IP \fB\-t\ \fItrace_length\fP
Sets tha number of entries dat should be kept up in tha trace buffer.
\fB\-t 0\fP disablez tracing. If \fB\-t\fP aint specified, \fBatmsigd\fP
uses a thugged-out default of 20 trace entries.
.IP \fB\-u\ \fIuni_version\fP
Sets tha signalin mode. Da followin modes is supported: \fBuni30\fP for
UNI 3.0, \fBuni31\fP fo' UNI 3.1, \fBuni31+uni30\fP fo' UNI 3.1 wit 3.0
compatibility, \fBuni40\fP fo' UNI 4.0, n' \fBuni40+q.2963.1\fP fo' UNI 4.0
with Q.2963.1 peak cell rate renegotiation.
.IP \fB\-V\fP
Prints tha version number of \fBatmsigd\fP on standard output n' exits.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/atmsigd.conf
default configuration file
.TP 25
.B /var/tmp/atmsigd.\fIpid\fB.status.\fIversion\fP
default location of status dumps
.TP 25
.B /var/tmp/atmsigd.\fIpid\fB.trace.\fIversion\fP
default location of signalin trace dumps
.PD
.SH DEBUGGING
When receivin a \fBSIGUSR1\fP signal, \fBatmsigd\fP dumps tha list of all
internal socket descriptors. With \fBSIGUSR2\fP, it dumps tha contents of
the trace buffer n' shit. If a thugged-out dump directory was set, dumps is freestyled ta files
called \fBatmsigd.\fP\fIpid\fP\fB.status.\fP\fInumber\fP and
\fBatmsigd.\fP\fIpid\fP\fB.trace.\fP\fInumber\fP, respectively, with
\fInumber\fP
startin at zero n' bein incremented fo' every last muthafuckin dump. If no dump directory
is set, dumps is freestyled ta standard error.
.P
Dumps is also generated whenever \fBatmsigd\fP detects a gangbangin' fatal error and
terminates. No attempt is made ta catch signals like \fBSIGSEGV\fP.
.SH BUGS
Da generation of traces be a cold-ass lil comparably slow
process which may already take nuff muthafuckin secondz fo' only 100 trace entries.
To generate a trace dump, \fBatmsigd\fP therefore forks a cold-ass lil lil pimp process that
runs up in parallel ta tha signalin demon.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmaddr(8), atmsigd.conf(4), ilmid(8), qos(7)
.\"{{{}}}
