.TH ATMTCP 8 "April 26, 2000" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
atmtcp \- set up ATM over TCP connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B atmtcp
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.I command
.B ...
.br
.B atmtcp
.B \-V
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da main purpose of \fBatmtcp\fP
is ta establish TCP connections n' ta configure dem as virtual ATM devices.
Such pairz of "ATM over TCP" devices is connected as if they was real
ATM adaptas linked by a cold-ass lil cable or fiber, i.e. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SDUs busted on a given VPI/VCI
are received all up in tha other end on tha same VPI/VCI.
.PP
Virtual intercourses n' ATM over TCP connections is called \fIlinks\fP.
Other link types supported by \fBatmtcp\fP is real intercourses, filez for
recordin n' playback of ATM traffic, n' printin a hex dump of the
PDU content on standard output fo' realz. Any pair of such links can be connected
with \fBatmtcp\fP.  If additionizzle links is attached ta such a cold-ass lil connection,
they bust ta all other links, except ta tha straight-up original gangsta link n' tha respective
sender, n' they receive from all other links.
.PP
\fBatmtcp\fP can operate wit two typez of virtual intercourses: ephemeral or
persistent. By default, \fBatmtcp\fP intercourses is ephemeral. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. When the
\fBatmtcp\fP process dat pimped a intercourse terminates, tha virtual ATM
device is removed as soon all VCs is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if tha intercourse was
previously pimped as a persistent intercourse, only tha communication stops,
but tha intercourse n' all VCs on it remain intact fo' realz. Attempts ta bust data on
an \fBatmtcp\fP intercourse up in dis state fail silently, i.e. tha intercourse
behaves just like a real ATM intercourse without a wire.
A freshly smoked up \fBatmtcp\fP process can then attach ta tha intercourse n' resume
operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Persistent intercourses need ta be removed explicitly.
.PP
If \fBatmtcp\fP has any readable links afta processin tha command line,
it entas a loop ta big-ass up tha data forwarding. If no readable links
have been specified, \fBatmtcp\fP terminates afta processin tha command
line. If any setup operation fails, \fBatmtcp\fP terminates at dis point
and do not attempt ta quit previous operations (e.g. creation of
permanent intercourses).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-d\fP
print detailed progress shiznit on standard error.
.IP \fB\-v\fP
print some progress shiznit on standard error.
.IP \fB\-V\fP
print version number of \fBatmtcp\fP on standard output n' exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.IP \fBcreate\fP\ [\fIitf\fP]
create a persistent intercourse. If no intercourse number is specified,
\fBatmtcp\fP uses tha default value 0.
.IP \fBremove\fP\ [\fIitf\fP]
remove a persistent intercourse. If tha intercourse is still up in use, it is marked
as ephemeral n' is ghon be removed as soon as all VCs is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If no
interface number is specified, \fBatmtcp\fP uses tha default value 0.
.IP \fBvirtual\fP\ [\fIitf\fP]
link ta tha correspondin virtual (ATM over TCP) intercourse. If no intercourse
number is specified, tha kernel assigns tha straight-up original gangsta available number.
.IP \fBreal\fP\ [\fIitf\fP]
link ta tha correspondin ATM intercourse. If no 
interface number is specified, \fBatmtcp\fP uses tha default value 0.
If a link requests dat a VC be
opened, \fBatmtcp\fP will attempt ta open a VC wit tha specified QoS
parametas on dat intercourse. If tha operation succeeds, data can be
sent or received on dat VC. If tha operation fails, a error code is
returned ta tha requesta n' shit. Note dat only data arrivin on open VCs can be
received n' dat a \fIreal\fP ATM intercourse never initiates a cold-ass lil connection.
\fBatmtcp\fP can share ATM intercourses wit other applications. 
.IP \fBconnect\fP\ \fIhost\fP\ [\fIport\fP]
connect ta a instizzle of \fBatmtcp\fP hustlin on tha specified host.
If tha port argument is omitted, \fBatmtcp\fP uses tha default port 2812.
.IP \fBswitch\fP\ \fIhost\fP\ \fIline\fP\ [\fIport\fP]
like \fBconnect\fP yo, but connects ta a ATM over TCP "switch" n' selects
the specified virtual line.
.IP \fBlisten\fP\ [\fIport\fP]
listen fo' a incomin ATM over TCP connection.
If tha port argument is omitted, \fBatmtcp\fP uses tha default port 2812.
\fBatmtcp\fP waits until tha connection
is established. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only one connection be accepted per \fBlisten\fP command.
.IP \fBlisten-bg\fP\ [\fIport\fP]
like \fBlisten\fP yo, but run up in background afta beginnin ta listen.
.IP \fBread\fP\ \fIfile\fP\ [\fIstream\fP]
play back all streams from tha specified file. If a stream number is
specified, only dat stream is played back.
.IP \fBwrite\fP\ \fIfile\fP
record tha traffic of all links up in tha specified file. Da PDUs from each
link is stored up in a stream wit tha same number as tha link.
.IP \fBprint\fP
print a hex dump of tha content of all received PDUs on standard output.
.IP \fBbg\fP
continue ta run up in background (i.e. up in a gangbangin' forked lil pimp process).
.IP \fBwait\fP\ [\fIseconds\fP]
wait fo' tha specified number of seconds. If no time is specified,
\fBatmtcp\fP waits fo' a newline on standard input.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Cuz of recent protocol chizzles, \fBatmtcp\fP is currently not compatible
with tha ATM over TCP "switch".
.PP
Only AAL SDUs is exchanged, no segmentation or reassembly is performed.
That implies dat rockin different AALs (e.g fo' realz. AAL5 n' AAL0) on either side
will reveal limitationz of dis emulation.
.PP
Da \fBatmtcp\fP process need ta run durin tha the whole gametime of the
connection.
.SH EXAMPLES
Smoke a pair of virtual ATM over TCP intercourses on tha local host and
connect them:
.nf
.sp
  # session A
  atmtcp virtual listen
  # session B
  atmtcp virtual connect localhost
.sp
.fi
Smoke virtual intercourse 1, connect it ta real ATM intercourse 0, then start
\fBatmsigd\fP on tha virtual intercourse, n' log all tha traffic up in a gangbangin' file:
.nf
.sp
  atmtcp virtual 1 real 0 write /tmp/log
  atmsigd 1.0.5
.sp
.fi
Take tha previously pimped file n' examine tha traffic busted from
\fBatmsigd\fP rockin \fBsaaldump\fP:
.nf
.sp
  # session A
  atmtcp virtual 1 read /tmp/log 0 wait
  # session B
  saaldump 1.0.5
  # press [Enter] up in session A
.sp
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atmdiag(8)
.\"{{{}}}
