.TH AUDISPD: "8" "Sept 2007" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
audispd \- a event multiplexor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audispd
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaudispd\fP be a audit event multiplexor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Well shiiiit, it has ta be started by tha audit daemon up in order ta git events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Well shiiiit, it takes audit events n' distributes dem ta lil pimp programs dat wanna analyze events up in realtime. When tha audit daemon receives a SIGTERM or SIGHUP, it passes dat signal ta tha dispatcher, like a muthafucka. Da dispatcher up in turn passes dem signals ta its lil pimp processes.

Da lil pimp programs install a cold-ass lil configuration file up in a plugins directory, \fI/etc/audisp/plugins.d\fP. Filenames is not allowed ta have mo' than one '.' up in tha name or it is ghon be treated as a funky-ass backup copy n' skipped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Options is given one per line wit a equal sign between tha keyword n' its value. Da available options is as bigs up:

.TP
.I active
Da options fo' dis is 
.IR yes
or
.IR no.
.TP
.I direction
Da option is dictated by tha plugin.
.IR In
or
.IR out
are tha only chizzles. Yo ass cannot cook up a plugin operate up in a way it wasn't designed just by changin dis option.This option is ta give a cold-ass lil clue ta tha event dispatcher bout which direction events flow. NOTE: inbound events is not supported yet.
.TP
.I path
This is tha absolute path ta tha plugin executable. In tha case of internal plugins, it would be tha name of tha plugin.
.TP
.I type
This  drops some lyrics ta tha dispatcher how tha fuck tha plugin wants ta be run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Chizzlez are
.IR builtin
and
.IR always.
.IR Builtin
should always be given fo' plugins dat is internal ta tha audit event dispatcher n' shit. These is af_unix n' syslog. Da option
.IR always
should be given fo' most if not all plugins. Da default settin is
.IR always.
.TP
.I args
This allows you ta pass arguments ta tha lil pimp program. Generally plugins do not take arguments n' have they own config file dat instructs dem how tha fuck they should be configured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! At tha moment, there be a limit of 2 args.
.TP
.I format
Da valid options fo' dis are
.IR binary
and
.IR string.
.IR Binary
passes tha data exactly as tha audit event dispatcher gets it from tha audit daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
.IR string
option  drops some lyrics ta tha dispatcher ta straight-up chizzle tha event tha fuck into a strang suitable fo' parsin wit tha audit parsin library. Da default value is
.IR string.
 
.SH FILES
/etc/audisp/audispd.conf
/etc/audisp/plugins.d
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audispd.conf (5),
.BR auditd (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
