.TH "AUDITD" "8" "Sept 2013" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
auditd \- Da Linux Audit daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B auditd
.RB [ \-f ]\ [ \-l ]\ [ \-n ]\ [ \-s\ disable|enable|nochange ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBauditd\fP is tha userspace component ta tha Linux Auditin System. It aint nuthin but responsible fo' freestylin audit recordz ta tha disk. Viewin tha logs is done wit the
.B ausearch
or
.B aureport
utilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Configurin tha audit rulez is done wit the
.B auditctl
utility. Durin startup, tha rulez up in \fI/etc/audit/audit.rules\fP is read by \fBauditctl\fP n' loaded tha fuck into tha kernel fo' realz. Alterately, there be also an
.B augenrules
program dat readz rulez located up in \fI/etc/audit/rules.d/\fP n' compilez dem tha fuck into a audit.rulez file. Da audit daemon itself has some configuration options dat tha admin may wish ta customize. They is found up in the
.B auditd.conf
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
leave tha audit daemon up in tha foreground fo' debugging. Lyrics also git all up in stderr rather than tha audit log.
.TP
.B \-l
allow tha audit daemon ta follow symlinks fo' config files.
.TP
.B \-n
no fork. This is useful fo' hustlin off of inittab or systemd.
.TP
.B \-s=\fIENABLE_STATE\fR
specify when startin if auditd should chizzle tha current value fo' tha kernel enabled flag. Valid joints fo' ENABLE_STATE is "disable", "enable" or "nochange". Da default is ta enable (and disable when auditd terminates). Da value of tha enabled flag may be chizzled durin tha gametime of auditd rockin 'auditctl \-e'.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
SIGHUP
causes auditd ta reconfigure. This means dat auditd re-readz tha configuration file. If there be no syntax errors, it will proceed ta implement tha axed chizzles. If tha reconfigure is successful, a DAEMON_CONFIG event is recorded up in tha logs. If not successful, error handlin is controlled by space_left_action, admin_space_left_action, disk_full_action, n' disk_error_action parametas up in auditd.conf.

.TP
SIGTERM
caused auditd ta discontinue processin audit events, write a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shutdown audit event, n' exit.

.TP
SIGUSR1
causes auditd ta immediately rotate tha logs. Well shiiiit, it will consult tha max_log_size_action ta peep if it should keep tha logs or not.

.TP
SIGUSR2
causes auditd ta attempt ta resume logging. This is probably needed afta loggin has been suspended.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/audit/auditd.conf
- configuration file fo' audit daemon
.P
.B /etc/audit/audit.rules
- audit rulez ta be loaded at startup
.P
.B /etc/audit/rules.d/
- directory holdin individual setz of rulez ta be compiled tha fuck into one file by augenrules.

.SH NOTES
A boot param of audit=1 should be added ta ensure dat all processes dat run before tha audit daemon starts is marked as auditable by tha kernel. Not bustin dat will make all dem processes impossible ta properly audit.

Da audit daemon can receive audit events from other audit daemons via tha audisp\-remote audispd plugin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da audit daemon may be linked wit tcp_wrappers ta control which machines can connect. If dis is tha case, you can add a entry ta hosts.allow n' deny.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auditd.conf (5),
.BR audispd (8),
.BR ausearch (8),
.BR aureport (8),
.BR auditctl (8),
.BR augenrulez (8),
.BR audit.rulez (7).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
