.TH AUGENRULES: "8" "Apr 2013" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
augenrulez \- a script dat merges component audit rule files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B augenrules
.RI [ \-\-check ]\ [ \-\-load ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaugenrules\fP be a script dat merges all component audit rulez files,
found up in tha audit rulez directory, \fI/etc/audit/rules.d\fP, placin the
merged file up in \fI/etc/audit/audit.rules\fP. Component audit rule files, must
end up in \fI.rules\fP up in order ta be processed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! All other filez in
\fI/etc/audit/rules.d\fP is ignored.
.P
Da filez is concatenated up in order, based on they natural sort (see -v option of ls(1)) n' stripped of empty n' comment (#) lines.
.P
Da last processed -\fID\fP directizzle without a option, if present, be always
emitted as tha straight-up original gangsta line up in tha resultant file. Those wit a option are
replicated up in place.
Da last processed -\fIb\fP directive, if present, be always
emitted as tha second line up in tha resultant file.
Da last processed -\fIf\fP directive, if present, be always
emitted as tha third line up in tha resultant file.
Da last processed -\fIe\fP directive, if present, be always
emitted as tha last line up in tha resultant file.
.P
Da generated file is only copied ta \fI/etc/audit/rules.d\fP, if it differs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-check
test if rulez have chizzled n' need uppimpin without overwritin audit.rules.
.TP
.B \-\-load
load oldschool or newly built rulez tha fuck into tha kernel.

.SH FILES
/etc/audit/rules.d/
/etc/audit/audit.rules
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audit.rulez (8),
.BR auditctl (8),
.BR auditd (8).
