.TH AULAST: "8" "Nov 2008" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
aulast \- a program similar ta last
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aulast [ options ] [ user ] [ tty ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaulast\fP be a program dat prints up a listin of tha last logged up in playas similarly ta tha program \fBlast\fP n' \fBlastb\fP fo' realz. Aulast searches back all up in tha audit logs or tha given audit log file n' displays a list of all playas logged up in (and out) based on tha range of time up in tha audit logs. Namez of playas n' tty’s can be given, up in which case aulast will show only dem entries matchin tha arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Namez of ttys can be abbreviated, thus aulast 0 is tha same ol' dirty as last tty0.

Da pseudo user reboot logs up in each time tha system is rebooted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Thus last reboot will show a log of all reboots since tha log file was pimped.

Da main difference dat a user will notice is dat \fBaulast\fP print events from crazy oldschool ta newest, while \fBlast\fP prints recordz from newest ta crazy oldschool fo' realz. Also, tha audit system aint notified each time a tty or pty be allocated, so you may not peep like as nuff recordz indicatin playas n' they tty's.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-bad
Report on tha wack logins.

.TP
.B \-\-extract
Write raw audit recordz used ta create tha displayed report tha fuck into a gangbangin' file aulast.log up in tha current hustlin directory.

.TP
.BI \-f file
Use tha file instead of tha audit logs fo' input.

.TP
.B \-\-proof
Print up tha audit event serial numbers used ta determine tha precedin line of tha report fo' realz. A Serial number of 0 be a place holda n' not a actual event serial number n' shit. Da serial numbers can be used ta examine tha actual audit recordz up in mo' detail fo' realz. Also a ausearch query is printed dat will let you find tha audit recordz associated wit dat session.

.TP
.B \-\-stdin
Take audit recordz from stdin.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
To peep dis monthz logins
.B ausearch \-\-start this-month \-\-raw | aulast \-\-stdin

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR last (1),
.BR lastb (1),
.BR ausearch (8),
.BR aureport (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
