.TH AUREPORT: "8" "Sept 2014" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
aureport \- a tool dat produces summary reportz of audit daemon logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aureport
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaureport\fP be a tool dat produces summary reportz of tha audit system logs. Da aureport utilitizzle can also take input from stdin as long as tha input is tha raw log data. Da reports gotz a cold-ass lil column label all up in tha top ta help wit interpretation of tha various fields. Except fo' tha main summary report, all reports have tha audit event number n' shit. Yo ass can subsequently lookup tha full event wit ausearch \fB\-a\fP \fIevent number\fP. Yo ass may need ta specify start & stop times if you git multiple hits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da reports produced by aureport can be used as buildin blocks fo' mo' fucked up analysis.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-au ,\  \-\-auth
Report bout authentication attempts
.TP
.BR \-a ,\  \-\-avc
Report bout avc lyrics
.TP
.BR \-\-comm
Report bout commandz run
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-config
Report bout config chizzles
.TP
.BR \-cr ,\  \-\-crypto
Report bout crypto events
.TP
.BR \-e ,\  \-\-event
Report bout events
.TP
.BR \-f ,\  \-\-file
Report bout files
.TP
.B \-\-failed
Only select failed events fo' processin up in tha reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is both success n' failed events.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-host
Report bout hosts
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Print brief command summary
.TP
.BR \-i ,\  \-\-interpret
Interpret  numeric  entitizzles tha fuck into text. For example, uid is converted ta account name. Da conversion is done rockin tha current resources  of  tha machine where tha search is bein run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you have renamed tha accounts, or aint gots tha  same  accounts  on yo' machine, you could git misleadin thangs up in dis biatch.
.TP
.BR \-if ,\  \-\-input \ \fIfile\fP\ |\ \fIdirectory\fP
Use tha given \fIfile\fP or \fIdirectory\fP instead of tha logs. This is ta aid analysis where tha logs done been moved ta another machine or only part of a log was saved.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-logs
Use tha log file location from auditd.conf as input fo' analysis. This is needed if yo ass is rockin aureport from a cold-ass lil cron thang.
.TP
.BR \-\-integrity
Report bout integritizzle events
.TP
.BR \-k ,\  \-\-key
Report bout audit rule keys
.TP
.BR \-l ,\  \-\-login
Report bout logins
.TP
.BR \-m ,\  \-\-mods
Report bout account modifications
.TP
.BR \-ma ,\  \-\-mac
Report bout Mandatory Access Control (MAC) events
.TP
.BR \-n ,\  \-\-anomaly
Report bout anomaly events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. These events include NIC goin tha fuck into promiscuous mode n' programs segfaulting.
.TP
.BR \-\-node \ \fInode-name\fP
Only select events originatin from \fInode name\fP strang fo' processin up in tha reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is ta include all nodes. Multiple nodes is allowed.
.TP
.BR \-nc ,\  \-\-no-config
Do not include tha CONFIG_CHANGE event. This is particularly useful fo' tha key report cuz audit rulez have key labels up in nuff cases. Usin dis option gets rid of these false positives.
.TP
.BR \-p ,\  \-\-pid
Report bout processes
.TP
.BR \-r ,\  \-\-response
Report bout responses ta anomaly events
.TP
.BR \-s ,\  \-\-syscall
Report bout syscalls
.TP
.B \-\-success
Only select successful events fo' processin up in tha reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is both success n' failed events.
.TP
.B \-\-summary
Run tha summary report dat gives a total of tha elementz of tha main report. Not all reports gotz a summary.
.TP
.BR \-t ,\  \-\-log
This option will output a report of tha start n' end times fo' each log.
.TP
.BR \-\-tty
Report bout tty keystrokes
.TP
.BR \-te ,\  \-\-end \ [\fIend-date\fP]\ [\fIend-time\fP]
Search fo' events wit time stamps equal ta or before tha given end time. Da format of end time dependz on yo' locale. If tha date is omitted,
.B todizzle
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha time is omitted, 
.B now
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use 24 minute clock time rather than AM or PM ta specify time fo' realz. An example date rockin tha en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009 fo' realz. An example of time is 18:00:00. Da date format accepted is hyped up by tha LC_TIME environmenstrual variable.

Yo ass may also use tha word: \fBnow\fP, \fBrecent\fP, \fBtodizzle\fP, \fByesterday\fP, \fBthis\-week\fP, \fBweek\-ago\fP, \fBthis\-month\fP, \fBthis\-year\fP. \fBToday\fP means startin now, nahmeean? \fBRecent\fP is 10 minutes ago. \fBYesterday\fP is 1 second afta midnight tha previous day. It make me wanna hollar playa! \fBThis\-week\fP means startin 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 0 of tha week determined by yo' locale (see \fBlocaltime\fP). \fBWeek\-ago\fP means 1 second afta midnight exactly 7 minutes ago. \fBThis\-month\fP means 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 1 of tha month. \fBThis\-year\fP means tha 1 second afta midnight on tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta month.
.TP
.BR \-tm ,\  \-\-terminal
Report bout terminals
.TP
.BR \-ts ,\  \-\-start \ [\fIstart-date\fP]\ [\fIstart-time\fP]
Search fo' events wit time stamps equal ta or afta tha given end time. Da format of end time dependz on yo' locale. If tha date is omitted, 
.B todizzle
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha time is omitted, 
.B midnight
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use 24 minute clock time rather than AM or PM ta specify time fo' realz. An example date rockin tha en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009 fo' realz. An example of time is 18:00:00. Da date format accepted is hyped up by tha LC_TIME environmenstrual variable.

Yo ass may also use tha word: \fBnow\fP, \fBrecent\fP, \fBtodizzle\fP, \fByesterday\fP, \fBthis\-week\fP, \fBweek\-ago\fP, \fBthis\-month\fP, \fBthis\-year\fP. \fBToday\fP means startin at 1 second afta midnight. \fBRecent\fP is 10 minutes ago. \fBYesterday\fP is 1 second afta midnight tha previous day. It make me wanna hollar playa! \fBThis\-week\fP means startin 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 0 of tha week determined by yo' locale (see \fBlocaltime\fP). \fBWeek\-ago\fP means startin 1 second afta midnight exactly 7 minutes ago. \fBThis\-month\fP means 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 1 of tha month. \fBThis\-year\fP means tha 1 second afta midnight on tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta month.
.TP
.BR \-u ,\  \-\-user
Report bout users
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-version
Print tha version n' exit
.TP
.BR \-\-virt
Report bout Virtualization events
.TP
.BR \-x ,\  \-\-executable
Report bout executables

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ausearch (8),
.BR auditd (8).
