.TH AUSYSCALL: "8" "Nov 2008" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
ausyscall \- a program dat allows mappin syscall names n' numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ausyscall [arch] name | number | \-\-dump | \-\-exact
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBausyscall\fP be a program dat prints up tha mappin from syscall name ta number n' reverse fo' tha given arch. Da arch can be anythang returned by `uname \-m`. If arch aint given, tha program will take a guess based on tha hustlin image. Yo ass may give tha syscall name or number n' it will find tha opposite. Yo ass can also dump tha whole table wit tha \-\-dump option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. By default a syscall name lookup is ghon be a substrin match meanin dat it will try ta match all occurrencez of tha given name wit syscalls. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So givin a name of chown will match both fchown n' chown as any other syscall wit chown up in its name. If dis behavior aint desired, pass tha \-\-exact flag n' it will do a exact strang match.

This program can be used ta verify syscall numbers on a funky-ass biarch platform fo' rule optimization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, suppose you had a auditctl rule:

.B \-a always, exit \-S open \-F exit=\-EPERM \-k fail\-open

If you wanted ta verify dat both 32 n' 64 bit programs would be audited, run "ausyscall i386 open" n' then "ausyscall x86_64 open". Look all up in tha returned numbers. If they is different, yo big-ass booty is ghon gotta write two auditctl rulez ta git complete coverage.

.nf
.B \-a always,exit \-F arch=b32 \-S open \-F exit=\-EPERM \-k fail\-open
.B \-a always,exit \-F arch=b64 \-S open \-F exit=\-EPERM \-k fail\-open
.fi

For mo' shiznit on some specific syscall, use tha playa program n' pass tha number 2 as a argument ta make shizzle dat you git tha syscall shiznit rather than a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script program or glibc function call of tha same name. For example, if you wanted ta learn bout tha open syscall, type: playa 2 open.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dump
Print all syscalls fo' tha given arch
.TP
.B \-\-exact
Instead of bustin a partial word match, match tha given syscall name exactly.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ausearch (8),
.BR auditctl (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
