.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TH AUTHCONFIG 8 "22 July 2011" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
authconfig, authconfig-tui \- a intercourse fo' configurin system authentication resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBauthconfig\fR
.in +7
[options] {--update|--updateall|--test|--probe|--restorebackup <name>|--savebackup <name>|--restorelastbackup}
.in -7
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBauthconfig\fR serves up a simple method of configuring
/etc/sysconfig/network ta handle NIS, as well as /etc/passwd and
/etc/shadow, tha filez used fo' shadow password support.  Basic LDAP,
Kerberos 5, n' Winbind client configuration be also provided.

If \fB--test\fR action is specified, tha \fBauthconfig\fR just readz the
current settings from tha various configuration filez n' prints
their joints.
If \fB--update\fR action is specified, \fBauthconfig\fR must be run by
root (or all up in console helper), n' configuration chizzlez is saved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Only
the filez affected by tha configuration chizzlez is overwritten.
If \fB--updateall\fR action is specified, \fBauthconfig\fR must be run by
root (or all up in console helper), n' all configuration filez is written.
Da \fB--probe\fP action instructs \fBauthconfig\fP ta use DNS n' other means
to guess at configuration shiznit fo' tha current host, print its guesses
if it findz them, ta standard output, n' exit.

Da \fB--restorebackup\fR, \fB--savebackup\fR, n' \fB--restorelastbackup\fR
actions provide a possibilitizzle ta save n' lata restore a funky-ass backup of configuration
filez which authconfig modifies fo' realz. Authconfig also saves a automatic backup of
configuration filez before every last muthafuckin configuration chizzle. This special backup can
be restored by tha \fB--restorelastbackup\fR action.

If \fB--nostart\fR is specified (which is what tha fuck tha install program do),
ypbind or other daemons aint gonna be started or stopped immediately following
program execution yo, but only enabled ta start or stop at boot time. 

Da \fB--enablenis\fP, \fB--enableldap\fP, \fB--enablewinbind\fP,
and \fB--enablehesiod\fP options
are used ta configure user shiznit skillz up in \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fP,
the \fB--enablecache\fP option is used ta configure namin skillz caching,
and tha \fB--enableshadow\fP, \fB--enableldapauth\fP,
\fB--enablekrb5\fP, n' \fB--enablewinbindauth\fP options is used ta configure
authentication functions via \fB/etc/pam.d/system-auth\fP.  Each
\fB--enable\fP has a matchin \fB--disable\fP option dat disablez tha service
if it be already enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da respectizzle skillz have parametas which configure
their server names etc.

Da algorithm used fo' storin freshly smoked up password hashes can be specified by
the \fB--passalgo\fR option which takes one of tha followin possible joints as
a parameter: \fBdescrypt\fR, \fBbigcrypt\fR, \fBmd5\fR, \fBsha256\fR, and
\fBsha512\fR.

Da \fB--enablelocauthorize\fR option allows ta bypass checkin network
authentication skillz fo' authorization n' tha \fB--enablesysnetauth\fR
allows authentication of system accounts (with uid < 500) by these skillz.

When tha configuration settings allow use of \fISSSD\fR fo' user shiznit skillz
and authentication, \fISSSD\fR is ghon be automatically used instead of tha legacy
skillz n' tha \fISSSD\fR configuration is ghon be set up so there be a thugged-out default
domain populated wit tha settings required ta connect tha skillz. Da \fB--enablesssd\fR
and \fB--enablesssdauth\fR options force addin \fISSSD\fR ta \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fP
and \fB/etc/pam.d/system-auth\fP yo, but they do not set up tha domain up in the
\fISSSD\fR configuration files. Da \fISSSD\fR configuration has ta be
set up manually. Da allowed configuration of skillz fo' \fISSSD\fR are: LDAP for
user shiznit (\fB--enableldap\fR) n' either LDAP (\fB--enableldapauth\fR), or
Kerberos (\fB--enablekrb5\fR) fo' authentication.

In case \fISSSD\fR do not support some feature of tha legacy skillz dat are
required fo' tha joint configuration, tha use of tha legacy skillz can be forced
by settin FORCELEGACY=yes up in \fB/etc/sysconfig/authconfig\fP.

Da list of options mentioned here up in tha manual page aint exhaustive, please
refer ta \fBauthconfig --help\fR fo' tha complete list of tha options.

Da \fBauthconfig-tui\fR supports all optionz of authconfig but it implies
\fB--update\fR as tha default action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Its window gotz nuff a \fBCancel\fR
button by default. If \fB--back\fR option is specified at run time, a \fBBack\fR
button is presented instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If \fB--kickstart\fR is specified, no interactive
screens is ghon be seen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da joints tha program will use is ghon be dem specified by
the other options (\fB--passalgo\fR, \fB--enableshadow\fR, etc.).

For \fInamelist\fR you may substitute either a single name or a 
comma-separated list of names.
.PD
.SH NOTES
Da \fBauthconfig-tui\fR is deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. No freshly smoked up configuration settings will be
supported by its text user intercourse. Use \fBsystem-config-authentication\fR GUI
application or tha command line options instead.

Da \fB/usr/bin/authconfig\fR uses tha \fBconsolehelper\fR ta authenticate as the
system user before it starts up. If you wanna run it directly without tha 
authentication as tha system user, run tha \fB/usr/sbin/authconfig\fR command.

.PD
.SH "RETURN CODES"
\fBauthconfig\fR returns 0 on success, 2 on error.

\fBauthconfig-tui\fR returns 0 on success, 2 on error, n' 1 if tha user shut down
the program (by rockin either tha \fBCancel\fR or \fBBack\fR button).

.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.TP
.FN /etc/sysconfig/authconfig
Used ta track whether or not particular authentication mechanizzlez is enabled.
Currently includes variablez named USESHADOW, USEMD5, USEKERBEROS, USELDAPAUTH,
USESMBAUTH, USEWINBIND, USEWINBINDAUTH, USEHESIOD, USENIS, USELDAP, n' others.
.TP
.FN /etc/passwd
.TP
.FN /etc/shadow
Used fo' shadow password support.
.TP
.FN /etc/yp.conf
Configuration file fo' NIS support.
.TP
.FN /etc/sysconfig/network
Another configuration file fo' NIS support.
.TP
.FN /etc/ldap.conf
.TP
.FN /etc/nss_ldap.conf
.TP
.FN /etc/pam_ldap.conf
.TP
.FN /etc/nslcd.conf
.TP
.FN /etc/openldap/ldap.conf
Used ta configure nss_ldap, pam_ldap, nslcd, n' tha OpenLDAP library. Only
the filez already existin on tha system is modified.
.TP
.FN /etc/krb5.conf
Used ta configure Kerberos 5.
.TP
.FN /etc/hesiod.conf
Used ta configure Hesiod.
.TP
.FN /etc/samba/smb.conf
Used ta configure winbind authentication.
.TP
.FN /etc/nsswitch.conf
Used ta configure user shiznit skillz.
.TP
.FN /etc/login.defs
Used ta configure parametaz of user accounts (minimum UID of a regular user,
password hashin algorithm).
.TP
.FN /etc/pam.d/system-auth
Common PAM configuration fo' system skillz which include it rockin the
\fBinclude\fR directive. Well shiiiit, it is pimped as symlink n' not relinked if
it points ta another file.
.TP
.FN /etc/pam.d/system-auth-ac
Gotz Nuff tha actual PAM configuration fo' system skillz n' is the
default target of tha \fB/etc/pam.d/system-auth\fR symlink. If a local configuration
of PAM is pimped (and symlinked from \fBsystem-auth\fR file) dis file can be \fBinclude\fRd
there.

.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
authconfig-gtk(8), system-auth-ac(5), passwd(5), shadow(5), pwconv(1),
domainname(1), ypbind(8), nsswitch.conf(5), smb.conf(5), sssd(8)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>, Preston Brown <pbrown@redhat.com>,
Mack Wilson <msw@redhat.com>, Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
.fi
