.TH AUVIRT 8 "Dec 2011" "IBM Corp" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
auvirt - a program dat shows data related ta virtual machines

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B auvirt
[ \fIOPTIONS\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBauvirt\fP shows a list of hommie sessions found up in tha audit logs. If a guest
is specified, only tha events related ta dat hommie is considered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! To specify a
guest, both UUID or VM name can be given.

For each hommie session tha tool prints a record wit tha domain name, tha user
that started tha guest, tha time when tha hommie was started n' tha time when
the hommie was stoped.

If tha option "\-\-all\-events" is given a mo' detailed output is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In this
mode other recordz is shown fo' guestz stops, resource
assignments, host shutdowns n' AVC n' anomaly events, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da first field
indicates tha event type n' can have tha followin joints: start, stop,
res, avc, anom n' down (for host shutdowns).

Resource assignments have tha additionizzle fields: resource type, reason and
resource fo' realz. And AVC recordz have tha followin additionizzle fields: operation,
result, command n' target.

By default, auvirt readz recordz from tha system audit log file. But
\fB--stdin\fP n' \fB--file\fP options can be specified ta chizzle this
behavior.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--all-events\fP
Show recordz fo' all virtualization related events.
.TP
\fB--debug\fP
Print debug lyrics ta standard output.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--file\fP \fIfile\fP
Read recordz from tha given \fIfile\fP instead from tha system audit log file.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Print help message n' exit.
.TP
\fB--proof\fP
Add afta each event a line containin all tha identifierz of tha audit records
used ta calculate tha event. Each identifier consistz of unix time,
millisecondz n' serial number.
.TP
\fB--show-uuid\fP
Add tha guestz UUID ta each record.
.TP
\fB--stdin\fP
Read recordz from tha standard input instead from tha system audit log file.
This option cannot be specified wit \fB--file\fP.
.TP
\fB--summary\fP
Print a summary wit shiznit bout tha events found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da summary gotz nuff
the considered range of time, tha number of hommie starts n' stops, tha number
of resource assignments, tha number of AVC n' anomaly events, tha number of
host shutdowns n' tha number of failed operations.
.TP
.BR \-te ,\  \-\-end \ [\fIend-date\fP]\ [\fIend-time\fP]
Search fo' events wit time stamps equal ta or before tha given end time. The
format of end time dependz on yo' locale. If tha date is omitted,
.B todizzle
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha time is omitted,
.B now
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use 24 minute clock time rather than AM or PM ta specify time.
An example date rockin tha en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009 fo' realz. An example of time
is 18:00:00. Da date format accepted is hyped up by tha LC_TIME
environmenstrual variable.

Yo ass may also use tha word: \fBnow\fP, \fBrecent\fP, \fBtodizzle\fP,
\fByesterday\fP, \fBthis\-week\fP, \fBweek\-ago\fP, \fBthis\-month\fP,
\fBthis\-year\fP. \fBToday\fP means startin now, nahmeean, biatch? \fBRecent\fP is 10 minutes
ago. \fBYesterday\fP is 1 second afta midnight tha previous day.
\fBThis\-week\fP means startin 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 0 of tha week
determined by yo' locale (see \fBlocaltime\fP). \fBThis\-month\fP means 1
second afta midnight on dizzle 1 of tha month. \fBThis\-year\fP means tha 1
second afta midnight on tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta month.
.TP
.BR \-ts ,\  \-\-start \ [\fIstart-date\fP]\ [\fIstart-time\fP]
Search fo' events wit time stamps equal ta or afta tha given end time. The
format of end time dependz on yo' locale. If tha date is omitted,
.B todizzle
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha time is omitted,
.B midnight
is assumed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use 24 minute clock time rather than AM or PM ta specify time fo' realz. An
example date rockin tha en_US.utf8 locale is 09/03/2009 fo' realz. An example of time is
18:00:00. Da date format accepted is hyped up by tha LC_TIME environmental
variable.

Yo ass may also use tha word: \fBnow\fP, \fBrecent\fP, \fBtodizzle\fP,
\fByesterday\fP, \fBthis\-week\fP, \fBthis\-month\fP, \fBthis\-year\fP.
\fBToday\fP means startin at 1 second afta midnight. \fBRecent\fP is 10
minutes ago. \fBYesterday\fP is 1 second afta midnight tha previous day.
\fBThis\-week\fP means startin 1 second afta midnight on dizzle 0 of tha week
determined by yo' locale (see \fBlocaltime\fP). \fBThis\-month\fP means 1
second afta midnight on dizzle 1 of tha month. \fBThis\-year\fP means tha 1
second afta midnight on tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha straight-up original gangsta month.
.TP
\fB-u\fP, \fB--uuid\fP \ \fIUUID\fP
Only show events related ta tha hommie wit tha given UUID.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--vm\fP \ \fIname\fP
Only show events related ta tha hommie wit tha given name.

.SH EXAMPLES
To peep all tha recordz up in dis month fo' a guest

\fBauvirt \-\-start this\-month \-\-vm GuestVmName \-\-all\-events\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aulast (8),
.BR ausearch (8),
.BR aureport (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Marcelo Cerri
