.TH avahi-autoipd.action 8 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-autoipd.action \- avahi-autoipd action script
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-autoipd.action
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIavahi-autoipd.action\f1 is tha action script dat is called whenever a IP address has been acquired by avahi-autoipd or when it detected a IP address conflict. Da script should add or remove tha specified address from tha specified network intercourse.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fBargv[1]\f1 An event string: one of BIND, CONFLICT, UNBIND or STOP. If BIND is passed a IP address has been successfully acquired n' tha script shall add it ta tha network intercourse. If CONFLICT is passed avahi-autopid detected a IP address on tha local network, tha action script should remove tha configured IP address. If UNBIND is passed tha IP address should be removed from tha intercourse, too, cuz a routable address has been configured ta tha intercourse by some other program. If STOP is passed tha avahi-autoipd is bein shutdown n' tha action script should remove tha IP address. In short: on BIND tha address should be added ta tha intercourse, on CONFLICT, UNBIND or STOP it should be removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP
\fBargv[2]\f1 Da network intercourse name.
.TP
\fBargv[3]\f1 An IP address from tha IPv4LL range.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-autoipd(8)\f1, \fBdhclient-script(8)\f1, \fBip(8)\f1, \fBifconfig(8)\f1
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
