.TH avahi-daemon 8 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-daemon \- Da Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-daemon [\fIoptions\fB]

avahi-daemon --kill\fB

avahi-daemon --reload\fB

avahi-daemon --check\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD daemon implements Applez Zeroconf architecture (also known as "Rendezvous" or "Bonjour"). Da daemon registas local IP addresses n' static skillz rockin mDNS/DNS-SD n' serves up two IPC APIs fo' local programs ta make use of tha mDNS record cache tha avahi-daemon maintains. First there is tha so called "simple protocol" which is used exclusively by avahi-dnsconfd (a daemon which configures unicast DNS servers rockin server info published via mDNS) n' nss-mdns (a libc NSS plugin, providin name resolution via mDNS). Finally there is tha D-Bus intercourse which serves up a rich object oriented intercourse ta D-Bus enabled applications.

Upon startup avahi-daemon interprets its configuration file \fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf\f1 n' readz XML fragments from \fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/*.service\f1 which may define static DNS-SD skillz. If you enable \fBpublish-resolv-conf-dns-servers\f1 up in \fIavahi-daemon.conf\f1 tha file \fI/etc/resolv.conf\f1 is ghon be read, like a muthafucka.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f | --file=\f1 \fIFILE\f1
Specify tha configuration file ta read. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (default: /home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf)
.TP
\fB-D | --daemonize\f1
Daemonize afta startup. Implies \fB--syslog\f1.
.TP
\fB-s | --syslog\f1
Log ta syslog instead of STDERR. Implied by \fB--daemonize\f1.
.TP
\fB--debug\f1
Increase verbositizzle ta debug level.
.TP
\fB--no-rlimits\f1
Don't enforce resource limits as specified up in tha configuration file. (See \fBsetrlimit(2)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit)
.TP
\fB--no-drop-root\f1
Don't drop root privileges afta startup n' don't require daemon ta be started as root. We recommend not ta use dis option.
.TP
\fB--no-chroot\f1
Don't \fBchroot(2)\f1 tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is only available when compiled wit chroot() support.
.TP
\fB--no-proc-title\f1
Don't chizzle tha process name while hustlin. Unless dis option is specified avahi-daemon will reflect its current state n' tha selected host name up in tha process title.
.TP
\fB-k | --kill\f1
Bust a cap up in a already hustlin avahi-daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (equivalent ta bustin  a SIGTERM)
.TP
\fB-r | --reload\f1
Tell a already hustlin avahi-daemon ta reread \fI/etc/resolv.conf\f1 (in case you enabled \fBpublish-resolv-conf-dns-servers\f1 up in \fIavahi-daemon.conf\f1) tha filez from \fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/\f1. Please note dat dis aint gonna reload tha \fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf\f1. (equivalent ta bustin  a SIGHUP)
.TP
\fB-c | --check\f1
Return 0 as return code when avahi-daemon be already hustlin.
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help
.TP
\fB-v | --version\f1
Show version shiznit 
.SH FILES
\fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf\f1: tha default configuration file fo' avahi-daemon, \fBavahi-daemon.conf(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.

\fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/hosts\f1: additionizzle static hostname mappings ta publish up in mDNS, peep \fBavahi.hosts(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.

\fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/*.service\f1: static steez definitions, peep \fBavahi.service(5)\f1 fo' mo' shiznit.
.SH SIGNALS
\fISIGINT, SIGTERM\f1: avahi-daemon will shutdown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (Same as \fB--kill\f1).

\fISIGHUP\f1: avahi-daemon will reload unicast DNS server data from \fI/etc/resolv.conf\f1 n' static steez definitions from \fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/skillz/\f1. (Same as \fB--reload\f1)

\fISIGUSR1\f1: avahi-daemon will dump local n' remote cached resource record data ta syslog.
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBavahi-daemon.conf(5)\f1, \fBavahi.hosts(5)\f1, \fBavahi.service(5)\f1, \fBavahi-dnsconfd(8)\f1, \fBavahi-set-host-name(1)\f1

http://avahi.org/wiki/AvahiAndUnicastDotLocal documents tha problems when rockin Avahi up in a unicast DNS unit .local.
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
