.TH avahi-autoipd 8 User Manuals
.SH NAME
avahi-autoipd \- IPv4LL network address configuration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBavahi-autoipd [\fIoptions\fB] \fIinterface\fB

avahi-autoipd --kill\fB \fIinterface\fB

avahi-autoipd --refresh\fB \fIinterface\fB

avahi-autoipd --check\fB \fIinterface\fB
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
avahi-autoipd implements IPv4LL, "Dynamic Configuration of IPv4 Link-Local Addresses" (IETF RFC3927), a protocol fo' automatic IP address configuration from tha link-local 169.254.0.0/16 range without tha need fo' a cold-ass lil central server n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is primarily intended ta be used up in ad-hoc networks which lack a DHCP server.

IPv4LL is part of tha Zeroconf stack.

avahi-autoipd can be used as stand-alone address allocator or as plugin fo' a DHCP client like fuckin ISCz dhclient, where it can be used as fallback solution if no DHCP server is found.

To allow communication between hosts dat have only a IPv4LL address assigned n' hosts dat only gotz a routable IP address assigned you may add tha followin routes ta both network configurations:

\fBroute add -net 169.254.0.0 netmask 255.255.0.0 dev eth0 metric 99\f1

\fBroute add default dev eth0 metric 99\f1

See http://developer.apple.com/qa/qa2004/qa1357.html fo' mo' shiznit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-D | --daemonize\f1
Daemonize afta startup. Implies \fB--syslog\f1.
.TP
\fB-k | --kill\f1
Bust a cap up in a already hustlin avahi-autoipd on tha specified network intercourse. (Equivalent ta bustin  a SIGTERM)
.TP
\fB-r | --refresh\f1
Tell a already hustlin avahi-autoipd ta re-announce tha acquired IP address on tha specified network intercourse. (Equivalent ta bustin  a SIGHUP)
.TP
\fB-c | --check\f1
Return 0 as return code if avahi-autoipd be already hustlin fo' tha specified network intercourse.
.TP
\fB-s | --syslog\f1
Log ta syslog instead of STDERR. Implied by \fB--daemonize\f1.
.TP
\fB--debug\f1
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB--no-drop-root\f1
Don't drop root privileges afta startup. We recommend not ta use dis option.
.TP
\fB--no-chroot\f1
Don't \fBchroot(2)\f1 tha daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is only available when compiled wit chroot() support.
.TP
\fB-S | --start=\f1
Try ta acquire tha specified IP address, which must be from tha IPv4LL range 169.254.0.0/16.
.TP
\fB-w | --wait\f1
Wait until a IP address has been successfully acquired before detaching. Only valid up in combination wit \fB--daemonize\f1.
.TP
\fB--force-bind\f1
Acquire a IPv4LL address, even if a routable address has been configured on tha intercourse.
.TP
\fB--no-proc-title\f1
Don't chizzle tha process name while hustlin. Unless dis option is specified avahi-autoipd will reflect its current state n' tha IP address up in tha process title.
.TP
\fB-h | --help\f1
Show help.
.TP
\fB-v | --version\f1
Show version shiznit.
.SH FILES
\fI/home/lennart/tmp/avahi/etc/avahi/avahi-autoipd.action\f1: tha script ta run when a IP address as been acquired or is lost.
.SH SIGNALS
\fISIGINT, SIGTERM\f1: avahi-autoipd will shutdown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (Same as \fB--kill\f1)

\fISIGHUP\f1: avahi-autoipd will re-announce tha acquired IP address. (Same as \fB--refresh\f1)
.SH AUTHORS
Da Avahi Developers <avahi (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; Avahi be available from \fBhttp://avahi.org/\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoipd.action(8)\f1, \fBdhclient(8)\f1

http://avahi.org/wiki/AvahiAutoipd documents how tha fuck avahi-autoipd is dopest packaged n' integrated tha fuck into distributions.
.SH COMMENTS
This playa page was freestyled rockin \fBxml2man(1)\f1 by Oliver Kurth.
