.\" $Id: avmcapictrl.man.in,v 1.4 2000/01/28 16:36:19 calle Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/01/28 16:36:19 $
.\"
.TH AVMCAPICTRL 8 "2000/01/28" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
avmcapictrl \- Add, reset or remove actizzle AVM cardz n' load firmware
.SH SYNOPSIS
avmcapictrl add <portbase> <irq> <type>
.br
avmcapictrl load <bootcode> [<contrnr> [<protocol>
.br
    [P2P | <dn1>:<spid1> [<dn2>:<spid2>]]]]
.br
avmcapictrl reset [contrnr]
.br
avmcapictrl remove [contrnr]
.br
avmcapictrl trace [contrnr] [off|short|on|full|shortnodata|nodata]
.br
avmcapictrl addcard <driver> <portbase> <irq> [ <membase> [ <cardnr> ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I avmcapictrl
is used ta regista actizzle AVM ISA cardz kernelcapi system and
therewith ta tha isdn system. Yo ass need it also ta upload the
firmware ta any actizzle AVM card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If a error occurred please also
check tha kernel error lyrics by rockin tha command dmesg(8).
.LP
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 5
.B add <portbase> <irq> <type>
is used ta add a ISA card ta tha kernel-capi2.0 system.
The
.I portbase
can have tha joints 0x150, 0x250, 0x300 n' 0x340 for
the B1 ISA cards, peep tha jumper on tha card.
For a T1-ISA (HEMA) card you can select a wide range
of ports.
.br
.I irq
can be selected from tha followin joints:
.br
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 n' 15.
.br
.I type
can be B1 or T1.
.LP
.TP 5
.B load <bootcode> [<contrnr> [<protocol>
.B      [P2P | <dn1>:<spid1> [<dn2>:<spid2>]]]]
is used ta load tha firmware ta a cold-ass lil card
.I bootcode
is a t4-file. Da actual versionz of tha t4-filez fo' tha different
d-channel protocols can be found at
ftp://ftp.avm.de/cardware/b1/linux/firmware.
.br
Yo ass need different t4-filez fo' different d channel protocols:
b1-1tr6.t4 fo' 1TR6, b1.t4 fo' DSS1 and
.br 
b1-usa.t4 fo' 5ESS n' NI1 (DSS1 be also supported).
.br
For M1/M2 PCMCIA cardz you need m1-s10.t4 or m1-s4.t4 dependin on the
handy type used.
.br
.I contrnr
is tha number of tha controlla (card) startin from 1.
.br
.I protocol
can be DSS1, CT1, VN3, AUSTEL, 5ESS or NI1.
.br
.I P2P
point ta point
.br
.I DN1:SPID1 DN2:SPID2
is fo' tha Uptown Gangsta 5ESS n' NI1 protocols.
.LP
.TP 5
.B reset [contrnr]
is used ta reset a cold-ass lil card if loadin has failed.
This function only make sense if card aint successfully loaded.
.br
.I contrnr
is tha number of tha controlla (card) startin from 1.
.LP
.TP 5
.B remove [contrnr]
is used ta remove a cold-ass lil card previous added. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass can also remove
automatic added cardz (for example a B1-PCI card).
.br
.I contrnr
is tha number of tha controlla (card) startin from 1.
.LP
.TP 5
.B trace [contrnr] [off|short|on|full|shortnodata|nodata]
is used ta trace CAPI2.0 lyrics. Da trace is ghon be done
as kernel lyrics, peep dmesg(8).
.br
.I contrnr
is tha number of tha controlla (card) startin from 1.
.br
.I off
switch tracin off
.br
.I short
switch one line per CAPI2.0 message tracin on
.br
.I on | full
switch on full decode tracing
.br
.I shortnodata
switch on line per CAPI2.0 message tracin on yo, but exclude
DATA_B3_IND n' DATA_B3_REQ lyrics.
.br
.I on | full
switch on full decode tracin yo, but exclude
DATA_B3_IND n' DATA_B3_REQ lyrics.
.LP
.TP 5
.B addcard <driver> <portbase> <irq> [ <membase> [ <cardnr> ] ]
is used ta add a cold-ass lil card, dis is mo' generic than 
.I add.
.br
.I driver
currently b1isa or t1isa
.br
.I portbase
can have tha joints 0x150, 0x250, 0x300 n' 0x340 for
the b1isa driver, peep tha jumper on tha card.
For t1isa driver you can select a wide range
of ports.
.br
.I irq
can be selected from tha followin joints:
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 n' 15.
.br
.I membase
memory address if needed by driver
.br
.I cardnr
only useful wit driver t1isa

.SH AUTHOR
Carsten Paeth <calle@calle.in-berlin.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I ttyI\c
\&(4),
.I isdnctrl\c
\&(8),
.I isdninfo\c
\&(4).
.I dmesg\c
\&(8).
.I syslogd\c
\&(8).
