.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH BADBLOCKS 8 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
badblocks \- search a thang fo' wack blocks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B badblocks
[
.B \-svwnfBX
]
[
.B \-b
.I block-size
]
[
.B \-c
.I blocks_at_once
]
[
.B \-e
.I max_bad_blocks
]
[
.B \-d
.I read_delay_factor
]
[
.B \-i
.I input_file
]
[
.B \-o
.I output_file
]
[
.B \-p
.I num_passes
]
[
.B \-t
.I test_pattern
]
.I device
[
.I last-block
] [
.I first-block 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B badblocks
is used ta search fo' wack blocks on a thang (usually a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partition).
.I device
is tha special file correspondin ta tha thang (e.g
.IR /dev/hdc1 ).
.I last-block
is tha last block ta be checked; if it aint specified, tha last block
on tha thang is used as a thugged-out default.
.I first-block
is a optionizzle parameta specifyin tha startin block number
for tha test, which allows tha testin ta start up in tha middle of the
disk.  If it aint specified tha straight-up original gangsta block on tha disk is used as a thugged-out default.
.PP
.B Important note:
If tha output of 
.B badblocks
is goin ta be fed ta the
.B e2fsck
or 
.B mke2fs
programs, it is blingin dat tha block size is properly specified,
since tha block numbers which is generated is straight-up dependent on tha 
block size up in use by tha filesystem.   
For dis reason, it is straight fuckin recommended that
users 
.B not
run 
.B badblocks 
directly yo, but rather use tha 
.B \-c
option of the
.B e2fsck
and 
.B mke2fs
programs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " block-size"
Specify tha size of blocks up in bytes.  Da default is 1024.
.TP
.BI \-c " number of blocks"
is tha number of blocks which is tested at a time.  Da default is 64.
.TP
.BI \-e " max wack block count"
Specify a maximum number of wack blocks before abortin tha test.  The
default is 0, meanin tha test will continue until tha end of tha test
range is reached.
.TP
.BI \-d " read delay factor"
This parameter, if passed n' non-zero, will cause wack blocks ta chill
between readz if there was no errors encountered up in tha read
operation; tha delay is ghon be calculated as a cementage of tha time it
took fo' tha read operation ta be performed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In other lyrics, a value of 
100 will cause each read ta be delayed by tha amount tha previous read
took, n' a value of 200 by twice tha amount.
.TP
.B \-f
Normally, badblocks will refuse ta do a read/write or a non-destructive
test on a thang which is mounted, since either can cause tha system to
potentially crash and/or damage tha filesystem even if it is mounted
read-only.  This can be overridden rockin the
.B \-f
flag yo, but should almost never be used --- if you be thinkin you smarter
than tha 
.B badblocks
program, you almost certainly aren't.  Da only time when dis option 
might be safe ta use is if tha /etc/mtab file is incorrect, n' tha device
really aint mounted.
.TP
.BI \-i " input_file"
Read a list of already existin known wack blocks.
.B Badblocks
will skip testin these blocks since they is known ta be bad. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If
.I input_file
is specified as "-", tha list is ghon be read from tha standard input.
Blocks listed up in dis list is ghon be omitted from tha list of
.I new
bad blocks produced on tha standard output or up in tha output file.
The
.B \-b
option of
.BR dumpe2fs (8)
can be used ta retrieve tha list of blocks currently marked wack on
an existin filesystem, up in a gangbangin' format suitable fo' use wit dis option.
.TP
.B \-n
Use non-destructizzle read-write mode.  By default only a non-destructizzle 
read-only test is done.  This option must not be combined wit tha 
.B \-w
option, as they is mutually exclusive.
.TP
.BI \-o " output_file"
Write tha list of wack blocks ta tha specified file.  Without dis option,
.B badblocks
displays tha list on its standard output.  Da format of dis file is suitable
for use by the
.
.B \-l
option up in 
.BR e2fsck (8)
or
.BR mke2fs (8).
.TP
.BI \-p " num_passes"
Repeat scannin tha disk until there be no freshly smoked up blocks discovered in
num_passes consecutizzle scanz of tha disk.
Default is 0, meaning
.B badblocks
will exit afta tha straight-up original gangsta pass.
.TP
.B \-s
Show tha progress of tha scan by freestylin up rough cementage completion
of tha current badblocks pass over tha disk.  Note dat badblocks may do
multiple test passes over tha disk, up in particular if the
.B \-p
or
.B \-w
option be axed by tha user.
.TP
.BI \-t " test_pattern"
Specify a test pattern ta be read (and written) ta disk blocks.   The
.I test_pattern
may either be a numeric value between 0 n' ULONG_MAX-1 inclusive, or tha word 
"random", which specifies dat tha block should be filled wit a random
bit pattern.
For read/write (\fB-w\fR) n' non-destructizzle (\fB-n\fR) modes,
one or mo' test patterns may be specified by specifyin the
.B -t
option fo' each test pattern desired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For
read-only mode only a single pattern may be specified n' it may not be
"random".  Read-only testin wit a pattern assumes dat the
specified pattern has previously been freestyled ta tha disk - if not, large
numberz of blocks will fail verification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
If multiple patterns
are specified then all blocks is ghon be tested wit one pattern 
before proceedin ta tha next pattern.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.  Will write tha number of read errors, write errors n' data-
corruptions ta stderr.
.TP
.B \-w
Use write-mode test. With dis option,
.B badblocks
scans fo' wack blocks by freestylin some patterns (0xaa, 0x55, 0xff, 0x00) on
every block of tha device, readin every last muthafuckin block n' comparin tha contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  
This option may not be combined wit tha 
.B \-n 
option, as they is mutually exclusive.
.TP
.B \-B
Use buffered I/O n' do not use Direct I/O, even if it be available.
.TP
.B \-X
Internal flag only ta be used by
.BR e2fsck (8)
and
.BR mke2fs (8).
It bypasses tha exclusive mode in-use thang safety check.
.SH WARNING
Never use the
.B \-w
option on a thang containin a existin file system.
This option erases data!  If you wanna do write-mode testin on
an existin file system, use the
.B \-n
option instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It be slower yo, but it will preserve yo' data.  
.PP
The
.B \-e
option will cause badblocks ta output a possibly incomplete list of
bad blocks. Therefore it is recommended ta use it only when one wants
to know if there be any wack blocks at all on tha device, n' not when
the list of wack blocks is wanted.
.SH AUTHOR
.B badblocks
was freestyled by Remy Card <Remy.Card@linux.org>.  Current maintainer is
Theodore Ts'o <tytso@alum.mit.edu>.  Non-destructizzle read/write test
implemented by Dizzy Beattie <dbeattie@softhome.net>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B badblocks
is part of tha e2fsprogs package n' be available from 
http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR e2fsck (8),
.BR mke2fs (8)
