.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH BLKDISCARD 8 "October 2012" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
blkdiscard \- discard sectors on a thugged-out device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blkdiscard
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR length ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B blkdiscard
is used ta discard thang sectors.  This is useful fo' solid-state
drivers (SSDs) n' thinly-provisioned storage.  Unlike
.BR fstrim (8)
this command is used directly on tha block device.
.PP
By default,
.B blkdiscard
will discard all blocks on tha device.  Options may be used ta modify
this behavior based on range or size, as explained below.
.PP
The
.I device
argument is tha pathname of tha block device.
.PP
.B WARNING: All data up in tha discarded region on tha thang is ghon be lost!
.SH OPTIONS
The
.I offset
and
.I length
arguments may be followed by tha multiplicatizzle suffixes KiB=1024,
MiB=1024*1024, n' so on fo' GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB n' YiB (the "iB" is
optional, e.g., "K" has tha same ol' dirty meanin as "KiB") or tha suffixes
KB=1000, MB=1000*1000, n' so on fo' GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB n' YB.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-offset\fP \fIoffset\fP"
Byte offset up in tha thang from which ta discard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Provided value will be
aligned ta tha thang sector size.  Default value is zero.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-length\fP \fIlength\fP"
Number of bytes afta startin point ta discard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Provided value will be
aligned ta tha thang sector size.  If tha specified value extendz past
the end of tha device,
.B blkdiscard
will stop all up in tha thang size boundary.  Default value extendz ta tha end
of tha device.
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-secure\fP"
Perform secure discard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Secure discard is tha same ol' dirty as regular discard
except all copiez of tha discarded blocks possibly pimped by garbage
collection must also be erased. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It has ta be supported by tha device.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
Print aligned
.I offset
and
.I length
arguments.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT lczerner@redhat.com
Lukas Czerner
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fstrim (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da blkdiscard command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
