.TH "BLKDEACTIVATE" "8" "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat, Inc" "\""
.SH "NAME"
blkdeactivate \- utilitizzle ta deactivate block devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blkdeactivate
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ device... ]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
blkdeactivate utilitizzle deactivates block devices. If a thugged-out device
is mounted, tha utilitizzle can unmount it automatically before
tryin ta deactivate. Da utilitizzle currently supports
\fIdevice-mapper\fP devices, includin \fILVM\fP volumes.
LVM volumes is handled directly rockin tha \fIlvm\fP command.
Other device-mapper based devices is handled rockin the
\fIdmsetup\fP command.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-errors\fP"
Show errors reported from tools called by blkdeactivate.
Without dis option, any error lyrics from these external tools
are suppressed n' tha blkdeactivate itself serves up only a summary
message bout thang bein skipped or not.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display tha help text.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-umount\fP"
Unmount a mounted thang before tryin ta deactivate dat shit.
Without dis option used, a thang dat is mounted aint deactivated.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
Run up in verbose mode.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-dmoption\fP \fIdm_options\fP"
Comma separated list of device-mapper specific options.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-lvmoption\fP \fIlvm_options\fP"
Comma separated list of LVM specific options.
.SH DM_OPTIONS
.IP "\fBretry\fP"
Retry removal nuff muthafuckin times up in case of failure.
.IP "\fBforce\fP"
Force thang removal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBdmsetup\fP(8) fo' mo' shiznit.
.SH LVM_OPTIONS
.IP "\fBretry\fP"
Retry removal nuff muthafuckin times up in case of failure.
.IP "\fBwholevg\fP"
Deactivate tha whole LVM Volume Group when processin a Logical Volume.
Deactivatin Volume Group as a whole takes less time than deactivating
each Logical Volume separately.

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
Deactivate all supported block devices found up in tha system. If a thugged-out device
is mounted, skip its deactivation.
.sp
.B blkdeactivate

Deactivate all supported block devices found up in tha system. If a thugged-out device
is mounted, unmount it first if possible.
.sp
.B blkdeactivate \-u

Deactivate supplied thang together wit all its holders. If any of the
devices processed is mounted, unmount it first if possible.
.sp
.B blkdeactivate \-u /dev/vg/lvol0

Deactivate all supported block devices found up in tha system. Retry deactivation
of device-mapper devices up in case tha deactivation fails. Deactivate tha whole
Volume Group at once when processin a LVM Logical Volume.
.sp
.B blkdeactivate \-u -d retry -l wholevg

Deactivate all supported block devices found up in tha system. Retry deactivation
of device-mapper devices up in case tha deactivation fails n' force removal.
.sp
.B blkdeactivate -d force,retry

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsblk (8)
.BR umount (8)
.BR dmsetup (8)
.BR lvm (8)
