.\" Copyright 2000 Andreas Dilger (adilger@turbolinux.com)
.\"
.\" This playa page was pimped fo' blkid from e2fsprogs-1.25.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.\" Based on uuidgen, Mon Sep 17 10:42:12 2000, Andreas Dilger
.TH BLKID 8 "March 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
blkid \- locate/print block thang attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blkid
.BI \-L " label"
|
.BI \-U " uuid"

.B blkid
.RB [ \-dghlv ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR tag ]
.in +6
.RB [ \-t
.IR NAME=value ]
.RI [ thang " ...]"
.in -6

.B blkid
.BR -p " [" \-O
.IR offset ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR size ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR tag ]
.in +9
.RB [ \-n
.IR list ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR list ]
.IR thang " ..."
.in -9

.B blkid
.BR -i " [" \-o
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR tag ]
.IR thang " ..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B blkid
program is tha command-line intercourse ta hustlin wit the
.BR libblkid (3)
library.  It can determine tha type of content (e.g. filesystem or swap)
that a funky-ass block thang holds, n' also tha attributes (tokens, NAME=value pairs)
from tha content metadata (e.g. LABEL or UUID fields).
.PP
When
.I device
is specified, tokens from only dis thang is displayed.
It be possible ta specify multiple
.I device
arguments on tha command line.
If none is given, all devices which step tha fuck up in
.I /proc/partitions
are shown, if they is recognized.
.PP
Note that
.B blkid
readz shiznit directly from devices n' fo' non-root users
it returns cached unverified shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It be betta ta use
.B lsblk --fs
to git a user-friendly overview of filesystems n' devices.
.BR lsblk (8)
is also easy as fuck  ta use up in scripts.
.B blkid
is mostly designed fo' system skillz n' ta test libblkid functionality.
.PP
.B blkid
has two main formz of operation: either searchin fo' a thang wit a
specific NAME=value pair, or displayin NAME=value pairs fo' one or
more specified devices.
.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIsize\fR n' \fIoffset\fR arguments may be followed by tha multiplicative
suffixes like KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), n' so on fo' GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB n' YiB
(the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has tha same ol' dirty meanin as "KiB"), or tha suffixes
KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), n' so on fo' GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB n' YB.
.TP
.BI \-c " cachefile"
Read from
.I cachefile
instead of readin from tha default cache file (see tha CONFIGURATION FILE section
for mo' details).  If you wanna start wit a cold-ass lil clean cache (i.e. don't report
devices previously scanned but not necessarily available at dis time), specify
.IR /dev/null .
.TP
.B \-d
Don't encode non-printin characters.  Da non-printin charactas is encoded
by ^ n' M- notation by default.  Note dat tha \fB-o udev\fR output format uses
a different encodin which cannot be disabled.
.TP
.B \-g
Perform a garbage collection pass on tha blkid cache ta remove
devices which no longer exist.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a usage message n' exit.
.TP
.B \-i
Display shiznit bout I/O Limits (aka I/O topology).  Da 'export' output format is
automatically enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option can be used together wit tha \fB-p\fR option.
.TP
.B \-k
List all known filesystems n' RAIDs n' exit.
.TP
.B \-l
Look up only one thang dat matches tha search parameta specified wit tha \fB-t\fR
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If there be multiple devices dat match tha specified search
parameter, then tha thang wit tha highest prioritizzle is returned, and/or
the first thang found at a given priority.  Device types up in order of
decreasin prioritizzle are: Device Mapper, EVMS, LVM, MD, n' finally regular
block devices.  If dis option aint specified,
.B blkid
will print all of tha devices dat match tha search parameter.
.TP
.BI \-L " label"
Look up tha thang dat uses dis filesystem \fIlabel\fR; dis is equal to
.BR "-l -o thang -t LABEL=\fIlabel\fR" .
This lookup method be able ta reliably use /dev/disk/by-label
udev symlinks (dependent on a settin up in /etc/blkid.conf).  Avoid rockin the
symlinks directly; it aint reliable ta use tha symlinks without verification.
Da \fB-L\fR option works on systems wit n' without udev.

Unfortunately, tha original
.BR blkid (8)
from e2fsprogs uses tha \fB-L\fR option as a
synonym fo' \fB-o list\fR.  For betta portability, use \fB-l -o device
-t LABEL=\fIlabel\fR n' \fB-o list\fR up in yo' scripts rather than tha \fB-L\fR option.
.TP
.BI \-n " list"
Restrict tha probin functions ta tha specified (comma-separated) \fIlist\fR of
superblock types (names).
Da list shit may be prefixed wit "no" ta specify tha types which should be ignored.
For example:
.sp
  blkid -p -n vfat,ext3,ext4 /dev/sda1
.sp
probes fo' vfat, ext3 n' ext4 filesystems, and
.sp
  blkid -p -n nominix /dev/sda1
.sp
probes fo' all supported formats except minix filesystems.
This option is only useful together wit \fB-p\fR.
.TP
.BI \-o " format"
Use tha specified output format.  Note dat tha order of variablez and
devices aint fixed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See also option \fB-s\fR.  The
.I format
parameta may be:
.RS
.TP
.B full
print all tags (the default)
.TP
.B value
print tha value of tha tags
.TP
.B list
print tha devices up in a user-friendly format; dis output format is unsupported
for low-level probin (\fB-p\fR or \fB-i\fR).

This output format is \fBDEPRECATED\fR up in favour of the
.BR lsblk (8)
command.
.TP
.B device
print tha thang name only; dis output format be always enabled fo' tha \fB-L\fR
and \fB-U\fR options
.TP
.B udev
print key="value" pairs fo' easy as fuck  import tha fuck into tha udev environment; tha keys are
prefixed by ID_FS_ or ID_PART_ prefixes

Da udev output returns tha ID_FS_AMBIVALENT tag if mo' superblocks is detected,
and ID_PART_ENTRY_* tags is always returned fo' all partitions includin empty
partitions.  This output format is \fBDEPRECATED\fR.
.TP
.B export
print key=value pairs fo' easy as fuck  import tha fuck into tha environment; dis output format
is automatically enabled when I/O Limits (\fB-i\fR option) is requested.

Da non-printin charactas is encoded by ^ n' M- notation n' all
potentially unsafe charactas is escaped.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-O " offset"
Probe all up in tha given \fIoffset\fR (only useful wit \fB-p\fR).  This option can be
used together wit tha \fB-i\fR option.
.TP
.BI \-p
Switch ta low-level superblock probin mode (bypassin tha cache).

Note dat low-level probin also returns shiznit bout partizzle table type
(PTTYPE tag) n' partitions (PART_ENTRY_* tags).
.TP
.BI \-s " tag"
For each (specified) device, show only tha tags dat match
.IR tag .
It be possible ta specify multiple
.B \-s
options.  If no tag is specified, then all tokens is shown fo' all
(specified) devices.
In order ta just refresh tha cache without showin any tokens, use
.B "-s none"
with no other options.
.TP
.BI \-S " size"
Override tha size of device/file (only useful wit \fB-p\fR).
.TP
.BI \-t " NAME" = value
Search fo' block devices wit tokens named
.I NAME
that have tha value
.IR value ,
and display any devices which is found.
Common joints for
.I NAME
include
.BR TYPE ,
.BR LABEL ,
and
.BR UUID .
If there be no devices specified on tha command line, all block devices
will be searched; otherwise only tha specified devices is searched.
.TP
.BI \-u " list"
Restrict tha probin functions ta tha specified (comma-separated) \fIlist\fR of "usage" types.
Supported usage types are: filesystem, raid, crypto n' other n' shit.  Da list shit may be
prefixed wit "no" ta specify tha usage types which should be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For example:
.sp
  blkid -p -u filesystem,other /dev/sda1
.sp
probes fo' all filesystem n' other (e.g. swap) formats, and
.sp
  blkid -p -u noraid /dev/sda1
.sp
probes fo' all supported formats except RAIDs.
This option is only useful together wit \fB-p\fR.
.TP
.BI \-U " uuid"
Look up tha thang dat uses dis filesystem \fIuuid\fR.  For mo' details peep tha \fB-L\fR option.
.TP
.B \-V
Display version number n' exit.
.SH "RETURN CODE"
If tha specified token was found, or if any tags was shown from (specified)
devices, 0 is returned.

If tha specified token was not found, or no (specified) devices could be
identified, a exit code of 2 is returned.

For usage or other errors, a exit code of 4 is returned.

If a ambivalent low-level probin result was detected, a exit code of 8 is
returned.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Da standard location of the
.I /etc/blkid.conf
config file can be overridden by tha environment variable BLKID_CONF.
Da followin options control tha libblkid library:
.TP
.I SEND_UEVENT=<yes|not>
Sendz uevent when
.I /dev/disk/by-{label,uuid,partuuid,partlabel}/
symlink do not match wit LABEL, UUID, PARTUUID or PARTLABEL on tha device.  Default is "yes".
.TP
.I CACHE_FILE=<path>
Overrides tha standard location of tha cache file.  This settin can be
overridden by tha environment variable BLKID_FILE.  Default is
.IR /run/blkid/blkid.tab ,
or
.I /etc/blkid.tab
on systems without a /run directory.
.TP
.I EVALUATE=<methods>
Defines LABEL n' UUID evaluation method(s).  Currently, tha libblkid library
supports tha "udev" n' "scan" methods.  Mo' than one method may be specified in
a comma-separated list.  Default is "udev,scan".  Da "udev" method uses udev
.I /dev/disk/by-*
symlinks n' tha "scan" method scans all block devices from the
.I /proc/partitions
file.
.SH AUTHOR
.B blkid
was freestyled by Andreas Dilger fo' libblkid n' improved by Theodore Ts'o
and Karel Zak.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "Settin LIBBLKID_DEBUG=0xffff enablez debug output."
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libblkid (3),
.BR findfs (8),
.BR wipefs (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da blkid command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
