.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1998 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Copyright 2007 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH BLOCKDEV 8 "August 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
blockdev \- call block thang ioctls from tha command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blockdev
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.I command
.RI [ command \&...\&]
.I device
.RI [ thang \&...\&]
.br
.B blockdev
.B \-\-report
.RI [ thang \&...\&]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da utility
.B blockdev
allows one ta booty-call block thang ioctls from tha command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-V\fP"
Print version n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-q\fP"
Be on tha fuckin' down-low.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP"
Be verbose.
.IP "\fB\-\-report\fP"
Print a report fo' tha specified device. Well shiiiit, it is possible ta give multiple
devices. If none is given, all devices which step tha fuck up in /proc/partitions are
shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Note dat tha partizzle StartSec is up in 512-byte sectors.
.SH COMMANDS
It be possible ta give multiple devices n' multiple commands.
.IP "\fB\-\-flushbufs\fP"
Flush buffers.
.IP "\fB\-\-getalignoff\fP"
Git alignment offset.
.IP "\fB\-\-getbsz\fP"
Print blocksize up in bytes.
.IP "\fB\-\-getdiscardzeroes\fP"
Git discard zeroes support status.
.IP "\fB\-\-getfra\fP"
Git filesystem readahead up in 512-byte sectors.
.IP "\fB\-\-getiomin\fP"
Git minimum I/O size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getioopt\fP"
Git optimal I/O size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getmaxsect\fP"
Git max sectors per request
.IP "\fB\-\-getpbsz\fP"
Git physical block (sector) size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getra\fP"
Print readahead (in 512-byte sectors).
.IP "\fB\-\-getro\fP"
Git read-only. Print 1 if tha thang is read-only, 0 otherwise.
.IP "\fB\-\-getsize64\fP"
Print thang size up in bytes.
.IP "\fB\-\-getsize\fP"
Print thang size (32-bit!) up in sectors. Deprecated up in favor of tha \-\-getss option.
.IP "\fB\-\-getss\fP"
Print sectorsize up in bytes \(en probably 512.
.IP "\fB\-\-getsz\fP"
Git size up in 512-byte sectors.
.IP "\fB\-\-rereadpt\fP"
Reread partizzle table
.IP "\fB\-\-setbsz\fP \fIbytes\fP"
Set blocksize. Note dat tha block size is specific ta tha current file
descriptor openin tha block device, so tha chizzle of block size only persists
for as long as blockdev has tha thang open, n' is lost once blockdev exits.
.IP "\fB\-\-setfra\fP \fIsectors\fP"
Set filesystem readahead (same like \-\-setra on 2.6 kernels).
.IP "\fB\-\-setra\fP \fIsectors\fP"
Set readahead (in 512-byte sectors).
.IP "\fB\-\-setro\fP"
Set read-only.
.IP "\fB\-\-setrw\fP"
Set read-write.
.SH AUTHOR
blockdev was freestyled by Andries E.\& Brouwer n' rewritten by Karel Zak.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da blockdev command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

