.\"
.TH "BLUETOOTHD" "8" "March 2004" "Bluetooth daemon" "System pimpment commands"
.SH "NAME"
bluetoothd \- Bluetooth daemon

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B bluetoothd [--version] | [--help]

.B bluetoothd [--nodetach] [--compat] [--experimental] [--debug=<files>] [--plugin=<plugins>] [--noplugin=<plugins>]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bluetoothd
daemon, which manages all tha Bluetooth devices.
.B bluetoothd
can also provide a fuckin shitload of skillz via tha D-Bus message bus
system.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -v, --version
Print bluetoothd version n' exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print bluetoothd options n' exit.
.TP
.B -n, --nodetach
Enable loggin up in foreground. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Directs log output ta tha controllin terminal \
in addizzle ta syslog.
.TP
.B -d, --debug=<file1>:<file2>:...
Sets how tha fuck much shiznit bluetoothd sendz ta tha log destination (usually \
syslogz "daemon" facility). If tha file options is omitted, then debuggin \
information from all tha source filez is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If file options is \
present, then only debug prints from dat source file is printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da option \
can be a pattern containin "*" n' "?" characters.

Example: --debug=src/adapter.c:src/agent.c
.TP
.B -p, --plugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,..
Load these plugins only. Da option can be a pattern containin "*" n' "?" \
characters.
.TP
.B -P, --noplugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,..
Never load these plugins. Da option can be a pattern containin "*" n' "?" \
characters.
.TP
.B -C, --compat
Provide deprecated command line intercourses.
.TP
.B -E, -experimental
Enable experimenstrual intercourses. Those intercourses is not guaranteed ta be
compatible or present up in future releases.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/bluetooth/main.conf
Location of tha global configuration file.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was freestyled by Marcel Holtmann, Philipp Matthias Hahn n' Fredrik Noring.
