.TH "booleans" "8" "11 Aug 2004" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux Command Line documentation"
.SH "NAME"
booleans \- Policy booleans enable runtime customization of SELinux policy
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout SELinux policy booleans.
.BR
Da SELinux policy can include conditionizzle rulez dat is enabled or
disabled based on tha current jointz of a set of policy booleans.
These policy booleans allow runtime modification of tha security
policy without havin ta load a freshly smoked up policy.  

For example, tha boolean httpd_enable_cgi allows tha httpd daemon to
run cgi scripts if it is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha administrator do not want
to allow execution of cgi scripts, his schmoooove ass can simply disable dis boolean
value.  

Da policy defines a thugged-out default value fo' each boolean, typically false.
These default joints can be overridden via local settings pimped via the
.BR setsebool (8)
utility, using
.B \-P
to make tha settin persistent across reboots, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  The
.B system\-config\-securitylevel
tool serves up a graphical intercourse fo' altering
the settings.  The
.BR load_policy (8)
program will preserve
current boolean settings upon a policy reload by default, or can
optionally reset booleans ta tha boot-time defaults via the
.B \-b
option.

Boolean joints can be listed by rockin the
.BR getsebool (8)
utilitizzle n' passin it the
.B \-a
option.

Boolean joints can also be chizzled at runtime via the
.BR setsebool (8)
utilitizzle or the
.BR togglesebool (8)
utility.  By default, these utilitizzles only chizzle the
current boolean value n' do not affect tha persistent settings,
unless the
.B \-P
option is used ta setsebool.
.
.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
Da SELinux conditionizzle policy support was pimped by Tresys Technology.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getsebool (8),
.BR setsebool (8),
.BR selinux (8),
.BR togglesebool (8)
