.TH BOUNCE 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
bounce
\-
Postfix delivery status reports
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBbounce\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBbounce\fR(8) daemon maintains per-message log filez with
delivery status shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Each log file is named afta the
queue file dat it correspondz to, n' is kept up in a queue subdirectory
named afta tha steez name up in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file (either
\fBbounce\fR, \fBdefer\fR or \fBtrace\fR).
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Da \fBbounce\fR(8) daemon processes two typez of steez requests:
.IP \(bu
Append a recipient (non-)delivery status record ta a per-message
log file.
.IP \(bu
Enqueue a thugged-out delivery status notification message, wit a cold-ass lil copy
of a per-message log file n' of tha correspondin message.
When tha delivery status notification message is
enqueued successfully, tha per-message log file is deleted.
.PP
Da software do a funky-ass dopest notification effort fo' realz. A non-delivery
notification is busted even when tha log file or tha original
message cannot be read.

Optionally, a funky-ass bounce (defer, trace) client can request dat the
per-message log file be deleted when tha axed operation fails.
This is used by clients dat cannot retry transactions by
themselves, n' dat depend on retry logic up in they own client.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
RFC 2045 (Format of Internizzle Message Bodies)
RFC 2822 (Internizzle Message Format)
RFC 3462 (Delivery Status Notifications)
RFC 3464 (Delivery Status Notifications)
RFC 3834 (Auto-Submitted: message header)
RFC 5322 (Internizzle Message Format)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as \fBbounce\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fB2bounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of undeliverable mail dat cannot be returned to
the sender.
.IP "\fBbackwards_bounce_logfile_compatibilitizzle (yes)\fR"
Produce additionizzle \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile recordz dat can be read by
Postfix versions before 2.0.
.IP "\fBbounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of postmasta notifications wit tha message headers
of mail dat Postfix did not serve up n' of SMTP conversation
transcriptz of mail dat Postfix did not receive.
.IP "\fBbounce_size_limit (50000)\fR"
Da maximal amount of original gangsta message text dat is busted up in a
non-delivery notification.
.IP "\fBbounce_template_file (empty)\fR"
Pathname of a cold-ass lil configuration file wit bounce message templates.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of postmasta notifications wit tha message headers
of mail dat cannot be served up within $delay_warning_time time
units.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_attempts (20)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_delay (1s)\fR"
Da time between attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBinternal_mail_filter_classes (empty)\fR"
What categoriez of Postfix-generated mail is subject to
before-queue content inspection by non_smtpd_milters, header_checks
and body_checks.
.IP "\fBmail_name (Postfix)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is displayed up in Received: headers, in
the SMTP greetin banner, n' up in bounced mail.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBnotify_classes (resource, software)\fR"
Da list of error classes dat is reported ta tha postmaster.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix/bounce/* non-delivery records
/var/spool/postfix/defer/* non-delivery records
/var/spool/postfix/trace/* delivery status records
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
bounce(5), bounce message template format
qmgr(8), queue manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
