.\"
.TH br2684ctl 8 "7 Jul 2003"
.SH NAME
br2684ctl \- RFC1483/2684 Bridge Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B br2684ctl
[
.BI \-b
] [[
.BI \-c\  n
] [
.BI \-e\  0|1
] [
.BI \-p\  0|1
] [
.BI \-s\  sndbuf
] [
.BI \-a\  [itf].vpi.vci
]] ...
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
.BI \-a\  [itf].vpi.vci
ATM PVC number, VPI n' VCI.  (Required)
.TP 15
.BI \-b
Puts tha process up in tha background.
.TP 15
.BI \-c\  n
br2684 intercourse number like fuckin 0, 1, ... (Required)
.TP 15
.BI \-e\  0|1
Encapsulation method:  0=LLC, 1=VC mux (the default is 0 or LLC)
.TP 15
.BI \-p\  0|1
Payload method:  0=Routed, 1=Bridged (the default is 1 or Bridged)
.TP 15
.BI \-s\  sndbuf
Send buffer size. Default is 8192.
.SH DESCRIPTION
br2684ctl handlez RFC1483/2684 bridged PDUs.
This is most often used up in ADSL scenarios where
.I usually
the subscribers'
ethernet traffic is encapsulated up in ATM AAL5 (by bridgin ADSL modems)
accordin ta RFC2684. 
Da subscriber-side ADSL modem can be external wit a ethernet connector 
or a internal ADSL card up in a PC.
RFC1483 has been obsoleted by RFC2684.

For example it is possible ta set up yo' Linux box ta handle several
ATM PVCz wit bridged-1483 (sometimes referred as SNAP) encapsulation.
Da Linux network stack might provide DHCP, IP masquerading, IP firewall skillz or
bridge tha Ethernet frames just like it had nuff muthafuckin ethernet intercourses.
In fact it can have nuff muthafuckin (logical) ethernet intercourses, where
ATM is just used as a cold-ass lil carrier.
.SH USAGE
br2684ctl creates a freshly smoked up network intercourse named nas[n]
which is bound ta a specific ATM PVC. Well shiiiit, it requires two mandatory
arguments:  -c, tha intercourse number, n' -a, tha ATM PVC. Well shiiiit, it should be
noted dat tha order of tha command arguments matter; -c should be
followed by -a. Yo ass can create as nuff intercourses as necessary
in one go, just cook up a long-ass command line ;) 

For example, followin command will create a nas0 intercourse which uses
the ATM PVC wit VPI=0 n' VCI=401. Yo ass need ta configure tha PVC connection
0.401 on tha ATM switch manually.

% br2684ctl -c 0 -a 0.401

Da command will only create a freshly smoked up intercourse nas0.
Next step is ta assign a IP address n' netmask to
the intercourse nas0 rockin tha ifconfig command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Usin ifconfig, you can
also assign a Ethernet MAC address ta tha intercourse nas0, if necessary.

% ifconfig nas0 192.168.2.1 netmask 255.255.255.0

Lyrics is logged ta tha LOCAL2 syslog facility.
.SH FILES
/var/run/br2684ctl-<iface>.pid
.SH NOTES
This playa page is based on a tutorial by by Joonbum Byun <jbyun@megaxess.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qos (7)
