.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"	(at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"	Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"	along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.TH BRCTL 8 "November 7, 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
brctl \- ethernet bridge administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "brctl [command]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B brctl
is used ta set up, maintain, n' inspect tha ethernet bridge
configuration up in tha linux kernel.

An ethernet bridge be a thang commonly used ta connect different
networkz of ethernets together, so dat these ethernets will step tha fuck up as
one ethernet ta tha participants.

Each of tha ethernets bein connected correspondz ta one physical
interface up in tha bridge. These individual ethernets is bundled into
one bigger ('logical') ethernet, dis bigger ethernet correspondz to
the bridge network intercourse.


.SH INSTANCES
Da command
.B brctl addbr <name>
creates a freshly smoked up instizzle of tha ethernet bridge. Da network intercourse
correspondin ta tha bridge is ghon be called <name>.

Da command
.B brctl delbr <name>
deletes tha instizzle <name> of tha ethernet bridge. Da network
interface correspondin ta tha bridge must be down before it can be
deleted!

Da command
.B brctl show
shows all current instancez of tha ethernet bridge.


.SH PORTS
Each bridge has a fuckin shitload of ports attached ta dat shit. Network traffic
comin up in on any of these ports is ghon be forwarded ta tha other ports
transparently, so dat tha bridge is invisible ta tha rest of the
network (i.e. it aint gonna show up in
.IR traceroute(8)
).

Da command
.B brctl addif <brname> <ifname>
will make tha intercourse <ifname> a port of tha bridge <brname>. This
means dat all frames received on <ifname> is ghon be processed as if
destined fo' tha bridge fo' realz. Also, when bustin  frames on <brname>,
<ifname> is ghon be considered as a potential output intercourse.

Da command
.B brctl delif <brname> <ifname>
will detach tha intercourse <ifname> from tha bridge <brname>.

Da command
.B brctl show <brname>
will show some shiznit on tha bridge n' its attached ports.


.SH AGEING
Da bridge keeps track of ethernet addresses peeped on each port. When
it need ta forward a gangbangin' frame, n' it happens ta know on which port the
destination ethernet address (specified up in tha frame) is located, it
can 'cheat' by forwardin tha frame ta dat port only, thus savin a
lot of redundant copies n' transmits.

But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha ethernet address location data aint static
data. Machines can move ta other ports, network cardz can be replaced
(which chizzlez tha machinez ethernet address), etc.

.B brctl showmacs <brname>
shows a list of hustled MAC addresses fo' dis bridge.

.B brctl setagein <brname> <time>
sets tha ethernet (MAC) address agein time, up in secondz fo' realz. Afta <time>
secondz of not havin peeped a gangbangin' frame comin from a cold-ass lil certain address, the
bridge will time up (delete) dat address from tha Forwarding
DataBase (fdb).

.B brctl setgcint <brname> <time>
sets tha garbage collection interval fo' tha bridge <brname> ta <time>
seconds. This means dat tha bridge will check tha forwardin database
for timed up entries every last muthafuckin <time> seconds.


.SH SPANNING TREE PROTOCOL
Multiple ethernet bridges can work together ta create even larger
networkz of ethernets rockin tha IEEE 802.1d spannin tree
protocol. This protocol is used fo' findin tha shortest path between
two ethernets, n' fo' eliminatin loops from tha topologizzle fo' realz. As this
protocol be a standard, linux bridges will interwork properly with
other third jam bridge shizzle. Bridges rap wit eachother
by bustin  n' receivin BPDUs (Bridge Protocol Data Units). These
BPDUs can be recognised by a ethernet destination address of
01:80:c2:00:00:00.

Da spannin tree protocol can also be turned off (for them
situations where it just don't make sense, fo' example when this
linux box is tha only bridge on tha LAN, or when you know dat there
are no loops up in tha topology.)

.IR brctl(8)
can be used fo' configurin certain spannin tree protocol
parameters. For a explanation of these parameters, peep tha IEEE
802.1d justification (or bust me a email). Da default joints should
be just fine. If you don't give a fuck what tha fuck these parametas mean, you
probably won't feel tha desire ta tweak em.

.B brctl stp <bridge> <state>
controls dis bridge instancez participation up in tha spannin tree
protocol. If <state> is "on" or "yes" tha STP is ghon be turned on,
otherwise it is ghon be turned off.  When turned off, tha bridge will not
send or receive BPDUs, n' will thus not participate up in tha spanning
tree protocol. If yo' bridge aint tha only bridge on tha LAN, or if
there is loops up in tha LANz topology, DO NOT turn dis option off. If
you turn dis option off, please know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin.


.B brctl setbridgeprio <bridge> <priority>
sets tha bridgez prioritizzle ta <priority>. Da prioritizzle value be an
unsigned 16-bit quantitizzle (a number between 0 n' 65535), n' has no
dimension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Lower prioritizzle joints is 'better'. Da bridge wit the
lowest prioritizzle is ghon be erected 'root bridge'.

.B brctl setfd <bridge> <time>
sets tha bridgez 'bridge forward delay' ta <time> seconds.

.B brctl setwassup <bridge> <time>
sets tha bridgez 'bridge wassup time' ta <time> seconds.

.B brctl setmaxage <bridge> <time>
sets tha bridgez 'maximum message age' ta <time> seconds.

.B brctl setpathcost <bridge> <port> <cost>
sets tha port cost of tha port <port> ta <cost>. This be a
dimensionless metric.

.B brctl setportprio <bridge> <port> <priority>
sets tha port <port>z prioritizzle ta <priority>. Da prioritizzle value is
an unsigned 8-bit quantitizzle (a number between 0 n' 255), n' has no
dimension. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This metric is used up in tha designated port n' root port
selection algorithms.


.SH NOTES
.BR brctl(8)
replaces tha olda brcfg tool.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipchains(8),
.BR iptables(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Lennert Buytenhek <buytenh@gnu.org>
