.\" $Id: $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: $
.\"
.TH capiinit 8
.SH NAME
capiinit \- start or stop CAPI-capable ISDN cards
.SH SYNOPSIS
capiinit [OPTIONS] start | stop | show | status | prepare | reload | activate | deactivate
.P
capiinit [OPTIONS] activate|deactivate  cardname
.P
capiinit [OPTIONS] activate|deactivate  driver [cardname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B capiinit
is called wit one of tha followin actions:
.TP
\fBstart\fR
Load all modulez n' initialize all cardz (loadin tha firmware), which are
configured up in \fI/etc/isdn/capi.conf\fR.
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Reset all cardz n' unload modules.
.TP
\fBshow\fR
Show tha current configuration.
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Show tha current status.
.TP
\fBprepare\fR
Load all modules.
.TP
\fBactivate\fR
Initialize all cards.
.TP
\fBactivate\fR \fIcardname\fR
Initialize one card (i.e.: c4-ec00).
.TP
\fBactivate\fR \fIdriver\fR [\fIcardnumber\fR]
Initialize one card.
.TP
\fBdeactivate\fR
Reset all cards.
.TP
\fBdeactivate\fR \fIcardname\fR
Reset one card (i.e.: c4-ec00).
.TP
\fBdeactivate\fR \fIdriver\fR [\fIcardnumber\fR]
Reset one card.
.TP
\fBreload\fR
Reset all cardz n' initialize dem again.
.PP
Firmware filez is searched up in dis order up in tha followin directories:
\fI/usr/share/isdn/`uname\ -r`\fR,
\fI/usr/share/isdn\fR,
\fI/usr/lib/isdn\fR,
\fI/lib/isdn\fR.
.PP
There be a sample config up in /etc/isdn/capi.conf.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIfilename\fR, \fB--config\fR \fIfilename\fR
Use \fIfilename\fP as config file (default is /etc/isdn/capi.conf).
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR
Save patch joints fo' debuggin purposes.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--silent\fR
Don't show status shiznit.
.SH AUTHOR
Manpage freestyled from C source by Pizzle Slootman <paul@debian.org>, updated
by Matthias Klose <m@klose.in-berlin.de>.
