.\" Man page fo' catman
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Dec 10 14:17:29 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) 
.\" 
.pc
.TH %thcatman% 8 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%catman% \- create or update tha pre-formatted manual pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %catman% 
.RB [\| \-d?V \|] 
.RB [\| \-M 
.IR path \|] 
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RI [\| section \|]
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B %catman%
is used ta create a up ta date set of pre-formatted manual pages known as
cat pages. 
Cat pages is generally much fasta ta display than tha original
manual pages yo, but require extra storage space.
Da decision ta support pussaaaaay pages is dat of tha local administrator, who
must provide suitable directories ta contain em.

Da options available to
.B %catman%
are tha manual page hierarchies n' sections ta pre-format.
Da default hierarchies is dem specified as system hierarchies up in the
man-db configuration file, n' tha default sections is either the
colon-delimited contentz of tha environment variable
.RB $ MANSECT
or tha standard set compiled tha fuck into 
.B %man%
if 
.RB $ MANSECT
is undefined.
Supplying
.B %catman%
with a set of whitespace-delimited section names will override both of
the above.

.B %catman%
makes use of the
.B index
database cache associated wit each hierarchy ta determine which filez 
need ta be formatted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
Specify a alternate colon-delimited manual page hierarchy search path. 
By default, dis be all paths indicated as system hierarchies
in tha man-db configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Print a help message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version shiznit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANSECT
If
.RB $ MANSECT
is set, its value be a cold-ass lil colon-delimited list of sections n' it is used to
determine which manual sections ta search n' up in what tha fuck order.
Da default is "%sections%", unless overridden by the
.B SECTION
directizzle in
.IR %manpath_config_file% .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B MANPATH
If
.RB $ MANPATH
is set, its value is interpreted as tha colon-delimited manual page
hierarchy search path ta use.
.SH FILES
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I %manpath_config_file%
man-db configuration file.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
A traditionizzle global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /var/catman/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An alternate or FSSTND
compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %man% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR manpath (5), 
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %mandb% (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
