.TH CHCPU "8" "June 2012" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
chcpu \- configure CPUs
.SH SYNOPSIS
chcpu
[\-e] [\-d] [\-c] [\-g]
cpu-list
.br
chcpu [\-p] mode
.br
chcpu
\-r
.br
chcpu [\-h] [\-V]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chcpu
can modify tha state of CPUs.  It can enable or disable CPUs, scan fo' new
CPUs, chizzle tha CPU dispatching
.I mode
of tha underlyin hypervisor, n' request CPUs from tha hypervisor
(configure) or return CPUs ta tha hypervisor (deconfigure).
.PP
Some options have a
.I cpu-list
argument.  Use dis argument ta specify a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of CPUs.  The
list can contain individual CPU addresses or rangez of addresses.  For
example,
.B 0,5,7,9-11
makes tha command applicable ta tha CPUs wit tha addresses 0, 5, 7, 9, 10,
and 11.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-rescan"
Trigger a rescan of CPUs.  Use dis option on systems dat do not
automatically detect newly attached CPUs.  Da Linux kernel then recognizes
the freshly smoked up CPUs.
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-configure " \fIcpu-list\fP
Configure all specified CPUs.  Configurin a CPU means dat tha hypervisor
takes a CPU from tha CPU pool n' assigns it ta tha virtual hardware on which
your kernel runs.
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-enable " \fIcpu-list\fP
Enable all specified CPUs.  Enablin a CPU means dat tha kernel sets it
online.  A CPU must be configured, see
.BR -c ,
before it can be enabled.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-dispatch " \fImode\fP
Set tha CPU dispatching
.I mode
(polarization).  This option has a effect only if yo' hardware architecture
and hypervisor support CPU polarization. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Available
.I modes
are:
.RS 14
.TP 12
.PD 0
.B horizontal
Da workload is spread across all available CPUs.
.TP 12
.B vertical
Da workload is concentrated on few CPUs.
.RE
.PD 1
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-disable " \fIcpu-list\fP
Disable all specified CPUs.  Disablin a CPU means dat tha kernel sets it
offline.
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-deconfigure " \fIcpu-list\fP
Deconfigure all specified CPUs.  Deconfigurin a CPU means dat the
hypervisor removes tha CPU from tha virtual hardware on which tha Linux
instizzle runs n' returns it ta tha CPU pool.  A CPU must be offline, see
\-d, before it can be deconfigured.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.

.SH RETURN CODES
.B chcpu
has tha followin return codes:
.TP
.BR 0
success
.TP
.BR 1
failure
.TP
.BR 64
partial success
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
.MT heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com
Heiko Carstens
.ME
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lscpu (1)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da chcpu command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
