.TH CHECKMODULE 8
.SH NAME
checkmodule \- SELinux policy module compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checkmodule
.I "[\-h] [\-b] [\-m] [\-M] [\-U handle_unknown ] [\-V] [\-o output_file] [input_file]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR checkmodule
command.
.PP
.B checkmodule
is a program dat checks n' compilez a SELinux securitizzle policy module
into a funky-ass binary representation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It can generate either a funky-ass base policy
module (default) or a non-base policy module (\-m option); typically,
you would build a non-base policy module ta add ta a existin module
store dat already has a funky-ass base module provided by tha base policy.  Use
semodule_package ta combine dis module wit its optionizzle file
contexts ta create a policy package, n' then use semodule ta install
the module package tha fuck into tha module store n' load tha resultin policy.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b,\-\-binary
Read a existin binary policy module file rather than a source policy
module file.  This option be a thugged-out pimpment/debuggin aid.
.TP
.B \-h,\-\-help
Print usage.
.TP
.B \-m
Generate a non-base policy module.
.TP
.B \-M,\-\-mls
Enable tha MLS/MCS support when checkin n' compilin tha policy module.
.TP
.B \-V,\-\-version
 Show policy versions pimped by dis program.  Note dat you cannot currently build olda versions.
.TP
.B \-o,\-\-output filename
Write a funky-ass binary policy module file ta tha specified filename.
Otherwise, checkmodule will only check tha syntax of tha module source file
and aint gonna generate a funky-ass binary module at all.
.TP
.B \-U,\-\-handle-unknown <action>
Specify how tha fuck tha kernel should handle unknown classes or permissions (deny, allow or reject).

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# Build a MLS/MCS-enabled non-base policy module.
$ checkmodule \-M \-m httpd.te \-o httpd.mod
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B semodule(8), semodule_package(8)
SELinux documentation at http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux,
especially "Configurin tha SELinux Policy".


.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was copied from tha checkpolicy playa page 
written by Arpad Magosanyi <mag@bunuel.tii.matav.hu>, 
and edited by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
Da program was freestyled by Stephen Smalley <sds@epoch.ncsc.mil>.
