.TH CHECKPOLICY 8
.SH NAME
checkpolicy \- SELinux policy compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checkpolicy
.I "[\-b] [\-d] [\-M] [\-c policyvers] [\-o output_file] [input_file]"
.br
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR checkpolicy
command.
.PP
.B checkpolicy
is a program dat checks n' compilez a SELinux securitizzle policy configuration
into a funky-ass binary representation dat can be loaded tha fuck into tha kernel.  If no 
input file name is specified, checkpolicy will attempt ta read from
policy.conf or policy, dependin on whether tha \-b flag is specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b,\-\-binary
Read a existin binary policy file rather than a source policy.conf file.
.TP
.B \-d,\-\-debug
Enta debug mode afta loadin tha policy.
.TP
.B \-M,\-\-mls
Enable tha MLS policy when checkin n' compilin tha policy.
.TP
.B \-o,\-\-output filename
Write a funky-ass binary policy file ta tha specified filename.
.TP
.B \-c policyvers
Specify tha policy version, defaults ta tha sickest fuckin.
.TP
.B \-t,\-\-target
Specify tha target platform (selinux or xen).
.TP
.B \-U,\-\-handle-unknown <action>
Specify how tha fuck tha kernel should handle unknown classes or permissions (deny, allow or reject).
.TP
.B \-V,\-\-version
Show version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-h,\-\-help
Show usage shiznit.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
SELinux documentation at http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux,
especially "Configurin tha SELinux Policy".


.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Arpad Magosanyi <mag@bunuel.tii.matav.hu>,
and edited by Stephen Smalley <sds@epoch.ncsc.mil>.
Da program was freestyled by Stephen Smalley <sds@epoch.ncsc.mil>.
