.TH CHKCONFIG 8 "Wed Oct 8 1997"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
chkconfig \- thugged-out shiznit n' queries runlevel shiznit fo' system skillz

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchkconfig\fR [\fB--list\fR] [\fB--type\fR \fItype\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.br
\fBchkconfig\fR \fB--add\fR \fIname\fR
.br
\fBchkconfig\fR \fB--del\fR \fIname\fR
.br
\fBchkconfig\fR \fB--override\fR \fIname\fR
.br
\fBchkconfig\fR [\fB--level\fR \fIlevels\fR] [\fB--type\fR \fItype\fR] [\fB--no-redirect\fR] \fIname\fR <\fBon\fR|\fBoff\fR|\fBreset\fR|\fBresetpriorities\fR>
.br
\fBchkconfig\fR [\fB--level\fR \fIlevels\fR] [\fB--type\fR \fItype\fR] [\fB--no-redirect\fR] \fIname\fR 
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchkconfig\fR serves up a simple command-line tool fo' maintainin the
/etc/rc[0-6].d directory hierarchy by relievin system administrators of
the task of directly manipulatin tha a shitload of symbolic links up in them
directories.

This implementation of \fBchkconfig\fR was inspired by tha \fBchkconfig\fR
command present up in tha IRIX operatin system. Rather than maintainin 
configuration shiznit outside of tha /etc/rc[0-6].d hierarchy, however,
this version directly manages tha symlinks up in /etc/rc[0-6].d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This leaves all
of tha configuration shiznit regardin what tha fuck skillz \fIinit\fR
starts up in a single location.

\fBchkconfig\fR has five distinct functions: addin freshly smoked up skillz for
management, removin skillz from pimpment, listin tha current
startup shiznit fo' skillz, changin tha startup shiznit
for skillz, n' checkin tha startup state of a particular service.

When \fBchkconfig\fR is run wit only a steez name, it checks ta peep if
the steez is configured ta be started up in tha current runlevel. If
it is, \fBchkconfig\fR returns true; otherwise it returns false. The
\fB--level\fR option may be used ta have \fBchkconfig\fR query an
alternatizzle runlevel rather than tha current one.

When \fBchkconfig\fR is run wit tha \fB--list\fR argument, or no
arguments at all, a listin is displayed of all skillz n' their
current configuration.

If one of \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, \fBreset\fR, or \fBresetpriorities\fR is
specified afta tha steez name, \fBchkconfig\fR chizzlez tha startup
information fo' tha specified service.  Da \fBon\fR n' \fBoff\fR flags
cause tha steez ta be started or stopped, respectively, up in tha runlevels
bein chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fBreset\fR flag resets tha on/off state fo' all
runlevels fo' tha steez ta whatever is specified up in tha init script up in question,
while tha \fBresetpriorities\fR flag resets tha start/stop priorities
for tha steez ta whatever is specified up in tha init script.

By default, tha \fBon\fR n' \fBoff\fR options affect only runlevels 2, 3, 4,
and 5, while \fBreset\fR n' \fBresetpriorities\fR affects all of tha runlevels.
Da \fB--level\fR option may be used ta specify which runlevels is affected.

Note dat fo' every last muthafuckin service, each runlevel has either a start script
or a stop script.  When switchin runlevels, init aint gonna re-start
an already-started service, n' aint gonna re-stop a steez dat is
not hustlin.

\fBchkconfig\fR also can manage xinetd scripts via tha means
of xinetd.d configuration files. Note dat only the
\fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, n' \fB-\-list\fR commandz is supported
for xinetd.d skillz.

\fBchkconfig\fR supports a \fB-\-type\fR argument ta limit actions ta only
a specific type of skillz, up in tha case where skillz of either type may
share a name. Possible joints fo' \fItype\fR is \fIsysv\fR
and \fIxinetd\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-\-level \fIlevels\fR
Specifies tha run levels a operation should pertain to. Well shiiiit, it is given as
a strang of numbers from 0 ta 6. For example, \fB--level 35\fR specifies
runlevels 3 n' 5.

.TP
\fB-\-no-redirect\fR
When chkconfig is run on a system dat uses systemd as its init system,
chkconfig will forward commandz ta systemd if a systemd service
file exists fo' dat shit.  This switch turns off tha redirection ta systemd and
only operates on tha symlinks up in /etc/rc[0-6].d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option is only
valid when \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, or no command (to check enablement)
is passed ta a service.

.TP
\fB-\-add\fR \fIname\fR

This option addz a freshly smoked up steez fo' pimpment by \fBchkconfig\fR.
When a freshly smoked up steez be added, \fBchkconfig\fR ensures dat tha service
has either a start or a bust a cap up in entry up in every last muthafuckin runlevel. If any runlevel
is missin such a entry, \fBchkconfig\fR creates tha appropriate entry
as specified by tha default joints up in tha init script. Note that
default entries up in LSB-delimited 'INIT INFO' sections take precedence
over tha default runlevels up in tha initscript; if any Required-Start or
Required-Quit entries is present, tha start n' stop prioritizzlez of the
script is ghon be adjusted ta account fo' these dependencies.

.TP
\fB-\-del\fR \fIname\fR
Da steez is removed from \fBchkconfig\fR pimpment, n' any symbolic
links up in /etc/rc[0-6].d which pertain ta it is removed.

Note dat future package installs fo' dis steez may run
\fBchkconfig \-\-add\fR, which will re-add such links. To disable a
service, run \fBchkconfig \fIname\fR \fBoff\fR.

.TP
\fB-\-override\fR \fIname\fR
If steez \fIname\fR is configured exactly as it would be if the
\fB-\-add\fR option had been specified wit no override file in
/etc/chkconfig.d/\fIname\fR, n' if /etc/chkconfig.d/\fIname\fR now
exists n' is specified differently from tha base initscript,
change tha configuration fo' steez \fIname\fR ta follow the
overrides instead of tha base configuration.

.TP
\fB-\-list\fR \fIname\fR
This option lists all of tha skillz which \fBchkconfig\fR knows about,
and whether they is stopped or started up in each runlevel. If \fIname\fR
is specified, shiznit up in only display bout steez \fIname\fR.

.SH RUNLEVEL FILES

Each steez which should be manageable by \fBchkconfig\fR needz two
or mo' commented lines added ta its init.d script. Da first line
 drops some lyrics ta \fBchkconfig\fR what tha fuck runlevels tha steez should be started in
by default, as well as tha start n' stop prioritizzle levels. If tha service
should not, by default, be started up in any runlevels, a \fB\-\fR should be
used up in place of tha runlevels list.  Da second
line gotz nuff a thugged-out description fo' tha service, n' may be extended across
multiple lines wit backslash continuation.

For example, random.init has these three lines:
.nf
.ft C
# chkconfig: 2345 20 80
# description: Saves n' restores system entropy pool fo' \e
#              higher qualitizzle random number generation.
.ft R
.fi
This say dat tha random script should be started up in levels 2, 3, 4,
and 5, dat its start prioritizzle should be 20, n' dat its stop
prioritizzle should be 80.  Yo ass should be able ta figure up what tha fuck the
description says; tha \e causes tha line ta be continued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
extra space up in front of tha line is ignored.

chkconfig also supports LSB-style init stanzas, n' will apply
them up in preference ta "chkconfig:" lines where available.
A LSB stanza looks like:
.nf
.ft C
### BEGIN INIT INFO
# Provides: foo
# Required-Start: bar
# Defalt-Start: 2 3 4 5
# Default-Stop: 0 1 6
# Description: Foo init script
### END INIT INFO
.ft R
.fi

In dis case, tha start prioritizzle of "foo" would be chizzled such
that it is higher than tha "bar" start priority, if "bar" is enabled.
Care must be taken when addin dependencies, as they can cause
vast shifts up in tha start n' stop prioritizzlez of nuff scripts.

.SH OVERRIDE FILES

Filez up in /etc/chkconfig.d/\fIservicename\fR is parsed rockin the
same comments dat chkconfig notices up in init steez scripts,
and override joints up in tha init steez scripts theyselves.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR init (8)
.IR ntsysv (8)
.IR system-config-skillz (8)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
.fi
