.TH CHRONYD 8 "July 2014" "chrony 1.30" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
chronyd \- chrony background daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chronyd
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIconfiguration commands\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIchrony\fR be a pair of programs fo' maintainin tha accuracy of computer
clocks. \fBchronyd\fR be a funky-ass background daemon program dat can be started at boot
time.

\fBchronyd\fR be a thugged-out daemon which runs up in background on the
system.  It obtains measurements (e.g. via tha network) of the
systemz offset relatizzle ta other systems, n' adjusts tha system
time accordingly.  For isolated systems, tha user can periodically
enta tha erect time by hand (usin \fIchronyc\fR).  In either case,
\fBchronyd\fR determines tha rate at which tha computer
gains or loses time, n' compensates fo' all dis bullshit.

.SH USAGE
\fBchronyd\fR is probably started at boot-time n' requires superuser
privileges.

If \fBchronyd\fR has been installed ta its default location
\fI/usr/sbin/chronyd\fR, startin it is simply a matta of enterin the
command:

\fI/usr/sbin/chronyd\fR

Hype lyrics n' warnings is ghon be logged ta syslog.

If no configuration commandz is specified on tha command line,
\fBchronyd\fR will read tha commandz from tha configuration file
(default \fI/etc/chrony.conf\fR).

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of tha options supported by \fBchronyd\fR is included below.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIpriority\fR
This option will select tha SCHED_FIFO real-time schedula all up in tha specified
prioritizzle (which must be between 0 n' 100).  This mode is supported only on
Linux.
.TP
.B \-m
This option will lock chronyd tha fuck into RAM so dat it aint NEVER gonna be paged out.
This mode is only supported on Linux.
.TP
.B \-n
When run up in dis mode, tha program aint gonna detach itself from the
terminal.
.TP
.B \-d
When run up in dis mode, tha program aint gonna detach itself from the
terminal, n' all lyrics is ghon be busted ta tha terminal instead of
to syslog.  When \fBchronyd\fR was compiled wit debuggin support,
this option can be used twice ta print also debuggin lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIconf-file\fR
This option can be used ta specify a alternate location fo' the
configuration file (default \fI/etc/chrony.conf\fR).
.TP
.B \-r
This option will reload sample histories fo' each of tha servers bein used.
These histories is pimped by rockin tha \fIdump\fR command up in \fIchronyc\fR,
or by settin tha \fIdumponexit\fR directizzle up in tha configuration file.  This
option is useful if you wanna stop n' restart \fBchronyd\fR briefly fo' any
reason, e.g. ta install a freshly smoked up version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it only make sense on
systems where tha kernel can maintain clock compensation whilst not under
\fBchronyd\fRz control.  Da only version where dis happens so far is Linux.
On systems where dis aint tha case, e.g. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Solaris n' SunOS tha option
should not be used.
.TP
.B \-R
When dis option is used, tha \fIinitstepslew\fR directizzle n' the
\fImakestep\fR directizzle used wit a positizzle limit is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This
option is useful when restartin \fBchronyd\fR n' can be used up in conjuction
with tha \fB-r\fR option.
.TP
.B \-s
This option will set tha system clock from tha computerz real-time
clock.  This be analogous ta supplyin tha \fI-s\fR flag ta the
\fI/sbin/hwclock\fR program durin tha Linux boot sequence.

Support fo' real-time clocks is limited at present - tha criteria
are busted lyrics bout up in tha section on tha \fIrtcfile\fR directizzle up in the
documentation supplied wit tha distribution.

If \fBchronyd\fR cannot support tha real time clock on yo' computer,
this option cannot be used n' a warnin message is ghon be logged to
the syslog.

If used up in conjunction wit tha \fB-r\fR flag, \fBchronyd\fR will attempt
to preserve tha oldschool samplez afta settin tha system clock from
the real time clock.  This can be used ta allow \fBchronyd\fR to
perform long term averagin of tha bust or loss rate across system
reboots, n' is useful fo' dial-up systems dat is shut down when
not up in use.  For dis ta work well, it relies on \fBchronyd\fR having
been able ta determine accurate statistics fo' tha difference
between tha real time clock n' system clock last time the
computa was on.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR
This option sets tha name of tha user ta which will \fBchronyd\fR switch to
drop root privileges if compiled wit Linux capabilitizzles support (default
\fBchrony\fR).
.TP
.B \-q
When run up in dis mode, chronyd will set tha system clock once
and exit.  It aint gonna detach from tha terminal.
.TP
.B \-Q
This option is similar ta \fB\-q\fR yo, but it will only print tha offset and
not erect tha clock.
.TP
.B \-v
This option displays \fBchronyd\fRz version number ta tha terminal n' exits
.TP
.B \-4
Resolve hostnames only ta IPv4 addresses n' create only IPv4 sockets.
.TP
.B \-6
Resolve hostnames only ta IPv6 addresses n' create only IPv6 sockets.

.SH FILES
\fI/etc/chrony.conf\fR

.SH BUGS
To report bugs, please visit \fIhttp://chrony.tuxfamily.org/\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBchronyd\fR is documented up in detail up in tha documentation supplied wit the
distribution (\fIchrony.txt\fR n' \fIchrony.texi\fR).

.BR chrony(1),
.BR chronyc(1),
.BR chrony.conf(5),
.BR hwclock(8),
.BR ntpd(8)

.I http://chrony.tuxfamily.org/

.SH AUTHOR
Slick Rick Curnow <rc@rc0.org.uk>

This man-page was freestyled by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> as part
of "Da Missin Man Pages Project".  Please see
\fIhttp://www.netmeister.org/misc/m2p2/index.html\fR fo' details.

Da complete chrony documentation is supplied up in texinfo format.

