.TH CLEANUP 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
cleanup
\-
canonicalize n' enqueue Postfix message
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBcleanup\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon processes inbound mail, bangs it
into tha \fBincoming\fR mail queue, n' informs tha queue
manager of its arrival.

Da \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon always performs tha followin transformations:
.IP \(bu
Insert missin message headers: (\fBResent-\fR) \fBFrom:\fR,
\fBTo:\fR, \fBMessage-Id:\fR, n' \fBDate:\fR.
.IP \(bu
Transform envelope n' header addresses ta tha standard
\fIuser@fully-qualified-domain\fR form dat is expected by other
Postfix programs.
This task is delegated ta tha \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) daemon.
.IP \(bu
Eliminizzle duplicate envelope recipient addresses.
.PP
Da followin address transformations is optional:
.IP \(bu
Optionally, rewrite all envelope n' header addresses according
to tha mappings specified up in tha \fBcanonical\fR(5) lookup tables.
.IP \(bu
Optionally, masquerade envelope sender addresses n' message
header addresses (i.e. strip host or domain shiznit below
all domains listed up in tha \fBmasquerade_domains\fR parameter,
except fo' user names listed up in \fBmasquerade_exceptions\fR).
By default, address masqueradin do not affect envelope recipients.
.IP \(bu
Optionally, expand envelope recipients accordin ta shiznit
found up in tha \fBvirtual\fR(5) lookup tables.
.PP
Da \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon performs sanitizzle checks on tha content of
each message. When it findz a problem, by default it returns a
diagnostic status ta tha client, n' leaves it up ta tha client
to deal wit tha problem fo' realz. Alternatively, tha client can request
the \fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon ta bounce tha message back ta tha sender
in case of shit.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
RFC 2045 (MIME: Format of Internizzle Message Bodies)
RFC 2046 (MIME: Media Types)
RFC 2822 (Internizzle Message Format)
RFC 3463 (Enhanced Status Codes)
RFC 3464 (Delivery status notifications)
RFC 5322 (Internizzle Message Format)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Table-driven rewritin rulez make it hard ta express \fBif then
else\fR n' other logical relationshizzles.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as
\fBcleanup\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBundisclosed_recipients_header (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Message header dat tha Postfix \fBcleanup\fR(8) server bangs when a
message gotz nuff no To: or Cc: message header.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 only:
.IP "\fBenable_errors_to (no)\fR"
Report mail delivery errors ta tha address specified wit the
non-standard Errors-To: message header, instead of tha envelope
sender address (this feature is removed wit Postfix version 2.2, is
turned off by default wit Postfix version 2.1, n' be always turned on
with olda Postfix versions).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBalways_add_missing_headaz (no)\fR"
Always add (Resent-) From:, To:, Date: or Message-ID: headers
when not present.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBenable_long_queue_idz (no)\fR"
Enable long, non-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).
.SH "BUILT-IN CONTENT FILTERING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Postfix built-in content filterin is meant ta stop a gangbangin' flood of
worms or viruses. Well shiiiit, it aint a general content filter.
.IP "\fBbody_checks (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection as specified in
the \fBbody_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.IP "\fBheader_checks (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of primary non-MIME
message headers, as specified up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBbody_checks_size_limit (51200)\fR"
How tha fuck much text up in a message body segment (or attachment, if you
prefer ta use dat term) is subjected ta body_checks inspection.
.IP "\fBmime_header_checks ($header_checks)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of MIME related
message headers, as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5) manual page.
.IP "\fBnested_header_checks ($header_checks)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of non-MIME message
headaz up in attached lyrics, as busted lyrics bout up in tha \fBheader_checks\fR(5)
manual page.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBmessage_reject_charactas (empty)\fR"
Da set of charactas dat Postfix will reject up in message
content.
.IP "\fBmessage_strip_charactas (empty)\fR"
Da set of charactas dat Postfix will remove from message
content.
.SH "BEFORE QUEUE MILTER CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of version 2.3, Postfix supports tha Sendmail version 8
Milta (mail filter) protocol. When mail aint received via
the smtpd(8) server, tha cleanup(8) server will simulate
SMTP events ta tha extent dat dis is possible. For details
see tha MILTER_README document.
.IP "\fBnon_smtpd_miltas (empty)\fR"
A list of Milta (mail filter) applications fo' freshly smoked up mail that
does not arrive via tha Postfix \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server.
.IP "\fBmilter_protocol (6)\fR"
Da mail filta protocol version n' optionizzle protocol extensions
for communication wit a Milta application; prior ta Postfix 2.6
the default protocol is 2.
.IP "\fBmilter_default_action (tempfail)\fR"
Da default action when a Milta (mail filter) application is
unavailable or mis-configured.
.IP "\fBmilter_macro_daemon_name ($myhostname)\fR"
Da {daemon_name} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
.IP "\fBmilter_macro_v ($mail_name $mail_version)\fR"
Da {v} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
.IP "\fBmilter_connect_timeout (30s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' connectin ta a Milta (mail filter)
application, n' fo' negotiatin protocol options.
.IP "\fBmilter_command_timeout (30s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  a SMTP command ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.IP "\fBmilter_content_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  message content ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.IP "\fBmilter_connect_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta completion of a SMTP connection.
.IP "\fBmilter_helo_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP HELO or EHLO command.
.IP "\fBmilter_mail_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP MAIL FROM command.
.IP "\fBmilter_rcpt_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP RCPT TO command.
.IP "\fBmilter_data_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta version 4 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta tha SMTP DATA command.
.IP "\fBmilter_unknown_command_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta version 3 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta a unknown SMTP command.
.IP "\fBmilter_end_of_data_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha message end-of-data.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBmilter_end_of_header_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha end of tha message header.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBmilter_header_checks (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez fo' content inspection of message headers
that is produced by Milta applications.
.SH "MIME PROCESSING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBdisable_mime_input_processin (no)\fR"
Turn off MIME processin while receivin mail.
.IP "\fBmime_boundary_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Da maximal length of MIME multipart boundary strings.
.IP "\fBmime_nesting_limit (100)\fR"
Da maximal recursion level dat tha MIME processor will handle.
.IP "\fBstrict_8bitmime (no)\fR"
Enable both strict_7bit_headaz n' strict_8bitmime_body.
.IP "\fBstrict_7bit_headaz (no)\fR"
Reject mail wit 8-bit text up in message headers.
.IP "\fBstrict_8bitmime_body (no)\fR"
Reject 8-bit message body text without 8-bit MIME content encoding
information.
.IP "\fBstrict_mime_encoding_domain (no)\fR"
Reject mail wit invalid Content-Transfer-Encoding: shiznit
for tha message/* or multipart/* MIME content types.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBdetect_8bit_encoding_header (yes)\fR"
Automatically detect 8BITMIME body content by lookin at
Content-Transfer-Encoding: message headers; historically, this
behavior was hard-coded ta be "always on".
.SH "AUTOMATIC BCC RECIPIENT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Postfix can automatically add BCC (blind carbon copy)
when mail entas tha mail system:
.IP "\fBalways_bcc (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address dat receives a "blind carbon copy" of each message
that is received by tha Postfix mail system.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsender_bcc_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle BCC (blind carbon-copy) address lookup tables, indexed
by sender address.
.IP "\fBrecipient_bcc_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle BCC (blind carbon-copy) address lookup tables, indexed by
recipient address.
.SH "ADDRESS TRANSFORMATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Address rewritin is delegated ta tha \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) daemon.
Da \fBcleanup\fR(8) server implements table driven address mapping.
.IP "\fBempty_address_recipient (MAILER-DAEMON)\fR"
Da recipient of mail addressed ta tha null address.
.IP "\fBcanonical_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' message headaz and
envelopes.
.IP "\fBrecipient_canonical_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' envelope n' header
recipient addresses.
.IP "\fBsender_canonical_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' envelope n' header
sender addresses.
.IP "\fBmasquerade_classes (envelope_sender, header_sender, header_recipient)\fR"
What addresses is subject ta address masquerading.
.IP "\fBmasquerade_domains (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of domains whose subdomain structure is ghon be stripped
off up in email addresses.
.IP "\fBmasquerade_exceptions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of user names dat is not subjected ta address
masquerading, even when they address matches $masquerade_domains.
.IP "\fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions (canonical, virtual)\fR"
What address lookup tablez copy a address extension from tha lookup
key ta tha lookup result.
.PP
Available before Postfix version 2.0:
.IP "\fBvirtual_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit a) namez of domains fo' which all
addresses is aliased ta addresses up in other local or remote domains,
and b) addresses dat is aliased ta addresses up in other local or
remote domains.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBvirtual_alias_maps ($virtual_maps)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez dat alias specific mail addresses or domains
to other local or remote address.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBcanonical_classes (envelope_sender, envelope_recipient, header_sender, header_recipient)\fR"
What addresses is subject ta canonical_maps address mapping.
.IP "\fBrecipient_canonical_classes (envelope_recipient, header_recipient)\fR"
What addresses is subject ta recipient_canonical_maps address
mapping.
.IP "\fBsender_canonical_classes (envelope_sender, header_sender)\fR"
What addresses is subject ta sender_canonical_maps address
mapping.
.IP "\fBremote_header_rewrite_domain (empty)\fR"
Don't rewrite message headaz from remote clients at all when
this parameta is empty; otherwise, rewrite message headaz and
append tha specified domain name ta incomplete addresses.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBduplicate_filter_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal number of addresses remembered by tha address
duplicate filta fo' \fBaliases\fR(5) or \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias expansion, or
for \fBshowq\fR(8) queue displays.
.IP "\fBheader_size_limit (102400)\fR"
Da maximal amount of memory up in bytes fo' storin a message header.
.IP "\fBhopcount_limit (50)\fR"
Da maximal number of Received:  message headaz dat be allowed
in tha primary message headers.
.IP "\fBin_flow_delay (1s)\fR"
Time ta pause before acceptin a freshly smoked up message, when tha message
arrival rate exceedz tha message delivery rate.
.IP "\fBmessage_size_limit (10240000)\fR"
Da maximal size up in bytez of a message, includin envelope shiznit.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBheader_address_token_limit (10240)\fR"
Da maximal number of address tokens is allowed up in a address
message header.
.IP "\fBmime_boundary_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Da maximal length of MIME multipart boundary strings.
.IP "\fBmime_nesting_limit (100)\fR"
Da maximal recursion level dat tha MIME processor will handle.
.IP "\fBqueue_file_attribute_count_limit (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of (name=value) attributes dat may be stored
in a Postfix queue file.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBvirtual_alias_expansion_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal number of addresses dat virtual alias expansion produces
from each original gangsta recipient.
.IP "\fBvirtual_alias_recursion_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal nestin depth of virtual alias expansion.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBdelay_warning_time (0h)\fR"
Da time afta which tha sender receives a cold-ass lil copy of tha message
headaz of mail dat is still queued.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmyhostname (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da internizzle hostname of dis mail system.
.IP "\fBmyorigin ($myhostname)\fR"
Da domain name dat locally-posted mail appears ta come
from, n' dat locally posted mail is served up to.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsoft_bounce (no)\fR"
Safety net ta keep mail queued dat would otherwise be returned to
the sender.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBenable_original_recipient (yes)\fR"
Enable support fo' tha X-Original-To message header.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/etc/postfix/canonical*, canonical mappin table
/etc/postfix/virtual*, virtual mappin table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
trivial-rewrite(8), address rewriting
qmgr(8), queue manager
header_checks(5), message header content inspection
body_checks(5), body parts content inspection
canonical(5), canonical address lookup table format
virtual(5), virtual alias lookup table format
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README Postfix address manipulation
CONTENT_INSPECTION_README content inspection
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
