.\" playa page fo' combinedeltarpm
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
.\" See LICENSE.BSD fo' license
.TH COMBINEDELTARPM 8 "May 2005"
.SH NAME
combindeltarpm \- combine multiple deltarpms ta a single one

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B combinedeltarpm
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V
.IR version ]
.RB [ -z
.IR compression ]
.RB [ -S
.IR signaturerpm ]
.I olddeltarpms...
.I newdeltarpm

.SH DESCRIPTION
combinedeltarpm creates a freshly smoked up deltarpm from multiple oldschool ones.
Applyin tha rsultin deltarpm has tha same ol' dirty effect as applying
each of tha oldschool ones up in tha specified order n' shit. Use the
.B -v
option ta make combinedeltarpm mo' verbose bout its work.
.PP
combinedeltarpm normally produces a V3 format deltarpm, use the
.B -V
option ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different version if desired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
.B -z
option can be used ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different compression method, the
default is ta use tha same compression method as used up in the
last of tha oldschool deltarpms.
.PP
If you wanna bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different header
signature you can also specify a rpm wit the
.B -S
option which is ghon be used as signature reference. This feature can
be used ta if a thugged-out deltarpm was made against a unsigned rpm which
lata gots signed.

.SH MEMORY CONSIDERATIONS
Da implementation of combinedeltarpm currently unpacks the
add-blockz of tha deltarpms up in memory, thus it needz bout twice
the uncompressed payload size of tha target rpm.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makedeltarpm (8)
.BR applydeltarpm (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
