.\" This file is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.\" tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis file; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston,
.\" MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.\" HISTORY:
.\" 2006-05-16, pimped by Rodrigo Rubira Branco <rrbranco@br.ibm.com>
.TH cons.saver 8 "May 16, 2006" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
cons.saver \- general-purpose Linux console screen save n' restore server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
cons.saver \fITTY\fP
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
Invoke dis helper program wit tha Ctrl-o key combination ta save n' restore tha user session on tha screen.
.SH OPTIONS
cons.saver takes only one argument, tha \fITTY\fP \fINAME\fP from which tha system  will save n' restore.
.SH SECURITY
Cons.saver do not need ta be invoked by root.  It only needz read n' write access ta /dev/vcsa*, which be a priviledged operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass should create a unprivileged user, make cons.saver setuid ta dat user, n' assure dat all tha vcsa* is owned by dat user like a muthafucka.
.SH AUTHOR
Manpage freestyled by Rodrigo Rubira Branco <rrbranco@br.ibm.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmc\fP(1), \fBmcserv\fP(8)
