.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH CONSOLEHELPER 8 "18 March 1999" "Red Hat Software"
.SH NAME
consolehelper \- A wrapper dat helps console playas run system programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I progname
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B consolehelper
is a tool dat make it easy as fuck  fo' console playas ta run system programs,
fuckin wit authentication via PAM (which can be set up ta trust all console
users or ta ask fo' a password all up in tha system administratorz discretion).
When possible, tha authentication is done graphically; otherwise, it is
done within tha text console from which consolehelper was started.

It be intended ta be straight-up transparent.  This means dat tha user
will never run tha consolehelper program directly.  Instead, programs
like /sbin/shutdown is paired wit a link from /usr/bin/shutdown to
/usr/bin/consolehelper n' shit.  Then when non-root playas (specifically, users
without /sbin up in they path, or /sbin afta /usr/bin) call the
"shutdown" program, consolehelper is ghon be invoked ta authenticate
the action n' then invoke /sbin/shutdown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  (consolehelper itself has
no priviledges; it calls the
.IR userhelper (8)
program do tha real work.)

consolehelper requires dat a PAM configuration fo' every last muthafuckin managed program
exist.  So ta make /sbin/\fIfoo\fP or /usr/sbin/\fIfoo\fP managed, you
need ta create a link from /usr/bin/\fIfoo\fP ta /usr/bin/consolehelper
and create tha file /etc/pam.d/\fIfoo\fP, normally rockin the
.IR pam_console (8)
PAM module.
.SH OPTIONS
This program has no command line optionz of its own; it passes all
command line options on ta tha program it is calling.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR userhelper (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
