.TH CONVERTQUOTA 8 "Fri Aug 20 1999"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
convertquota \- convert quota from oldschool file format ta freshly smoked up one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B convertquota
[
.B -ug
] 
.B -e
.I filesystem
.LP
.B convertquota
[
.B -ug
] 
.B -f
.IR oldformat , newformat
.I filesystem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B convertquota
converts oldschool quota files
.BR quota.user
and
.BR quota.group
to files
.BR aquota.user
and
.BR aquota.group
in freshly smoked up format currently used by 2.4.0-ac, biatch? n' newer or by SuSE or Red Hat Linux 2.4 kernels on
.IR filesystem .
.PP
New file format allows rockin quotas fo' 32-bit uidz / gids, settin quotas fo' root,
accountin used space up in bytes (and so allowin use of quotas up in ReiserFS) n' it
is also architecture independent. This format introduces Radix Tree (a simple form of tree
structure) ta quota file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --user
convert user quota file. This is tha default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
convert crew quota file.
.TP
.B -f, --convert-format \f2oldformat,newformat\f1
convert quota file from
.I oldformat
to
.IR newformat .
.TP
.B -e, --convert-endian
convert vfsv0 file format from big-ass endian ta lil endian (old kernels had
a bug n' did not store quota filez up in lil endian format).
.TP
.B -V, --version
print version shiznit.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B aquota.user
new user quota file
.TP
.B aquota.group
new crew quota file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quota (1),
.BR setquota (8),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Kara \<jack@suse.cz\>

