.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha MontaVista Software, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC 8 2010-05-30
.SH NAME
corosync \- Da Corosync Clusta Engine.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync [\-f] [\-p] [\-r] [\-v]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync
Corosync serves up clusterin infracture like fuckin membership, messagin n' quorum.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f
Start application up in foreground.
.TP
.B -p
Do not a god damn thang (was: "Do not set process priority" - dis is now tha default).
.TP
.B -r
Set round robin realtime scheduling.
.TP
.B -t
Test configuration n' then exit.
.TP
.B -v
Display version n' SVN revision of Corosync n' exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.BR corosync.conf (5),
.BR cpg_overview (8),
.BR votequorum_overview (8),
.BR sam_overview (8),
.BR cmap_overview (8),
.BR quorum_overview (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
