.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha MontaVista Software, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-CMAP 8 2012-01-23
.SH NAME
corosync-cmapctl: \- A tool fo' accessin tha object database.
.SH DESCRIPTION
usage:  corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] [\-dghsTtp] [params...]
.HP
\fB\-b\fR show binary joints
.SS "Set key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-s\fR key_name type value
.IP
where type is one of ([i|u][8|16|32|64] | flt | dbl | str | bin)
for bin, value is file name (or \- fo' stdin)
.SS "Load settings from a gangbangin' file:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-p\fR filename
.IP
the format of tha file is:
[^[^]]<key_name>[ <type> <value>]
.IP
Keys prefixed wit single caret ('^') is deleted (see \fB\-d\fR).
.IP
Keys (actually prefixes) prefixed wit double caret ('^^') is deleted by prefix (see \fB\-D\fR).
.IP
<type> n' <value> is optionizzle (not checked) up in above cases.
.IP
Other keys is set (see \fB\-s\fR) so both <type> n' <value> is required.
.SS "Delete key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-d\fR key_name...
.SS "Delete multiple keys wit prefix:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-D\fR key_prefix...
.SS "Git key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-g\fR key_name...
.SS "Display all keys:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b]
.SS "Display keys wit prefix key_name:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] key_name...
.SS "Track chizzlez on keys wit key_name:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-t\fR key_name
.SS "Track chizzlez on keys wit key prefix:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-T\fR key_prefix

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cmap_overview (8),
.BR cmap_keys (8)
