.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha MontaVista Software, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-CPGTOOL 8 2010-05-30
.SH NAME
corosync-cpgtool \- A tool fo' displayin cpg crews n' members.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-cpgtool [\-d delimiter] [\-e] [\-n] [\-h]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-cpgtool
A tool fo' displayin cpg crews n' members.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Display dis help.
.TP
.B -d
Delimita between fields.
.TP
.B -e
Don't escape unprintable charactas up in crew name
.TP
.B -n
Display only all existin crew names.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Display tha crews n' process dat belong ta dem cpg groups.
$ corosync-cpgtool 
.br
Group Name	       PID	   Node ID
.br
example-group
.br
		      2515	 191146176 (192.168.100.11)
.br
		      2471	 207923392 (192.168.100.12)
.TP
Git a cold-ass lil comma-delimited list.
$ corosync-cpgtool -d ","
.br
GRP_NAME,PID,NODEID
.br
example-group,2515,191146176
.br
example-group,2471,207923392
.TP
Just git tha crew names
$ corosync-cpgtool -n
.br
example-group
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
