.\" 
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha MontaVista Software, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "COROSYNC-CFGTOOL" "8" "2010-05-30" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
corosync-cfgtool \- An administratizzle tool fo' corosync.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B corosync\-cfgtool [\-i] [IP_address] [\-s] [\-r] [\-l] [\-u] [\-H] [service_name] [\-v] [version] [\-k] [nodeid] [\-a] [nodeid]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B corosync\-cfgtool
A tool fo' displayin n' configurin actizzle parametas within corosync.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B -h
Print basic usage.
.TP
.B -i
Findz only shiznit bout tha specified intercourse IP address.
.TP 
.B -s
Displays tha statuz of tha current rings on dis node.  If any intercourses is 
faulty, 1 is returned by tha binary.  If all intercourses is actizzle 0 is returned
to tha shell.
.TP 
.B -r
Reset redundant rang state clusta wide afta a gangbangin' fault to
re-enable redundant rang operation.
.TP 
.B -l
Load a steez identified by "service_name".
.TP 
.B -u
Unload a steez identified by "service_name".
.TP 
.B -a
Display tha IP address(es) of a node.
.TP 
.B -k
Bust a cap up in a node identified by node id.
.TP 
.B -R
Tell all instancez of corosync up in dis clusta ta reload corosync.conf
.TP 
.B -H
Shutdown corosync cleanly on dis node.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.SH "AUTHOR"
Angus Salkeld
.PP 
