.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of Red Hat, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-BLACKBOX 8 2010-05-30
.SH NAME
corosync-blackbox \- Dump live "flight data" from tha corosync "blackbox".
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-blackbox"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-blackbox
Trigger corosync ta write itz "flight data" up ta file n' then run
.B qb-blackbox
which prints it out.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Print tha current "flight data".
.br
$ corosync-blackbox 
.br
Startin replay: head [74205] tail [0]
.br
rec=[1] Log Message=Corosync Clusta Engine ('1.2.1'): started n' locked n loaded ta provide service.
.br
[...]
.br
rec=[2607] Log Message=Deliverin MCAST message wit seq a ta pendin delivery queue
.br
rec=[2608] Log Message=downlist received left_list: 2
.br
rec=[2609] Log Message=chosen downlist from node r(0) ip(192.168.100.11) 
.br
Finishin replay: recordz found [2609]
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qb-blackbox (8),
.BR corosync-cmapctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
