.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010,2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, tha text of which bigs up:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" * modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions is met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright notice,
.\" *   dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in tha documentation
.\" *   and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" * - Neither tha name of tha MontaVista Software, Inc. nor tha namez of its
.\" *   contributors may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-QUORUMTOOL 8 2012-01-12
.SH NAME
corosync-quorumtool \- Set n' display quorum settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-quorumtool [\-s] [\-m] [\-l] [\-p] [\-v votes] [\-n nodeid] [\-e expected] [\-h] [\-i] [\-o <a|n|i>] [\-V]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Display tha current state of quorum up in tha clusta n' set vote quorum options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -s
show quorum status
.TP
.B  -m
constantly monitor quorum status
.TP
.B  -l
list nodes
.TP
.B  -v <votes>
change tha number of votes fo' a node *
.TP
.B  -n <nodeid>
optionizzle nodeid of node fo' -v
.TP
.B  -e <expected>
change expected votes fo' tha clusta *
.TP
.B  -H
show nodeidz up in hexadecimal rather than decimal
.TP
.B  -i
show node IP addresses instead of tha resolved name
.TP
.B -p
when used wit -s or -l, generates machine parsable output
.TP
.B -o <a|n|i>
Ordaz tha output of tha nodes list. By default or wit -oa nodes is listed up in IP address
order: as they come from corosync. -on will order tha nodes based on they name,
and -oi will order dem based on they node ID.
.TP
.B  -h (if no other argument)
show dis help text
.TP
.B  -V
show version n' exit
.PP
* Starred shit only work if votequorum is tha quorum provider fo' corosync
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.BR votequorum_overview (8),
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
