.\" source:
.\"   /var/cvs/projects/debian/cracklib/debian/dpkg.src/cracklib-runtime.crack_mkdict.8.in,v
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) cracklib-runtime.crack_mkdict.8.in,v 1.7 1999/04/02 14:50:43 jplejacq Exp
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under tha GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH cracklib\-format 8 "Sat Jun 21 22:43:12 CEST 2008" "2.7-8.5" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
cracklib\-format, cracklib\-packer, cracklib\-unpacker \- cracklib doggtionary utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cracklib\-format
.IR file
.IR ...

.B cracklib\-packer
.IR cracklib_dictpath

.B cracklib\-unpacker
.IR cracklib_dictpath
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cracklib\-format
takes a list of text filez each containin a list of lyrics, one per line, It
lowercases all lyrics, removes control characters, n' sorts tha lists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It
outputs tha cleaned up list ta standard output.  Da text filez may be
optionally compressed with
.BR gzip (1).

If you supply massive amountz of text to
.B cracklib\-format
you must have enough free space available fo' use by the
.BR sort (1)
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you aint gots 20Mb free up in /var/tmp (or whatever
temporary area your
.BR sort (1)
command uses), gotz a peep the
.B /usr/sbin/cracklib\-format
program which be a
.BR sh (1)
program.  Yo ass can probably tweak the
.BR sort (1)
command ta use any big-ass area of disk you desire, by use of the
.B \-T
option.
.B cracklib\-format
has a hook fo' all dis bullshit.

.B cracklib\-packer
readz from standard input a list of sorted n' cleaned lyrics and
creates a thugged-out database up in tha directory n' prefix given by tha command
line argument
.B cracklib_dictpath.
Three filez is pimped wit tha suffixez of .hwm, .pwd, n' .pwi.
These three filez is up in tha format dat the
.BR FascistPeep (3)
subroutine,
.BR cracklib\-unpacker (8),
and
.BR cracklib\-check (8),
utilitizzles understand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da number of lyrics read n' freestyled is printed on
.BR stdout (3).

.B cracklib\-unpacker
readz from tha database up in tha directory n' prefix given by tha command
line argument
.B cracklib_dictpath
and outputs on standard output tha list of lyrics dat make up the
database.

Da database is up in a funky-ass binary format generated by tha utilities
.BR cracklib\-format (8)
and
.BR cracklib\-packer (8).
On a Debian system tha database is located up in tha directory
/var/cache/cracklib/cracklib_dict n' is generated everyday wit tha program
/etc/cron.daily/cracklib.  Da location be also defined up in the
header file
.B crack.h
usin tha constant
.B CRACKLIB_DICTPATH
though none of tha subroutines up in tha cracklib libraries have this
location hardcoded tha fuck into they implementations.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/cache/cracklib/cracklib_dict.[hwm|pwd|pwi]
cracklib doggtionary database filez used by utilities.
.TP
.I /etc/cron.daily/cracklib
cracklib everyday cron program ta rebuild tha cracklib doggtionary database.
.TP
.I /etc/cracklib/cracklib.conf
cracklib configuration file used by tha cracklib everyday cron program to
rebuild tha cracklib doggtionary database.
.TP
.I /usr/include/crack.h
cracklib header file definin tha subroutine
.BR FascistCheck(3)
and tha constant
.B CRACKLIB_DICTPATH
used ta compile up in tha location of tha cracklib doggtionary database for
these utilities.
.TP
.I /usr/sbin/cracklib\-format
cracklib shell script ta create initial list of lyrics fo' dictionary
database.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR FascistPeep (3),
.BR cracklib\-check (8),
.BR update\-cracklib (8),
.BR create\-cracklib\-dict (8)
.br
/usr/share/doc/libcrack2/libcrack2.html
.br
/usr/share/doc/cracklib-runtime/cracklib-runtime.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B cracklib2
is freestyled by Alec Muffett <alecm@crypto.dircon.co.uk>. Manual added
by Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>.
