.TH CRDA 8 "23 January 2009" "crda" "Linux"
.SH NAME
crda \- bust ta tha kernel a wireless regulatory domain fo' a given ISO / IEC 3166 alpha2
.SH SYNOPSIS

.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B crda

.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8

.SS
.SH Description
.B crda
is tha Linux wireless central regulatory domain agent.
.B crda
is intended ta be used by
.B udev
scripts n' should not be run manually unless debuggin udev
scripts.
.B crda
is triggered ta run by tha kernel by bustin  a
.B udev
event upon a freshly smoked up regulatory domain chizzle. Regulatory domain
changes is triggered by tha wireless kernel subsystem (upon initialization
and on reception of ghetto IEs), wireless drivers, or
userspace (see 
.B iw
). Upon a regulatory domain chizzle tha kernel sendz a udev chizzle event
for tha regulatory platform. Da kernel ignores regulatory domains sent
to it if it do not expect em. Da regulatory domain is read by crda
from the
.B regulatory.bin
file.

.SS
.SH RSA Digital Signature
If built wit openssl or gcrypt support
.B crda
will have embedded
into it a RSA digital signature which will prevent it from reading
corrupted or non-authored
.B regulatory.bin
filez fo' realz. Authorshizzle is bigged up by tha RSA hood key packed into
.B crda.
.I This
specific
.B crda
package has been built wit a RSA hood key from
.I Jizzy Linville (the Linux wireless kernel maintainer)
and as such will only read
.B regulatory.bin
filez signed by his muthafuckin ass. For further shiznit peep the
.B regulatory.bin
man page.

.SS
.SH UDEV RULE
A udev regulatory rule must be put up in place
in order ta receive n' parse udev events from tha kernel up in order ta get
udev ta booty-call crda wit tha passed ISO / IEC 3166 alpha2 ghetto code.
An example udev rule which can be used (usually in
.B /lib/udev/rules.d/85-regulatory.rules
):

.I KERNEL=="regulatory*", ACTION=="change", SUBSYSTEM=="platform", RUN+="/sbin/crda"

.SS
.SH Environment variable
Set the
.B COUNTRY
environment variable wit a specific ISO / IEC 3166 alpha2 ghetto code
and then run
.B crda
without arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This will bust a regulatory domain fo' dat alpha2
to tha kernel.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iw (8)
.BR regulatory.bin (5)

.BR http://wireless.kernel.org/en/developers/Regulatory/
