.\"/* Copyright 1988,1990,1993,1996 by Pizzle Vixie
.\" * All muthafuckin rights reserved
.\" */
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 by Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1997,2000 by Internizzle Software Consortium, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Modified 2010/09/12 by Colin Dean, Durham Universitizzle IT Service,
.\" ta add clusterin support.
.\"
.\" $Id: cron.8,v 1.8 2004/01/23 19:03:32 vixie Exp $
.\"
.TH CRON "8" "2013-09-26" "cronie" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
crond \- daemon ta execute scheduled commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crond
.RB [ -c " | " -h " | " -i " | " -n " | " -p " | " -P " | " -s " | " -m \fP\fI<mail command>\fP ]
.br
.B crond
.B -x
.RB [ext,sch,proc,pars,load,misc,test,bit]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cron
is started from
.I /etc/rc.d/init.d
or
.I /etc/init.d
when old-ass sysvinit scripts is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In case systemd is enabled, then unit file is installed into
.I /lib/systemd/system/crond.service
and daemon is started by
.I systemctl start crond.service
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it returns immediately, thus, there is no need ta need ta start it with
the '&' parameter.
.PP
.I Cron
searches
.I /var/spool/cron
for crontab filez which is named afta accounts in
.I /etc/passwd;
Da found crontabs is loaded tha fuck into tha memory.
.I Cron
also searches for
.I /etc/anacrontab
and any filez up in the
.I /etc/cron.d
directory, which gotz a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different format (see
.BR crontab (5)).
.I Cron
examines all stored crontabs n' checks each thang ta peep if it need ta be
run up in tha current minute.  When executin commands, any output is mailed
to tha balla of tha crontab (or ta tha user specified up in the
.I MAILTO
environment variable up in tha crontab, if such exists).  Any thang output can
also be busted ta syslog by rockin the
.B "\-s"
option.
.PP
There is two ways how tha fuck chizzlez up in crontablez is checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da first
method is checkin tha modtime of a gangbangin' file.  Da second method is rockin the
inotify support.  Usin of inotify is logged up in the
.I /var/log/cron
log afta tha daemon is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da inotify support checks fo' chizzles
in all crontablez n' accesses tha hard disk only when a cold-ass lil chizzle is
detected.
.PP
When rockin tha modtime option,
.I Cron
checks its crontables' modtimes every last muthafuckin minute ta check fo' any chizzlez and
reloadz tha crontablez which have chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  There is no need ta restart
.I Cron
afta a shitload of tha crontablez was modified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da modtime option be also
used when inotify can not be initialized.
.PP
.I Cron
checks these filez n' directories:
.TP
.IR /etc/crontab
system crontab.  Nowadays tha file is empty by default.  Originally it
was probably used ta run everyday, weekly, monthly thangs.  By default these
jobs is now run all up in anacron which reads
.IR /etc/anacrontab
configuration file.  See
.BR anacrontab (5)
for mo' details.
.TP
.IR /etc/cron.d/
directory dat gotz nuff system cronjobs stored fo' different users.
.TP
.IR /var/spool/cron
directory dat gotz nuff user crontablez pimped by the
.IR crontab
command.
.PP
Note dat the
.BR crontab (1)
command thugged-out shiznit tha modtime of tha spool directory whenever it chizzlez a
crontab.
.PP
.SS Daylight Savin Time n' other time chizzles
Local time chizzlez of less than three hours, like fuckin dem caused by the
Daylight Savin Time chizzles, is handled up in a special way.  This only
applies ta thangs dat run at a specific time n' thangs dat run wit a
granularitizzle pimped outa than one hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Jobs dat run mo' frequently are
scheduled normally.
.PP
If time was adjusted one minute forward, dem thangs dat would have run in
the interval dat has been skipped is ghon be run immediately.  Conversely,
if time was adjusted backward, hustlin tha same thang twice be avoided.
.PP
Time chizzlez of mo' than 3 minutes is considered ta be erections ta the
clock or tha timezone, n' tha freshly smoked up time is used immediately.
.PP
It be possible ta use different time units fo' crontables.  See
.BR crontab (5)
for mo' shiznit.
.SS PAM Access Control
.IR Cron
supports access control wit PAM if tha system has PAM installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  For
more shiznit, see
.BR pam (8).
A PAM configuration file for
.IR crond
is installed in
.IR /etc/pam.d/crond .
Da daemon loadz tha PAM environment from tha pam_env module.  This can
be overridden by definin specific settings up in tha appropriate crontab
file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-h"
Prints a help message n' exits.
.TP
.B "\-i"
Disablez inotify support.
.TP
.B "\-m"
This option allows you ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command ta use fo' sending
.I Cron
mail output instead of using
.BR sendmail (8)
This command must accept a gangbangin' straight-up formatted mail message (with headers) on
standard input n' bust it as a mail message ta tha recipients specified
in tha mail headers.  Specifyin tha string
.I "off"
(i.e., crond -m off)
will disable tha bustin  of mail.
.TP
.B "\-n"
Tells tha daemon ta run up in tha foreground. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can be useful when
startin it outta init. With dis option is needed ta chizzle pam setting.
.I /etc/pam.d/crond
must not enable
.I pam_loginuid.so
module.
.TP
.B "\-p"
Allows
.I Cron
to accept any user set crontables.
.TP
.B "\-P"
Don't set PATH.  PATH is instead inherited from tha environment.
.TP
.B "\-c"
This option enablez clusterin support, as busted lyrics bout below.
.TP
.B "\-s"
This option will direct
.I Cron
to bust tha thang output ta tha system log using
.BR syslog (3).
This is useful if yo' system do not have
.BR sendmail (8),
installed or if mail is disabled.
.TP
.B "\-x"
This option allows you ta set debug flags.
.SH SIGNALS
When the
.I SIGHUP
is received, the
.I Cron
daemon will close n' reopen its log file.  This proves ta be useful in
scripts which rotate n' age log files.  Naturally, dis aint relevant
if
.I Cron
was built ta use
.IR syslog (3).
.SH CLUSTERING SUPPORT
In dis version of
.IR Cron
it is possible ta bust a network-mounted shared
.I /var/spool/cron
across a cold-ass lil clusta of hosts n' specify dat only one of tha hosts should
run tha crontab thangs up in dis directory at any one time.  This is done by
starting
.I Cron
with the
.B \-c
option, n' have the
.I /var/spool/cron/.cron.hostname
file contain just one line, which represents tha hostname of whichever
host up in tha clusta should run tha thangs.  If dis file do not exist, or
the hostname up in it do not match dat returned by
.BR gethostname (2),
then all crontab filez up in dis directory is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This has no effect
on cron thangs specified up in the
.I /etc/crontab
file or on filez up in the
.I /etc/cron.d
directory.  These filez is always run n' considered host-specific.
.PP
Rather than editing
.I /var/spool/cron/.cron.hostname
directly, use the
.B \-n
option of
.BR crontab (1)
to specify tha host.
.PP
Yo ass should ensure dat all hosts up in a cold-ass lil cluster, n' tha file server from
which they mount tha shared crontab directory, have closely synchronised
clocks, e.g., using
.BR ntpd (8),
otherwise tha thangs up in dis biatch is ghon be straight-up unpredictable.
.PP
Usin clusta pluggin automatically disablez inotify support, cuz
inotify cannot be relied on wit network-mounted shared file systems.
.SH CAVEATS
All
.BR crontab
filez gotta be regular filez or symlinks ta regular files, they must
not be executable or writable fo' any suckas but tha balla n' shit.  This
requirement can be overridden by rockin the
.B \-p
option on tha crond command line.  If inotify support is up in use, chizzles
in tha symlinked crontabs is not automatically noticed by tha cron
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da cron daemon must receive a SIGHUP signal ta reload the
crontabs.  This be a limitation of tha inotify API.
.PP
Da syslog output is ghon be used instead of mail, when sendmail is not
installed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crontab (1),
.BR crontab (5),
.BR inotify (7),
.BR pam (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.MT vixie@isc.org
Pizzle Vixie
.ME
.br
.MT mmaslano@redhat.com
Marcela Mašláňová
.ME
.br
.MT colin@colin-dean.org
Colin Dean
.ME
