.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-snmp.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   SNMP backend playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2012-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cups-snmp 8 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
snmp \- cups snmp backend
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/cups/backend/snmp
.I ip-address-or-hostname
.br
.B /usr/libexec/cups/backend/snmp
.I ip-address-or-hostname
.br
.B lpinfo -v --include-schemes snmp
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da CUPS SNMP backend serves up legacy discovery n' identification of network
printas rockin SNMPv1. When used fo' discovery all up in tha scheduler, the
backend will list all printas dat respond ta a funky-ass broadcast SNMPv1 query wit the
"public" hood name fo' realz. Additionizzle queries is then busted ta printas that
respond up in order ta determine tha erect thang URI, make n' model, n' other
information needed fo' printing.
.LP
In tha straight-up original gangsta form, tha SNMP backend is run directly by tha user ta look up the
device URI n' other shiznit when you have a IP address or hostname. This
can be used fo' programs dat need ta configure print queues where tha user has
supplied a address but not a god damn thang else.
.LP
In tha second form, tha SNMP backend is run indirectly rockin tha \fIlpinfo(8)\fR
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da output serves up all printas detected via SNMP on tha configured
broadcast addresses. \fBNote\fR: no broadcast addresses is configured by
default.
.SH MIBS
Da CUPS SNMP backend uses tha shiznit from tha Host, Printer, n' Port
Monitor MIBs along wit some vendor private MIBs n' intelligent port probes to
determine tha erect thang URI n' make n' model fo' each printer.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da SNMP backend readz tha /etc/cups/snmp.conf configuration file, if
present, ta set tha default broadcast address, hood name, n' logging
level. Da configuration file is documented up in \fIcups-snmp.conf(5)\fR. The
DebugLevel value can be overridden rockin tha CUPS_DEBUG_LEVEL environment
variable n' tha MaxRunTime value can be overridden rockin tha CUPS_MAX_RUN_TIME
environment variable.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIbackend(7)\fR, \fIcups-snmp.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fIfilter(7)\fR, \fIlpinfo(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-snmp.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
