.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsfilter.man 11772 2014-03-28 15:08:30Z msweet $"
.\"
.\" cupsfilta playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2007-2014 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\" property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\" law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\" which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\" file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsfilta 8 "CUPS" "28 March 2014" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsfilta \- convert a gangbangin' file ta another format rockin cups filters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsfilter
[ -D ] [ -U
.I user
] [ -c
.I config-file
] [ -d
.I printer
] [ -e ] [ -i
.I mime/type
] [ -j
.I thang-id[,N]
] [ -m
.I mime/type
] [ -n
.I copies
] [ -o
.I name=value
] [ -p
.I filename.ppd
] [ -t
.I title
] [ -u ]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsfilter\fR be a gangbangin' front-end ta tha CUPS filta subsystem which allows you
to convert a gangbangin' file ta a specific format, just as if you had printed tha file
all up in CUPS. By default, \fIcupsfilter\fR generates a PDF file. Da converted
file is busted ta tha standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
-D
.br
Delete tha input file afta conversion.
.TP 5
-U user
.br
Specifies tha username passed ta tha filters. Da default is tha name of tha current user.
.TP 5
-c config-file
.br
Uses tha named cups-files.conf configuration file.
.TP 5
-d printer
Uses shiznit from tha named printer.
.TP 5
-e
.br
Use every last muthafuckin filta from tha PPD file.
.TP 5
-i mime/type
.br
Specifies tha source file type. Da default file type is guessed rockin the
filename n' contentz of tha file.
.TP 5
-j thang-id[,N]
.br
Converts document N from tha specified thang. If N is omitted, document 1 is
converted.
.TP 5
-m mime/type
.br
Specifies tha destination file type. Da default file type be application/pdf.
Use printer/foo ta convert ta tha printa format defined by tha filtas up in the
PPD file.
.TP 5
-n copies
.br
Specifies tha number of copies ta generate.
.TP 5
-o name=value
.br
Specifies options ta pass ta tha CUPS filters.
.TP 5
-p filename.ppd
.br
Specifies tha PPD file ta use.
.TP 5
-t title
.br
Specifies tha document title.
.TP 5
-u
.br
Delete tha PPD file afta conversion.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcups-files.conf(5)\fR
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2014 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsfilter.man 11772 2014-03-28 15:08:30Z msweet $".
.\"
