.\" $Id: cups-genppd.8.in,v 1.6 2008/09/17 02:35:48 mbroughtn Exp $
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Roger Leigh <rleigh@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH CUPS\-GENPPD "8" "07 Jul 2012" "Version 5.2.9" "Gutenprint Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
cups\-genppd \- generate Gutenprint PPD filez fo' use wit CUPS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups\-genppd
[\fI\-c localedir\fR] [\fI\-l locale\fR] [\fI\-p prefix\fR] [\fI\-q\fR]
[\fI\-v\fR] \fImodel1\fR \fI[model2, ...modeln]\fR
.br
.B cups\-genppd
\fI\-L \fR[\fI\-c localedir\fR]
.br
.B cups\-genppd
\fI\-M \fR[\fI\-v\fR]
.br
.B cups\-genppd
\fI\-h\fR
.br
.B cups\-genppd
\fI\-V\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcups\-genppd\fR generates \fIGutenprint\fR PPD filez fo' use wit CUPS.
Da default behavior is ta output PPD filez fo' all modelz of printer
that tha \fIGutenprint\fR printa driver library supports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Yo ass may
restrict tha models by listin either tha driver names or tha full names
of tha printas you wish ta generate PPD filez fo' afta any options.
Additionally, tha PPD filez may be \fIlocalised\fR, dat is,
translated, ta use yo' natizzle language rather than US Gangsta.  There
are commandz ta smoke up what tha fuck printa models n' languages are
supported.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cups\-genppd \-v bjc\-6200 'Epson Stylus Photo 1280' 'HP DeskJet 850C'
verbosely generate three PPD files, listin tha driver name up in the
first case, n' tha full name up in tha second.
.TP
.B LANG=de_DE genppd \-p ppd \-c /usr/share/locale
generate PPDs fo' all available models, up in directory \fIppd\fR using
the locale data found under \fI/usr/share/locale\fR.  Da language to
use is taken from tha environment (de_DE).
.TP
.B cups\-genppd \-L \-c /usr/local/share/locale
list available languages rockin tha locale data found under
\fI/usr/local/share/locale\fR.
.TP
.B cups\-genppd \-M \-v
list available drivers, wit long model descriptions
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
show a help message
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
list available translations (message catalogs).  If a locale is used
for which there aint a cold-ass lil correspondin translation, then then US
Gangsta is ghon be used.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
list available printa models.  By default, only driver names are
listed; if verbose mode is used, tha full model name will also be
printed
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
show version shiznit n' defaults
.IP
Da default behavior is ta output PPDs if no command is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIlocaledir\fR
use \fIlocaledir\fR as tha base directory fo' locale data
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIlocale\fR
output PPDs translated wit lyrics fo' \fIlocale\fR.  Note dat \fIlocale\fR
\fBmust\fR be a locale as shown by \fIlocale \-a\fR.  For example, tha \fIde\fR
translation is used by tha \fIde_DE\fR locale; \fIde\fR ridin' solo aint gonna work.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIprefix\fR
output PPDs up in directory \fIprefix\fR.  Directories is \fBnot\fR recursively
created.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet mode.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B models
a list of printa models, either tha driver or quoted full name.
.SH SEE ALSO
CUPS Software Administrators Manual, http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  1992\-2002 Mike Sweet (mike@easysw.com)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, version 2, as
published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Roger Leigh (rleigh@debian.org).
.\"#
.\"# Da followin sets edit modes fo' GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
