.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsaddsmb.man.in 11206 2013-07-31 18:16:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsaddsmb playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsaddsmb 8 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsaddsmb \- export printas ta samba fo' windows clients

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsaddsmb
[ -H
.I samba-server
] [ -U
.I samba-user[%samba-password]
] [ -h
.I cups-server[:port]
] [ -v ] -a
.br
.B cupsaddsmb
[ -H
.I samba-server
] [ -U
.I samba-user[%samba-password]
] [ -h
.I cups-server[:port]
] [ -v ] printa [ ... printa ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR exports printas ta tha SAMBA software (version
2.2.0 or higher) fo' use wit Windows clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Dependin on the
SAMBA configuration, you may need ta provide a password to
export tha printers. This program requires tha Windows printer
driver filez busted lyrics bout below.

.SH OPTIONS
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-H samba-server
.br
Specifies tha SAMBA server which defaults ta tha CUPS server.
.TP 5
-U samba-user[%samba-password]
.br
Specifies tha SAMBA print admin username which defaults ta your
current username. If tha username gotz nuff a cement (%)
character, then tha text followin tha cement is treated as the
SAMBA password ta use.
.TP 5
-a
.br
Exports all known printers. Otherwise only tha named printas are
exported.
.TP 5
-h cups-server[:port]
.br
Specifies a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different CUPS server ta use.
.TP 5
-v
.br
Specifies dat verbose shiznit should be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is
useful fo' debuggin SAMBA configuration problems.

.SH SAMBA CONFIGURATION
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR uses tha freshly smoked up RPC-based printin support in
SAMBA 2.2.x ta provide printa drivers n' PPD filez ta Windows
client machines. In order ta use dis functionality, you must
first configure tha SAMBA \fIsmb.conf(5)\fR file ta support
printin all up in CUPS n' provide a printa driver download
share, as bigs up:
.nf

    [global]
	load printas = yes
	printin = cups
	printcap name = cups

    [printers]
	comment = All Printers
	path = /var/spool/samba
	browseable = no
	hood = yes
	guest aiiight = yes
	writable = no
	printable = yes

    [print$]
	comment = Printa Drivers
	path = /etc/samba/drivers
	browseable = yes
	guest aiiight = no
	read only = yes
	write list = root
.fi
.LP
This configuration assumes a FHS-compliant installation of
SAMBA; adjust tha [printers] n' [print$] share paths
accordingly on yo' system as needed.

.SH MICROSOFT POSTSCRIPT DRIVERS FOR WINDOWS
Da base driver fo' Windows 2000 n' higher is tha Microsoft
PostScript driver, which be available on any system hustlin
Windows 2000 or higher up in the
%WINDIR%\\SYSTEM32\\SPOOL\\DRIVERS\\W32X86\\3 folda fo' 32-bit
drivers and
%WINDIR%\\SYSTEM32\\SPOOL\\DRIVERS\\X64\\3 folda fo' 64-bit
drivers.
.LP
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat currently only Windows 2000 n' higher is supported by tha Microsoft
driver, so yo big-ass booty is ghon also need ta git tha Adobe driver ta support
Windows 95, 98, n' Me clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da Adobe n' Microsizzlez drivers
for Windows 2000 is identical.
.LP
Once you have extracted tha driver files, copy tha 32-bit drivers
to tha \fI/usr/share/cups/drivers\fR directory n' tha 64-bit
drivers ta tha \fI/usr/share/cups/drivers/x64\fR directory exactly
as named below:
.nf

    [Windows 2000 n' higher]
    ps5ui.dll
    pscript.hlp
    pscript.ntf
    pscript5.dll
.fi
.LP
\fBNote:\fR Unlike Windows, case is dope - make shizzle that
you use tha lowercase filenames shown above, otherwise
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR will fail ta export tha drivers.

.SH ADOBE POSTSCRIPT DRIVERS FOR WINDOWS 95, 98, AND ME
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR can use tha Adobe PostScript printa driver for
Windows 95, 98, n' ME, which is available fo' downlizzle from the
Adobe wizzy joint (http://www.adobe.com).
.LP
Da Adobe driver do not support tha page-label, thang-billing, or
job-hold-until options.
.LP
Once you have installed tha driver on a Windows system, copy the
followin filez ta tha \fI/usr/share/cups/drivers\fR directory
exactly as named below:
.nf

    [Windows 95, 98, n' Me]
    ADFONTS.MFM
    ADOBEPS4.DRV
    ADOBEPS4.HLP
    ICONLIB.DLL
    PSMON.DLL
.fi
.LP
\fBNote:\fR Unlike Windows, case is dope - make shizzle that
you use tha UPPERCASE filenames shown above, otherwise
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR will fail ta export tha drivers.

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Gettin tha full set of Windows driver filez should be easier.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIsmbd(8)\fR, \fIsmb.conf(5)\fR,
http://localhost:631/help

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsaddsmb.man.in 11206 2013-07-31 18:16:09Z msweet $".
.\"
