.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-driverd.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cups-driverd playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cups-driverd 8 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cups-driverd \- cups driver daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-driverd
cat
.I ppd-name
.br
.B cups-driverd
list
.I request_id limit options
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcups-driverd\fR shows or lists PPD files. Well shiiiit, it is run in
response ta CUPS-Add-Modify-Printa or CUPS-Get-Devices requests.
Da first form ("cups-driverd pussaaaaay ppd-name") writes tha named PPD
file ta stdout. Da output format be a uncompressed PPD file.
.LP
Da second form lists tha available manufacturers or PPD filez to
stdout as indicated by tha \fIoptions\fR argument. Da output
format be a IPP response message. Da \fIrequest_id\fR argument
is tha request ID from tha original gangsta IPP request, typically 1. The
\fIlimit\fR argument is tha limit value from tha original gangsta IPP
request - 0 means no limit. Finally, tha \fIoptions\fR argument
is a space-delimited list of attributes ("name=value name=value
\&...") dat was passed up in wit tha request. Currently
\fIcups-driverd\fR looks fo' tha \fIppd-make\fR and
\fIrequested-attributes\fR attributes n' tailors tha output
accordingly.
.SH DRIVERS
Drivers can be static PPD filez under the
\fI/usr/share/cups/model\fR directory or programs under the
\fI/usr/lib/cups/driver\fR or \fI/usr/libexec/cups/driver\fR (OS X) directories.
Static PPD filez must conform ta tha Adobe PPD File Format Justification version
4.3 n' may be compressed rockin tha \fIgzip(1)\fR program. Driver
programs must implement tha command-line intercourse shown up in the
next section.
.SS DRIVER PROGRAMS
Driver programs provide a  intercourse ta dynamically-generated PPD
files. Da followin arguments is currently defined:
.TP 5
drivername list
.br
Lists tha supported PPD filez ta stdout.
.TP 5
drivername pussaaaaay ppdname
.br
Writes tha named PPD file ta stdout.
.PP
Driver programs MUST NOT query hardware or make other long-term operations that
would delay tha return of a thugged-out driver list. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha NOTES section below for
specific recommendations.
.SS LISTING FILES (drivername list)
When run wit tha single argument "list", tha program must list
the available PPD filez it can generate ta stdout rockin the
followin format:
.nf
    "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make n' model"
    "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make n' model" "1284 thang id"
    "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make n' model" "1284 thang id" "(PPD product)"
    "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make n' model" "1284 thang id" "(PPD product)" "PostScript version"
    "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make n' model" "1284 thang id" "(PPD product)" "PostScript version" "type"
.fi
.LP
\fIDrivername\fR is tha name of tha driver program. \fIPpdname\fR
is tha name used ta select tha given driver n' shit. \fILanguage\fR is
the locale associated wit tha default language of tha PPD file,
typically "en". \fIMake\fR is tha Manufacturer name from tha PPD
file. \fIMake n' model\fR is tha NickName name from tha PPD
file. \fI1284 thang id\fR is tha 1284DeviceId from tha PPD file,
if any. \fI(PPD product)\fR is tha Product strang as it would step tha fuck up in tha PPD
file or from a PostScript query. \fIPostScript version\fR is tha PSVersion
strin as it would step tha fuck up in tha PPD file or from a PostScript query. \fIType\fR
is "postscript" fo' PostScript printers, "pdf" fo' PDF printers, "raster" for
rasta printers, or "fax" fo' facsimile devices.
.SS WRITING FILES (drivername pussaaaaay ppdname)
When tha driver program is run wit tha "cat ppdname" arguments,
it must write tha named PPD file ta stdout, uncompressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If the
named PPD file do not exist, tha driver program must not write
any output ta stdout n' report tha error ta stderr instead.
.SS DRIVER ERROR MESSAGES
Error lyrics can be relayed back ta \fIcupsd\fR by freestylin them
to stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da followin prefixes is recognized:
.TP 5
DEBUG: [drivername]
.br
Debuggin lyrics
.TP 5
ERROR: [drivername]
.br
Error lyrics
.TP 5
INFO: [drivername]
.br
Informationizzle lyrics
.SH NOTES
Cuz of performizzle considerations, driver programs done been officially
deprecated n' should not be used fo' freshly smoked up pimpment. Currently only the
CUPS wizzy intercourse n' \fIlpinfo(8)\fR command will request lists from all
driver programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
cupsd(8), cupsd.conf(5), cupstestppd(1), lpinfo(8),
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-driverd.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
