.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsctl.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsctl playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsctl 8 "CUPS" "11 January 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsctl \- configure cupsd.conf options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsctl
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ --[no-]debug-loggin ] [ --[no-]remote-admin ] [ --[no-]remote-any ]
[ --[no-]share-printas ] [ --[no-]user-cancel-any ]
[
.I name=value
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsctl\fR thugged-out shiznit or queries tha \fBcupsd.conf\fR file fo' a server n' shit. When
no chizzlez is requested, tha current configuration joints is freestyled ta the
standard output up in tha format "name=value", one per line.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is recognized:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Enablez encryption on tha connection ta tha scheduler.
.TP 5
-U \fIusername\fR
.br
Specifies a alternate username ta use when authenticatin wit tha scheduler.
.TP 5
-h \fIserver[:port]\fR
.br
Specifies tha server address.
.TP 5
--[no-]debug-logging
.br
Enablez or disablez debug loggin up in tha \fBerror_log\fR file.
.TP 5
--[no-]remote-admin
.br
Enablez or disablez remote administration.
.TP 5
--[no-]remote-any
.br
Enablez or disablez printin from any address, e.g. tha Internet.
.TP 5
--[no-]share-printers
.br
Enablez or disablez pluggin of local printas wit other computers.
.TP 5
--[no-]user-cancel-any
.br
Allows or prevents playas from cancelin thangs owned by others.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display tha current settings:
.nf
    cupsctl
.fi
.LP
Enable debug logging:
.nf
    cupsctl --debug-logging
.fi
.LP
Git tha current debug loggin state:
.nf
    cupsctl | grep '^_debug_logging' | awk -F= '{print $2}'
.fi
.LP
Disable printa sharing:
.nf
    cupsctl --no-share-printers
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Yo ass cannot set tha Listen or Port directives rockin \fIcupsctl\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsctl.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
