.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsenable.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsenable/cupsdisable playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsenable 8 "CUPS" "9 October 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsdisable, cupsenable \- stop/start printas n' classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsdisable
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -c ] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -r
.I reason
] [ --hold ] destination(s)
.br
.B cupsenable
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -c ] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ --release ] destination(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsenable\fR starts tha named printas or classes.
.LP
\fIcupsdisable\fR stops tha named printas or classes.  The
followin options may be used:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption of tha connection ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Uses tha specified username when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-c
.br
Cancels all thangs on tha named destination.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Uses tha specified server n' port.
.TP 5
--hold
.br
Holdz remainin thangs on tha named printer n' shit.  Useful fo' allowin tha current
job ta complete before struttin maintenance.
.TP 5
-r "reason"
.br
Sets tha message associated wit tha stopped state. If no reason is specified
then tha message is set ta "Reason Unknown".
.TP 5
--release
.br
Releases pendin thangs fo' printing. Use afta hustlin \fIcupsdisable\fR with
the \fI--hold\fR option ta resume printing.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
Da System V versionz of these commandz is \fIdisable\fR and
\fIenable\fR. They done been renamed ta avoid conflicts wit the
\fIbash(1)\fR build-in commandz of tha same name.
.LP
Da CUPS versionz of \fIdisable\fR n' \fIenable\fR may ask the
user fo' a access password dependin on tha printin system
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This differs from tha System V versions which
require tha root user ta execute these commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcupsaccept(8)\fR, \fIcupsreject(8)\fR, \fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR,
\fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.

.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsenable.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
