.\" $Id: cups-genppdupdate.8.in,v 1.5 2006/03/29 02:35:25 rlk Exp $
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Roger Leigh <rleigh@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH CUPS\-GENPPDUPDATE "8" "07 Jul 2012" "Version 5.2.9" "Gutenprint Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
cups\-genppdupdate \- update CUPS+Gutenprint PPD files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups\-genppdupdate
[\fI\-h\fP]
[\fI\-n\fP]
[\fI\-N\fP]
[\fI\-q\fP | \fI\-v\fP]
[\fI\-s ppd-directory\fP]
[\fI\-s output-directory\fP]
[\fIPPD-FILES or QUEUES...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP regenerates tha \fIGutenprint\fP PPD filez up in use by
CUPS, rockin tha PPD filez under \fI/usr/share/cups/model/gutenprint\fP as
templates.  Da freshly smoked up PPD file replaces tha oldschool PPD file under
\fI/etc/cups/ppd\fP yo, but all tha options set up in tha oldschool PPD will
be merged tha fuck into tha freshly smoked up PPD, provided dat they is still valid up in tha freshly smoked up file.
.PP
If no filez or queue names is specified, \fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP thugged-out shiznit all
Gutenprint PPD filez up in \fI/etc/cups/ppd\fP.  Otherwise,
\fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP thugged-out shiznit all filez or queues listed on tha command
line.
.PP
\fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP do not update Foomatic PPD filez or PPD filez from
Gimp-Print 4.2 or earlier.
.PP
\fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP do \fBnot\fP restart cupsd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  cupsd will need
manually reloadin (or bust SIGHUP) once \fBcups\-genppdupdate\fP has
completed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show a help message.
.TP
.B \-n
No action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da program will run yo, but tha oldschool PPD filez aint gonna be replaced.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.  No lyrics is ghon be issued, apart from errors.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.  Mo' informatizzle lyrics is ghon be issued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat mad
verbose output may be turned on by settin $debug=1 up in tha source yo, but this
output aint gonna be of use ta tha average user.
.TP
.B \-s \fIppd-directory\fP
Use \fIppd-directory\fP as tha base directory ta read PPD filez from.  By
default, tha base directory is \fP/usr/share/cups/model/gutenprint\fP.
Under dis directory, tha PPD filez is located up in subdirectories accordin to
language code n' territory.
.TP
.B \-o \fIoutput-directory\fP
Place updated PPD filez up in \fIoutput-directory\fP.  By default, dis is the
same as tha input directory.
.TP
.B \-N
Reset all options ta they defaults (do not merge options from tha current PPD
file)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups\-genppd (8),
.BR cups\-genppdconfig (8),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual, http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  2002\-2006 Roger Leigh (rleigh@debian.org) n' Robert Krawitz
(rlk@alum.mit.edu)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, version 2, as
published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Roger Leigh (rleigh@debian.org).
.\"#
.\"# Da followin sets edit modes fo' GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
