.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-deviced.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cups-deviced playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cups-deviced 8 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cups-deviced \- cups thang daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-deviced
.I request-id limit user-id options
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcups-deviced\fR polls tha backendz in
\fI/usr/lib/cups/backend\fR or \fI/usr/libexec/cups/backend\fR (OS X) fo' a
list of available devices. Well shiiiit, it is run by \fIcupsd(8)\fR up in response ta a
\fICUPS-Get-Devices\fR request. Da output format be a IPP
response message. Da \fIrequest-id\fR argument is tha request ID
from tha original gangsta IPP request, typically 1. Da \fIlimit\fR
argument is tha limit value from tha original gangsta IPP request - 0
means no limit. Da \fIuser-id\fR argument is the
requesting-user-name value from tha original gangsta IPP request.
Finally, tha \fIoptions\fR argument be a space-delimited list of
attributes ("name=value name=value \...") dat was passed in
with tha request. Currently \fIcups-deviced\fR looks fo' the
\fIrequested-attributes\fR attribute n' tailors tha output
accordingly.
.SH SEE ALSO
backend(7), cupsd(8), cupsd.conf(5),
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-deviced.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
