.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsd.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   cupsd playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsd 8 "CUPS" "8 July 2013" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsd \- cups scheduler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsd
[ -c
.I config-file
] [ -f ] [ -F ] [ -h ] [ -l ] [ -t ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsd\fR is tha schedula fo' CUPS. Well shiiiit, it implements a printin system based
upon tha Internizzle Printin Protocol, version 2.1.  If no options is specified
on tha command-line then tha default configuration file
\fI/etc/cups/cupsd.conf\fR is ghon be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
-c config-file
.br
Uses tha named configuration file.
.TP 5
-f
.br
Run \fIcupsd\fR up in tha foreground; tha default is ta run up in the
background as a "daemon".
.TP 5
-F
.br
Run \fIcupsd\fR up in tha foreground but detach tha process from the
controllin terminal n' current directory. This is useful for
runnin \fIcupsd\fR from \fIinit(8)\fR.
.TP 5
-h
.br
Shows tha program usage.
.TP 5
-l
.br
This option is passed ta \fIcupsd\fR when it is run from
\fIlaunchd(8)\fR.
.TP 5
-t
.br
Test tha configuration file fo' syntax errors.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
\fIcupsd\fR implements all of tha required IPP/2.1 attributes and
operations. Well shiiiit, it also implements nuff muthafuckin CUPS-specific administration
operations.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIbackend(7)\fR, \fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcups-deviced(8)\fR,
\fIcups-driverd(8)\fR, \fIcups-lpd(8)\fR, \fIcups-polld(8)\fR,
\fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR, \fIfilter(7)\fR, \fIlaunchd(8)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsd.man.in 11109 2013-07-08 21:15:13Z msweet $".
.\"
