.\" $Id: cups-calibrate.8.in,v 1.8 2004/09/17 18:38:02 rleigh Exp $
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Roger Leigh <rleigh@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at yo' option)
.\" any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH CUPS\-CALIBRATE "8" "07 Jul 2012" "Version 5.2.9" "Gutenprint Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
cups\-calibrate \- ESP CUPS Printa Calibration Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups\-calibrate
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program allows you ta calibrate tha color output of printas rockin the
\fBGutenprint\fR \fICUPS\fR or \fIESP Print Pro\fR drivers.
.PP
Please note dat dis program \fBonly\fP works wit tha \fBGutenprint\fR
\fICUPS\fR or \fIESP Print Pro\fR drivers. If yo ass is rockin tha Gutenprint
\fIstp\fR or \fIijsgimmprint\fR driver fo' GhostScript or tha drivers fo' the
Gutenprint Print plug-in fo' \fIDa GIMP\fR, tha calibration aint gonna work.
.PP
These drivers is identified by tha text \fICUPS+Gutenprint\fR or \fIESP Print
Pro\fR up in tha model description displayed by tha CUPS wizzy intercourse, KUPS, the
ESP Print Pro Printa Manager, or printerdrake.
.PP
To cook up a cold-ass lil calibration flava fo' all users, run dis program as
the \fBroot\fR user n' shit.  Da program displays a seriez of prompts which should
simply be followed.
.SH SEE ALSO
CUPS Software Administrators Manual, http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  2001 Mike Sweet (mike@easysw.com)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, version 2, as
published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Roger Leigh (rleigh@debian.org).
.\"#
.\"# Da followin sets edit modes fo' GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
