.\"	$Id: dhclient.8,v 1.32.24.4 2011/04/15 22:12:50 sar Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004,2007-2014 by Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
.\" Copyright (c) 1996-2003 by Internizzle Software Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"   Internizzle Systems Consortium, Inc.
.\"   950 Charta Street
.\"   Redwood City, CA 94063
.\"   <info@isc.org>
.\"   https://www.isc.org/
.\"
.\" Support n' other skillz is available fo' ISC shizzle - see
.\" https://www.isc.org fo' mo' shiznit or ta learn mo' bout ISC.
.\"
.TH dhclient 8
.SH NAME
dhclient - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhclient
[
.B -4
|
.B -6
]
[
.B -S
]
[
.B -N
[
.B -N...
]
]
[
.B -T
[
.B -T...
]
]
[
.B -P
[
.B -P...
]
]
[
.B -D
.I LL|LLT
]
[
.B -p
.I port-number
]
[
.B -d
]
[
.B -e
.I VAR=value
]
[
.B -q
]
[
.B -1
]
[
.B -r
|
.B -x
]
[
.B -lf
.I lease-file
]
[
.B -pf
.I pid-file
]
[
.B --no-pid
]
[
.B -cf
.I config-file
]
[
.B -sf
.I script-file
]
[
.B -s
.I server-addr
]
[
.B -g
.I relay
]
[
.B -n
]
[
.B -nw
]
[
.B -w
]
[
.B -nc
]
[
.B -B
]
[
.B -I
.I dhcp-client-identifier
]
[
.B -H
.I host-name
]
[
.B -F
.I fqdn.fqdn
]
[
.B -V
.I vendor-class-identifier
]
[
.B -R
.I request-option-list
]
[
.B -timeout
.I timeout
]
[
.B -v
]
[
.B --version
]
[
.I if0
[
.I ...ifN
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da Internizzle Systems Consortium DHCP Client, \fBdhclient\fR, serves up a
means fo' configurin one or mo' network intercourses rockin tha Dynamic
Host Configuration Protocol, BOOTP protocol, or if these protocols
fail, by statically assignin a address.
.SH OPERATION
.PP
Da DHCP protocol allows a host ta contact a cold-ass lil central server which
maintains a list of IP addresses which may be assigned on one or more
subnets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  A DHCP client may request a address from dis pool, and
then use it on a temporary basis fo' communication on network.  The
DHCP protocol also serves up a mechanizzle whereby a cold-ass lil client can learn
important details bout tha network ta which it be attached, such as
the location of a thugged-out default router, tha location of a name server, and
so on.
.PP
There is two versionz of tha DHCP protocol DHCPv4 n' DHCPv6.  At
startup tha client may be started fo' one or tha other via the
.B -4
or 
.B -6
options.
.PP
On startup, \fBdhclient\fR readz tha dhclient.conf
for configuration instructions.  It then gets a list of all the
network intercourses dat is configured up in tha current system.  For
each intercourse, it attempts ta configure tha intercourse rockin tha DHCP
protocol.
.PP
In order ta keep track of leases across system reboots n' server
restarts, \fBdhclient\fR keeps a list of leases it has been assigned up in the
dhclient.leases file.  On startup, afta readin tha dhclient.conf
file, \fBdhclient\fR readz tha dhclient.leases file ta refresh its memory
about what tha fuck leases it has been assigned.
.PP
When a freshly smoked up lease be acquired, it be appended ta tha end of the
dhclient.leases file.  In order ta prevent tha file from becoming
arbitrarily large, from time ta time \fBdhclient\fR creates a new
dhclient.leases file from its in-core lease database.  Da oldschool version
of tha dhclient.leases file is retained under tha name
.IR dhclient.leases~
until tha next time \fBdhclient\fR rewrites tha database.
.PP
Oldskool leases is kept round up in case tha DHCP server is unavailable when
\fBdhclient\fR is first invoked (generally durin tha initial system boot
process).  In dat event, oldschool leases from tha dhclient.leases file
which aint yet expired is tested, n' if they is determined to
be valid, they is used until either they expire or tha DHCP server
becomes available.
.PP
A mobile host which may sometimes need ta access a network on which no
DHCP server exists may be preloaded wit a lease fo' a gangbangin' fixed
address on dat network.  When all attempts ta contact a DHCP server
have failed, \fBdhclient\fR will try ta validate tha static lease, n' if it
succeeds, will use dat lease until it is restarted.
.PP
A mobile host may also travel ta some networks on which DHCP is not
available but BOOTP is.  In dat case, it may be advantageous to
arrange wit tha network administrator fo' a entry on tha BOOTP
database, so dat tha host can boot quickly on dat network rather
than cyclin all up in tha list of oldschool leases.
.SH COMMAND LINE
.PP
Da namez of tha network intercourses dat \fBdhclient\fR should attempt to
configure may be specified on tha command line.  If no intercourse names
are specified on tha command line \fBdhclient\fR will normally identify all
network intercourses, eliminatin non-broadcast intercourses if
possible, n' attempt ta configure each intercourse.
.PP
It be also possible ta specify intercourses by name up in tha dhclient.conf
file.  If intercourses is specified up in dis way, then tha client will
only configure intercourses dat is either specified up in the
configuration file or on tha command line, n' will ignore all other
interfaces.
.PP
Da client normally prints no output durin its startup sequence.  It
can be made ta emit verbose lyrics displayin tha startup sequence events
until it has acquired a address by supplyin the
.B -v
command line argument.  In either case, tha client logs lyrics using
the
.B syslog(3)
facility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-4
Use tha DHCPv4 protocol ta obtain a IPv4 address n' configuration
parameters.  This is tha default n' cannot be combined with
\fB\-6\fR.
.TP
.BI \-6
Use tha DHCPv6 protocol ta obtain whatever IPv6 addresses is available
along wit configuration parameters.  It cannot be combined with
\fB\-4\fR.  Da \fB\-S -T -P -N\fR and
\fB\-D\fR arguments provide mo' control over aspectz of tha DHCPv6
processing.  Note: it aint recommended ta mix queriez of different
types together or even ta share tha lease file between em.
.TP
.BI \-1
Try ta git a lease once.  On failure exit wit code 2.  In DHCPv6 this
sets tha maximum duration of tha initial exchange to
.I timeout
(from dhclient.conf wit a thugged-out default of sixty seconds).
.TP
.BI \-d
.\" This aint intuitive.
Force
.B dhclient
to run as a gangbangin' foreground process.  Normally tha DHCP client will run
in tha foreground until is has configured a intercourse at which time
it will revert ta hustlin up in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option is useful
when hustlin tha client under a thugged-out debugger, or when hustlin it up of
inittab on System V systems.  This implies \fB-v\fR.
.TP
.BI \-nw
Become a thugged-out daemon immediately (nowait) rather than waitin until an
IP address has been acquired.
.TP
.BI \-q
Be on tha down-low at startup, dis is tha default.
.TP
.BI \-v
Enable verbose log lyrics.
.\" This prints tha version, copyright n' URL.
.TP
.BI \-w
Continue hustlin even if no broadcast intercourses was found. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Normally
DHCP client will exit if it aint able ta identify any network intercourses
to configure.  On laptop computas n' other computas with
hot-swappable I/O buses, it is possible dat a funky-ass broadcast intercourse may
be added afta system startup.  This flag can be used ta cause tha client
not ta exit when it don't find any such intercourses.  The
.B omshell(1)
program can then be used ta notify tha client when a network intercourse
has been added or removed, so dat tha client can attempt ta configure a IP
address on dat intercourse.

.TP
.BI \-nc
Do not drop capabilities.

Normally, if
.B dhclient
was compiled wit libcap-ng support,
.B dhclient
drops most capabilitizzles immediately upon startup.  While mo' secure,
this pimped outly restricts tha additionizzle actions dat hooks in
.B dhclient-script (8)
can take.  (For example, any daemons dat 
.B dhclient-script (8)
starts or restarts will inherit tha restricted capabilitizzles as well,
which may interfere wit they erect operation.)  Thus, the
.BI \-nc
option can be used ta prevent
.B dhclient
from droppin capabilities.

The
.BI \-nc
option is ignored if
.B dhclient
was not compiled wit libcap-ng support.

.TP
.BI \-B
Set tha BOOTP broadcast flag up in request packets so servers will always
broadcast replies.

.TP
.BI \-I\ <dhcp-client-identifier>
Specify tha dhcp-client-identifier option ta bust ta tha DHCP server.

.TP
.BI \-H\ <host-name>
Specify tha host-name option ta bust ta tha DHCP server n' shit.  Da host-name
strin only gotz nuff tha clientz hostname prefix, ta which tha server will
append tha ddns-domainname or domain-name options, if any, ta derive the
fully qualified domain name of tha client.  The
.B -H
option cannot be used wit the
.B -F
option.

.TP
.BI \-F\ <fqdn.fqdn>
Specify tha fqdn.fqdn option ta bust ta tha DHCP server n' shit.  This option cannot
be used wit the
.B -H
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da fqdn.fqdn option must specify tha complete domain name of the
client host, which tha server may use fo' dynamic DNS thugged-out shit.

.TP
.BI \-V\ <vendor-class-identifier>
Specify tha vendor-class-identifier option ta bust ta tha DHCP server.

.TP
.BI \-R\ <option>[,<option>...]
Specify tha list of options tha client is ta request from tha server n' shit.  The
option list must be a single strang consistin of option names separated
by at least one command n' optionizzle space characters.  Da default option
list is:

.BR
    subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
.BR
    domain-search, domain-name, domain-name-servers, host-name, 
.BR
    nis-domain, nis-servers, ntp-servers, intercourse-mtu

.TP
.B -R
option do not append options ta tha default request, it overrides the
default request list.  Keep dis up in mind if you wanna request an
additionizzle option besides tha default request list.  Yo ass gonna git to
specify all option names fo' the
.B -R
parameter.

.TP
.BI \-timeout\ <timeout>
Specify tha time afta which
.B dhclient
will decizzle dat no DHCP servers can be contacted when no responses have been
received.

.TP
.BI \-n
Do not configure any intercourses.  This is most likely ta be useful in
combination wit the
.B -w
flag.
.TP
.BI \-e \ VAR=value
Define additionizzle environment variablez fo' tha environment where 
.B dhclient-script
executes.  Yo ass may specify multiple 
.B \-e
options on tha command line.
.TP
.BI \-r
Release tha current lease n' stop tha hustlin DHCP client as previously
recorded up in tha PID file.  When shutdown via dis method 
.B dhclient-script
will be executed wit tha specific reason fo' callin tha script set.
Da client normally don't release tha current lease as dis is not
required by tha DHCP protocol but some cable ISPs require they clients
to notify tha server if they wish ta release a assigned IP address.
.\" TODO what tha fuck dhclient-script argument?
.\" When busted out,
.TP
.BI \-x
Quit tha hustlin DHCP client without releasin tha current lease.
Kills existin \fBdhclient\fR process as previously recorded up in the
PID file.  When shutdown via dis method 
.B dhclient-script
will be executed wit tha specific reason fo' callin tha script set.
.TP
.BI \-p \ port-number
Da UDP port number on which tha DHCP client should listen n' transmit.
If unspecified,
.B dhclient
uses tha default port of 68.  This is mostly useful fo' debuggin purposes.
If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different port is specified on which tha client should listen and
transmit, tha client will also bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different destination port -
one less than tha specified port.
.TP
.BI \-s \ server-addr
Specify tha server IP address or straight-up qualified domain name ta use as
a destination fo' DHCP protocol lyrics before 
.B dhclient
has acquired a IP address.  Normally,
.B dhclient
transmits these lyrics ta 255.255.255.255 (the IP limited broadcast
address).  Overridin dis is mostly useful fo' debuggin purposes.  This
feature aint supported up in DHCPv6 (\fB-6\fR) mode.
.TP
.BI \-g \ relay
.\" mockup relay
Set tha giaddr field of all packets ta tha \fIrelay\fR IP address
simulatin a relay agent.  This is fo' testin pruposes only and
should not be sposed ta fuckin work up in any consistent or useful way.
.TP
.BI \--version
Print version number n' exit.
.PP
.I Options available fo' DHCPv6 mode:
.TP
.BI \-S
.\" TODO: mention DUID?
Use Information-request ta git only stateless configuration parameters
(i.e., without address).  This implies \fB\-6\fR.  It also don't
rewrite tha lease database.
.\" TODO: May not be used wit -N -P or -T. ??
.TP
.BI \-T
.\" TODO wanted_ia_ta++
Ask fo' IPv6 temporary addresses, one set per \fB\-T\fR flag.  This
implies \fB\-6\fR n' also disablez tha aiiight address query.
See \fB\-N\fR ta restore dat shit.
.TP
.BI \-P
Enable IPv6 prefix delegation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This implies \fB\-6\fR n' also
disablez tha aiiight address query.  See \fB\-N\fR ta restore dat shit.
Note only one axed intercourse be allowed.
.TP
.BI \-D \ LL\ or\ LLT
Override tha default when selectin tha type of DUID ta use.  By default,
DHCPv6 \fBdhclient\fR creates a identifier based on tha link-layer address
(DUID-LL) if it is hustlin up in stateless mode (with \fB\-S\fR, not
requestin a address), or it creates a identifier based on the
link-layer address plus a timestamp (DUID-LLT) if it is hustlin in
stateful mode (without \fB\-S\fR, requestin a address).  \fB\-D\fR
overrides dis default, wit a value of either \fILL\fR or \fILLT\fR.
.TP
.BI \-N
.\" TODO: is dis fo' spittin some lyrics ta a already hustlin dhclient?
Restore aiiight address query fo' IPv6. This implies \fB-6\fR.
It be used ta restore aiiight operation afta rockin \fB-T\fR or \fB-P\fR.
.PP
.I Modifyin default file locations:
Da followin options can be used ta modify tha locations a cold-ass lil client uses
for its files.  They can be particularly useful if, fo' example,
.B /var/lib/dhclient
or
.B /var/run
have not been mounted when tha DHCP client is started.
.TP
.BI \-cf \ config-file
Path ta tha client configuration file.  If unspecified, tha default
.B /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See \fBdhclient.conf(5)\fR fo' a thugged-out description of dis file.
.TP
.BI \-lf \ lease-file
Path ta tha lease database file.  If unspecified, tha default
.B /var/lib/dhclient/dhclient.leases
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See \fBdhclient.leases(5)\fR fo' a thugged-out description of dis file.
.TP
.BI \-pf \ pid-file
Path ta tha process ID file.  If unspecified, tha default
.B /var/run/dhclient.pid
is used.
.TP
.BI \--no-pid
Option ta disable freestylin pid files.  By default tha program
will write a pid file.  If tha program is invoked wit this
option it aint gonna attempt ta bust a cap up in any existin client processes
even if invoked wit \fB-r\fR or \fB-x\fR.
.TP
.BI \-sf \ script-file
Path ta tha network configuration script invoked by
.B dhclient
when it gets a lease.  If unspecified, tha default
.B /usr/sbin/dhclient-script
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See \fBdhclient-script(8)\fR fo' a thugged-out description of dis file.


.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
Da syntax of tha \fBdhclient.conf(5)\fR file is discussed separately.
.SH OMAPI
Da DHCP client serves up some mobilitizzle ta control it while it is
running, without stoppin dat shit.  This capabilitizzle is provided rockin OMAPI,
an API fo' manipulatin remote objects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  OMAPI clients connect ta the
client rockin TCP/IP, authenticate, n' can then examine tha client's
current status n' make chizzlez ta dat shit. 
.PP
Rather than implementin tha underlyin OMAPI protocol directly, user
programs should use tha dhcpctl API or OMAPI itself.  Dhcpctl be a
wrapper dat handlez a shitload of tha housekeepin chores dat OMAPI do
not do automatically.  Dhcpctl n' OMAPI is documented in
\fBdhcpctl(3)\fR
and \fBomapi(3)\fR.  Most thangs you'd wanna do wit tha client can
be done directly rockin tha \fBomshell(1)\fR command, rather than
havin ta write a special program.
.SH THE CONTROL OBJECT
Da control object allows you ta shut tha client down, releasin all
leases dat it holdz n' deletin any DNS recordz it may have added.
It also allows you ta pause tha client - dis unconfigures any
interfaces tha client is using.  Yo ass can then restart it, which
causes it ta reconfigure dem intercourses.  Yo ass would normally pause
the client prior ta goin tha fuck into hibernation or chill on a laptop
computer n' shit.  Yo ass would then resume it afta tha juice comes back.
This allows PC cardz ta be shut down while tha computa is hibernating
or chillin, n' then reinitialized ta they previous state once the
computa comes outta hibernation or chill.
.PP
Da control object has one attribute - tha state attribute.  To shut
the client down, set its state attribute ta 2.  It will automatically
do a DHCPRELEASE.  To pause it, set its state attribute ta 3.  To
resume it, set its state attribute ta 4.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
Da followin environment variablez may be defined
to override tha builtin defaults fo' file locations.
Note dat use of tha related command-line options
will ignore tha correspondin environment variable settings.
.TP
.B PATH_DHCLIENT_CONF
Da dhclient.conf configuration file.
.TP
.B PATH_DHCLIENT_DB
Da dhclient.leases database.
.TP
.B PATH_DHCLIENT_PID
Da dhclient PID file.
.TP
.B PATH_DHCLIENT_SCRIPT
Da dhclient-script file.
.PP
.SH FILES
.B /usr/sbin/dhclient-script,
.B /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf, /var/lib/dhclient/dhclient.leases, /var/run/dhclient.pid,
.B /var/lib/dhclient/dhclient.leases~.
.SH SEE ALSO
dhcpd(8), dhcrelay(8), dhclient-script(8), dhclient.conf(5),
dhclient.leases(5), dhcp-eval(5).
.SH AUTHOR
.B dhclient(8)
To learn mo' bout Internizzle Systems Consortium,
see
.B https://www.isc.org
.PP
This client was substantially modified n' enhanced by Elliot Poger
for use on Linux while da thug was hustlin on tha MosquitoNet project at
Stanford.
.PP
Da current version owes much ta Elliotz Linux enhancements yo, but
was substantially reorganized n' partially rewritten by Ted Lemon
so as ta use tha same networkin framework dat tha Internizzle Systems
Consortium DHCP server uses.  Much system-specific configuration code
was moved tha fuck into a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script so dat as support fo' mo' operating
systems be added, it aint gonna be necessary ta port n' maintain
system-specific configuration code ta these operatin systems - instead,
the shell script can invoke tha natizzle tools ta accomplish tha same
purpose.
.PP
