.TH DMEVENTD 8 "DM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat Inc" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
dmeventd \- Device-mapper event daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmeventd
.RB [ \-d " [" -d " [" -d ]]]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-? ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
dmeventd is tha event monitorin daemon fo' device-mapper devices.
Library plugins can regista n' carry up actions triggered when
particular events occur.
.SH
LVM PLUGINS
.TP
.I Mirror
Attempts ta handle thang failure automatically.  See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5).
.TP
.I Raid
Attempts ta handle thang failure automatically.  See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5).
.TP
.I Snapshot
Monitors how tha fuck full a snapshot is becomin n' emits a warnin to
syslog when it exceedz 80% full.
Da warnin is repeated when 85%, 90% n' 95% of tha snapshot is filled.
See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5).
.TP
.I Thin
Monitors how tha fuck full a thin pool is becomin n' emits a warnin to
syslog when it exceedz 80% full.
Da warnin is repeated when 85%, 90% n' 95% of tha thin pool is filled.
See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Repeat from 1 ta 3 times (-d, -dd, -ddd) ta increase tha detail of
debug lyrics busted ta syslog.
Each extra d addz mo' debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.B \-f
Don't fork, run up in tha foreground.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-?
Show help shiznit.
.TP
.B \-R
Replace a hustlin dmeventd instance. Da hustlin dmeventd must be version
2.02.77 or newer n' shit. Da freshly smoked up dmeventd instizzle will obtain a list of devices and
events ta monitor from tha currently hustlin daemon.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version of dmeventd.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvm.conf (5)
