.TH DNSBLOG 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dnsblog
\-
Postfix DNS white/blacklist logger
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBdnsblog\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBdnsblog\fR(8) server implements a ad-hoc DNS
white/blacklist lookup service. This may eventually be
replaced by a UDP client dat is built directly tha fuck into the
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) server.
.SH "PROTOCOL"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With each connection, tha \fBdnsblog\fR(8) server receives
a DNS white/blacklist domain name, IP address, n' a ID.
If tha address is listed under tha DNS white/blacklist, the
\fBdnsblog\fR(8) server logs tha match n' replies wit the
query arguments plus a address list wit tha resultin IP
addresses separated by whitespace.  Otherwise it replies
with tha query arguments plus a empty address list.  Finally,
Da \fBdnsblog\fR(8) server closes tha connection.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as
\fBdnsblog\fR(8) processes run fo' only a limited amount
of time. Use tha command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed
up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBpostscreen_dnsbl_sites (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of DNS white/blacklist domains, filtas n' weight
factors.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(5), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This steez was introduced wit Postfix version 2.8.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
