.\" fatlabel.8 - manpage fo' fatlabel
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation, either version 3 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program. If not, peep <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Da complete text of tha GNU General Public License
.\" can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3 file.
.\"
.\"
.TH FATLABEL 8 2014\-11\-12 3.0.27 "dosfstools"

.SH NAME
\fBfatlabel\fR \- set or git MS\-DOS filesystem label

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfatlabel\fR \fIDEVICE\fR [\fILABEL\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfatlabel\fR set or gets a MS\-DOS filesystem label from a given device.
.PP
If tha label is omitted, then tha label name of tha specified thang is freestyled on tha standard output fo' realz. A label can't be longer than 11 bytes.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR" 4
Displays a help message.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR" 4
Shows version.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfsck.fat\fR(8)
.br
\fBmkfs.fat\fR(8)

.SH HOMEPAGE
Mo' shiznit bout \fBfatlabel\fR n' \fBdosfstools\fR can be found at <\fIhttp://daniel\-baumann.ch/software/dosfstools/\fR>.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBdosfstools\fR was freestyled by Werner Almesberger <\fIwerner.almesberger@lrc.di.epfl.ch\fR>, Roman Hodek <\fIRoman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de\fR>, n' others. Da current maintainer is Daniel Baumann <\fImail@daniel-baumann.ch\fR>.
