.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\" 
.TH DUMPE2FS 8 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
dumpe2fs \- dump ext2/ext3/ext4 filesystem shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dumpe2fs
[
.B \-bfhixV
]
[
.B \-o superblock=\fIsuperblock
]
[
.B \-o blocksize=\fIblocksize
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dumpe2fs
prints tha supa block n' blocks crew shiznit fo' tha filesystem
present on
.I device.
.PP
.B Note:
When used wit a mounted filesystem, tha printed
information may be oldschool or inconsistent.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
print tha blocks which is reserved as wack up in tha filesystem.
.TP
.B \-o superblock=\fIsuperblock
use tha block
.I superblock
when examinin tha filesystem.
This option aint probably needed except by a gangbangin' filesystem wizzle whoz ass 
is examinin tha remainz of a straight-up badly corrupted filesystem.
.TP
.B \-o blocksize=\fIblocksize
use blocks of
.I blocksize
bytes when examinin tha filesystem.
This option aint probably needed except by a gangbangin' filesystem wizzle whoz ass 
is examinin tha remainz of a straight-up badly corrupted filesystem.
.TP
.B \-f
force dumpe2fs ta display a gangbangin' filesystem even though it may have some 
filesystem feature flags which dumpe2fs may not KNOW (and which
can cause a shitload of dumpe2fss display ta be suspect).
.TP 
.B \-h
only display tha superblock shiznit n' not any of tha block
group descriptor detail shiznit.
.TP
.B \-i
display tha filesystem data from a image file pimped by 
.BR e2image ,
usin 
.I device
as tha pathname ta tha image file.
.TP
.B \-x
print tha detailed crew shiznit block numbers up in hexadecimal format
.TP
.B \-V
print tha version number of 
.B dumpe2fs
and exit.
.SH BUGS
Yo ass need ta know tha physical filesystem structure ta KNOW the
output.
.SH AUTHOR
.B dumpe2fs 
was freestyled by Remy Card <Remy.Card@linux.org>.  It be currently being
maintained by Theodore Ts'o <tytso@alum.mit.edu>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B dumpe2fs
is part of tha e2fsprogs package n' be available from 
http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR e2fsck (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR tune2fs (8)

