.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2001 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\" 
.TH E2IMAGE 8 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
e2image \- Save critical ext2/ext3/ext4 filesystem metadata ta a gangbangin' file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B e2image
[
.B \-rsIQa
]
.I device
.I image-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B e2image
program will save critical ext2, ext3, or ext4 filesystem metadata located on
.I device
to a gangbangin' file specified by
.IR image-file .
Da image file may be examined by
.B dumpe2fs
and
.BR  debugfs ,
by rockin the
.B \-i
option ta dem programs.  This can assist a expert in
recoverin catastrophically corrupted filesystems.  In tha future,
e2fsck is ghon be enhanced ta be able ta use tha image file ta help
recover a funky-ass badly damaged filesystem.
.PP
If
.I image-file
is \-, then tha output of
.B e2image
will be busted ta standard output, so dat tha output can be piped to
another program, such as
.BR gzip (1).
(Note dat dis is currently only supported when
bustin a raw image file rockin the
.B \-r
option, since tha process of bustin a aiiight image file, or QCOW2
image currently
requires random access ta tha file, which cannot be done rockin a
pipe.  This restriction will hopefully be lifted up in a gangbangin' future version of
.BR e2image .)
.PP
It be a straight-up phat scam ta create image filez fo' all of
filesystems on a system n' save tha partition
layout (which can be generated rockin the
.B fdisk \-l
command) at regular intervals --- at boot time, and/or every last muthafuckin week or so.
Da image file should be stored on some filesystem other than
the filesystem whose data it gotz nuff, ta ensure dat dis data is
accessible up in tha case where tha filesystem has been badly damaged.
.PP
To save disk space,
.B e2image
creates tha image file as a sparse file, or up in QCOW2 format.
Hence, if tha sparse image file
needz ta be copied ta another location, it should
either be compressed first or copied rockin the
.B \-\-sparse=always
option ta tha GNU version of
.BR cp .
This do not apply ta tha QCOW2 image, which aint sparse.
.PP
Da size of a ext2 image file dependz primarily on tha size of the
filesystems n' how tha fuck nuff inodes is up in use.  For a typical 10 gigabyte
filesystem, wit 200,000 inodes up in use outta 1.2 mazillion inodes, the
image file is ghon be approximately 35 megabytes; a 4 gigabyte filesystem with
15,000 inodes up in use outta 550,000 inodes will result up in a 3 megabyte
image file.  Image filez tend ta be quite
compressible; a image file takin up 32 megabytez of space on
disk will generally compress down ta 3 or 4 megabytes.
.PP
.SH RESTORING FILESYSTEM METADATA USING AN IMAGE FILE
.PP
The
.B \-I
option will cause e2image ta install tha metadata stored up in tha image
file back ta tha device.  It can be used ta restore tha filesystem metadata
back ta tha thang up in emergency thangs.
.PP
.B WARNING!!!!
The
.B \-I
option should only be used as a thugged-out desperation measure when other
alternatives have failed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha filesystem has chizzled since tha image
file was pimped, data
.B will
be lost.  In general, you should cook up a gangbangin' full image
backup of tha filesystem first, up in case you wish ta try other recovery
strategies afterwards.
.PP
.SH RAW IMAGE FILES
The
.B \-r
option will create a raw image file instead of a aiiight image file.
A raw image file differs
from a aiiight image file up in two ways.  First, tha filesystem metadata is
placed up in tha proper posizzle so dat e2fsck, dumpe2fs, debugfs,
etc.\& can be run directly on tha raw image file.  In order ta minimize
the amount of disk space consumed by a raw image file, tha file is
created as a sparse file.  (Beware of copyin or
compressing/decompressin dis file wit utilitizzles dat don't understand
how ta create sparse files; tha file will become as big-ass as the
filesystem itself!)  Secondly, tha raw image file also includes indirect
blocks n' directory blocks, which tha standard image file do not have,
although dis may chizzle up in tha future.
.PP
Raw image filez is sometimes used when bustin  filesystems ta tha maintainer
as part of bug reports ta e2fsprogs.  When used up in dis capacity, the
recommended command be as bigs up (replace hda1 wit tha appropriate device):
.PP
.br
	\fBe2image \-r /dev/hda1 \- | bzip2 > hda1.e2i.bz2\fR
.PP
This will only bust tha metadata shiznit, without any data blocks.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha filenames up in tha directory blocks can still reveal
information bout tha contentz of tha filesystem dat tha bug hustla
may wish ta keep confidential. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  To address dis concern, the
.B \-s
option can be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will cause
.B e2image
to scramble directory entries n' zero up any unused portions
of tha directory blocks before freestylin tha image file.  However,
the
.B \-s
option will prevent analysiz of problems related ta hash-tree indexed
directories.
.PP
Note dat dis will work even if you substitute "/dev/hda1" fo' another raw
disk image, or QCOW2 image previously pimped by
.BR e2image .
.PP
.SH QCOW2 IMAGE FILES
The
.B \-Q
option will create a QCOW2 image file instead of a normal, or raw image file.
A QCOW2 image gotz nuff all tha shiznit tha raw image do, however unlike
the raw image it aint sparse. Da QCOW2 image minimize tha amount of disk
space by storin data up in special format wit pack data closely together, hence
avoidin holez while still minimizin size.
.PP
In order ta bust filesystem ta tha maintainer as a part of bug report to
e2fsprogs, use followin commandz (replace hda1 wit tha appropriate device):
.PP
.br
\	\fBe2image \-Q /dev/hda1 hda1.qcow2\fR
.br
\	\fBbzip2 -z hda1.qcow2\fR
.PP
This will only bust tha metadata shiznit, without any data blocks.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha filenames up in tha directory blocks can still reveal
information bout tha contentz of tha filesystem dat tha bug hustla
may wish ta keep confidential. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  To address dis concern, the
.B \-s
option can be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will cause
.B e2image
to scramble directory entries n' zero up any unused portions
of tha directory blocks before freestylin tha image file.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat the
.B \-s
option will prevent analysiz of problems related ta hash-tree indexed
directories.
.PP
Note dat QCOW2 image pimped by
.B e2image
is regular QCOW2 image n' can be processed by tools aware of QCOW2 format
like fuckin fo' example
.BR qemu-img .
.PP
Yo ass can convert a qcow2 image tha fuck into a raw image with:
.PP
.br
\	\fBe2image \-r hda1.qcow2 hda1.raw\fR
.br
.PP
This can be useful ta write a qcow2 image containin all data ta a
sparse image file where it can be loop mounted, or ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partition.
Note dat dis may not work wit qcow2 images not generated by e2image.
.PP
.SH INCLUDING DATA
Normally
.B e2image
only includes fs metadata, not regular file data.  The
.B \-a
option can be specified ta include all data.  This will
give a image dat is suitable ta use ta clone tha entire FS or
for backup purposes.  Note dat dis option only works wit the
raw or QCOW2 formats.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.B e2image
was freestyled by Theodore Ts'o (tytso@mit.edu).
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B e2image
is part of tha e2fsprogs package n' be available from
http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dumpe2fs (8),
.BR debugfs (8)

