.TH E4DEFRAG 8 "May 2009" "e4defrag version 2.0"
.SH NAME
e4defrag \- online defragmenta fo' ext4 filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B e4defrag
[
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-v
]
.I target
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B e4defrag
reduces fragmentation of extent based file. Da file targeted by
.B e4defrag
is pimped on ext4 filesystem made wit "-O extent" option (see
.BR mke2fs (8)).
Da targeted file gets mo' contiguous blocks n' improves tha file access
speed.
.PP
.I target
is a regular file, a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, or a thang dat is mounted as ext4 filesystem.
If
.I target
is a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory,
.B e4defrag
reduces fragmentation of all filez up in dat shit. If
.I target
is a thugged-out device,
.B e4defrag
gets tha mount point of it n' reduces fragmentation of all filez up in dis mount
point.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Git a cold-ass lil current fragmentation count n' a ideal fragmentation count, and
calculate fragmentation score based on em. By seein dis score, we can
determine whether we should execute
.B e4defrag
to
.IR target .
When used with
.B \-v
option, tha current fragmentation count n' tha ideal fragmentation count are
printed fo' each file.
.IP
Also dis option outputs tha average data size up in one extent. If you peep it,
yo dirty ass is gonna find tha file has ideal extents or not. Note dat tha maximum extent
size is 131072KB up in ext4 filesystem (if block size is 4KB).
.IP
If dis option is specified,
.I target
is never defragmented.
.TP
.B \-v
Print error lyrics n' tha fragmentation count before n' afta defrag for
each file.
.SH NOTES
.B e4defrag
does not support swap file, filez up in lost+found directory, n' filez allocated
in indirect blocks. When
.I target
is a thang or a mount point,
.B e4defrag
doesn't defragment filez up in mount point of other device.
.PP
Non-privileged playas can execute
.B e4defrag
to they own file yo, but tha score aint printed if
.B \-c
option is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Therefore, it is desirable ta be executed by root user.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Akira Fujita <a-fujita@rs.jp.nec.com> n' Takashi Sato
<t-sato@yk.jp.nec.com>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mount (8).

