.TH ecryptfs-migrate-home 8 2012-01-24 ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
ecryptfs-migrate-home \- migrate a userz home ta directory ta a encrypted home setup

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBecryptfs-migrate-home\fP [-u|--user USER]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --user USER
Migrate USERz home directory ta a encrypted home directory

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBWARNING\fP: Make a cold-ass lil complete backup copy of tha non-encrypted data ta another system or external media. This script is fucked up n' up in case of a error, could result up in data lost, or lock USER outta tha system!

This program must be executed by root.

This program will attempt ta migrate a userz home directory ta a encrypted home directory.

This program requires free disk space 2.5x tha current size of tha home directory ta be migrated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Once successful, you can recover most of dis space by deletin tha cleartext directory.

Da USER must be logged outta all sessions up in order ta big-ass up tha migration, n' have no open filez accordin ta \fBlsof\fP(1).

Once tha migration has completed, tha USER must login immediately, \fbBEFORE THE NEXT REBOOT\fP up in order ta complete tha migration.

Afta loggin in, if USER can read n' write filez up in they home directory successfully, then tha migration has completed successfully n' can remove tha cleartext backup up in \fI/home/\fP.

Afta a successful migration, tha USER straight-up must run \fBecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase\fP(1) or \fBzescrow\fP(1) n' record they randomly generated mount passphrase.

If swap aint already encrypted, it is highly recommended dat yo' administrator setup encrypted swap rockin \fBecryptfs-setup-swap\fP(1).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase\fP(1), \fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1), \fBecryptfs-setup-swap\fP(1), \fBlsof\fP(1), \fBrsync\fP(1), \fBzescrow\fP(1)

\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was freestyled by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> fo' Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted ta copy, distribute and/or modify dis document under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any lata version published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.

On Debian n' Ubuntu systems, tha complete text of tha GNU General Public License can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
