.TH EDQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edquota
[
.B \-p
.I protoname
] [
.BR \-u \ |
.B \-g
] [
.B \-rm
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.IR username .\|.\|.
.LP
.B edquota
[
.BR \-u \ |
.B \-g
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.B \-t
.LP
.B edquota
[
.BR \-u \ |
.B \-g
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.B \-T
.IR username \ |
.IR groupname .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  edit "user quotas \(em \fLedquota\fP"
.IX  "user quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.B edquota
is a quota editor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  One or mo' playas or crews may be specified on tha command
line. If a number is given up in tha place of user/group name it is treated as
an UID/GID. For each user or crew a temporary file is pimped wit an
.SM ASCII
representation of tha current disk quotas fo' dat user or crew n' a editor
is then invoked on tha file.  Da quotas may then be modified, new
quotas added, etc.
Settin a quota ta zero indicates dat no quota should be imposed.
.PP
Block usage n' limits is reported n' interpereted as multiplez of kibibyte
(1024 bytes) blocks by default. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Symbols K, M, G, n' T can be appended to
numeric value ta express kibibytes, mebibytes, gibibytes, n' tebibytes.
.PP
Inode usage n' limits is interpreted literally. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Symbols k, m, g, n' t can
be appended ta numeric value ta express multiplez of 10^3, 10^6, 10^9, and
10^12 inodes.
.PP
Users is permitted ta exceed they soft limits fo' a grace period that
may be specified per filesystem.  Once tha grace period has expired, the
soft limit is enforced as a hard limit.
.PP
Da current usage shiznit up in tha file is fo' shiznital purposes;
only tha hard n' soft limits can be chizzled.
.PP
Upon leavin tha editor,
.B edquota
readz tha temporary file n' modifies tha binary quota filez ta reflect
the chizzlez made.
.LP
Da editor invoked is
.BR vi (1)
unless either the
.SB EDITOR
or the
.SB VISUAL
environment variable specifies otherwise.
.LP
Only tha super-user may edit quotas.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -r, --remote
Edit also non-local quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server ta set quota.
This option be available only if quota tools was compiled wit enabled
support fo' settin quotas over RPC.
The
.B -n
option is equivalent, n' is maintained fo' backward compatibility.
.TP
.B -m, --no-mixed-pathnames
Currently, pathnamez of NFSv4 mountpoints is busted without leadin slash up in tha path.
.BR rpc.rquotad
uses dis ta recognize NFSv4 mounts n' properly prepend pseudoroot of NFS filesystem
to tha path. If you specify dis option, 
.BR edquota 
will always bust paths wit a leadin slash. This can be useful fo' legacy reasons but
be aware dat quota over RPC will stop hustlin if yo ass is rockin new
.BR rpc.rquotad .
.TP
.B -u, --user
Edit tha user quota. This is tha default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Edit tha crew quota.
.TP
.B -p, --prototype=\f2protoname\f1
Duplicate tha quotaz of tha prototypical user
specified fo' each user specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is tha normal
mechanizzle used ta initialize quotas fo' crewz of users.
.TP
.B --always-resolve
Always try ta translate user / crew name ta uid / gid even if tha name
is composed of digits only.
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Edit quota fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-f, --filesystem \f2filesystem\f1
Perform specified operations only fo' given filesystem (default is ta perform
operations fo' all filesystems wit quota).
.TP
.B \-t, --edit-period
Edit tha soft time limits fo' each filesystem.
In oldschool quota format if tha time limits is zero, tha default time limits in
.B <linux/quota.h>
are used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! In freshly smoked up quota format time limits must be specified (there is no default
value set up in kernel). Time unitz of 'seconds', 'minutes', 'hours', n' 'days'
are understood. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! I be fly as a gangbangin' falcon, soarin all up in tha sky dawwwwg! Time limits is printed up in tha top billin possible time unit such that
the value is pimped outa than or equal ta one.
.TP
.B \-T, --edit-times
Edit time fo' tha user/group when softlimit is enforced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Possible joints
are 'unset' or number n' unit. Units is tha same as in
.B \-t
option.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystems table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR setquota (8)
