.TH ERROR 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
error
\-
Postfix error/retry mail delivery agent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBerror\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix \fBerror\fR(8) delivery agent processes delivery
requests from
the queue manager n' shit. Each request specifies a queue file, a sender
address, tha reason fo' non-delivery (specified as the
next-hop destination), n' recipient shiznit.
Da reason may be prefixed wit a RFC 3463-compatible detail code;
if none is specified a thugged-out default 4.0.0 or 5.0.0 code is used instead.
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Dependin on tha steez name up in master.cf, \fBerror\fR
or \fBretry\fR, tha server bounces or defers all recipients
in tha delivery request rockin tha "next-hop" shiznit
as tha reason fo' non-delivery. Da \fBretry\fR steez name is
supported az of Postfix 2.4.

Delivery status reports is busted ta tha \fBbounce\fR(8),
\fBdefer\fR(8) or \fBtrace\fR(8) daemon as appropriate.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBerror\fR(8) maila aint security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it do not talk
to tha network, n' can be run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 3463 (Enhanced Status Codes)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).

Dependin on tha settin of tha \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmasta is notified of bounces n' of other shit.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBerror\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fB2bounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of undeliverable mail dat cannot be returned to
the sender.
.IP "\fBbounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of postmasta notifications wit tha message headers
of mail dat Postfix did not serve up n' of SMTP conversation
transcriptz of mail dat Postfix did not receive.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBdouble_bounce_sender (double-bounce)\fR"
Da sender address of postmasta notifications dat is generated
by tha mail system.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBnotify_classes (resource, software)\fR"
Da list of error classes dat is reported ta tha postmaster.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
discard(8), Postfix discard delivery agent
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
