.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH ETHER-WAKE 8 "March 31, 2003" "Scyld"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
ether-wake \- A tool ta bust a Wake-On-LAN "Magic Packet"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ether-wake
.RI [ options ] " Host-ID"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents tha usage of the
.B ether-wake
command.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invoke bold grill n' italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBether-wake\fP be a program dat generates n' transmits a Wake-On-LAN 
(WOL) "Magic Packet", used fo' restartin machines dat have been
soft-powered-down (ACPI D3-warm state). Well shiiiit, it generates tha standard
AMD Magic Packet format, optionally wit a password included. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  The
single required parameta be a station (MAC) address or a host ID dat can
be translated ta a MAC address by an
.BR ethers (5)
database specified in
.BR nsswitch.conf (5)
.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBether-wake\fP needz a single dash (´-´) up in front of options.
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-b
Send tha wake-up packet ta tha broadcast address.
.TP
.B \-D
Increase tha Debug Level.
.TP
.B \-i ifname
Use intercourse ifname instead of bustin  a wake packet ta all intercourses.
.TP
.B \-p passwd
Append a gangbangin' four or six byte password ta tha packet. Only all dem adapters
need or support all dis bullshit fo' realz. A six byte password may be specified up in Ethernet hex
format (00:22:44:66:88:aa) or four byte dotted decimal (192.168.1.1) format.
A four byte password must use tha dotted decimal format.

.TP
.B \-V
Show tha program version shiznit.

.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 on success.
A permission failures (e.g. run as a non-root user) thangs up in dis biatch up in a exit
statuz of 2.  Unrecognized or invalid parametas result up in a exit
statuz of 3.  Failure ta retrieve network intercourse shiznit or send
a packet will result up in a exit statuz of 1.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arp (8).
.br
.SH SECURITY
On some non-Linux systems droppin root capabilitizzle allows tha process ta be
dumped, traced or debugged.
If one of mah thugs traces dis program, they git control of a raw socket.
Linux handlez dis safely yo, but beware when portin dis program.
.SH AUTHOR
Da ether-wake program was freestyled by Dizzle Becker at Scyld Computing
Corporation fo' use wit tha Scyld(\*(Tm) Beowulf System.
