.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1999 by Dizzy S. Milla n' shit.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems
.\" Portions Copyright 2007, 2009 Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\" 
.\" There must be no text lines before .TH.  Use '.' fo' vertical spacing.
.\"
.\"	.An - list of n alternatizzle joints as up in "flav vanilla|strawberry"
.\"
.de A1
\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP
..
.de A2
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP
..
.de A3
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP
..
.de A4
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP
..
.\" 
.\"	.Bn - same as above but framed by square brackets
.\"
.de B1
[\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP]
..
.de B2
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP]
..
.de B3
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP]
..
.de B4
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP]
..
.\"
.\"	.BN - value wit a numeric input as up in "[value N]"
.\"
.de BN
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fIN\\fP]
..
.\"
.\"	.BM - same as above but has a mask field fo' format "[value N [m N]]"
.\"
.de BM
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fIN\\fP\ [\\fBm\\fP\ \\fIN\\fP]]
..
.\"
.\"	\(*MA - mac address
.\"
.ds MA \fIxx\fP\fB:\fP\fIyy\fP\fB:\fP\fIzz\fP\fB:\fP\fIaa\fP\fB:\fP\fIbb\fP\fB:\fP\fIcc\fP
.\"
.\"	\(*PA - IP address
.\"
.ds PA \fIx\fP\fB.\fP\fIx\fP\fB.\fP\fIx\fP\fB.\fP\fIx\fP
.\"
.\"	\(*WO - wol flags
.\"
.ds WO \fBp\fP|\fBu\fP|\fBm\fP|\fBb\fP|\fBa\fP|\fBg\fP|\fBs\fP|\fBd\fP...
.\"
.\"	\(*FL - flow type joints
.\"
.ds FL \fBtcp4\fP|\fBudp4\fP|\fBah4\fP|\fBesp4\fP|\fBsctp4\fP|\fBtcp6\fP|\fBudp6\fP|\fBah6\fP|\fBesp6\fP|\fBsctp6\fP
.\"
.\"	\(*HO - hash options
.\"
.ds HO \fBm\fP|\fBv\fP|\fBt\fP|\fBs\fP|\fBd\fP|\fBf\fP|\fBn\fP|\fBr\fP...
.\"
.\"	\(*SD - Self-diag test joints
.\"
.ds SD \fBoffline\fP|\fBonline\fP|\fBexternal_lb\fP
.\"
.\"	\(*NC - Network Classifier type joints
.\"
.ds NC \fBether\fP|\fBip4\fP|\fBtcp4\fP|\fBudp4\fP|\fBsctp4\fP|\fBah4\fP|\fBesp4\fP
..
.\"
.\" Start URL.
.de UR
.  dz m1 \\$1\"
.  nh
.  if \\n(mH \{\
.    \" Start diversion up in a freshly smoked up environment.
.    do ev URL-div
.    do di URL-div
.  \}
..
.\" End URL.
.de UE
.  ie \\n(mH \{\
.    br
.    di
.    ev
.
.    \" Has there been one or mo' input lines fo' tha link text?
.    ie \\n(dn \{\
.      do HTML-NS "<a href=""\\*(m1"">"
.      \" Yes, strip off final newline of diversion n' emit dat shit.
.      do chop URL-div
.      do URL-div
\c
.      do HTML-NS </a>
.    \}
.    el \
.      do HTML-NS "<a href=""\\*(m1"">\\*(m1</a>"
\&\\$*\"
.  \}
.  el \
\\*(la\\*(m1\\*(ra\\$*\"
.
.  hy \\n(HY
..
.
.TH ETHTOOL 8 "December 2012" "Ethtool version 3.10"
.SH NAME
ethtool \- query or control network driver n' hardware settings
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" Do not adjust lines (i.e. left justification) n' do not hyphenate.
.na
.nh
.HP
.B ethtool
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-h|\-\-help
.HP
.B ethtool \-\-version
.HP
.B ethtool \-a|\-\-show\-pause
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-A|\-\-pause
.I devname
.B2 autoneg on off
.B2 rx on off
.B2 tx on off
.HP
.B ethtool \-c|\-\-show\-coalesce
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-C|\-\-coalesce
.I devname
.B2 adaptive\-rx on off
.B2 adaptive\-tx on off
.BN rx\-usecs
.BN rx\-frames
.BN rx\-usecs\-irq
.BN rx\-frames\-irq
.BN tx\-usecs
.BN tx\-frames
.BN tx\-usecs\-irq
.BN tx\-frames\-irq
.BN stats\-block\-usecs
.BN pkt\-rate\-low
.BN rx\-usecs\-low
.BN rx\-frames\-low
.BN tx\-usecs\-low
.BN tx\-frames\-low
.BN pkt\-rate\-high
.BN rx\-usecs\-high
.BN rx\-frames\-high
.BN tx\-usecs\-high
.BN tx\-frames\-high
.BN sample\-interval
.HP
.B ethtool \-g|\-\-show\-ring
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-G|\-\-set\-ring
.I devname
.BN rx
.BN rx\-mini
.BN rx\-jumbo
.BN tx
.HP
.B ethtool \-i|\-\-driver
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-d|\-\-register\-dump
.I devname
.B2 raw on off
.B2 hex on off
.RB [ file 
.IR name ]
.HP
.B ethtool \-e|\-\-eeprom\-dump
.I devname
.B2 raw on off
.BN offset
.BN length
.HP
.B ethtool \-E|\-\-change\-eeprom
.I devname
.BN magic
.BN offset
.BN length
.BN value
.HP
.B ethtool \-k|\-\-show\-features|\-\-show\-offload
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-K|\-\-features|\-\-offload
.I devname feature
.A1 on off
.RB ...
.HP
.B ethtool \-p|\-\-identify
.I devname
.RI [ N ]
.HP
.B ethtool \-P|\-\-show\-permaddr
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-r|\-\-negotiate
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-S|\-\-statistics
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-t|\-\-test
.I devname
.RI [\*(SD]
.HP
.B ethtool \-s
.I devname
.BN speed
.B2 duplex half full
.B4 port tp aui bnc mii fibre
.B3 mdix auto on off
.B2 autoneg on off
.BN advertise
.BN phyad
.B2 xcvr internal external
.RB [ wol \ \*(WO]
.RB [ sopass \ \*(MA]
.RB [ msglvl
.IR N \ |
.BI msglvl \ type
.A1 on off
.RB ...]
.HP
.B ethtool \-n|\-u|\-\-show\-nfc|\-\-show\-ntuple
.I devname
.RB [\  rx\-flow\-hash \ \*(FL \ |
.br
.BI rule \ N
.RB ]
.HP
.B ethtool \-N|\-U|\-\-config\-nfc|\-\-config\-ntuple
.I devname
.BR rx\-flow\-hash \ \*(FL \ \: \*(HO \ |
.br
.B flow\-type \*(NC
.RB [ src \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]]
.RB [ dst \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]]
.BM proto
.RB [ src\-ip \ \*(PA\ [ m \ \*(PA]]
.RB [ dst\-ip \ \*(PA\ [ m \ \*(PA]]
.BM tos
.BM l4proto
.BM src\-port
.BM dst\-port
.BM spi
.BM l4data
.BM vlan\-etype
.BM vlan
.BM user\-def
.RB [ dst-mac \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]]
.BN action
.BN loc
.RB |
.br
.BI delete \ N
.HP
.B ethtool \-w|\-\-get\-dump
.I devname
.RB [ data
.IR filename ]
.HP
.B ethtool\ \-W|\-\-set\-dump
.I devname N
.HP
.B ethtool \-T|\-\-show\-time\-stamping
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-x|\-\-show\-rxfh\-indir
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-X|\-\-set\-rxfh\-indir
.I devname
.RB [\  equal
.IR N \ |
.BI weight\  W0
.IR W1
.RB ...\ ]
.HP
.B ethtool \-f|\-\-flash
.I devname file
.RI [ N ]
.HP
.B ethtool \-l|\-\-show\-channels
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-L|\-\-set\-channels
.I devname
.BN rx
.BN tx
.BN other
.BN combined
.HP
.B ethtool \-m|\-\-dump\-module\-eeprom|\-\-module\-info
.I devname
.B2 raw on off
.B2 hex on off
.BN offset
.BN length
.HP
.B ethtool \-\-show\-priv\-flags
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-\-set\-priv\-flags
.I devname flag
.A1 on off
.RB ...
.HP
.B ethtool \-\-show\-eee
.I devname
.HP
.B ethtool \-\-set\-eee
.I devname
.B2 eee on off
.B2 tx-lpi on off
.BN tx-timer
.BN advertise
.
.\" Adjust lines (i.e. full justification) n' hyphenate.
.ad
.hy

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI ethtool
is used ta query n' control network thang driver n' hardware
settings, particularly fo' wired Ethernet devices.

.I devname
is tha name of tha network thang on which ethtool should operate.

.SH OPTIONS
.B ethtool
with a single argument specifyin tha thang name prints current
settingz of tha specified device.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Shows a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Shows tha ethtool version number.
.TP
.B \-a \-\-show\-pause
Queries tha specified Ethernet thang fo' pause parameta shiznit.
.TP
.B \-A \-\-pause
Changes tha pause parametaz of tha specified Ethernet device.
.TP
.A2 autoneg on off
Specifies whether pause autonegotiation should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 rx on off
Specifies whether RX pause should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 tx on off
Specifies whether TX pause should be enabled.
.TP
.B \-c \-\-show\-coalesce
Queries tha specified network thang fo' coalescin shiznit.
.TP
.B \-C \-\-coalesce
Changes tha coalescin settingz of tha specified network device.
.TP
.B \-g \-\-show\-ring
Queries tha specified network thang fo' rx/tx rang parameta shiznit.
.TP
.B \-G \-\-set\-ring
Changes tha rx/tx rang parametaz of tha specified network device.
.TP
.BI rx \ N
Changes tha number of rang entries fo' tha Rx ring.
.TP
.BI rx\-mini \ N
Changes tha number of rang entries fo' tha Rx Mini ring.
.TP
.BI rx\-jumbo \ N
Changes tha number of rang entries fo' tha Rx Jumbo ring.
.TP
.BI tx \ N
Changes tha number of rang entries fo' tha Tx ring.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-driver
Queries tha specified network thang fo' associated driver shiznit.
.TP
.B \-d \-\-register\-dump
Retrieves n' prints a regista dump fo' tha specified network device.
Da regista format fo' some devices is known n' decoded others
are printed up in hex.
When 
.I raw 
is enabled, then ethtool dumps tha raw regista data ta stdout.
If
.I file
is specified, then use contentz of previous raw regista dump, rather
than readin from tha device.
.TP
.B \-e \-\-eeprom\-dump
Retrieves n' prints a EEPROM dump fo' tha specified network device.
When raw is enabled, then it dumps tha raw EEPROM data ta stdout. The
length n' offset parametas allow dumpin certain portionz of tha EEPROM.
Default is ta dump tha entire EEPROM.
.TP
.B \-E \-\-change\-eeprom
If value is specified, chizzlez EEPROM byte fo' tha specified network device.
offset n' value specify which byte n' itz freshly smoked up value. If value is not
specified, stdin is read n' freestyled ta tha EEPROM. Da length n' offset
parametas allow freestylin ta certain portionz of tha EEPROM.
Because of tha persistent nature of freestylin ta tha EEPROM, a thugged-out device-specific
magic key must be specified ta prevent tha accidental freestylin ta tha EEPROM.
.TP
.B \-k \-\-show\-features \-\-show\-offload
Queries tha specified network thang fo' tha state of protocol
offload n' other features.
.TP
.B \-K \-\-features \-\-offload
Changes tha offload parametas n' other featurez of tha specified
network device.  Da followin feature names is built-in n' others
may be defined by tha kernel.
.TP
.A2 rx on off
Specifies whether RX checksummin should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 tx on off
Specifies whether TX checksummin should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 sg on off
Specifies whether scatter-gather should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 tso on off
Specifies whether TCP segmentation offload should be enabled.
.TP
.A2 ufo on off
Specifies whether UDP fragmentation offload should be enabled 
.TP
.A2 gso on off
Specifies whether generic segmentation offload should be enabled 
.TP
.A2 gro on off
Specifies whether generic receive offload should be enabled
.TP
.A2 lro on off
Specifies whether big-ass receive offload should be enabled
.TP
.A2 rxvlan on off
Specifies whether RX VLAN acceleration should be enabled
.TP
.A2 txvlan on off
Specifies whether TX VLAN acceleration should be enabled
.TP
.A2 ntuple on off
Specifies whether Rx ntuple filtas n' actions should be enabled
.TP
.A2 rxhash on off
Specifies whether receive hashin offload should be enabled
.TP
.B \-p \-\-identify
Initiates adapter-specific action intended ta enable a operator to
easily identify tha adapta by sight.  Typically dis involves
blinkin one or mo' LEDs on tha specific network port.
.TP
.B N
Length of time ta big-ass up phys-id, up in seconds.
.TP
.B \-P \-\-show\-permaddr
Queries tha specified network thang fo' permanent hardware address.
.TP
.B \-r \-\-negotiate
Restarts auto-negotiation on tha specified Ethernet device, if
auto-negotiation is enabled.
.TP
.B \-S \-\-statistics
Queries tha specified network thang fo' NIC- n' driver-specific
statistics.
.TP
.B \-t \-\-test
Executes adapta selftest on tha specified network device. Possible test modes are:
.TP
.B offline
Perform full set of tests, possibly interruptin aiiight operation
durin tha tests,
.TP
.B online
Perform limited set of tests, not interruptin aiiight operation,
.TP
.B external_lb
Perform full set of tests, as fo' \fBoffline\fR, n' additionally an
external-loopback test.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-change
Allows changin some or all settingz of tha specified network device.
All followin options only apply if
.B \-s
was specified.
.TP
.BI speed \ N
Set speed up in Mb/s.
.B ethtool
with just tha thang name as a argument will show you tha supported thang speeds.
.TP
.A2 duplex half full
Sets full or half duplex mode.
.TP
.A4 port tp aui bnc mii fibre
Selects thang port.
.TP
.A3 mdix auto on off
Selects MDI-X mode fo' port. May be used ta override tha automatic
detection feature of most adaptas fo' realz. An argument of \fBauto\fR means
automatic detection of MDI status, \fBon\fR forces MDI-X (crossover)
mode, while \fBoff\fR means MDI (straight through) mode.  Da driver
should guarantee dat dis command takes effect immediately, n' if
necessary may reset tha link ta cause tha chizzle ta take effect.
.TP
.A2 autoneg on off
Specifies whether autonegotiation should be enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Autonegotiation 
is enabled by default yo, but up in some network devices may have shit
with it, so you can disable it if straight-up necessary. 
.TP
.BI advertise \ N
Sets tha speed n' duplex advertised by autonegotiation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da argument is
a hexadecimal value rockin one or a cold-ass lil combination of tha followin joints:
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l	lB.
0x001	10 Half
0x002	10 Full
0x004	100 Half
0x008	100 Full
0x010	1000 Half	(not supported by IEEE standards)
0x020	1000 Full
0x8000	2500 Full	(not supported by IEEE standards)
0x1000	10000 Full
0x20000	20000MLD2 Full	(not supported by IEEE standards)
0x40000	20000KR2 Full	(not supported by IEEE standards)
.TE
.TP
.BI phyad \ N
PHY address.
.TP
.A2 xcvr internal external
Selects transceiver type. Currently only internal n' external can be
specified, up in tha future further types might be added.
.TP
.BR wol \ \*(WO
Sets Wake-on-LAN options.  Not all devices support all dis bullshit.  Da argument ta 
this option be a strang of charactas specifyin which options ta enable.
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l.
p	Wake on PHY activity
u	Wake on unicast lyrics
m	Wake on multicast lyrics
b	Wake on broadcast lyrics
a	Wake on ARP
g	Wake on MagicPacket\[tm]
s	Enable SecureOn\[tm] password fo' MagicPacket\[tm]
d	T{
Disable (wake on nothing).  This option clears all previous options.
T}
.TE
.TP
.B sopass \*(MA\c
Sets tha SecureOn\[tm] password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da argument ta dis option must be 6
bytes up in Ethernet MAC hex format (\*(MA).
.PP
.BI msglvl \ N
.br
.BI msglvl \ type
.A1 on off
.RB ...
.RS
Sets tha driver message type flags by name or number n' shit. \fItype\fR
names tha type of message ta enable or disable; \fIN\fR specifies the
new flags numerically. Da defined type names n' numbers are:
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l	l.
drv	0x0001  General driver status
probe	0x0002  Hardware probing
link	0x0004  Link state
timer	0x0008  Periodic status check
ifdown	0x0010  Interface bein brought down
ifup	0x0020  Interface bein brought up
rx_err	0x0040  Receive error
tx_err	0x0080  Transmit error
tx_queued	0x0100  Transmit queueing
intr	0x0200  Interrupt handling
tx_done	0x0400  Transmit completion
rx_status	0x0800  Receive completion
pktdata	0x1000  Packet contents
hw	0x2000  Hardware status
wol	0x4000  Wake-on-LAN status
.TE
.PP
Da precise meaningz of these type flags differ between drivers.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B \-n \-u \-\-show\-nfc \-\-show\-ntuple
Retrieves receive network flow classification options or rules.
.TP
.BR rx\-flow\-hash \ \*(FL
Retrieves tha hash options fo' tha specified flow type.
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l.
tcp4	TCP over IPv4
udp4	UDP over IPv4
ah4	IPSEC AH over IPv4
esp4	IPSEC ESP over IPv4
sctp4	SCTP over IPv4
tcp6	TCP over IPv6
udp6	UDP over IPv6
ah6	IPSEC AH over IPv6
esp6	IPSEC ESP over IPv6
sctp6	SCTP over IPv6
.TE
.TP
.BI rule \ N
Retrieves tha RX classification rule wit tha given ID.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B \-N \-U \-\-config\-nfc \-\-config\-ntuple
Configures receive network flow classification options or rules.
.TP
.BR rx\-flow\-hash \ \*(FL \: \*(HO
Configures tha hash options fo' tha specified flow type.
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l.
m	Hash on tha Layer 2 destination address of tha rx packet.
v	Hash on tha VLAN tag of tha rx packet.
t	Hash on tha Layer 3 protocol field of tha rx packet.
s	Hash on tha IP source address of tha rx packet.
d	Hash on tha IP destination address of tha rx packet.
f	Hash on bytes 0 n' 1 of tha Layer 4 header of tha rx packet.
n	Hash on bytes 2 n' 3 of tha Layer 4 header of tha rx packet.
r	T{
Discard all packetz of dis flow type. When dis option is set, all
other options is ignored.
T}
.TE
.TP
.B flow\-type \*(NC
Inserts or thugged-out shiznit a cold-ass lil classification rule fo' tha specified flow type.
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l.
ether	Ethernet
ip4	Raw IPv4
tcp4	TCP over IPv4
udp4	UDP over IPv4
sctp4	SCTP over IPv4
ah4	IPSEC AH over IPv4
esp4	IPSEC ESP over IPv4
.TE
.PP
For all fieldz dat allow both a value n' a mask ta be specified, the
mask may be specified immediately afta tha value rockin tha \fBm\fR
keyword, or separately rockin tha field name keyword wit \fB-mask\fR
appended, e.g. \fBsrc-mask\fR.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BR src \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]
Includes tha source MAC address, specified as 6 bytes up in hexadecimal
separated by colons, along wit a optionizzle mask.  Valid only for
flow-type ether.
.TP
.BR dst \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]
Includes tha destination MAC address, specified as 6 bytes up in hexadecimal
separated by colons, along wit a optionizzle mask.  Valid only for
flow-type ether.
.TP
.BI proto \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Includes tha Ethernet protocol number (ethertype) n' a optionizzle mask.
Valid only fo' flow-type ether.
.TP
.BR src\-ip \ \*(PA\ [ m \ \*(PA]
Specify tha source IP address of tha incomin packet ta match along with
an optionizzle mask.  Valid fo' all IPv4 based flow-types.
.TP
.BR dst\-ip \ \*(PA\ [ m \ \*(PA]
Specify tha destination IP address of tha incomin packet ta match along
with a optionizzle mask.  Valid fo' all IPv4 based flow-types.
.TP
.BI tos \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Specify tha value of tha Type of Service field up in tha incomin packet to
match along wit a optionizzle mask.  Applies ta all IPv4 based flow-types.
.TP
.BI l4proto \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Includes tha layer 4 protocol number n' optionizzle mask.  Valid only for
flow-type ip4.
.TP
.BI src\-port \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Specify tha value of tha source port field (applicable ta TCP/UDP packets)
in tha incomin packet ta match along wit a optionizzle mask.  Valid for
flow-types ip4, tcp4, udp4, n' sctp4.
.TP
.BI dst\-port \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Specify tha value of tha destination port field (applicable ta TCP/UDP
packets)in tha incomin packet ta match along wit a optionizzle mask.
Valid fo' flow-types ip4, tcp4, udp4, n' sctp4.
.TP
.BI spi \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Specify tha value of tha securitizzle parameta index field (applicable to
AH/ESP packets)in tha incomin packet ta match along wit a optional
mask.  Valid fo' flow-types ip4, ah4, n' esp4.
.TP
.BI l4data \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Specify tha value of tha straight-up original gangsta 4 Bytez of Layer 4 up in tha incomin packet to
match along wit a optionizzle mask.  Valid fo' ip4 flow-type.
.TP
.BI vlan\-etype \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Includes tha VLAN tag Ethertype n' a optionizzle mask.
.TP
.BI vlan \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Includes tha VLAN tag n' a optionizzle mask.
.TP
.BI user\-def \ N \\fR\ [\\fPm \ N \\fR]\\fP
Includes 64-bitz of user-specific data n' a optionizzle mask.
.TP
.BR dst-mac \ \*(MA\ [ m \ \*(MA]
Includes tha destination MAC address, specified as 6 bytes up in hexadecimal
separated by colons, along wit a optionizzle mask.
Valid fo' all IPv4 based flow-types.
.TP
.BI action \ N
Specifies tha Rx queue ta bust packets to, or some other action.
.TS
nokeep;
lB	l.
-1	Drop tha matched flow
0 or higher	Rx queue ta route tha flow
.TE
.TP
.BI loc \ N
Specify tha location/ID ta bang tha rule. This will overwrite
any rule present up in dat location n' aint gonna go all up in any
of tha rule orderin process.
.TP
.BI delete \ N
Deletes tha RX classification rule wit tha given ID.
.TP
.B \-w \-\-get\-dump
Retrieves n' prints firmware dump fo' tha specified network device.
By default, it prints up tha dump flag, version n' length of tha dump data.
When
.I data
is indicated, then ethtool fetches tha dump data n' directs it ta a
.I file.
.TP
.B \-W \-\-set\-dump
Sets tha dump flag fo' tha device.
.TP
.B \-T \-\-show\-time\-stamping
Show tha devicez time stampin capabilitizzles n' associated PTP
hardware clock.
.TP
.B \-x \-\-show\-rxfh\-indir
Retrieves tha receive flow hash indirection table.
.TP
.B \-X \-\-set\-rxfh\-indir
Configures tha receive flow hash indirection table.
.TP
.BI equal\  N
Sets tha receive flow hash indirection table ta spread flows evenly
between tha straight-up original gangsta \fIN\fR receive queues.
.TP
\fBweight\fR \fIW0 W1\fR ...
Sets tha receive flow hash indirection table ta spread flows between
receive queues accordin ta tha given weights, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da sum of tha weights
must be non-zero n' must not exceed tha size of tha indirection table.
.TP
.B \-f \-\-flash
Write a gangbangin' firmware image ta flash or other non-volatile memory on the
device.
.TP
.I file
Specifies tha filename of tha firmware image.  Da firmware must first
be installed up in one of tha directories where tha kernel firmware
loader or firmware agent will look, like fuckin /lib/firmware.
.TP
.I N
If tha thang stores multiple firmware images up in separate regions of
non-volatile memory, dis parameta may be used ta specify which
region is ta be written. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is 0, requestin dat all
regions is written. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  All other joints is driver-dependent.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B \-l \-\-show\-channels
Queries tha specified network thang fo' tha numberz of channels it has.
A channel be a IRQ n' tha set of queues dat can trigger dat IRQ.
.TP
.B \-L \-\-set\-channels
Changes tha numberz of channelz of tha specified network device.
.TP
.BI rx \ N
Changes tha number of channels wit only receive queues.
.TP
.BI tx \ N
Changes tha number of channels wit only transmit queues.
.TP
.BI other \ N
Changes tha number of channels used only fo' other purposes e.g. link interrupts or SR-IOV co-ordination.
.TP
.BI combined \ N
Changes tha number of multi-purpose channels.
.TP
.B \-m \-\-dump\-module\-eeprom \-\-module\-info
Retrieves n' if possible decodes tha EEPROM from plugin modules, e.g SFP+, QSFP.
If tha driver n' module support it, tha optical diagnostic shiznit be also
read n' decoded.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-priv\-flags
Queries tha specified network thang fo' its private flags.  The
names n' meaningz of private flags (if any) is defined by each
network thang driver.
.TP
.B \-\-set\-priv\-flags
Sets tha devicez private flags as specified.
.PP
.I flag
.A1 on off
Sets tha state of tha named private flag.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-eee
Queries tha specified network thang fo' its support of Juice-Efficient
Ethernet (accordin ta tha IEEE 802.3az justifications)
.TP
.B \-\-set\-eee
Sets tha thang EEE behaviour.
.TP
.A2 eee on off
Enables/disablez tha thang support of EEE.
.TP
.A2 tx-lpi on off
Determines whether tha thang should assert its Tx LPI.
.TP
.BI advertise \ N
Sets tha speedz fo' which tha thang should advertise EEE capabiliities.
Values is as for
.B \-\-change advertise
.TP
.BI tx-timer \ N
Sets tha amount of time tha thang should stay up in idle mode prior ta asserting
its Tx LPI (in microseconds). This has meanin only when Tx LPI is enabled.
.SH BUGS
Not supported (in part or whole) on all network drivers.
.SH AUTHOR
.B ethtool
was freestyled by Dizzy Miller.

Modifications by 
Jeff Garzik, 
Slim Tim Hockin,
Jakub Jelinek,
Andre Majorel,
Eli Kupermann,
Scott Feldman,
Andi Kleen,
Alexander Duyck,
Sucheta Chakraborty.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ethtool
is available from
.UR http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/ethtool/
.UE
