.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH FINDMNT 8 "April 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
findmnt \- find a gangbangin' filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B findmnt
.RB [ options ]
.sp
.B findmnt
.RB [ options ]
.IR thang | mountpoint
.sp
.B findmnt
.RB [ options ]
.RB [ \--source ]
.IR device
.RB [ \--target ]
.IR mountpoint
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B findmnt
will list all mounted filesytems or search fo' a gangbangin' filesystem.  The
.B findmnt
command be able ta search in
.IR /etc/fstab ,
.IR /etc/mtab
or
.IR /proc/self/mountinfo .
If
.IR device
or
.IR mountpoint
is not given, all filesystems is shown.
.PP
Da thang may be specified by thang name, maj:min, filesystem LABEL or UUID,
or partizzle PARTUUID or PARTLABEL.  Note dat a thang name may be interpreted
as a mountpoint (and vice versa) if tha \fB--target\fR or \fB--source\fR options
are not specified.
.PP
Da command prints all mounted filesystems up in tha tree-like format by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-A , " \-\-all"
Disable all built-in filtas n' print all filesystems.
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-ascii"
Use ascii charactas fo' tree formatting.
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-canonicalize"
Canonicalize all printed paths.
.TP
.BR \-D , " \-\-df"
Imitate tha output of
.BR df (1).
This option is equivalent to
.B -o SOURCE,FSTYPE,SIZE,USED,AVAIL,USE%,TARGET
but excludes all pseudo filesystems.
Use \fB\-\-all\fP ta print all filesystems.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-direction \fIword\fP"
Da search direction, either
.IR forward
or
.IR backward .
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-evaluate"
Convert all tags (LABEL, UUID, PARTUUID or PARTLABEL) ta tha thang names.
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-tab\-file \fIpath\fP"
Search up in a alternatizzle file.  If used wit \fB\-\-fstab\fP, \fB\-\-mtab\fP
or \fB\-\-kernel\fP, then it overrides tha default paths.  If specified more
than once, then tree-like output is disabled (see tha \fB\-\-list\fP option).
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-first\-only"
Print tha straight-up original gangsta matchin filesystem only.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-invert"
Invert tha sense of matching.
.TP
.BR \-k , " \-\-kernel"
Search in
.IR /proc/self/mountinfo .
Da output is up in tha tree-like format.  This is tha default.
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list"
Use tha list output format.  This output format be automatically enabled if the
output is restricted by tha \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP or \fB\-T\fP
option n' tha option \fB\-\-submounts\fP aint used or if mo' dat one
source file (the option \fB\-F\fP) is specified.
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-mtab"
Search in
.IR /etc/mtab .
Da output is up in tha list format (see \fB\-\-list\fP).
.TP
.BR \-N , " \-\-task \fItid\fP"
Use alternatizzle namespace /proc/<tid>/mountinfo rather than tha default
/proc/self/mountinfo.  If tha option is specified mo' than once, then
tree-like output is disabled (see tha \fB\-\-list\fP option).  See also the
.BR unshare (1)
command.
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
Do not print a header line.
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-options \fIlist\fP"
Limit tha set of printed filesystems.  Mo' than one option
may be specified up in a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.  The
.B \-t
and
.B \-O
options is cumulatizzle up in effect.  It be different from
.B \-t
in dat each option is matched exactly; a leading
.I no
at tha beginnin aint gots global meaning.  Da "no" can used for
individual shit up in tha list.  Da "no" prefix interpretation can be disabled
by "+" prefix.
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output \fIlist\fP"
Define output columns.  See tha \fB\-\-help\fP output ta git a list of the
currently supported columns.  The
.BR TARGET
column gotz nuff tree formattin if the
.B \-\-list
or
.B \-\-raw
options is not specified.

Da default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
specified up in tha format \fI+list\fP (e.g. \fBfindmnt -o +PROPAGATION\fP).
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pairs"
Use key="value" output format.  All potentially unsafe charactas is hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-poll\fR[\fI=list\fR]"
Monitor chizzlez up in tha /proc/self/mountinfo file.  Supported actions are: mount,
umount, remount n' move.  Mo' than one action may be specified up in a
comma-separated list.  All actions is monitored by default.

Da time fo' which \fB--poll\fR will block can be restricted wit tha \fB\-\-timeout\fP
or \fB\-\-first-only\fP options.

Da standard columns always use tha freshly smoked up version of tha shiznit from the
mountinfo file, except tha umount action which is based on tha original
information cached by
.BR findmnt (8) .
Da poll mode allows ta use extra columns:
.RS
.TP
.B ACTION
mount, umount, move or remount action name; dis column is enabled by default
.TP
.B OLD-TARGET
available fo' umount n' move actions
.TP
.B OLD-OPTIONS
available fo' umount n' remount actions
.RE
.TP
.BR \-R , " \-\-submounts"
Print recursively all submounts fo' tha selected filesystems.  Da restrictions
defined by options \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP, \fB\-T\fP and
\fB\--direction\fP is not applied ta submounts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  All submounts is always
printed up in tree-like order n' shit.  Da option enablez tha tree-like output format by
default.  This option has no effect fo' \fB\-\-mtab\fP or \fB\-\-fstab\fP.
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
Use raw output format.  All potentially unsafe charactas is hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-source \fIspec\fP"
Explicitly define tha mount source.  Supported is \fIdevice\fR, \fImaj:min\fR,
\fILABEL=\fR, \fIUUID=\fR, \fIPARTLABEL=\fR or \fIPARTUUID=\fR.
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-fstab"
Search in
.IR /etc/fstab .
Da output is up in tha list format (see \fB--list\fR).
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-target \fIdir\fP"
Explicitly define tha mount target (mountpoint directory).
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-types \fIlist\fP"
Limit tha set of printed filesystems.  Mo' than one type may be
specified up in a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.  Da list of filesystem types can be
prefixed with
.I no
to specify tha filesystem types on which no action should be taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For
more details see
.BR mount (8).
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-notruncate"
Do not truncate text up in columns.  Da default is ta not truncate the
.BR TARGET ,
.BR SOURCE ,
.BR UUID ,
.BR LABEL ,
.BR PARTUUID ,
.BR PARTLABEL
columns.  This option disablez text truncation also up in all other columns.
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-nofsroot"
Do not print a [/dir] up in tha SOURCE column fo' bind-mounts or btrfs subvolumes.
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-timeout \fImilliseconds\fP"
Specify a upper limit on tha time fo' which \fB--poll\fR will block, up in milliseconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab \-t nfs\fP"
Prints all NFS filesystems defined in
.IR /etc/fstab .
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab /mnt/foo\fP"
Prints all
.IR /etc/fstab
filesystems where tha mountpoint directory is /mnt/foo.  It also prints bind mounts where /mnt/foo
is a source.
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab --target /mnt/foo\fP"
Prints all
.IR /etc/fstab
filesystems where tha mountpoint directory is /mnt/foo.
.IP "\fBfindmnt --fstab --evaluate\fP"
Prints all
.IR /etc/fstab
filesystems n' converts LABEL= n' UUID= tags ta tha real thang names.
.IP "\fBfindmnt -n --raw --evaluate --output=target LABEL=/boot\fP"
Prints only tha mountpoint where tha filesystem wit label "/boot" is mounted.
.IP "\fBfindmnt --poll --target /mnt/foo\fP"
Monitors mount, unmount, remount n' move on /mnt/foo.
.IP "\fBfindmnt --poll=umount --first-only --target /mnt/foo\fP"
Waits fo' /mnt/foo unmount.
.IP "\fBfindmnt --poll=remount -t ext3 -O ro\fP"
Monitors remounts ta read-only mode on all ext3 filesystems.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LIBMOUNT_FSTAB=<path>
overrides tha default location of tha fstab file
.IP LIBMOUNT_MTAB=<path>
overrides tha default location of tha mtab file
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=0xffff
enablez debug output
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8),
.BR fstab (5)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da findmnt command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
