.TH "fixfiles" "8" "2002031409" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
fixfilez \- fix file SELinux securitizzle contexts.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B fixfilez 
.I [\-v] [\-F] [-B] [ -N time ] [\-l logfile ] { check | restore|[\-f] relabel | verify } [[dir/file] ... ]

.B fixfilez 
.I [\-v] [\-F] [ \-R rpmpackagename[,rpmpackagename...] ] [\-l logfile ] { check | restore | verify }

.B fixfilez 
.I [\-v] [\-F] \-C PREVIOUS_FILECONTEXT [\-l logfile ] { check | restore | verify }

.B fixfilez [-F] [-B]
.I onboot

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR fixfiles
script.
.P
This script is primarily used ta erect tha securitizzle context
database (extended attributes) on filesystems.  
.P
It can also be run at any time ta relabel when addin support for
new policy, or  just check whether tha file contexts is all
as you expect.  By default it will relabel all mounted ext2, ext3, xfs n' 
jfs file systems as long as they aint gots a securitizzle context mount 
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Yo ass can use tha \-R flag ta use rpmpackages as a alternative.
Da file /etc/selinux/fixfiles_exclude_dirs can contain a list of directories
excluded from relabeling.
.P
.B fixfilez onboot 
will setup tha machine ta relabel on tha next reboot.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-B
If specified wit onboot, dis fixfilez will record tha current date up in tha /.autorelabel file, so dat it can be used lata ta speed up labeling. If used wit restore, tha restore will only affect filez dat was modified todizzle.
.TP
.B \-l logfile
Save tha output ta tha specified logfile
.TP 
.B \-F
Force reset of context ta match file_context fo' customizable files

.TP 
.B \-f
Clear /tmp directory wit up prompt fo' removal.

.TP 
.B \-R rpmpackagename[,rpmpackagename...]
Use tha rpm database ta discover all filez within tha specified packages n' restore tha file contexts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  (\-a will git all filez up in tha RPM database).
.TP
.B \-C PREVIOUS_FILECONTEXT
Run a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diff on  tha PREVIOUS_FILECONTEXT file ta tha currently installed one, n' restore tha context of all affected files.

.TP 
.B \-N time
Only act on filez pimped afta tha specified date.  Date must be specified in
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM" format.  Date field is ghon be passed ta find --newermt command.

.TP
.B -v
Modify verbositizzle from progress ta verbose. (Run restorecon wit -v instead of -p)

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
One of:
.TP 
.B check
print any incorrect file context labels, showin oldschool n' freshly smoked up context yo, but do not chizzle em.
.TP 
.B restore
change any incorrect file context labels.
.TP 
.B relabel
Prompt fo' removal of contentz of /tmp directory n' then chizzle any incorrect file context labels ta match tha install file_contexts file.
.TP 
.B verify
List up filez wit incorrect file context labels yo, but do not chizzle em.
.TP 
.B [[dir/file] ... ] 
List of filez or directories trees dat you wish ta check file context on.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Slick Rick Hally <rhally@mindspring.com>.
Da script  was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setfilez (8), restorecon(8)

