.\" Copyright 2011-2013 Roderick W. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH "FIXPARTS" "8" "0.8.10" "Roderick W. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle" "FixParts Manual"
.SH "NAME"
fixparts \- MBR partizzle table repair utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI "fixparts "
.I device

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

FixParts (aka \fBfixparts\fR) be a text\-mode menu\-driven program for
repairin certain typez of problems wit Masta Boot Record (MBR) partition
tables. Da program has three design goals, although all dem additional
features is supported, as well:

.TP 
.B *
It can remove stray GUID Partizzle Table (GPT) data, which can be left
behind on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk dat was once used as a GPT disk but then incompletely
converted ta tha mo' common (az of 2011) MBR form.

.TP
.B *
It can repair mis-sized extended partitions \-\- either partitions that
extend beyond tha physical end of tha disk or dat overlap wit nearby
primary partitions. FixParts is designed up in such a way dat dis type of
repair occurs automatically, so if itz tha only problem wit yo' disk,
you can launch tha program n' then immediately save tha partizzle table,
makin no manual chizzles, n' tha program will fix tha problem.

.TP
.B *
Yo ass can chizzle primary partitions tha fuck into logical partitions or vice\-versa,
within constraints imposed by tha MBR data structures.

.PP

Additionizzle features include tha mobilitizzle ta chizzle partizzle type codes or
boot/actizzle flags, ta delete partitions, n' ta recompute CHS joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. With
the possible exception of recomputin CHS joints, these secondary features
are betta performed wit \fBfdisk\fR, cuz \fBfixparts\fR' design means
that itz likely ta alta partizzle numberin even when such chizzlez are
not requested.

Da \fBfixparts\fR program employs a user intercourse similar ta dat of
Linuxz \fBfdisk\fR yo, but \fBfixparts\fR is much mo' specialized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Most
importantly, you can't create freshly smoked up partitions wit \fBfixparts\fR, although
you can chizzle primary/logical assignment.

In tha MBR scheme, partitions come up in three varieties:

.TP
.B primary
These partitions is defined up in tha straight-up original gangsta sector of tha hard disk and
are limited up in number ta four. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some OSes, like fuckin Windows n' FreeBSD, must
boot from a primary partition.

.TP
.B extended
Extended partitions is specialized primary partitions. They serve as
holdin areas fo' logical partitions.

.TP
.B logical
A disk can contain a arbitrary number of logical partitions
(\fBfixparts\fR, however, imposes a limit of 124 logical partitions) fo' realz. All
the logical partitions reside inside a single extended partition, n' are
defined rockin a linked-list data structure. This fact means dat every
logical partizzle must be preceded by at least one sector of unallocated space
to hold its definin data structure (an Extended Boot Record, or EBR).

.PP

These distinctions mean dat primary n' logical partitions cannot be
arbitrarily interspersed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A disk can contain one ta three primary
partitions, a funky-ass block of one or mo' logical partitions, n' one ta three
more primary partitions (for a total of three primary partitions, not
countin tha extended partition). Primary partitions may not be sandwiched
between logical partitions, since dis would mean placin a primary
partizzle within a extended partizzle (which is just a specific type of
primary partition).

Unlike most disk utilities, \fBfixparts\fR' user intercourse ignores extended
partitions. Internally, tha program discardz tha shiznit on the
original gangsta extended partizzle and, when you tell it ta save its chizzles, it
generates a freshly smoked up extended partizzle ta contain tha then-defined logical
partitions. This is done cuz most of tha repairs n' manipulations the
tool performs require generatin a gangbangin' fresh extended partition, so keepin the
original gangsta up in tha user intercourse would only be a cold-ass lil complication.

Another unusual feature of \fBfixparts\fR' user intercourse is dat partition
numbers do not necessarily correlate wit primary/logical status. In most
utilities, partitions 1\-4 correspond ta primary partitions, whereas
partitions 5 n' up is logical partitions. In \fBfixparts\fR, any partition
number may be assigned primary or logical status, so long as tha rulez for
layout busted lyrics bout earlier is obeyed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When tha partizzle table is saved,
partitions is ghon be assigned appropriately n' then tools like fuckin tha Linux
kernel n' \fBfdisk\fR will give dem conventionizzle numbers.

When it first starts, \fBfixparts\fR performs a scan fo' GPT data. If the
disk be lookin like a cold-ass lil conventionizzle GPT disk, \fBfixparts\fR refuses ta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If
the disk appears ta be a cold-ass lil conventionizzle MBR disk but GPT signatures are
present up in tha GPT primary or secondary header areas, \fBfixparts\fR
offers ta delete dis extraneous data. If you tell it ta do so, tha program
immediately wipes tha GPT header or headers. (If only one header was found,
only dat one header is ghon be erased, ta minimize tha risk of damagin a
boot loader or other data dat might have overwritten just one of tha GPT
headers.)

With tha exception of optionally erasin leftover GPT data when it first
starts, \fBfixparts\fR keeps all chizzlez up in memory until tha user writes
changes wit tha \fBw\fR command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Thus, you can adjust yo' partitions in
the user intercourse n' abort dem chizzlez by typin \fBq\fR ta quit
without savin chizzles.

.SH "OPTIONS"

Da \fBfixparts\fR utilitizzle supports no command\-line options, except for
specification of tha target device.

Most interactions wit \fBfixparts\fR occur wit its interactizzle text\-mode
menu fo'sho. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specific functions are:

.TP 
.B a
Toggle tha active/boot flag. This flag is required by some boot loadaz and
OSes.


.TP 
.B c
Recompute tha cylinder/head/sector (CHS) joints fo' all partitions. CHS
addressin mode is largely obsolete yo, but some OSes n' utilitizzles complain
if they don't like tha CHS joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Note dat \fBfixparts\fR' CHS joints are
likely ta be incorrect on disks smalla than bout 8 GiB except on Linux.

.TP 
.B l
Change a partitionz status ta logical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. This option will only work if the
current partizzle layout supports such a cold-ass lil chizzle. Note dat if changin a
partitionz status up in dis way aint currently possible, makin some other
change may make it possible. For instance, omittin a partizzle that
precedes tha target partizzle may enable convertin a partizzle ta logical
form if there had been no free sectors between tha two partitions.

.TP 
.B o
Omit a partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Once omitted, tha partizzle will still step tha fuck up in the
\fBfixparts\fR partizzle list yo, but it is ghon be flagged as omitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Yo ass can
subsequently convert it ta primary or logical form wit tha \fBr\fR or
\fBl\fR commands, respectively. When you save yo' chizzlez wit \fBw\fR,
though, tha partizzle is ghon be lost.

.TP 
.B p
Display basic partizzle summary data. This includes partitionz number, the
boot/actizzle flagz status, startin n' endin sector numbers,
primary/logical/omitted status, whether or not tha partizzle may be
converted ta logical form, n' tha partitionz MBR types code.

.TP 
.B q
Quit from tha program \fIwithout savin yo' chizzles\fR.
Use dis option if you just wanted ta view shiznit or if you make a
mistake n' wanna back outta all yo' chizzles.

.TP 
.B r
Change a partitionz status ta primary. This option will only work if the
current partizzle layout supports such a cold-ass lil chizzle. Note dat every last muthafuckin partition
can theoretically become a primary partition, although up in some
configurations, makin dis chizzle will require omittin some partitions.
If \fBfixparts\fR refuses ta allow changin a partizzle ta primary, you may
need ta convert other partitions ta logical form or omit dem entirely.

.TP 
.B s
Sort partizzle entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This option ordaz partitions up in tha display to
match they on-disk positions, which can make understandin tha disk layout
easier up in some cases. This option has no effect on tha illest orderin of
logical partitions, which is sorted before bein saved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da order of
primary partitions up in tha final saved partizzle table may be affected by
this option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. In both cases, as already noted, tha partizzle numbers
displayed by \fBfixparts\fR may not be tha same as dem used by tha kernel
or displayed by other partitionin tools.

.TP 
.B t
Change a partitionz type code. Yo ass enta tha type code rockin a one\-byte
hexadecimal number.

.TP 
.B w
Write data. Use dis command ta save yo' chizzlez n' exit from tha program.

.TP 
.B ?
Print tha menu fo'sho. Type dis command (or any other unrecognized command) to
see a summary of available options.

.PP 

.SH "BUGS"
Az of March 2014 (version 0.8.10), \fBfixparts\fR
should be considered beta software. Known bugs n' limitations include:

.TP 
.B *
Da program compilez erectly only on Linux, FreeBSD, Mac OS X, n' Windows.
Linux versions fo' x86\-64 (64\-bit), x86 (32\-bit), n' PowerPC (32\-bit) have been
tested, wit tha x86\-64 version havin peeped da most thugged-out testing. Under FreeBSD,
32\-bit (x86) n' 64\-bit (x86\-64) versions done been tested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Only 32\-bit
versions fo' Mac OS X n' Windows done been tested.

.TP 
.B *
Da FreeBSD version of tha program can't write chizzlez ta tha partition
table ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk when existin partitions on dat disk is mounted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. (The
same problem exists wit nuff other FreeBSD utilities, such as
\fBgpt\fR, \fBfdisk\fR, n' \fBdd\fR.) This limitation can be overcome
by typin \fBsysctl kern.geom.debugflags=16\fR at a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell prompt.

.TP 
.B *
Da program can load only up ta 128 partitions (4 primary partitions and
124 logical partitions). This limit can be raised by changin the
\fI#define MAX_MBR_PARTS\fR line up in tha \fIbasicmbr.h\fR source code file
and recompiling.

.TP 
.B *
Da program can read partitions only if tha disk has erect LBA partition
descriptors. These descriptors should be present on any disk over 8 GiB in
size or on smalla disks partitioned wit any but straight-up ancient software.

.TP 
.B *
Da program make no effort ta preserve partizzle numbers. This can have
consequences fo' boot loadaz n' fo' mountin filesystems via
\fB/etc/fstab\fR. Well shiiiit, it may be necessary ta edit configuration filez or even
to re-install yo' boot loader.

.TP
.B *

Da program may chizzle tha order of partitions up in tha partizzle table.

.PP 

.SH "AUTHORS"
Primary author: Roderick W. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Smizzle (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)

Contributors:

* Yves Blusseau (1otnwmz02@sneakemail.com)

* Dizzy Hubbard (david.c.hubbard@gmail.com)

* Quentin Maggard (justin.maggard@netgear.com)

* Dwight Schauer (dschauer@ti.com)

* Florian Zumbiehl (florz@florz.de)


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcfdisk (8)\fR,
\fBcgdisk (8)\fR,
\fBfdisk (8)\fR,
\fBmkfs (8)\fR,
\fBparted (8)\fR,
\fBsfdisk (8)\fR
\fBgdisk (8)\fR
\fBsgdisk (8)\fR

\fIhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record\fR

\fIhttp://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/\fR

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
Da \fBfixparts\fR command is part of tha \fIGPT fdisk\fR package n' is
available from Rod Smizzle.
