.TH FLUSH 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
flush
\-
Postfix fast flush server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBflush\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBflush\fR(8) server maintains a record of deferred
mail by destination.
This shiznit is used ta improve tha performizzle of tha SMTP
\fBETRN\fR request, n' of its command-line equivalent,
"\fBsendmail -qR\fR" or "\fBpostqueue -f\fR".
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Da record is implemented as a per-destination logfile with
as contents tha queue IDz of deferred mail fo' realz. A logfile is
append-only, n' is truncated when delivery is requested
for tha correspondin destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. A destination is the
part on tha right-hand side of tha right-most \fB@\fR in
an email address.

Per-destination logfilez of deferred mail is maintained only for
eligible destinations. Da list of eligible destinations is
specified wit tha \fBfast_flush_domains\fR configuration parameter,
which defaults ta \fB$relay_domains\fR.

This server implements tha followin requests:
.IP "\fBadd\fI cribname queueid\fR"
Inform tha \fBflush\fR(8) server dat tha message wit tha specified
queue ID is queued fo' tha specified destination.
.IP "\fBsend_site\fI cribname\fR"
Request delivery of mail dat is queued fo' tha specified
destination.
.IP "\fBsend_file\fI queueid\fR"
Request delivery of tha specified deferred message.
.IP \fBrefresh\fR
Refresh non-empty per-destination logfilez dat was not read in
\fB$fast_flush_refresh_time\fR hours, by simulating
send requests (see above) fo' tha correspondin destinations.
.sp
Delete empty per-destination logfilez dat was not updated in
\fB$fast_flush_purge_time\fR days.
.sp
This request completes up in tha background.
.IP \fBpurge\fR
Do a \fBrefresh\fR fo' all per-destination logfiles.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBflush\fR(8) server aint security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it do not
talk ta tha network, n' it do not rap ta local users.
Da fast flush server can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Fast flush logfilez is truncated only afta a "send"
request, not when mail is straight-up delivered, n' therefore can
accumulate outdated or redundant data. In order ta maintain sanity,
"refresh" must be executed periodically. This can
be automated wit a suitable wakeup timer settin up in the
\fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file.

Upon receipt of a request ta serve up mail fo' a eligible
destination, tha \fBflush\fR(8) server requests delivery of all lyrics
that is listed up in dat destinationz logfile, regardless of the
recipientz of dem lyrics. This aint a issue fo' mail
that is busted ta a \fBrelay_domains\fR destination cuz
such mail typically only has recipients up in one domain.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBflush\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_domains ($relay_domains)\fR"
Optionizzle list of destinations dat is eligible fo' per-destination
logfilez wit mail dat is queued ta dem destinations.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_refresh_time (12h)\fR"
Da time afta which a non-empty but unread per-destination "fast
flush" logfile need ta be refreshed.
.IP "\fBfast_flush_purge_time (7d)\fR"
Da time afta which a empty per-destination "fast flush" logfile
is deleted.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
What Postfix features match subdomainz of "domain.tld" automatically,
instead of requirin a explicit ".domain.tld" pattern.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix/flush, "fast flush" logfiles.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtpd(8), SMTP server
qmgr(8), queue manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ETRN_README, Postfix ETRN howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
This steez was introduced wit Postfix version 1.0.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
