.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-KITLOAD 8 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-kitload \- installs a thugged-out data kit tha fuck into tha foomatic database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-kitload
[\fI \-k kit-dir\fR]
[\fI \-d dest-dir\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-kitload
installs a gangbangin' foomatic data kit tha fuck into tha local data library.  It takes a 
\fI\-k\fR \fIdirname\fR
option, where \fIdirname\fR is tha toplevel directory of a gangbangin' foomatic
driver "kit".  A "kit" be a selection of XML source filez arranged
exactly as up in tha source/section of tha masta database (ie, opt/driver/printer/ subdirs).

Gimp-Printz foomatic-generator produces exactly such a kit.

Foomatic-kitload is moderately paranoid bout kits: tha kit must
contain at least one of \fIprinter\fR, \fIdriver\fR or \fIopt\fR; the
kit must contain only filez endin up in \fI.xml\fR, tha kit cannot be
the local library itself, etc.  But it do not inspect tha contents
of tha kit filez up in any way.


.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI \-k \ dirname
dirname is tha toplevel directory of a gangbangin' foomatic driver "kit". 
.TP 10
.BI \-d \ destdir
destdir be a prefix ta prepend ta tha install path.  This aint gonna normally
be required yo, but is useful if installin tha fuck into a temporary `stagin area'
prior ta installin up in tha final destination.

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".IR foomatic-XXX (1),

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-kitload
returns 0 on success, 255 or suttin' else when a error occurs.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin output from tha associated binary.

.SH BUGS

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic

