.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-ADDPJLOPTIONS 8 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-addpjloptions \- Format PJL option shiznit tha fo' foomatic database
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "foomatic-addpjloptions [-dafis][-o dir] -p printer_ID [pjl_info_file]"

.B "foomatic-addpjloptions [-dafq] [pjl_info_file]"

.B "foomatic-addpjloptions \-h"

.SH Description
.B foomatic-addpjloptions
formats tha PJL shiznit file (or STDIN) tha fuck into a gangbangin' format usable by tha Foomatic database.


.SS Options
.TP 5
.B \-a
Convert all PJL options up in tha shiznit file.

.TP 5
.BI -d
Enable debuggin shiznit.

.TP 5
.B \-f
Do not ask fo' permission, force conversion.

.TP 5
.B \-h
Print a help message n' exit.

.TP 5
.B \-q
Print a summary of tha PJL shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This output aint compatible with
the foomatic database, n' is useful fo' debugging.

.TP 5
.B \-s
Produce a single option file containin all tha option joints.

.TP 5
.BI \-o " dir"
Da directory tha option shiznit filez is freestyled to.

.TP 5
.BI \-p " printer_ID"
Name of tha printa up in tha foomatic database.
This is used ta extract printa manufacturer n' model shiznit.

.TP 5
.B pjl_info_file
File wit PJL shiznit returned by tha printer n' shit. If dis filename is not
provided, tha PJL options is taken from standard input.

.SH FILES
.TP 5
.B /usr/share/foomatic/templates/pjl*.xml
Template filez fo' option shiznit.

.TP 5
.B ./foomatic-db/opts
Option shiznit stored up in dis directory.

.PD 0

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-addpjloptions
returns 0 on success, n' a nonzero value on failure.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin output from tha associated binary.

Modified by Patrick Powell (<papowell at astart.com>).

.SH BUGS

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic

