.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-GETPJLOPTIONS 8 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-getpjloptions \- <put a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short description here>
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI foomatic-getpjloptions " device"

.BI foomatic-getpjloptions " hostname\ port"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-getpjloptions
Sendz a set of PJL commandz n' readz back
the PJL options n' status from a printa over a network connection
or thang bidirectionizzle intercourse like fuckin parallel, STD, serial.
printas ta standard output. The
output can be piped tha fuck into foomatic-addpjloptions ta add options ta tha database.


.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI device
Da intercourse ta which a local printa is connected, e.g. /dev/lp0, /dev/usb/lp0,
/dev/tty00, etc.
For a parallel port,
you must have bidirectionizzle support enabled at the
BIOS level n' tha parallel port driver must support tha bidirectionizzle mode.
Peep yo' parallel port BIOS settings fo'  EPP/bi-directionizzle mode.

.TP 10
.BI hostname
Host name or IP address of a network printa (HP JetDirect, DLINK, etc.).

.TP 10
.BI port
Port on which yo' network printa listens fo' socket (Appsocket) connections.
Most common ports is 9100 (JetDirect), 10000 (DLINK).  Usually you can configure
the port via a cold-ass lil configuration intercourse.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-getpjloptions
returns ???

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> fo' tha foomatic
project rockin output from tha associated binary.
Modified by Patrick Powell <papowell at lprng.com> ta provide betters
support fo' network printers, error lyrics, n' remove CR n' FF from output.

.SH WARNINGS
Uni-directionizzle protocols as remote LPD is not supported as no status is returned.
Some network print servers which attach ta a printa parallel port do not
support bidirectionizzle mode.

