.TH "FSADM" "8" "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat, Inc" "\""
.SH "NAME"
fsadm \- utilitizzle ta resize or check filesystem on a thugged-out device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsadm
.RI [ options ]
.B check
.I device
.sp
.B fsadm
.RI [ options ]
.B resize
.I device
.RI [ new_size [ BKMGTEP ]]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
fsadm utilitizzle checks or resizes tha filesystem on a thugged-out device.
It tries ta use tha same API fo' 
.IR ext2 ", " ext3 ", " ext4 ", " ReiserFS " n' " XFS
filesystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-ext\-offline
Unmount ext2/ext3/ext4 filesystem before bustin resize.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Bypass some sanitizzle checks.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display tha help text.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print commandz without hustlin em.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Be mo' verbose.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Answer "yes" at any prompts.
.TP
.I new_size
Absolute number of filesystem blocks ta be up in tha filesystem,
or a absolute size rockin a suffix (in powerz of 1024).
If new_size aint supplied, tha whole thang is used.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On successful completion, tha status code is 0.
A status code of 2 indicates tha operation was interrupted by tha user.
A status code of 3 indicates tha axed check operation could not be performed
because tha filesystem is mounted n' do not support a online 
.BR fsck (8).
A status code of 1 is used fo' other failures.

.SH EXAMPLES
Resize tha filesystem on logical volume /dev/vg/test ta 1000 megabytes.
If /dev/vg/test gotz nuff ext2/ext3/ext4
filesystem it is ghon be unmounted prior tha resize.
All [y|n] thangs is ghon be answered 'y'.
.sp
.B fsadm \-e \-y resize /dev/vg/test 1000M
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Da temporary directory name fo' mount points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Defaults ta "/tmp". 
.TP
.B DM_DEV_DIR
Da thang directory name.
Defaults ta "/dev" n' must be a absolute path.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvresize (8),
.BR lvm.conf (5),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR tune2fs (8),
.BR resize2fs (8),
.BR reiserfstune (8),
.BR resize_reiserfs (8),
.BR xfs_info (8),
.BR xfs_growfs (8),
.BR xfs_check (8)
