.\" fsck.fat.8 - manpage fo' fsck.fat
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation, either version 3 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program. If not, peep <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Da complete text of tha GNU General Public License
.\" can be found up in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3 file.
.\"
.\"
.TH FSCK.FAT 8 2014\-11\-12 3.0.27 "dosfstools"

.SH NAME
\fBfsck.fat\fR \- check n' repair MS\-DOS filesystems

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfsck.fat\fR|\fBfsck.msdos\fR|\fBfsck.vfat\fR [\-aAflnprtvVwy] [\-d \fIPATH\fR \-d\ \fI...\fR] [\-u\ \fIPATH\fR \-u \fI...\fR] \fIDEVICE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfsck.fat\fR verifies tha consistency of MS\-DOS filesystems n' optionally tries ta repair em.
.PP
Da followin filesystem problems can be erected (in dis order):
.IP "*" 4
FAT gotz nuff invalid clusta numbers. Clusta is chizzled ta EOF.
.IP "*" 4
Filez clusta chain gotz nuff a loop. Da loop is broken.
.IP "*" 4
Wack clustas (read errors). Da clustas is marked wack n' they is removed from filez ownin em. This check is optional.
.IP "*" 4
Directories wit a big-ass number of wack entries (probably corrupt). Da directory can be deleted.
.IP "*" 4
Filez . n' .. is non\-directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! They can be deleted or renamed.
.IP "*" 4
Directories . n' .. up in root directory. They is deleted.
.IP "*" 4
Wack filenames. They can be renamed.
.IP "*" 4
Duplicate directory entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! They can be deleted or renamed.
.IP "*" 4
Directories wit non\-zero size field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Size is set ta zero.
.IP "*" 4
Directory . do not point ta parent directory. Da start pointa be adjusted.
.IP "*" 4
Directory .. do not point ta parent of parent directory. Da start pointa be adjusted.
.IP "*" 4
Start clusta number of a gangbangin' file is invalid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da file is truncated.
.IP "*" 4
File gotz nuff wack or free clusters. Da file is truncated.
.IP "*" 4
Filez clusta chain is longer than indicated by tha size fields. Da file is truncated.
.IP "*" 4
Two or mo' filez share tha same cluster(s) fo' realz. All but one of tha filez is truncated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If tha file bein truncated be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory file dat has already been read, tha filesystem check is restarted afta truncation.
.IP "*" 4
Filez clusta chain is shorta than indicated by tha size fields. Da file is truncated.
.IP "*" 4
Clustas is marked as used but is not owned by a gangbangin' file. They is marked as free.
.PP
Additionally, tha followin problems is detected yo, but not repaired:
.IP "*" 4
Invalid parametas up in boot sector.
.IP "*" 4
Absence of . n' .. entries up in non\-root directories
.PP
When \fBfsck.fat\fR checks a gangbangin' filesystem, it accumulates all chizzlez up in memory n' performs dem only afta all checks is complete. This can be disabled wit tha \fB\-w\fR option.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4
Automatically repair tha filesystem. No user intervention is necessary. Whenever there is mo' than one method ta solve a problem, tha least destructizzle approach is used.
.IP "\fB\-A\fR" 4
Use Atari variation of tha MS\-DOS filesystem. This is default if \fBfsck.fat\fR is run on a Atari, then dis option turns off Atari format. There is some minor differences up in Atari format: Some boot sector fieldz is interpreted slightly different, n' tha special FAT entries fo' end\-of\-file n' wack clusta can be different. Under MS\-DOS 0xfff8 is used fo' EOF n' Atari employs 0xffff by default yo, but both systems recognize all joints from 0xfff8...0xffff as end\-of\-file. MS\-DOS uses only 0xfff7 fo' wack clusters, where on Atari joints 0xfff0...0xfff7 is fo' dis purpose (but tha standard value is still 0xfff7).
.IP "\fB-b\fR" 4
Make read-only boot sector check.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4
Delete tha specified file. If mo' dat one file wit dat name exists, tha straight-up original gangsta one is deleted.
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4
Salvage unused clusta chains ta files. By default, unused clustas is added ta tha free disk space except up in auto mode (\fB\-a\fR).
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4
List path namez of filez bein processed.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4
No\-operation mode: non\-interactively check fo' errors yo, but don't write
anythang ta tha filesystem.
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4
Same as (\fB\-a\fR), fo' compatibilitizzle wit other *fsck.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4
Interactively repair tha filesystem. Da user be axed fo' lyrics whenever
there is mo' than one approach ta fix a inconsistency.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4
Mark unreadable clustas as bad.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 4
Try ta undelete tha specified file. \fBfsck.fat\fR tries ta allocate a cold-ass lil chain of contiguous unallocated clustas beginnin wit tha start clusta of tha undeleted file.
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4
Verbose mode. Generates slightly mo' output.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR" 4
Perform a verification pass. Da filesystem check is repeated afta tha straight-up original gangsta run. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da second pass should never report any fixable errors. Well shiiiit, it may take considerably longer than tha straight-up original gangsta pass, cuz tha straight-up original gangsta pass may have generated long list of modifications dat gotta be scanned fo' each disk read.
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4
Write chizzlez ta disk immediately.
.IP "\fB\-y\fR" 4
Same as \fB\-a\fR (automatically repair filesystem) fo' compatibilitizzle wit other fsck tools.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR If \fB\-a\fR n' \fB\-r\fR is absent, tha filesystem is only checked yo, but not repaired.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IP "0" 4
No recoverable errors done been detected.
.IP "1" 4
Recoverable errors done been detected or \fBfsck.fat\fR has discovered a internal inconsistency.
.IP "2" 4
Usage error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. \fBfsck.fat\fR did not access tha filesystem.

.SH FILES
.IP "fsck0000.rec, fsck0001.rec, ..." 4
When recoverin from a cold-ass lil corrupted filesystem, \fBfsck.fat\fR dumps recovered data tha fuck into filez named 'fsckNNNN.rec' up in tha top level directory of tha filesystem.

.SH BUGS
Do not create . n' .. filez where necessary. Do not remove entirely empty directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should give mo' diagnostic lyrics. Undeletin filez should bust a mo' sophisticated algorithm.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfatlabel\fR(8)
.br
\fBmkfs.fat\fR(8)

.SH HOMEPAGE
Mo' shiznit bout \fBfsck.fat\fR n' \fBdosfstools\fR can be found at <\fIhttp://daniel\-baumann.ch/software/dosfstools/\fR>.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBdosfstools\fR was freestyled by Werner Almesberger <\fIwerner.almesberger@lrc.di.epfl.ch\fR>, Roman Hodek <\fIRoman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de\fR>, n' others. Da current maintainer is Daniel Baumann <\fImail@daniel-baumann.ch\fR>.
