.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\" 
.TH E2FSCK 8 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
e2fsck \- check a Linux ext2/ext3/ext4 file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B e2fsck
[
.B \-pacnyrdfkvtDFV
]
[
.B \-b
.I superblock
]
[
.B \-B
.I blocksize
]
[
.BR \-l | \-L
.I bad_blocks_file
]
[
.B \-C
.I fd
]
[
.B \-j
.I external-journal
]
[
.B \-E
.I extended_options
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B e2fsck
is used ta check tha ext2/ext3/ext4 crew of file systems.   
For ext3 n' ext4 filesystems dat bust a journal, if tha system has been
shut down uncleanly without any errors, normally, afta replayin the
committed transactions  up in tha journal, tha file system should be
marked as clean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.   Hence, fo' filesystems dat use journalling,
.B e2fsck
will normally replay tha journal n' exit, unless its superblock
indicates dat further checkin is required.
.PP
.I device
is tha thang file where tha filesystem is stored (e.g.
.IR /dev/hdc1 ).
.PP
Note dat up in general it aint safe ta run
.B e2fsck
on mounted filesystems.  Da only exception is if the
.B \-n
option is specified, n' 
.BR \-c , 
.BR \-l ,
or
.B -L
options is 
.I not
specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!   But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat even if it is safe ta do so, tha thangs up in dis biatch printed by
.B e2fsck
are not valid if tha filesystem is mounted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.   If 
.B e2fsck
asks whether or not you should check a gangbangin' filesystem which is mounted, 
the only erect answer is ``no''.  Only smart-ass muthafuckas whoz ass straight-up know what
they is bustin should consider answerin dis question up in any other way.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a 
This option do tha same thang as tha 
.B \-p
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It be provided fo' backwardz compatibilitizzle only; it is
suggested dat playas use 
.B \-p 
option whenever possible.
.TP
.BI \-b " superblock"
Instead of rockin tha aiiight superblock, use a alternatizzle superblock
specified by 
.IR superblock .
This option is normally used when tha primary superblock has been
corrupted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da location of tha backup superblock is dependent on the
filesystemz blocksize.  For filesystems wit 1k blocksizes, a funky-ass backup
superblock can be found at block 8193; fo' filesystems wit 2k
blocksizes, at block 16384; n' fo' 4k blocksizes, at block 32768.  
.IP
Additionizzle backup superblocks can be determined by rockin tha 
.B mke2fs 
program rockin tha 
.B \-n
option ta print up where tha superblocks was pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.   Da 
.B \-b 
option ta 
.BR mke2fs ,
which specifies blocksize of tha filesystem must be specified up in order
for tha superblock locations dat is printed up ta be accurate.
.IP
If a alternatizzle superblock is specified n'  
the filesystem aint opened read-only, e2fsck will make shizzle dat the
primary superblock is updated appropriately upon completion of tha 
filesystem check.
.TP
.BI \-B " blocksize"
Normally, 
.B e2fsck
will search fo' tha superblock at various different
block sizes up in a attempt ta find tha appropriate block size.
This search can be fooled up in some cases.  This option forces 
.B e2fsck
to only try locatin tha superblock at a particular blocksize.
If tha superblock aint found, 
.B e2fsck 
will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.TP
.B \-c
This option causes 
.B e2fsck 
to use 
.BR badblocks (8)
program ta do a read-only scan of tha thang up in order ta find any bad
blocks.  If any wack blocks is found, they is added ta tha wack block
inode ta prevent dem from bein allocated ta a gangbangin' file or directory.  If
this option is specified twice, then tha wack block scan is ghon be done
usin a non-destructizzle read-write test.
.TP
.BI \-C " fd"
This option causes
.B e2fsck
to write completion shiznit ta tha specified file descriptor 
so dat tha progress of tha filesystem 
check can be monitored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option is typically used by programs 
which is hustlin
.BR e2fsck .
If tha file descriptor number is negative, then absolute value of
the file descriptor is ghon be used, n' tha progress shiznit will be
suppressed initially.  It can lata be enabled by bustin  the
.B e2fsck
process a SIGUSR1 signal.
If tha file descriptor specified is 0, 
.B e2fsck
will print a cold-ass lil completion bar as it goes bout its bidnizz.  This requires
that e2fsck is hustlin on a vizzle console or terminal.
.TP
.B \-d
Print debuggin output (useless unless yo ass is debugging
.BR e2fsck ).
.TP
.B \-D
Optimize directories up in filesystem.  This option causes e2fsck to
try ta optimize all directories, either by reindexin dem if the
filesystem supports directory indexing,  or by sortin n' compressing
directories fo' smalla directories, or fo' filesystems using
traditionizzle linear directories.
.IP
Even without the
.B \-D
option,
.B e2fsck
may sometimes optimize all dem directories --- fo' example, if
directory indexin is enabled n' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory aint indexed n' would
benefit from bein indexed, or if tha index structures is corrupted
and need ta be rebuilt.  The
.B \-D
option forces all directories up in tha filesystem ta be optimized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This can
sometimes make dem a lil smalla n' slightly fasta ta search yo, but
in practice, you should rarely need ta use dis option.
.IP
The
.B \-D
option will detect directory entries wit duplicate names up in a single
directory, which e2fsck normally do not enforce fo' performizzle reasons.
.TP
.BI \-E " extended_options"
Set e2fsck extended options.  Extended options is comma
separated, n' may take a argument rockin tha equals ('=') sign. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da 
followin options is supported:
.RS 1.2i
.TP
.BI ea_ver= extended_attribute_version
Set tha version of tha extended attribute blocks which
.B e2fsck
will require while checkin tha filesystem.  Da version number may 
be 1 or 2.  Da default extended attribute version format is 2.
.TP
.BI journal_only
Only replay tha journal if required yo, but do not big-ass up any further checks
or repairs.
.TP
.BI fragcheck
Durin pass 1, print a thugged-out detailed report of any discontiguous blocks for
filez up in tha filesystem.
.TP
.BI discard
Attempt ta discard free blocks n' unused inode blocks afta tha full
filesystem check (discardin blocks is useful on solid state devices n' sparse
/ thin-provisioned storage). Note dat discard is done up in pass 5 AFTER the
filesystem has been straight-up checked n' only if it do not contain recognizable
errors yo. However there might be cases where
.B e2fsck
does not straight-up recognize a problem n' hence up in dis case this
option may prevent you from further manual data recovery.
.TP
.BI nodiscard
Do not attempt ta discard free blocks n' unused inode blocks. This option is
exactly tha opposite of discard option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is set as default.
.RE
.TP
.B \-f
Force checkin even if tha file system seems clean.
.TP
.B \-F
Flush tha filesystem devicez buffer caches before beginning.  Only
really useful fo' bustin 
.B e2fsck 
time trials.
.TP
.BI \-j " external-journal"
Set tha pathname where tha external-journal fo' dis filesystem can be
found.
.TP
.BI \-k
When combined wit tha 
.B \-c
option, any existin wack blocks up in tha wack blocks list is preserved,
and any freshly smoked up wack blocks found by hustlin
.BR badblocks (8) 
will be added ta tha existin wack blocks list.
.TP
.BI \-l " filename"
Add tha block numbers listed up in tha file specified by 
.I filename
to tha list of wack blocks.  Da format of dis file is tha same ol' dirty as the
one generated by tha 
.BR badblocks (8)
program.  Note dat tha block numbers is based on tha blocksize
of tha filesystem.  Hence, 
.BR badblocks (8)
must be given tha blocksize of tha filesystem up in order ta obtain erect
results, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  As a result, it is much simpla n' less thuggy ta use tha 
.B -c
option ta 
.BR e2fsck ,
since it will assure dat tha erect parametas is passed ta the
.B badblocks
program.
.TP
.BI \-L " filename"
Set tha wack blocks list ta be tha list of blocks specified by 
.IR filename .
(This option is tha same ol' dirty as tha 
.B \-l
option, except tha wack blocks list is cleared before tha blocks listed
in tha file is added ta tha wack blocks list.)
.TP
.B \-n
Open tha filesystem read-only, n' assume a answer of `no' ta all
questions.  Allows
.B e2fsck
to be used non-interactively.  This option
may not be specified all up in tha same time as tha 
.B \-p
or
.B \-y
options.
.TP
.B \-p
Automatically repair ("preen") tha file system.  This option will cause
.B e2fsck
to automatically
fix any filesystem problems dat can be safely fixed without human
intervention. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If 
.B e2fsck
discovers a problem which may require tha system administrator
to take additionizzle erectizzle action, 
.B e2fsck
will print a thugged-out description of tha problem n' then exit wit tha value 4
logically or'ed tha fuck into tha exit code.  (See tha \fBEXIT CODE\fR section.)
This option is normally used by tha systemz boot scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It may not 
be specified all up in tha same time as the
.B \-n
or
.B \-y
options.
.TP
.B \-r
This option do not a god damn thang at all; it is provided only fo' backwards
compatibility.
.TP
.B \-t
Print timin statistics for
.BR e2fsck .
If dis option is used twice, additionizzle timin statistics is printed
on a pass by pass basis.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-y
Assume a answer of `yes' ta all thangs; allows 
.B e2fsck
to be used non-interactively.  This option
may not be specified all up in tha same time as tha 
.B \-n
or
.B \-p
options.
.SH EXIT CODE
Da exit code returned by
.B e2fsck
is tha sum of tha followin conditions:
.br
\	0\	\-\ No errors
.br
\	1\	\-\ File system errors erected
.br
\	2\	\-\ File system errors erected, system should
.br
\	\	\ \ be rebooted
.br
\	4\	\-\ File system errors left uncorrected
.br
\	8\	\-\ Operationizzle error
.br
\	16\	\-\ Usage or syntax error
.br
\	32\	\-\ E2fsck canceled by user request
.br
\	128\	\-\ Shared library error
.br
.SH SIGNALS
Da followin signals have tha followin effect when busted ta 
.BR e2fsck .
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
This signal causes
.B e2fsck
to start displayin a cold-ass lil completion bar or emittin progress shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
(See rap of tha 
.B \-C
option.)
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
This signal causes
.B e2fsck 
to stop displayin a cold-ass lil completion bar or emittin progress shiznit.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Almost any piece of software gonna git bugs.  If you manage ta find a
filesystem which causes 
.B e2fsck
to crash, or which 
.B e2fsck
is unable ta repair, please report it ta tha lyricist.
.PP
Please include as much shiznit as possible up in yo' bug report.
Ideally, include a cold-ass lil complete transcript of the
.B e2fsck
run, so I can peep exactly what tha fuck error lyrics is displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (Make sure
the lyrics printed by 
.B e2fsck 
are up in Gangsta; if yo' system has been
configured so dat 
.BR e2fsck 's
lyrics done been translated tha fuck into another language, please set tha the
.B LC_ALL
environment variable to
.B C
so dat tha transcript of e2fsckz output is ghon be useful ta mah dirty ass.)
If you
have a writable filesystem where tha transcript can be stored, tha 
.BR script (1)
program be a handy way ta save tha output of
.B e2fsck
to a gangbangin' file.
.PP
It be also useful ta bust tha output of 
.BR dumpe2fs (8).
If a specific inode or inodes seems ta be givin 
.B e2fsck 
shit, try hustlin the
.BR debugfs (8)
command n' bust tha output of tha 
.BR stat (1u)
command run on tha relevant inode(s).  If tha inode be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, tha 
.B debugfs
.I dump
command will allow you ta extract tha contentz of tha directory inode,
which can busted ta me afta bein first run through
.BR uuencode (1).  
Da most useful data you can bust ta help reproduce
the bug be a cold-ass lil compressed raw image dump of tha filesystem, generated using
.BR e2image (8).
See tha 
.BR e2image (8)
man page fo' mo' details.
.PP
Always include tha full version strang which 
.B e2fsck
displays when it is run, so I know which version yo ass is hustlin.
.SH AUTHOR
This version of 
.B e2fsck
was freestyled by Theodore Ts'o <tytso@mit.edu>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR e2fsck.conf (5),
.BR badblocks (8),
.BR dumpe2fs (8),
.BR debugfs (8),
.BR e2image (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR tune2fs (8)
