.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH FSFREEZE 8 "May 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
fsfreeze \- suspend access ta a gangbangin' filesystem (Linux Ext3/4, ReiserFS, JFS, XFS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsfreeze
.BR \--freeze | \--unfreeze
.IR mountpoint

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsfreeze
suspendz n' resumes access ta a filesystem
.PP
.B fsfreeze
halts freshly smoked up access ta tha filesystem n' creates a stable image on disk.
.B fsfreeze
is intended ta be used wit hardware RAID devices dat support tha creation 
of snapshots.
.PP
.B fsfreeze
is unnecessary for
.B device-mapper
devices. Da device-mapper (and LVM)
automatically freezes filesystem on tha thang when a snapshot creation is requested.
For mo' details peep the
.BR dmsetup (8)
man page.
.PP
The
.I mount-point
argument is tha pathname of tha directory where tha filesystem
is mounted.
Da filesystem must be mounted ta be frozen (see
.BR mount (8)).
.PP
Note dat access time thugged-out shiznit is also suspendz if tha filesystem is mounted with
the traditionizzle atime semantics (mount option strictatime, fo' mo' details see
.BR mount (8)).

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-freeze\fP"
This option requests tha specified a gangbangin' filesystem ta be frozen from new
modifications.  When dis is selected, all ongoin transactions up in the
filesystem is allowed ta complete, freshly smoked up write system calls is halted, other
calls which modify tha filesystem is halted, n' all dirty data, metadata, and
log shiznit is freestyled ta disk.  Any process attemptin ta write ta the
frozen filesystem will block waitin fo' tha filesystem ta be unfrozen.

Note dat even afta freezing, tha on-disk filesystem can contain
information on filez dat is still up in tha process of unlinking.
These filez aint gonna be unlinked until tha filesystem is unfrozen
or a cold-ass lil clean mount of tha snapshot is complete.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-unfreeze\fP
This option is used ta un-freeze tha filesystem n' allow operations to
continue.  Any filesystem modifications dat was blocked by tha freeze are
unblocked n' allowed ta complete.
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Hajime Taira.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This playa page based on xfs_freeze.
One of
.B \-f
or
.B \-u
must be supplied to
.BR fsfreeze .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da fsfreeze command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

