.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH FSTRIM 8 "November 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
fstrim \- discard unused blocks on a mounted filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fstrim
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR length ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR minimum-free-extent ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.I mountpoint

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fstrim
is used on a mounted filesystem ta discard (or "trim") blocks which is not in
use by tha filesystem.  This is useful fo' solid-state drives (SSDs) and
thinly-provisioned storage.
.PP
By default,
.B fstrim
will discard all unused blocks up in tha filesystem.  Options may be used to
modify dis behavior based on range or size, as explained below.
.PP
The
.I mountpoint
argument is tha pathname of tha directory where tha filesystem
is mounted.
.PP
Running
.B fstrim
more frequently or even using
.B mount -o discard
might affect gametime of tha skanky qualitizzle SSD devices. Da usual sufficient
frequency is once a week fo' most desktop n' server systems. Note dat not all
devices support queued trim, so each trim command incur a performizzle penalty
to whatever else might be tryin ta use tha disk all up in tha time.

.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIoffset\fR, \fIlength\fR, n' \fIminimum-free-extent\fR arguments may be
followed by tha multiplicatizzle suffixes KiB=1024, MiB=1024*1024, n' so on for
GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB n' YiB (the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has tha same
meanin as "KiB") or tha suffixes KB=1000, MB=1000*1000, n' so on fo' GB, TB,
PB, EB, ZB n' YB.
.IP "\fB\-a, \-\-all\fP"
Trim all mounted filesystems on devices dat support tha discard operation.
Da other supplied options, like \fB\-\-offset\fR, \fB\-\-length\fR and
\fB-\-minimum\fR, is applied ta all these devices.
Errors from filesystems dat do not support tha discard operation is silently
ignored.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-offset\fP \fIoffset\fP"
Byte offset up in filesystem from which ta begin searchin fo' free blocks
to discard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Default value is zero, startin all up in tha beginnin of the
filesystem.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-length\fP \fIlength\fP"
Number of bytes afta startin point ta search fo' free blocks ta discard.
If tha specified value extendz past tha end of tha filesystem,
.B fstrim
will stop all up in tha filesystem size boundary. Default value extendz ta tha end
of tha filesystem.
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-minimum\fP \fIminimum-free-extent\fP"
Minimum contiguous free range ta discard, up in bytes. (This value is internally
rounded up ta a multiple of tha filesystem block size).  Jacked ranges smaller
than dis is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  By increasin dis value, tha fstrim operation
will complete mo' quickly fo' filesystems wit badly fragmented freespace,
although not all blocks is ghon be discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Default value is zero, discard
every free block.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
Verbose execution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When specified 
.B fstrim
will output tha number of bytes passed from tha filesystem
down tha block stack ta tha thang fo' potential discard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This number be a
maximum discard amount from tha storage devicez perspective, cuz
.I FITRIM
ioctl called repeated will keep bustin  tha same sectors fo' discard repeatedly.

.B fstrim
will report tha same potential discard bytes each time yo, but only sectors which
had been freestyled ta between tha discardz would straight-up be discarded by the
storage device.  Further, tha kernel block layer reserves tha right ta adjust
the discard ranges ta fit raid stripe geometry, non-trim capable devices up in a
LVM setup, etc.  These reductions would not be reflected up in fstrim_range.len
(the
.B --length
option).

.SH RETURN CODES
.IP 0
success
.IP 1
failure
.IP 32
all failed
.IP 64
some filesystem discardz have succeeded, some failed
.PP
Da command
.B fstrim --all
returns 0 (all success), 32 (all failed) or 64 (some failed, some success).

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Lukas Czerner <lczerner@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da fstrim command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
