.TH  "games_srv_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "games_srv" "SELinux Policy games_srv"
.SH "NAME"
games_srv_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha games_srv processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha games_srv processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da games_srv processes execute wit tha games_srv_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep games_srv_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da games_srv_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBgames_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha games_srv_t domain is tha following:

/usr/games/.*, /usr/lib/games(/.*)?, /usr/bin/civclient.*, /usr/bin/civserver.*, /usr/bin/sol, /usr/bin/kolf, /usr/bin/kpat, /usr/bin/micq, /usr/bin/gnect, /usr/bin/gtali, /usr/bin/iagno, /usr/bin/ksame, /usr/bin/ktron, /usr/bin/kwin4, /usr/bin/lskat, /usr/bin/gataxx, /usr/bin/glines, /usr/bin/klines, /usr/bin/kmines, /usr/bin/kpoker, /usr/bin/ksnake, /usr/bin/gnomine, /usr/bin/gnotski, /usr/bin/katomic, /usr/bin/kbounce, /usr/bin/kshisen, /usr/bin/ksirtet, /usr/bin/atlantik, /usr/bin/gnibbles, /usr/bin/gnobots2, /usr/bin/kenolaba, /usr/bin/klickety, /usr/bin/konquest, /usr/bin/kreversi, /usr/bin/ksokoban, /usr/bin/mahjongg, /usr/bin/blackjack, /usr/bin/gnotravex, /usr/bin/kblackbox, /usr/bin/kfouleggs, /usr/bin/kmahjongg, /usr/bin/kwin4proc, /usr/bin/lskatproc, /usr/bin/Maelstrom, /usr/bin/kasteroids, /usr/bin/ksmiletris, /usr/bin/kspaceduel, /usr/bin/ktuberling, /usr/bin/same-gnome, /usr/bin/kbackgammon, /usr/bin/kbattleship, /usr/bin/kgoldrunner, /usr/bin/gnome-stones, /usr/bin/kjumpingcube
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux games_srv policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they games_srv processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' games_srv:

.EX
.B games_srv_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a games_srv_t
can be used ta make tha process type games_srv_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  games_srv policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run games_srv wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons tha mobilitizzle ta read/write terminals, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tty boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type games_srv_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B games_data_t

	/var/games(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/games(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B games_srv_var_run_t


.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), games_srv(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
