
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed ta you under yo' chizzle of tha GNU Lesser
.\"  General Public License, version 3 or any lata version (LGPLv3 or
.\"  later), or tha GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2), up in all
.\"  cases as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GlusterFS 8 "Clusta Filesystem" "19 March 2010" "Glusta Inc."
.SH NAME
GlusterFS \- Clustered Filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glusterfsd
.I [options] [mountpoint]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
GlusterFS be a cold-ass lil clustered file-system capable of scalin ta nuff muthafuckin peta-bytes.
It aggregates various storage bricks over Infiniband RDMA or TCP/IP
interconnect tha fuck into one big-ass parallel network file system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Storage bricks can
be made of any commoditizzle hardware like fuckin x86-64 server wit SATA-II RAID and
Infiniband HBA.

GlusterFS is straight-up POSIX compliant FileSystem. On client side, it has dependency
on FUSE package, on server side, it works seemlessly on different OSes.
(Currently supported on GNU/Linux, Solaris).

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Mandatory or optionizzle arguments ta long options is also mandatory or optional
for any correspondin short options.
.SS "Basic options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-f, \fB\-\-volfile=VOLUME-FILE\fR
File ta use as VOLUME-FILE [default:/etc/glusterfs/glusterfs.vol]
.TP
\fB\-l, \fB\-\-log\-file=LOGFILE\fR
File ta use fo' loggin [default:/var/log/glusterfs/glusterfs.log]
.TP
\fB\-L, \fB\-\-log\-level=LOGLEVEL\fR
Loggin severity.  Valid options is TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR and
CRITICAL [default: WARNING]
.TP
\fB\-s, \fB\-\-volfile\-server=SERVER\fR
Server ta git tha volume from.  This option overrides \fB\-\-volfile option

.SS "Advanced options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-\-debug\fR
Run up in debug mode.  This option sets \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level\fR ta DEBUG
and \fB\-\-log\-file\fR ta console
.TP
\fB\-N, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run up in foreground
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-only\fR
Makes tha filesystem read-only
.TP
\fB\-p, \fB\-\-pid\-file=PIDFILE\fR
File ta use as pid file
.TP
\fB\-S SOCKFILE
Socket file ta used fo' inter-process communication
.TP
\fB\-\-brick\-name DIRECTORY
Directory ta be used as export directory fo' GlusterFS
.TP
\fB\-\-brick\-port PORT
Brick Port ta be registered wit Glusta portmapper
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-id=KEY\fR
KEY of tha volume file ta be fetched from server
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-server\-port=PORT\fR
Port number of volfile server
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-server\-transport=TRANSPORT\fR
Transhiznit type ta git volume file from server [default: tcp]
.TP
\fB\-\-volume\-name=VOLUME\-NAME\fR
Volume name ta be used fo' MOUNT-POINT [default: top most volume in
VOLUME-FILE]
.TP
\fB\-\-xlator\-option=VOLUME\-NAME.OPTION=VALUE\fR
Add/override a translator option fo' a volume wit tha specified value

.SS "Fuse options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-\-attribute\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set attribute timeout ta SECONDS fo' inodes up in fuse kernel module [default: 1]
.TP
\fB\-\-entry\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set entry timeout ta SECONDS up in fuse kernel module [default: 1]
.TP
\fB\-\-direct\-io\-mode=BOOL\fR
Enable/Disable direct-io mode up in fuse module [default: enable]

.SS "Miscellaneous Options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give dis help list
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Give a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message
.TP
\fB\-V, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version

.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/glusterfs/*.vol

.SH EXAMPLES
Start a GlusterFS server on localhost wit volume name foo

glusterfsd \-s localhost \-\-volfile\-id foo.server.media-disk\-1 \-p /var/lib/glusterd/vols/foo/run/server\-media\-disk\-1.pid \-S /tmp/<uniqueid>.socket \-\-brick-name /media/disk\-1 \-l /var/log/glusterfs/bricks/media\-disk\-1.log \-\-brick\-port 24009 \-\-xlator\-option foo\-server.listen-port=24009

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBfusermount\fR(1), \fBmount.glusterfs\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2006-2011  Gluster, Inc.  <http://www.gluster.com>
\fR
.fi
