.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006-2012 Red Hat, Inc. <http://www.redhat.com>
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed ta you under yo' chizzle of tha GNU Lesser
.\"  General Public License, version 3 or any lata version (LGPLv3 or
.\"  later), or tha GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2), up in all
.\"  cases as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"

.TH Glusterd 8 "Glusta elastic volume pimpment daemon" "07 March 2011" "Glusta Inc."
.SH NAME
Glusterd \- Glusta elastic volume pimpment daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glusterd
.I [OPTION...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da glusterd daemon is used fo' elastic volume pimpment. Da daemon must be run on all export servers.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Basic options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-l <LOGFILE>, \fB\-\-log\-file=<LOGFILE>\fR
File ta use fo' logging.
.TP
\fB\-L <LOGLEVEL>, \fB\-\-log\-level=<LOGLEVEL>\fR
Loggin severity.  Valid options is TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR n' CRITICAL (the default is INFO).
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Run tha program up in debug mode. This option sets \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level\fR ta DEBUG
and \fB\-\-log\-file\fR ta console.
.TP
\fB\-N, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run tha program up in tha foreground.

.SS "Miscellaneous Options:"
.TP
\fB\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display dis help.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message.
.TP
\fB\-V, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha program version.

.PP
.SH FILES
/var/lib/glusterd/*

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBfusermount\fR(1), \fBmount.glusterfs\fR(8), \fBglusterfs\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2006-2011  Gluster, Inc.  <http://www.gluster.com>
\fR
.fi
