
.\"  This file is part of GlusterFS.
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed ta you under yo' chizzle of tha GNU Lesser
.\"  General Public License, version 3 or any lata version (LGPLv3 or
.\"  later), or tha GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2), up in all
.\"  cases as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GlusterFS 8 "Clustered File System" "07 March 2011" "Glusta Inc."
.SH NAME
GlusterFS \- clustered file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glusterfs
.I [options] [mountpoint]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
GlusterFS be a cold-ass lil clustered file system, capable of scalin ta nuff muthafuckin peta-bytes.
It aggregates various storage bricks over Infiniband RDMA or TCP/IP and
interconnect tha fuck into one big-ass parallel network file system. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Storage bricks can
be made of any commoditizzle hardware, like fuckin x86-64 server wit SATA-II RAID and
Infiniband HBA.

GlusterFS is straight-up POSIX compliant file system. On client side, it has dependency
on FUSE package, on server side, it works seemlessly on different operatin systems.
Currently supported on GNU/Linux n' Solaris.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Basic options"
.PP
.TP
\fB\-f, \fB\-\-volfile=VOLUME-FILE\fR
File ta use as VOLUME-FILE.
.TP
\fB\-l, \fB\-\-log\-file=LOGFILE\fR
File ta use fo' loggin (the default is <INSTALL-DIR>/var/log/glusterfs/<MOUNT-POINT>.log).
.TP
\fB\-L, \fB\-\-log\-level=LOGLEVEL\fR
Loggin severity.  Valid options is TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR n' CRITICAL (the default is INFO).
.TP
\fB\-s, \fB\-\-volfile\-server=SERVER\fR
Server ta git tha volume from.  This option overrides \fB\-\-volfile \fR option.
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-max\-fetch\-attempts=MAX\-ATTEMPTS\fR
Maximum number of connect attempts ta server n' shit. This option should be provided with
\fB\-\-volfile\-server\fR option (the default is 1).

.SS "Advanced options"
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-acl\fR
Mount tha filesystem wit POSIX ACL support.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Run up in debug mode.  This option sets \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level\fR ta DEBUG,
and \fB\-\-log\-file\fR ta console.
.TP
\fB\-\-enable\-ino32=BOOL\fR
Use 32-bit inodes when mountin ta workaround application dat don't support 64-bit inodes.
.TP
\fB\-\-fopen\-keep\-cache\fR
Do not purge tha cache on file open.
.TP
\fB\-\-mac\-compat=BOOL\fR
Provide stubs fo' attributes needed fo' seamless operation on Macs (the default is off).
.TP
\fB\-N, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run up in tha foreground.
.TP
\fB\-p, \fB\-\-pid\-file=PIDFILE\fR
File ta use as PID file.
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-only\fR
Mount tha file system up in 'read-only' mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-selinux\fR
Enable SELinux label (extended attributes) support on inodes.
.TP
\fB\-S, \fB\-\-socket\-file=SOCKFILE\fR
File ta use as unix-socket.
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-id=KEY\fR
Key of tha volume file ta be fetched from tha server.
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-server\-port=PORT\fR
Port number of volfile server.
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile\-server\-transport=TRANSPORT\fR
Transhiznit type ta git volume file from server (the default is tcp).
.TP
\fB\-\-volume\-name=VOLUME\-NAME\fR
Volume name ta be used fo' MOUNT-POINT (the default is top most volume up in VOLUME-FILE).
.TP
\fB\-\-worm\fR
Mount tha filesystem up in 'worm' mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-xlator\-option=VOLUME\-NAME.OPTION=VALUE\fR
Add/Override a translator option fo' a volume wit tha specified value.

.SS "Fuse options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-\-attribute\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set attribute timeout ta SECONDS fo' inodes up in fuse kernel module (the default is 1).
.TP
\fB\-\-background\-qlen=N\fR
Set fuse modulez background queue length ta N (the default is 64).
.TP
\fB\-\-congestion\-threshold=N\fR
Set fuse modulez congestion threshold ta N (the default is 48).
.TP
\fB\-\-direct\-io\-mode=BOOL\fR
Enable/Disable tha direct-I/O mode up in fuse module (the default is enable).
.TP
\fB\-\-dump-fuse=PATH\f\R
Dump fuse traffic ta PATH
.TP
\fB\-\-entry\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set entry timeout ta SECONDS up in fuse kernel module (the default is 1).
.TP
\fB\-\-gid\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set auxilary crew list timeout ta SECONDS fo' fuse translator (the default is 0).
.TP
\fB\-\-negative\-timeout=SECONDS\fR
Set wack timeout ta SECONDS up in fuse kernel module (the default is 0).
.TP
\fB\-\-volfile-check\fR
Enable strict volume file checking.

.SS "Miscellaneous Options"
.PP
.TP

\fB\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display dis help.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message.
.TP
\fB\-V, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha program version.

.PP
.SH FILES
/var/lib/glusterd/vols/*/*.vol
.SH EXAMPLES
mount a volume named foo on server bar wit log level DEBUG on mount point
/mnt/foo

# glusterfs \-\-log\-level=DEBUG \-\-volfile\-id=foo \-\-volfile\-server=bar /mnt/foo

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBfusermount\fR(1), \fBmount.glusterfs\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2006-2011  Red Hat, Inc.  <http://www.redhat.com>
\fR
.fi
