.\" Copyright (c) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Curtis Gedak.
.\" This is free software.  Yo ass may redistribute copiez of it under tha terms of
.\" tha GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.\" There is NO WARRANTY, ta tha extent permitted by law.
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gparted.8
.\"
.\" Generate playa page wizzy content with
.\"      rman -f html gparted.8 > gparted_manpage.html
.\" n' manually edit up hyperlinks n' leave bold.
.\"
.\"
.TH GPARTED 8 "Jan 16th, 2011" gparted "GParted Manual"
.SH NAME
gparted \- Gnome partizzle editor fo' manipulatin disk partitions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gparted [device]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B gparted
application is tha GNOME partition
editor fo' bustin, reorganizing, n' deletin disk partitions.

A disk thang can be subdivided tha fuck into one or mo' partitions.
The
.B gparted
application enablez you to
change tha partizzle organization on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk thang while
preservin tha contentz of tha partition.

With
.B gparted
you can accomplish tha followin tasks:
.br
- Smoke a partizzle table on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk device.
.br
- Enable n' disable partizzle flags like fuckin boot n' hidden.
.br
- Perform actions wit partitions like fuckin create, delete,
resize, move, check, label, copy, n' paste.

Mo' documentation can be found up in tha application help manual,
and online at:
.br
http://gparted.org
.SH EXAMPLES
Yo ass can run
.B gparted
from a cold-ass lil command line
and specify one or mo' disk devices.

For example, ta start gparted wit tha devices /dev/sda n' /dev/sdc
you would use tha followin command:

.B gparted
/dev/sda /dev/sdc
.SH NOTES
Editin partitions has tha potential ta cause LOSS of DATA.

Da 
.B gparted
application is
designed ta enable you ta edit partitions while
reducin tha risk of data loss.
Da application is carefully tested n' is used
by tha GParted project crew.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat loss of data might occur cuz of software bugs,
hardware problems, or juice failure.

Yo ass can help ta reduce tha risk of data loss by
not mountin or unmountin partitions outside of
the
.B gparted
application while
.B gparted
is hustlin.

Yo ass be advised ta BACKUP yo' DATA before using
the
.B gparted
application.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at:
.br
http://gparted.org/bugs.php
.SH AUTHOR
Manual page freestyled by Curtis Gedak <gedakc@users.sf.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR parted (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
