.TH  "gpg_web_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "gpg_web" "SELinux Policy gpg_web"
.SH "NAME"
gpg_web_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha gpg_web processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha gpg_web processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da gpg_web processes execute wit tha gpg_web_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep gpg_web_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da gpg_web_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBgpg_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha gpg_web_t domain is tha following:

/usr/bin/gpg(2)?, /usr/lib/gnupg/.*, /usr/bin/gpgsm
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux gpg_web policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they gpg_web processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' gpg_web:

.EX
.B gpg_web_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a gpg_web_t
can be used ta make tha process type gpg_web_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  gpg_web policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run gpg_web wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd cgi support, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_cgi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta run gpg, you must turn on tha httpd_use_gpg boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_gpg 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type gpg_web_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B httpd_sys_rw_content_t

	/etc/glpi(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/horde(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/files(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/settings\.php
.br
	/etc/mock/koji(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/zabbix/web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/gosa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/moodle(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/WebCalendar(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/joomla(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/dokuwiki(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/viewvc(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pootle/po(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodledata(/.*)?
.br
	/srv/gallery2/smarty(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodle/data(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/graphite-web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/gallery/albums(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/owncloud/data(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/upgrade(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/configuration\.php
.br

.br
.B public_content_rw_t

	/var/spool/abrt-upload(/.*)?
.br

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow gpg_web servers ta read tha /var/gpg_web directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/gpg_web(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/gpg_web
.pp
.TP
Allow gpg_web servers ta read n' write /var/gpg_web/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha gpg_web_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/gpg_web/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/gpg_web/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P gpg_web_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna allow gpg wizzy domain ta modify hood filez used fo' hood file transfer skillz., you must turn on tha gpg_web_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_web_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), gpg_web(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
