.TH GRUBBY 8 "Tue Jan 18 2005"
.SH NAME
grubby \- command line tool fo' configurin grub, lilo, elilo, yaboot n' zipl

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgrubby\fR [--add-kernel=\fIkernel-path\fR] [--args=\fIargs\fR] 
       [--bad-image-okay] [--boot-filesystem=\fIbootfs\fR] 
       [--bootloader-probe] [--config-file \fIpath\fR] [--copy-default]
       [--debug] [--default-kernel] [--default-index] [--default-title]
       [--grub] [--lilo] [--yaboot] [--silo] [--zipl]
       [--info=\fIkernel-path\fR] [--initrd=\fIinitrd-path\fR] 
       [--make-default] [-o path] [--version]
       [--remove-kernel=\fIkernel-path\fR] [--remove-args=\fIargs\fR]
       [--set-default=\fIkernel-path\fR] [--set-default-index=\fientry-index\fR]
       [--title=entry-title] [--add-multiboot=\fImultiboot-path\fR]
       [--mbargs=\fIargs\fR] [--remove-multiboot=\fImultiboot-path\fR]
       [--remove-mbargs=\fIargs\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgrubby\fR be a cold-ass lil command line tool fo' uppimpin n' displayin shiznit
about tha configuration filez fo' tha \fBgrub\fR, \fBlilo\fR, \fBelilo\fR 
(ia64), \fByaboot\fR (powerpc) n' \fBzipl\fR (s390) boot loaders. It
is primarily designed ta be used from scripts which install new
kernels n' need ta find shiznit bout tha current boot environment.

On Intel x86 platforms, \fBgrub\fR is tha default bootloader n' the
configuration file is up in \fB/boot/grub/grub.conf\fR. On Intel ia64 platforms, 
\fBelilo\fR mode is used n' tha default location fo' tha configuration file 
is \fB/boot/grub/grub.conf\fR. On PowerPC platforms, \fByaboot\fR parsing
is used n' tha configuration file should be up in \fB/etc/yaboot.conf\fR.

There is a fuckin shitload of ways ta specify tha kernel used fo' \fB-\-info\fR,
\fB-\-remove-kernel\fR, n' \fB-\-update-kernel\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specificyin \fBDEFAULT\fR
or \fBALL\fR selects tha default entry n' all of tha entries, respectively.
If a cold-ass lil comma separated list of numbers is given, tha boot entries indexed
by dem numbers is selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Finally, tha title of a funky-ass boot entry may
be specified by rockin \fBTITLE=\fItitle\fR as tha argument; all entries
with dat title is used.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-\-add-kernel\fR=\fIkernel-path\fR
Add a freshly smoked up boot entry fo' tha kernel located at \fIkernel-path\fR.

.TP
\fB-\-args\fR=\fIkernel-args\fR
When a freshly smoked up kernel be added, dis specifies tha command line arguments
which should be passed ta tha kernel by default (note they is merged
with tha arguments from tha template if \fB-\-copy-default\fR is used).
When \fB-\-update-kernel\fR is used, dis specifies freshly smoked up arguments ta add
to tha argument list. Multiple, space separated arguments may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
an argument already exists tha freshly smoked up value replaces tha oldschool joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. The
\fBroot=\fR kernel argument gets special handlin if tha configuration
file has special handlin fo' specifyin tha root filesystem (like
lilo.conf do).

.TP
\fB-\-bad-image-okay\fR
When \fBgrubby\fR is lookin fo' a entry ta use fo' suttin' (such
as a template or a thugged-out default boot entry) it uses sanitizzle checks, such as
ensurin dat tha kernel exists up in tha filesystem, ta make sure
entries dat obviously won't work aren't selected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This option overrides
that behavior, n' is designed primarily fo' testing.

.TP
\fB-\-boot-filesystem\fR=\fIbootfs\fR
Da \fBgrub\fR boot loader expects file paths listed up in itz configuration
path ta be relatizzle ta tha top of tha filesystem they is on, rather then
relatizzle ta tha current root filesystem. By default \fBgrubby\fR searches
the list of currently mounted filesystems ta determine all dis bullshit. If dis option
is given \fBgrubby\fR acts as if tha specified filesystem was tha filesystem
containin tha kernel (this option is designed primarily fo' testing).

.TP
\fB-\-bootloader-probe\fR
\fBgrubby\fR tries ta determine if \fBgrub\fR or \fBlilo\fR is currently 
installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When one of dem bootloadaz is found tha name of dat bootloader
is displayed on stdout.  Both could be installed (on different devices), and
grubby will print up tha namez of both bootloaders, one per line. Da probe
for \fBgrub\fR requires a cold-ass lil commented up boot directizzle \fBgrub.conf\fR
identical ta tha standard directizzle up in tha lilo configuration file. If this
is not present \fBgrubby\fR will assume grub aint installed (note 
that \fBanaconda\fR places dis directizzle up in \fBgrub.conf\fR filez it creates).
This option is only available on ia32 platforms. 


.TP
\fB-\-config-file\fR=\fIpath\fR
Use \fIpath\fR as tha configuration file rather then tha default.

.TP
\fB-\-copy-default\fR
\fBgrubby\fR will copy as much shiznit (like fuckin kernel arguments and
root device) as possible from tha current default kernel. Da kernel path
and initrd path aint NEVER gonna be copied.

.TP
\fB-\-debug\fR
Display extra debuggin shiznit fo' failures.

.TP
\fB-\-default-kernel\fR
Display tha full path ta tha current default kernel n' exit.

.TP
\fB-\-default-index\fR
Display tha numeric index of tha current default boot entry n' exit.

.TP
\fB-\-default-title\fR
Display tha title of tha current default boot entry n' exit.

.TP
\fB-\-elilo\fR
Use a \fBelilo\fR steez configuration file.

.TP
\fB-\-grub\fR
Use a \fBgrub\fR steez configuration file instead of \fBlilo\fR style. This
is tha default on ia32 platforms.

.TP
\fB-\-info\fR=\fIkernel-path\fR
Display shiznit on all boot entries which match \fIkernel-path\fR. I

.TP
\fB-\-initrd\fR=\fIinitrd-path\fR
Use \fIinitrd-path\fR as tha path ta a initial ram disk fo' a freshly smoked up kernel
bein added.

.TP
\fB-\-lilo\fR
Use a \fBlilo\fR steez configuration file.

.TP
\fB-\-make-default\fR
Make tha freshly smoked up kernel entry bein added tha default entry.

.TP
\fB-\-remove-args\fR=\fIkernel-args\fR
Da arguments specified by \fIkernel-args\fR is removed from tha 
kernels specified by \fB-\-update-kernel\fR. Da \fBroot\fR argument
gets special handlin fo' configuration filez dat support separate root
filesystem configuration.

.TP
\fB-\-remove-kernel\fR=\fIkernel-path\fR
Removes all boot entries which match \fIkernel-path\fR. This may be used
along wit -\-add-kernel, up in which case tha freshly smoked up kernel bein added will
never be removed.

.TP
\fB-\-set-default\fR=\fIkernel-path\fR
Da first entry which boots tha specified kernel is made tha default
boot entry.

.TP
\fB-\-set-default-index\fR=\fIentry-index\fR
Makes tha given entry number tha default boot entry.

.TP
\fB-\-title\fR=\fIentry-title\fR
When a freshly smoked up kernel entry be added \fIentry-title\fR is used as tha title
(\fBlilo\fR label) fo' tha entry. If \fIentry-title\fR is longer then maximum
length allowed by tha bootloader (15 fo' lilo, unlimited fo' grub n' elilo)
the title is shortened ta a (unique) entry.

.TP
\fB-\-update-kernel\fR=\fIkernel-path\fR
Da entries fo' kernels matchin \fRkernel-path\fR is updated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Currently
the only shit dat can be updated is tha kernel argument list, which is
modified via tha \fB-\-args\fR n' \fB-\-remove-args\fR options.

.TP
\fB-\-version\fR
Display tha version of \fBgrubby\fR bein run n' then exit immediately.

.TP
\fB-\-yaboot\fR
Use a \fByaboot\fR steez configuration file.

.TP
\fB-\-zipl\fR
Use a \fBzipl\fR steez configuration file.

.SH MULTIBOOT OPTIONS
Da Multiboot Justification serves up a genreic intercourse fo' boot
loadaz n' operatin systems.  It be supported by tha GRUB bootloader.

.TP
\fB-\-add-multiboot\fR=\fImultiboot-path\fR
Add a freshly smoked up boot entry fo' tha multiboot kernel located at
\fImultiboot-path\fR.  Note dat dis is generally accompanied wit a
\fI--add-kernel\fR option.

.TP
\fB-\-remove-multiboot\fR=\fImultiboot-path\fR
Removes all boot entries which match \fImultiboot-path\fR. 

.TP
\fB-\-mbargs\fR=\fImultiboot-args\fR
When a freshly smoked up multiboot kernel be added, dis specifies tha command line 
arguments which should be passed ta dat kernel by default 
When \fB-\-update-kernel\fR is used, dis specifies freshly smoked up arguments ta add
to tha argument list. Multiple, space separated arguments may be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
an argument already exists tha freshly smoked up value replaces tha oldschool joints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 

.TP
\fB-\-remove-mbargs\fR=\fImultiboot-args\fR
Da arguments specified by \fImultiboot-args\fR is removed from tha 
kernels specified by \fB-\-update-kernel\fR. 


.SH "BUGS"
Da command line syntax is mo' than a lil baroque. This probably
won't be fixed as \fBgrubby\fR is only intended ta be called from shell
scripts which can git it right.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grub (8),
.BR lilo (8),
.BR yaboot (8),
.BR mkinitrd (8)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Erik Troan
Jeremy Katz
Peta Jones
.fi
