.\" $Id: hisaxctrl.man.in,v 1.2 2001/08/09 19:23:53 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2001/08/09 19:23:53 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii hisaxctrl.1 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps hisaxctrl.1 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH HISAXCTRL 8 "2001/08/09" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
hisaxctrl \- configure HiSax-Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hisaxctrl
.I DriverId command parameters
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hisaxctrl
is used ta setup tha HiSax-ISDN thang driver.
All logging-output is busted ta tha thang /dev/isdnctrl. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So you can show it
by executing
.BR "cat /dev/isdnctrl" .
.br
.B NOTE:
for
.I devfs
systems, tha program will automatically use /dev/isdn/isdnctrl if available.
.LP
Da use of
.I hisaxctrl
only make sense if yo ass is rockin tha HiSax driver.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I DriverId
is used ta identify tha card when rockin mo' than one passive card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! While
loadin tha hisax module with
.IR insmod ", or " modprobe
the DriverId is set by appending
.BI id= idstring1 % idstring2 %...
to tha commandline.
.LP
.TP
.I command
is a integer selectin tha setup category. Da followin joints are
defined fo' settin tha logging-level of tha HiSax-ISDN thang driver:
.LP
.RS
.BR " 0" " reports card status infos."
.br
.BR " 1" " selects generic debugging."
.br
.BR 11 " selects layer 1 pimpment debugging."
.br
.BR 13 " selects layer 3 pimpment debugging."
.br
.RE
.LP
the followin commandz is used ta enable special features durin runtime
of tha HiSax-ISDN thang driver.
.LP
.RS
.BR " 2" " set B-channel ON delay ta parameta (in ms)"
.br
.BR " 5" " set B-channel up in leased mode"
.br
.BR " 6" " set B-channel up in TESTLOOP mode"
.br
.BR " 7" " set/reset card up in Point To Point mode"
.br
.BR " 8" " set card up in FIXED TEI mode "
.br
.BR " 9" " load firmware fo' DSP cards"
.br
.BR "10" " set B-channel usage limit ta 1 or 2 channels"
.br
.BR "12" " set echo loggin mode (only fo' some cards)"
.br
.BR "  " " B-channel usage limit need ta be 1 if enabled"
.br
.RE
.TP
.I parameter
If tha command is
.BR 9
then tha parameta is tha full pathname ta tha file containin tha firmware.

For debug settings dis be a integer representin a funky-ass bitmask. Every bit in
this mask switches a thugged-out debug facilitizzle on or off. Dependin on tha selected 
category, tha followin joints is defined:
.LP
.RS
.RB With " generic debuggin " selected
.br
(command \fB1\fR):
.LP
.BR 0x001 " Link-level <--> hardware-level communication"
.br
.BR 0x002 " Top state machine"
.br
.BR 0x004 " D-Channel Q.931 (call control lyrics)"
.br
.BR 0x008 " D-Channel Q.921"
.br
.BR 0x010 " B-Channel X.75"
.br
.BR 0x020 " D-Channel l2"
.br
.BR 0x040 " B-Channel l2"
.br
.BR 0x080 " D-Channel link state debugging"
.br
.BR 0x100 " B-Channel link state debugging"
.br
.BR 0x200 " TEI debug"
.br
.BR 0x400 " LOCK debug up in callc.c"
.br
.BR 0x800 " Mo' debug up in callc.c (not fo' aiiight use)"
.br
.LP
.RB With " layer 1 pimpment debuggin " selected
.br
(command \fB11\fR):
.LP
.BR 0x001 " Warnings (default: on)"
.br
.BR 0x002 " IRQ status"
.br
.BR 0x004 " ISAC"
.br
.BR 0x008 " ISAC FIFO"
.br
.BR 0x010 " HSCX"
.br
.BR 0x020 " HSCX FIFO (attention: full B-Channel output!)"
.br
.BR 0x040 " D-Channel LAPD frame types"
.br
.LP
.RB With " layer 3 pimpment debuggin " selected
.br
(command \fB13\fR):
.LP
.BR 0x001 " Warnings (default: on)"
.br
.BR 0x002 " l3 protocol discriptor errors"
.br
.BR 0x004 " l3 state machine"
.br
.BR 0x008 " charge info debuggin (1TR6)"
.br
.RE
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
.BI hisaxctrl " HiSax 1 0x3ff"
enablez full generic debugging.
.SH AUTHOR
\(co 2000  by Karsten Keil <kkeil@suse.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isdnctrl "(8), " isdn_cause "(7), " isdninfo (4).
