.TH  "httpd_sys_script_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "httpd_sys_script" "SELinux Policy httpd_sys_script"
.SH "NAME"
httpd_sys_script_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha httpd_sys_script processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha httpd_sys_script processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da httpd_sys_script processes execute wit tha httpd_sys_script_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep httpd_sys_script_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da httpd_sys_script_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBhttpd_sys_content_t, httpd_sys_script_exec_t, cifs_t, nfs_t, shell_exec_t, httpd_sys_content_t, httpd_sys_script_exec_t, httpdcontent\fP file types.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha httpd_sys_script_t domain is tha following:

/srv/([^/]*/)?www(/.*)?, /var/www(/.*)?, /etc/htdig(/.*)?, /srv/gallery2(/.*)?, /var/lib/trac(/.*)?, /var/lib/htdig(/.*)?, /var/www/icons(/.*)?, /usr/share/glpi(/.*)?, /usr/share/htdig(/.*)?, /usr/share/drupal.*, /usr/share/z-push(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/conf(/.*)?, /usr/share/icecast(/.*)?, /var/lib/cacti/rra(/.*)?, /usr/share/ntop/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/doc/ghc/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/openca/htdocs(/.*)?, /usr/share/selinux-policy[^/]*/html(/.*)?, /usr/.*\.cgi, /opt/.*\.cgi, /var/www/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/perl(/.*)?, /var/www/html/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/hooks(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-includes/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-config\.php, /bin/d?ash, /bin/zsh.*, /bin/ksh.*, /usr/bin/d?ash, /usr/bin/zsh.*, /usr/bin/ksh.*, /bin/esh, /bin/mksh, /bin/sash, /bin/tcsh, /bin/yash, /bin/bash, /bin/fish, /bin/bash2, /usr/bin/esh, /usr/bin/mksh, /usr/bin/sash, /usr/bin/tcsh, /usr/bin/yash, /usr/bin/bash, /usr/bin/fish, /sbin/nologin, /usr/sbin/sesh, /usr/bin/bash2, /usr/sbin/smrsh, /usr/bin/scponly, /usr/sbin/nologin, /usr/libexec/sesh, /usr/sbin/scponlyc, /usr/bin/git-shell, /usr/libexec/cockpit-agent, /usr/libexec/git-core/git-shell, /srv/([^/]*/)?www(/.*)?, /var/www(/.*)?, /etc/htdig(/.*)?, /srv/gallery2(/.*)?, /var/lib/trac(/.*)?, /var/lib/htdig(/.*)?, /var/www/icons(/.*)?, /usr/share/glpi(/.*)?, /usr/share/htdig(/.*)?, /usr/share/drupal.*, /usr/share/z-push(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/conf(/.*)?, /usr/share/icecast(/.*)?, /var/lib/cacti/rra(/.*)?, /usr/share/ntop/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/doc/ghc/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/openca/htdocs(/.*)?, /usr/share/selinux-policy[^/]*/html(/.*)?, /usr/.*\.cgi, /opt/.*\.cgi, /var/www/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/perl(/.*)?, /var/www/html/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/hooks(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-includes/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-config\.php
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux httpd_sys_script policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd_sys_script processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' httpd_sys_script:

.EX
.B httpd_sys_script_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a httpd_sys_script_t
can be used ta make tha process type httpd_sys_script_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  httpd_sys_script policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run httpd_sys_script wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta use built up in scriptin (usually php), you must turn on tha httpd_builtin_scriptin boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scriptin 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta tha network rockin TCP, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta databases over tha network, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect_db boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_db 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta bust mail, you must turn on tha httpd_can_sendmail boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_sendmail 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd cgi support, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_cgi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read home directories, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_homedirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd scripts n' modulez execmem/execstack, you must turn on tha httpd_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read user content, you must turn on tha httpd_read_user_content boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_read_user_content 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD ta run SSI executablez up in tha same domain as system CGI scripts, you must turn on tha httpd_ssi_exec boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_ssi_exec 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta execute tmp content, you must turn on tha httpd_tmp_exec boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_tmp_exec 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD handlin of all content files, you must turn on tha httpd_unified boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_unified 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access cifs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_cifs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_cifs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access FUSE file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_fusefs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_fusefs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access nfs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_nfs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_nfs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access openstack ports, you must turn on tha httpd_use_openstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_openstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unprivileged playas ta execute DDL statement, you must turn on tha postgresql_selinux_users_ddl boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P postgresql_selinux_users_ddl 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha httpd_sys_script_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha httpd_sys_script_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type httpd_sys_script_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B httpd_sys_rw_content_t

	/etc/glpi(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/horde(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/files(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/settings\.php
.br
	/etc/mock/koji(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/zabbix/web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/gosa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/moodle(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/WebCalendar(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/joomla(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/dokuwiki(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/viewvc(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pootle/po(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodledata(/.*)?
.br
	/srv/gallery2/smarty(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodle/data(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/graphite-web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/gallery/albums(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/owncloud/data(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/upgrade(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/configuration\.php
.br

.br
.B httpd_tmp_t

	/var/run/user/apache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/tmp(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpdcontent


.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B public_content_rw_t

	/var/spool/abrt-upload(/.*)?
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux httpd_sys_script policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd_sys_script processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha httpd_sys_script, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_script_exec_t '/srv/httpd_sys_script/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myhttpd_sys_script_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' httpd_sys_script:


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_sys_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/.*\.cgi, /opt/.*\.cgi, /var/www/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/perl(/.*)?, /var/www/html/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/hooks(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-includes/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-config\.php

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow httpd_sys_script servers ta read tha /var/httpd_sys_script directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/httpd_sys_script(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/httpd_sys_script
.pp
.TP
Allow httpd_sys_script servers ta read n' write /var/httpd_sys_script/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha httpd_sys_script_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/httpd_sys_script/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/httpd_sys_script/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P httpd_sys_script_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna allow apache scripts ta write ta hood content, directories/filez must be labeled public_rw_content_t., you must turn on tha httpd_sys_script_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_sys_script_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), httpd_sys_script(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
