.TH  "httpd_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "httpd" "SELinux Policy httpd"
.SH "NAME"
httpd_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha httpd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha httpd processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da httpd processes execute wit tha httpd_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep httpd_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da httpd_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBhttpd_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha httpd_t domain is tha following:

/usr/sbin/httpd(\.worker)?, /usr/sbin/apache(2)?, /usr/lib/apache-ssl/.+, /usr/sbin/apache-ssl(2)?, /usr/share/jetty/bin/jetty.sh, /usr/sbin/nginx, /usr/sbin/thttpd, /usr/sbin/php-fpm, /usr/sbin/cherokee, /usr/sbin/lighttpd, /usr/sbin/httpd\.event, /usr/bin/mongrel_rails, /usr/sbin/htcacheclean
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux httpd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' httpd:

.EX
.B httpd_collectd_script_t, httpd_cvs_script_t, httpd_rotatelogs_t, httpd_bugzilla_script_t, httpd_smokeping_cgi_script_t, httpd_nagios_script_t, httpd_dirsrvadmin_script_t, httpd_suexec_t, httpd_mojomojo_script_t, httpd_php_t, httpd_w3c_validator_script_t, httpd_user_script_t, httpd_awstats_script_t, httpd_apcupsd_cgi_script_t, httpd_nutups_cgi_script_t, httpd_munin_script_t, httpd_zoneminder_script_t, httpd_openshift_script_t, httpd_sys_script_t, httpd_dspam_script_t, httpd_prewikka_script_t, httpd_git_script_t, httpd_unconfined_script_t, httpd_t, httpd_man2html_script_t, httpd_passwd_t, httpd_helper_t, httpd_squid_script_t, httpd_mythtv_script_t, httpd_webalizer_script_t, httpd_mediawiki_script_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a httpd_t
can be used ta make tha process type httpd_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  httpd policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run httpd wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta use built up in scriptin (usually php), you must turn on tha httpd_builtin_scriptin boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scriptin 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta check spam, you must turn on tha httpd_can_check_spam boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_check_spam 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta act as a FTP client connectin ta tha ftp port n' ephemeral ports, you must turn on tha httpd_can_connect_ftp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ftp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta connect ta tha ldap port, you must turn on tha httpd_can_connect_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta connect ta mythtv, you must turn on tha httpd_can_connect_mythtv boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_mythtv 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta connect ta zabbix, you must turn on tha httpd_can_connect_zabbix boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_zabbix 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta tha network rockin TCP, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta cobbla over tha network, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect_cobbla boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_cobbla 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta databases over tha network, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect_db boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_db 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta connect ta memcache server, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_memcache boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_memcache 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta act as a relay, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_relay boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_relay 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta bust mail, you must turn on tha httpd_can_sendmail boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_sendmail 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta rap wit avahi steez via dbus, you must turn on tha httpd_dbus_avahi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_dbus_avahi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta rap wit sssd steez via dbus, you must turn on tha httpd_dbus_sssd boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_dbus_sssd 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd cgi support, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_cgi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta act as a FTP server by listenin on tha ftp port, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_ftp_server boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_ftp_server 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read home directories, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_homedirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd scripts n' modulez execmem/execstack, you must turn on tha httpd_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD ta connect ta port 80 fo' graceful shutdown, you must turn on tha httpd_graceful_shutdown boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_graceful_shutdown 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd processes ta manage IPA content, you must turn on tha httpd_manage_ipa boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_manage_ipa 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta use mod_auth_ntlm_winbind, you must turn on tha httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta use mod_auth_pam, you must turn on tha httpd_mod_auth_pam boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_mod_auth_pam 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read user content, you must turn on tha httpd_read_user_content boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_read_user_content 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta run up in stickshift mode, not transizzle ta passenger, you must turn on tha httpd_run_stickshift boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_run_stickshift 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta server cobbla files, you must turn on tha httpd_serve_cobbler_filez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_serve_cobbler_filez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd daemon ta chizzle its resource limits, you must turn on tha httpd_setrlimit boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_setrlimit 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD ta run SSI executablez up in tha same domain as system CGI scripts, you must turn on tha httpd_ssi_exec boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_ssi_exec 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta execute tmp content, you must turn on tha httpd_tmp_exec boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_tmp_exec 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD ta rap wit tha terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Needed fo' enterin tha passphrase fo' certificates all up in tha terminal, you must turn on tha httpd_tty_comm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_tty_comm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD handlin of all content files, you must turn on tha httpd_unified boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_unified 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access cifs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_cifs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_cifs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access FUSE file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_fusefs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_fusefs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta run gpg, you must turn on tha httpd_use_gpg boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_gpg 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access nfs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_nfs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_nfs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access openstack ports, you must turn on tha httpd_use_openstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_openstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta connect ta  sasl, you must turn on tha httpd_use_sasl boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_sasl 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta query NS records, you must turn on tha httpd_verify_dns boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_verify_dns 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta write corefilez ta /, you must turn on tha daemons_dump_core boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_dump_core 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable clusta mode fo' daemons, you must turn on tha daemons_enable_cluster_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_enable_cluster_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta use tcp wrappers, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tcp_wrapper boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tcp_wrapper 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons tha mobilitizzle ta read/write terminals, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tty boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether Git system daemon can access cifs file systems, you must turn on tha git_system_use_cifs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_cifs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether Git system daemon can access nfs file systems, you must turn on tha git_system_use_nfs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_nfs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unprivileged playas ta execute DDL statement, you must turn on tha postgresql_selinux_users_ddl boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P postgresql_selinux_users_ddl 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha httpd_prewikka_script_t, httpd_passwd_t, httpd_t, httpd_php_t, httpd_git_script_t, httpd_suexec_t, httpd_sys_script_t, httpd_user_script_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha httpd_prewikka_script_t, httpd_passwd_t, httpd_t, httpd_php_t, httpd_git_script_t, httpd_suexec_t, httpd_sys_script_t, httpd_user_script_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types ta represent TCP n' UDP ports.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha types associated wit a port by rockin tha followin command:

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these ports.
SELinux httpd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin port types is defined fo' httpd:

.EX
.TP 5
.B http_cache_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 8080,8118,8123,10001-10010
.EE
udp 3130
.EE

.EX
.TP 5
.B http_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 80,81,443,488,8008,8009,8443,9000
.EE
.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type httpd_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B abrt_retrace_spool_t

	/var/spool/faf(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/abrt-retrace(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/retrace-server(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B cluster_conf_t

	/etc/cluster(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pcsd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cluster(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openais(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pengine(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/corosync(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pacemaker(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_run_t

	/var/run/crm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cman_.*
.br
	/var/run/rsctmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/aisexec.*
.br
	/var/run/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cpglockd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/corosync\.pid
.br
	/var/run/rgmanager\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cluster/rgmanager\.sk
.br

.br
.B cobbler_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/cobbler(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/cobbler(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/cobbler(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/etc(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/ppc(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/grub(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/s390x(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/images(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux\.cfg(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/yaboot
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/memdisk
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/menu\.c32
.br
	/var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux\.0
.br

.br
.B dirsrv_config_t

	/etc/dirsrv(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B dirsrv_var_log_t

	/var/log/dirsrv(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B dirsrv_var_run_t

	/var/run/slapd.*
.br
	/var/run/dirsrv(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B dirsrvadmin_config_t

	/etc/dirsrv/dsgw(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/dirsrv/admin-serv(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B dirsrvadmin_tmp_t


.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_awstats_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_bugzilla_rw_content_t

	/var/lib/bugzilla(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_cache_t

	/var/cache/rt(3|4)(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/ssl.*\.sem
.br
	/var/cache/mod_.*
.br
	/var/cache/php-.*
.br
	/var/cache/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/mason(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/mod_ssl(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/mediawiki(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/mod_proxy(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/mod_gnutls(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/php-mmcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/php-eaccelerator(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_collectd_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_cvs_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_dspam_rw_content_t

	/var/lib/dspam/data(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_git_rw_content_t

	/var/cache/cgit(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/gitweb-caching(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_lock_t


.br
.B httpd_man2html_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_mediawiki_rw_content_t

	/var/www/wiki(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_mojomojo_rw_content_t

	/var/lib/mojomojo(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_munin_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_mythtv_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_nagios_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_openshift_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_prewikka_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_squid_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_squirrelmail_t

	/var/lib/squirrelmail/prefs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_sys_rw_content_t

	/etc/glpi(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/horde(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/svn(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/files(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/settings\.php
.br
	/etc/mock/koji(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/drupal.*
.br
	/etc/zabbix/web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/gosa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/moodle(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/WebCalendar(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/joomla(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/dokuwiki(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/owncloud(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/viewvc(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pootle/po(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodledata(/.*)?
.br
	/srv/gallery2/smarty(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/moodle/data(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/graphite-web(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/gallery/albums(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/owncloud/data(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-content(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/uploads(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/upgrade(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/html/configuration\.php
.br

.br
.B httpd_tmp_t

	/var/run/user/apache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/tmp(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_tmpfs_t


.br
.B httpd_user_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/rt(3|4)/data/RT-Shredder(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/dav(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/php(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/glpi(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/nginx(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/z-push(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cherokee(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/mod_security(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_var_run_t

	/var/run/mod_.*
.br
	/var/run/wsgi.*
.br
	/var/run/httpd.*
.br
	/var/run/nginx.*
.br
	/var/run/apache.*
.br
	/var/run/php-fpm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/php/session(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/php/wsdlcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/dirsrv/admin-serv.*
.br
	/var/www/openshift/broker/httpd/run(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/httpd/run(/.*)?
.br
	/opt/dirsrv/var/run/dirsrv/dsgw/cookies(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/thttpd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/gcache_port
.br
	/var/run/cherokee\.pid
.br

.br
.B httpd_w3c_validator_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_webalizer_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_zoneminder_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpdcontent


.br
.B jetty_cache_t

	/var/cache/jetty(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B jetty_log_t

	/var/log/jetty(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B jetty_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/jetty(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B jetty_var_run_t

	/var/run/jetty(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B krb5_host_rcache_t

	/var/cache/krb5rcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/tmp/nfs_0
.br
	/var/tmp/DNS_25
.br
	/var/tmp/host_0
.br
	/var/tmp/imap_0
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_23
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_48
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_55
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_487
.br
	/var/tmp/ldapmap1_0
.br

.br
.B memcached_var_run_t

	/var/run/memcached(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/ipa_memcached(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B passenger_tmp_t


.br
.B passenger_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/passenger(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B passenger_var_run_t

	/var/run/passenger(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_apache_config


.br
.B pki_apache_var_lib


.br
.B pki_apache_var_log


.br
.B postfix_spool_maildrop_t

	/var/spool/postfix/defer(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/postfix/deferred(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/postfix/maildrop(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B public_content_rw_t

	/var/spool/abrt-upload(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B root_t

	/
.br
	/initrd
.br

.br
.B squirrelmail_spool_t

	/var/spool/squirrelmail(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B zarafa_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/zarafa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/zarafa-webapp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/zarafa-webaccess(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B unitminder_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/zoneminder(/.*)?
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux httpd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
httpd policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/lib/php directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/php /srv/php
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/php
.PP

.PP
httpd policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/www directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/www /srv/www
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/www
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha httpd, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_apcupsd_cgi_content_t '/srv/httpd/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myhttpd_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' httpd:


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd apcupsd cgi content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd apcupsd cgi access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd apcupsd cgi  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd apcupsd cgi read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_apcupsd_cgi_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_apcupsd_cgi_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/cgi-bin/apcgui(/.*)?, /var/www/apcupsd/multimon\.cgi, /var/www/apcupsd/upsimage\.cgi, /var/www/apcupsd/upsstats\.cgi, /var/www/apcupsd/upsfstats\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_awstats_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_awstats_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd awstats content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_awstats_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_awstats_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd awstats access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_awstats_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_awstats_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd awstats  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_awstats_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_awstats_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd awstats read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_awstats_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_awstats_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_awstats_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd bugzilla content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd bugzilla access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd bugzilla  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd bugzilla read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_bugzilla_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_bugzilla_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_bugzilla_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd bugzilla temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cache_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cache_t type, if you wanna store tha filez under tha /var/cache directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/cache/rt(3|4)(/.*)?, /var/cache/ssl.*\.sem, /var/cache/mod_.*, /var/cache/php-.*, /var/cache/httpd(/.*)?, /var/cache/mason(/.*)?, /var/cache/mod_ssl(/.*)?, /var/cache/lighttpd(/.*)?, /var/cache/mediawiki(/.*)?, /var/cache/mod_proxy(/.*)?, /var/cache/mod_gnutls(/.*)?, /var/cache/php-mmcache(/.*)?, /var/cache/php-eaccelerator(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd collectd content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd collectd access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd collectd  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd collectd read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_collectd_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_collectd_script_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_collectd_script_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd collectd script temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_config_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_config_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd configuration data, probably stored under tha /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/httpd(/.*)?, /etc/nginx(/.*)?, /etc/apache(2)?(/.*)?, /etc/cherokee(/.*)?, /etc/lighttpd(/.*)?, /etc/apache-ssl(2)?(/.*)?, /var/lib/openshift/\.httpd\.d(/.*)?, /var/lib/stickshift/\.httpd\.d(/.*)?, /etc/vhosts, /etc/thttpd\.conf

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cvs_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cvs_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd cvs content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cvs_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cvs_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd cvs access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cvs_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cvs_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd cvs  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cvs_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cvs_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd cvs read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_cvs_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_cvs_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_cvs_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/cgi-bin/cvsweb\.cgi, /usr/share/cvsweb/cvsweb\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dirsrvadmin content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd dirsrvadmin access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dirsrvadmin  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dirsrvadmin read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dirsrvadmin_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_dirsrvadmin_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/dirsrv/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/dirsrv/dsgw-cgi-bin(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dspam_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dspam_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dspam content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dspam_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dspam_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd dspam access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dspam_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dspam_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dspam  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dspam_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dspam_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd dspam read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_dspam_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_dspam_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_dspam_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/dspam/.*\.cgi, /usr/share/dspam-web/dspam\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/sbin/httpd(\.worker)?, /usr/sbin/apache(2)?, /usr/lib/apache-ssl/.+, /usr/sbin/apache-ssl(2)?, /usr/share/jetty/bin/jetty.sh, /usr/sbin/nginx, /usr/sbin/thttpd, /usr/sbin/php-fpm, /usr/sbin/cherokee, /usr/sbin/lighttpd, /usr/sbin/httpd\.event, /usr/bin/mongrel_rails, /usr/sbin/htcacheclean

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_git_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_git_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd git content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_git_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_git_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd git access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_git_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_git_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd git  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_git_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_git_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd git read/write content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/cache/cgit(/.*)?, /var/cache/gitweb-caching(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_git_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_git_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_git_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/cgi-bin/cgit, /var/www/git/gitweb\.cgi, /var/www/gitweb-caching/gitweb\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_helper_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_helper_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_helper_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_initrc_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_initrc_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_initrc_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/init\.d/cherokee, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/httpd, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/lighttpd

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_keytab_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_keytab_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_lock_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_lock_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd lock data, stored under tha /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_log_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_log_t type, if you wanna treat tha data as httpd log data, probably stored under tha /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/srv/([^/]*/)?www/logs(/.*)?, /var/www(/.*)?/logs(/.*)?, /var/log/glpi(/.*)?, /var/log/cacti(/.*)?, /var/log/httpd(/.*)?, /var/log/nginx(/.*)?, /var/log/apache(2)?(/.*)?, /var/log/horizon(/.*)?, /var/log/php-fpm(/.*)?, /var/log/cherokee(/.*)?, /var/log/lighttpd(/.*)?, /var/log/suphp\.log.*, /var/log/thttpd\.log.*, /var/log/apache-ssl(2)?(/.*)?, /var/log/cgiwrap\.log.*, /var/www/stickshift/[^/]*/log(/.*)?, /var/www/miq/vmdb/log(/.*)?, /var/log/roundcubemail(/.*)?, /var/log/php_errors\.log.*, /var/log/dirsrv/admin-serv(/.*)?, /var/lib/openshift/\.log/httpd(/.*)?, /var/www/openshift/console/log(/.*)?, /var/www/openshift/broker/httpd/logs(/.*)?, /var/www/openshift/console/httpd/logs(/.*)?, /etc/httpd/logs

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd man2html content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd man2html access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd man2html  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd man2html read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_script_cache_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_script_cache_t type, if you wanna store tha filez under tha /var/cache directory.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_man2html_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_man2html_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_man2html_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/man2html/cgi-bin/man/mansec, /usr/lib/man2html/cgi-bin/man/man2html, /usr/lib/man2html/cgi-bin/man/manwhatis

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mediawiki_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mediawiki_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mediawiki content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/wiki/.*\.php, /usr/share/mediawiki(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mediawiki_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mediawiki_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd mediawiki access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mediawiki_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mediawiki_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mediawiki  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mediawiki_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mediawiki_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mediawiki read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mediawiki_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mediawiki_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_mediawiki_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/mediawiki/math/texvc, /usr/lib/mediawiki/math/texvc_tex, /usr/lib/mediawiki/math/texvc_tes

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_modules_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_modules_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd modules.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/httpd(/.*)?, /usr/lib/apache(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cherokee(/.*)?, /usr/lib/lighttpd(/.*)?, /usr/lib/apache2/modules(/.*)?, /etc/httpd/modules

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mojomojo content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd mojomojo access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mojomojo  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mojomojo read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_mojomojo_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mojomojo_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mojomojo_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd mojomojo temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd munin content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd munin access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd munin  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd munin read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_munin_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/cgi-bin/munin.*, /var/www/html/cgi/munin.*, /var/www/html/munin/cgi(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_munin_script_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_munin_script_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd munin script temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mythtv_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mythtv_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mythtv content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/share/mythtv(/.*)?, /usr/share/mythweb(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mythtv_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mythtv_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd mythtv access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mythtv_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mythtv_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mythtv  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mythtv_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mythtv_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd mythtv read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_mythtv_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_mythtv_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_mythtv_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/share/mythtv/mythweather/scripts(/.*)?, /usr/share/mythweb/mythweb\.pl

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nagios_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nagios_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nagios content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nagios_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nagios_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd nagios access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nagios_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nagios_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nagios  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nagios_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nagios_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nagios read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nagios_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nagios_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_nagios_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/nagios/cgi(/.*)?, /usr/lib/icinga/cgi(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/nagios(/.+)?, /usr/lib/nagios/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/netsaint(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nutups_cgi_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nutups cgi content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nutups_cgi_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd nutups cgi access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nutups_cgi_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nutups cgi  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nutups_cgi_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd nutups cgi read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_nutups_cgi_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_nutups_cgi_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_nutups_cgi_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/www/nut-cgi-bin/upsset\.cgi, /var/www/nut-cgi-bin/upsimage\.cgi, /var/www/nut-cgi-bin/upsstats\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_openshift_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_openshift_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd openshift content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_openshift_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_openshift_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd openshift access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_openshift_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_openshift_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd openshift  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_openshift_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_openshift_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd openshift read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_openshift_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_openshift_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_openshift_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_passwd_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_passwd_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_passwd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_php_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_php_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_php_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_php_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_php_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd php temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_prewikka_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_prewikka_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd prewikka content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_prewikka_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_prewikka_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd prewikka access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_prewikka_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_prewikka_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd prewikka  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_prewikka_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_prewikka_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd prewikka read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_prewikka_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_prewikka_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_prewikka_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_rotatelogs_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_rotatelogs_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_rotatelogs_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd smokepin cgi content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd smokepin cgi access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd smokepin cgi  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd smokepin cgi read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_smokeping_cgi_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_smokeping_cgi_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squid_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squid_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd squid content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squid_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squid_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd squid access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squid_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squid_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd squid  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squid_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squid_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd squid read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squid_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squid_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_squid_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/share/lightsquid/cgi(/.*)?, /usr/lib/squid/cachemgr\.cgi

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_squirrelmail_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_squirrelmail_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd squirrelmail data.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_suexec_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_suexec_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_suexec_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/apache(2)?/suexec(2)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/(nph-)?cgiwrap(d)?, /usr/sbin/suexec

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_suexec_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_suexec_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd suexec temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd sys content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/srv/([^/]*/)?www(/.*)?, /var/www(/.*)?, /etc/htdig(/.*)?, /srv/gallery2(/.*)?, /var/lib/trac(/.*)?, /var/lib/htdig(/.*)?, /var/www/icons(/.*)?, /usr/share/glpi(/.*)?, /usr/share/htdig(/.*)?, /usr/share/drupal.*, /usr/share/z-push(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/conf(/.*)?, /usr/share/icecast(/.*)?, /var/lib/cacti/rra(/.*)?, /usr/share/ntop/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/doc/ghc/html(/.*)?, /usr/share/openca/htdocs(/.*)?, /usr/share/selinux-policy[^/]*/html(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd sys access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd sys  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd sys read/write content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/glpi(/.*)?, /etc/horde(/.*)?, /etc/drupal.*, /etc/z-push(/.*)?, /var/lib/svn(/.*)?, /var/www/svn(/.*)?, /etc/owncloud(/.*)?, /var/www/html(/.*)?/uploads(/.*)?, /var/www/html(/.*)?/wp-content(/.*)?, /var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/files(/.*)?, /var/www/html(/.*)?/sites/default/settings\.php, /etc/mock/koji(/.*)?, /var/lib/drupal.*, /etc/zabbix/web(/.*)?, /var/log/z-push(/.*)?, /var/spool/gosa(/.*)?, /var/lib/moodle(/.*)?, /etc/WebCalendar(/.*)?, /usr/share/joomla(/.*)?, /var/lib/dokuwiki(/.*)?, /var/lib/owncloud(/.*)?, /var/spool/viewvc(/.*)?, /var/lib/pootle/po(/.*)?, /var/www/moodledata(/.*)?, /srv/gallery2/smarty(/.*)?, /var/www/moodle/data(/.*)?, /var/lib/graphite-web(/.*)?, /var/www/gallery/albums(/.*)?, /var/www/html/owncloud/data(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-content(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/uploads(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-content/upgrade(/.*)?, /var/www/html/configuration\.php

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_sys_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_sys_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_sys_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/.*\.cgi, /opt/.*\.cgi, /var/www/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/perl(/.*)?, /var/www/html/[^/]*/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /var/www/svn/hooks(/.*)?, /usr/share/wordpress/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress/wp-includes/.*\.php, /usr/share/wordpress-mu/wp-config\.php

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/user/apache(/.*)?, /var/www/openshift/console/tmp(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store httpd filez on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_unconfined_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_unconfined_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_unconfined_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_unit_file_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/systemd/system/httpd.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system/jetty.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system/nginx.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system/php-fpm.*

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_user_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_user_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd user content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_user_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_user_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd user access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_user_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_user_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd user  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_user_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_user_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd user read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_user_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_user_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_user_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_var_lib_t type, if you wanna store tha httpd filez under tha /var/lib directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/lib/rt(3|4)/data/RT-Shredder(/.*)?, /var/lib/dav(/.*)?, /var/lib/php(/.*)?, /var/lib/glpi(/.*)?, /var/lib/httpd(/.*)?, /var/lib/nginx(/.*)?, /var/lib/z-push(/.*)?, /var/lib/cherokee(/.*)?, /var/lib/lighttpd(/.*)?, /var/lib/mod_security(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_var_run_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_var_run_t type, if you wanna store tha httpd filez under tha /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/mod_.*, /var/run/wsgi.*, /var/run/httpd.*, /var/run/nginx.*, /var/run/apache.*, /var/run/php-fpm(/.*)?, /var/run/lighttpd(/.*)?, /var/lib/php/session(/.*)?, /var/lib/php/wsdlcache(/.*)?, /var/run/dirsrv/admin-serv.*, /var/www/openshift/broker/httpd/run(/.*)?, /var/www/openshift/console/httpd/run(/.*)?, /opt/dirsrv/var/run/dirsrv/dsgw/cookies(/.*)?, /var/run/thttpd\.pid, /var/run/gcache_port, /var/run/cherokee\.pid

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd w3c validator content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd w3c validator access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd w3c validator  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd w3c validator read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_w3c_validator_script_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/share/w3c-markup-validator/cgi-bin(/.*)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/check

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_w3c_validator_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_w3c_validator_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd w3c validator temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_webalizer_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_webalizer_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd webalizer content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_webalizer_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_webalizer_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd webalizer access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_webalizer_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_webalizer_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd webalizer  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_webalizer_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_webalizer_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd webalizer read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_webalizer_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_webalizer_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_webalizer_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_zoneminder_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_zoneminder_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd unitminder content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_zoneminder_htaccess_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_zoneminder_htaccess_t type, if you wanna treat tha file as a httpd unitminder access file.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_zoneminder_ra_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_zoneminder_ra_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd unitminder  read/append content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_zoneminder_rw_content_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_zoneminder_rw_content_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as httpd unitminder read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_zoneminder_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_zoneminder_script_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_zoneminder_script_t domain.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow httpd servers ta read tha /var/httpd directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/httpd(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/httpd
.pp
.TP
Allow httpd servers ta read n' write /var/httpd/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha httpd_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/httpd/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/httpd/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P httpd_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna allow Apache ta modify hood filez used fo' hood file transfer skillz. Directories/Filez must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on tha httpd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used ta manipulate tha port definitions

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), httpd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), httpd_apcupsd_cgi_script_selinux(8), httpd_awstats_script_selinux(8), httpd_bugzilla_script_selinux(8), httpd_collectd_script_selinux(8), httpd_cvs_script_selinux(8), httpd_dirsrvadmin_script_selinux(8), httpd_dspam_script_selinux(8), httpd_git_script_selinux(8), httpd_helper_selinux(8), httpd_man2html_script_selinux(8), httpd_mediawiki_script_selinux(8), httpd_mojomojo_script_selinux(8), httpd_munin_script_selinux(8), httpd_mythtv_script_selinux(8), httpd_nagios_script_selinux(8), httpd_nutups_cgi_script_selinux(8), httpd_openshift_script_selinux(8), httpd_passwd_selinux(8), httpd_php_selinux(8), httpd_prewikka_script_selinux(8), httpd_rotatelogs_selinux(8), httpd_smokeping_cgi_script_selinux(8), httpd_squid_script_selinux(8), httpd_suexec_selinux(8), httpd_sys_script_selinux(8), httpd_unconfined_script_selinux(8), httpd_user_script_selinux(8), httpd_w3c_validator_script_selinux(8), httpd_webalizer_script_selinux(8), httpd_zoneminder_script_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
