.TH  "httpd_suexec_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "httpd_suexec" "SELinux Policy httpd_suexec"
.SH "NAME"
httpd_suexec_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha httpd_suexec processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha httpd_suexec processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da httpd_suexec processes execute wit tha httpd_suexec_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep httpd_suexec_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da httpd_suexec_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBhttpd_suexec_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha httpd_suexec_t domain is tha following:

/usr/lib/apache(2)?/suexec(2)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/(nph-)?cgiwrap(d)?, /usr/sbin/suexec
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux httpd_suexec policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd_suexec processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' httpd_suexec:

.EX
.B httpd_suexec_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a httpd_suexec_t
can be used ta make tha process type httpd_suexec_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  httpd_suexec policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run httpd_suexec wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta use built up in scriptin (usually php), you must turn on tha httpd_builtin_scriptin boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scriptin 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta tha network rockin TCP, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow HTTPD scripts n' modulez ta connect ta databases over tha network, you must turn on tha httpd_can_network_connect_db boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_db 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow http daemon ta bust mail, you must turn on tha httpd_can_sendmail boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_sendmail 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd cgi support, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_cgi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read home directories, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_homedirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd scripts n' modulez execmem/execstack, you must turn on tha httpd_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta read user content, you must turn on tha httpd_read_user_content boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_read_user_content 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD ta rap wit tha terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Needed fo' enterin tha passphrase fo' certificates all up in tha terminal, you must turn on tha httpd_tty_comm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_tty_comm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD handlin of all content files, you must turn on tha httpd_unified boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_unified 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access cifs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_cifs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_cifs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access FUSE file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_fusefs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_fusefs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd ta access nfs file systems, you must turn on tha httpd_use_nfs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_nfs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unprivileged playas ta execute DDL statement, you must turn on tha postgresql_selinux_users_ddl boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P postgresql_selinux_users_ddl 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha httpd_suexec_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha httpd_suexec_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type httpd_suexec_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B httpd_suexec_tmp_t


.br
.B nfs_t


.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux httpd_suexec policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they httpd_suexec processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha httpd_suexec, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_suexec_exec_t '/srv/httpd_suexec/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myhttpd_suexec_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' httpd_suexec:


.EX
.PP
.B httpd_suexec_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_suexec_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha httpd_suexec_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/apache(2)?/suexec(2)?, /usr/lib/cgi-bin/(nph-)?cgiwrap(d)?, /usr/sbin/suexec

.EX
.PP
.B httpd_suexec_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha httpd_suexec_tmp_t type, if you wanna store httpd suexec temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), httpd_suexec(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
