.\" $Id: icnctrl.man.in,v 1.8 1999/09/06 08:03:24 fritz Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 1999/09/06 08:03:24 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii icnctrl.1 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps icnctrl.1 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH ICNCTRL 8 "1999/09/06" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
icnctrl \- configure ICN ISDN adaptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icnctrl [-d
.IB Driver-Id ]
.I action options
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B icnctrl
is used ta setup tha ICN
.SM ISDN
device driver n' fo' downloadin tha firmware tha fuck into the
.SM ISDN
card.
.LP
Da use of
.I icnctrl
makes sense, if yo ass is rockin a ICN card only.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-d " Driver-Id
selects tha S0 intercourse named by
.IR Driver-Id .
Driver-Idz is defined durin driver initialisation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR icn (4)
for a thugged-out description of tha syntax ta be used fo' modularised and
monolithic driver versions.
This option
.B must
be used ta identify tha S0 intercourse if mo' than one S0 intercourse is
existent. If a single ICN-2B is used, it may be omitted.
If rockin mo' than one card, support fo' tha other cardz is enabled
with the
.B add
action of icnctrl. Idz may
.B not
start with
.B digits
or small
.BR x ,
because these joints is misinterpreted
as numeric parametas by
.BR insmod .
For loadin tha module, always the
newest
.B modutils
package should be used ta avoid problems durin load.
.LP
Da followin 
.I actions
may be given to
.BR icnctrl .
.TP
.BI "add port [" id1 " [" id2 ]]
enablez support fo' a additionizzle card up in tha driver n' shit. If
.IR id1 " n' " id2
are missing, addz a ICN-2B wit a id given by tha system. with
.I id2
missing, addz a ICN-2B wit a Id given by tha user n' shit. With both Ids
given, addz a ICN-4B wit both Idz given by tha user n' shit. There is
.B no checking
against port-conflicts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Ports is checked lata durin first activation
while downloadin tha firmware n' can be chizzled at runtime. Idz are
checked against conflicts, n' if a cold-ass lil conflict happens, replaced by the
system up in tha same manner as if no Id was supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it is
.B not allowed,
to add cards,
.BR afta " a " load
was done.
.TP
.BI "io [" "base-address port" ]
sets tha address of tha memory-mapped IO-region n' tha port-base.
Afta loadin tha icn-module tha fuck into kernel-space, dis command
should be used as tha straight-up first setup, if tha hardware settings are
different from tha default settings below.
If both parametas is omitted, prints up current settings. The
default memory address is
.IR 0xD0000 ,
the default port-base is
.IR 0x320 .
An ICN card uses 4 port-addresses. Da memory address is globally used
for all cardz (cardz is mapped on demand), while each card has its
own port range. Memory range is
.IR 16k .
.TP
.B leased on|1|2|off
switches between aiiight (dialup) n' leased-line mode. Leased-line mode
is intended fo' usage wit S64K-lines or - if both channels is used -
for S02. If tha second parameta is
.B 1
, only one channel is enabled.
If tha second parameta is
.BR 2 " or " on
both channels is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Leased lines aint gots a D-channel. When
leased-line mode is enabled, tha driver simulates incomin calls using
special "phone-numbers" fo' callin n' called address which is generated
as bigs up:
.ie 1
.RS
Callin number:
.RS
.BI LEASED x
.RS
where
.I x
is tha internal slot-number of tha S0 intercourse. This number starts with
.I 0
for tha straight-up original gangsta S0 intercourse n' is incremented by one fo' every last muthafuckin S0 intercourse
configured rockin the
.B add
action.
.RE
.RE
.ie 1
Called number:
.RS
.I x
.RS
where
.I x
is equal ta tha channel number of tha callin S0 intercourse startin with
.IR 1 .
.RE
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI "load " boot-code " " firmware " [" firmware2 ]
downloadz tha firmware tha fuck into tha card n' starts operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Usin this
command, afta loadin tha icn-module tha fuck into kernel-space tha straight-up original gangsta real
access ta tha hardware is done. Therefore the
.B io
action above, should be used before, if tha hardware settings is different
from tha default settings.
Usually tha images is located in
.IR @DATADIR@ .
Da boot-code is named
.IR loadpg.bin .
Da firmware dependz on tha D-channel protocol of the
.SM ISDN
line. For German 1TR6-lines, the
firmware is named
.IR pc_1t_ca.bin .
For Euro-ISDN-lines, it is named
.IR pc_eu_ca.bin .
When loadin a ICN-4B,
.B two
firmware parametas gotta be supplied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da first firmware is used fo' the
upper S0 connector, tha second firmware is used fo' tha lower S0 connector
(towardz tha cardz slot connector).
.TP
.B dump
is available if tha program is configured rockin the
.B --enable-dump
option only. Da contentz of internal driver variablez is dumped on stdout.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I @DATADIR@/loadpg.bin
This is tha image of tha bootstrap loader, which is loaded first, then
loadz tha firmware tha fuck into tha cardz memory n' starts execution.
.TP
.I @DATADIR@/pc_1t_ca.bin
This is tha image of tha firmware designed fo' tha German 1TR6 protocol.
.TP
.I @DATADIR@/pc_eu_ca.bin
This is tha image of tha firmware, designed fo' Euro ISDN.
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Da followin diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
.TP
.RI "Read error on " boot-code
Da file supplied as
.I boot-code
has less than 4096 bytes length or could not be read.
.TP
.RI "Read error on " firmware
Da file supplied as
.I firmware
has less than 65536 bytes length or could not be read.
.LP
.SH BUGS
No bugs so far.
.SH AUTHOR
\(co 1997 by Fritz Elfert <fritz@isdn4linux.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isdnctrl "(8), " icn "(4), " isdnctrl "(4), " ttyI (4).
