.TH IFCONFIG 8 "2008\-10\-03" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure a network intercourse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ifconfig [-v] [-a] [-s] [interface]"
.br
.B "ifconfig [-v] intercourse [aftype] options | address ..."

.SH NOTE
.P 
This program is obsolete!
For replacement check \fBip addr\fR n' \fBip link\fR.
For statistics use \fBip -s link\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ifconfig
is used ta configure tha kernel-resident network intercourses.  It is
used at boot time ta set up intercourses as necessary.  Afta that, it
is probably only needed when debuggin or when system tunin is needed.
.LP
If no arguments is given,
.B ifconfig
displays tha statuz of tha currently actizzle intercourses.  If
a single
.B intercourse
argument is given, it displays tha statuz of tha given intercourse
only; if a single
.B \-a
argument is given, it displays tha statuz of all intercourses, even
those dat is down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Otherwise, it configures a intercourse.

.SH Address Families
If tha straight-up original gangsta argument afta tha intercourse name is recognized as
the name of a supported address crew, dat address crew is
used fo' decodin n' displayin all protocol addresses.  Currently
supported address crews include
.B inet
(TCP/IP, default), 
.B inet6
(IPv6),
.B ax25
(AMPR Packet Radio),
.B ddp
(Appletalk Phase 2),
.B ipx
(Novell IPX) and
.B netrom
(AMPR Packet radio).
All numbers supplied as parts up in IPv4 dotted decimal notation may be decimal,
octal, or hexadecimal, as specified up in tha ISO C standard (that is, a leadin 0x
or 0X implies hexadecimal; otherwise, a leadin '0' implies octal; otherwise,
the number is interpreted as decimal). Use of hexadecimal n' octal numbers
is not RFC-compliant n' therefore its use is discouraged.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
display all intercourses which is currently available, even if down
.TP
.B -s
display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short list (like netstat -i)
.TP
.B -v
be mo' verbose fo' some error conditions
.TP
.B intercourse
Da name of tha intercourse.  This is probably a thugged-out driver name followed by
a unit number, fo' example
.B eth0
for tha straight-up original gangsta Ethernet intercourse. If yo' kernel supports alias intercourses,
you can specify dem wit 
.B eth0:0
for tha straight-up original gangsta aliaz of eth0. Yo ass can use dem ta assign a second address. To
delete a alias intercourse use
.BR "ifconfig eth0:0 down" .
Note: fo' every last muthafuckin scope (i.e. same net wit address/netmask combination) all
aliases is deleted, if you delete tha straight-up original gangsta (primary).
.TP
.B up
This flag causes tha intercourse ta be activated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  It be implicitly
specified if a address be assigned ta tha intercourse.
.TP
.B down
This flag causes tha driver fo' dis intercourse ta be shut down.
.TP
.B "[\-]arp"
Enable or disable tha use of tha ARP protocol on dis intercourse.
.TP
.B "[\-]promisc"
Enable or disable the
.B promiscuous
mode of tha intercourse.  If selected, all packets on tha network will
be received by tha intercourse.
.TP
.B "[\-]allmulti"
Enable or disable 
.B all-multicast
mode.  If selected, all multicast packets on tha network will be
received by tha intercourse.
.TP
.B "mtu N"
This parameta sets tha Maximum Transfer Unit (MTU) of a intercourse.
.TP
.B "dstaddr addr"
Set tha remote IP address fo' a point-to-point link (such as
PPP).  This keyword is now obsolete; use the
.B pointopoint
keyword instead.
.TP
.B "netmask addr"
Set tha IP network mask fo' dis intercourse.  This value defaults ta the
usual class A, B or C network mask (as derived from tha intercourse IP
address) yo, but it can be set ta any value.
.TP
.B "add addr/prefixlen"
Add a IPv6 address ta a intercourse. 
.TP
.B "del addr/prefixlen"
Remove a IPv6 address from a intercourse.
.TP
.B "tunnel ::aa.bb.cc.dd"
Smoke a freshly smoked up SIT (IPv6-in-IPv4) device, tunnellin ta tha given destination.
.TP
.B "irq addr"
Set tha interrupt line used by dis device.  Not all devices can
dynamically chizzle they IRQ setting.
.TP
.B "io_addr addr"
Set tha start address up in I/O space fo' dis device. 
.TP
.B "mem_start addr"
Set tha start address fo' shared memory used by dis device.  Only a
few devices need all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B "media type"
Set tha physical port or medium type ta be used by tha device.  Not
all devices can chizzle dis setting, n' dem dat can vary up in what
values they support.  Typical joints for
.B type
are 
.B 10base2
(thin Ethernet),
.B 10baseT
(twisted-pair 10Mbps Ethernet),
.B AUI 
(external transceiver) n' so on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da special medium type of
.B auto
can be used ta tell tha driver ta auto-sense tha media.  Again, not
all drivers can do all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B "[\-]broadcast [addr]"
If tha address argument is given, set tha protocol broadcast
address fo' dis intercourse.  Otherwise, set (or clear) the
.B IFF_BROADCAST
flag fo' tha intercourse.
.TP
.B "[\-]pointopoint [addr]"
This keyword enablez the
.B point-to-point
mode of a intercourse, meanin dat it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct link between two
machines wit no muthafucka else listenin on dat shit.
.br
If tha address argument be also given, set tha protocol address of
the other side of tha link, just like tha obsolete
.B dstaddr
keyword do.  Otherwise, set or clear the
.B IFF_POINTOPOINT
flag fo' tha intercourse. 
.TP
.B hw class address
Set tha hardware address of dis intercourse, if tha thang driver
supports dis operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da keyword must be followed by the
name of tha hardware class n' tha printable ASCII equivalent of
the hardware address.  Hardware classes currently supported include
.B ether
(Ethernet),
.B ax25
(AMPR AX.25),
.B ARCnet
and
.B netrom
(AMPR NET/ROM).
.TP
.B multicast
Set tha multicast flag on tha intercourse. This should not normally be needed
as tha drivers set tha flag erectly theyselves.
.TP
.B address
Da IP address ta be assigned ta dis intercourse.
.TP
.B txqueuelen length
Set tha length of tha transmit queue of tha device. Well shiiiit, it is useful ta set this
to lil' small-ass joints fo' slower devices wit a high latency (modem links, ISDN)
to prevent fast bulk transfers from disturbin interactizzle traffic like
telnet too much. 
.SH NOTES
Since kernel release 2.2 there be no explicit intercourse statistics for
alias intercourses no mo'. Da statistics printed fo' tha original gangsta address
are shared wit all alias addresses on tha same device. If you want per-address
statistics you should add explicit accounting
rulez fo' tha address rockin tha 
.BR iptablez (8)
command.
.LP
Since net\-tools 1.60\-4 ifconfig is printin byte countas n' human readable
countas wit IEC 60027-2 units, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So 1 KiB is 2^10 byte. Note, tha numbers 
are truncated ta one decimal (which can by like a big-ass error if you 
consider 0.1 PiB is 112.589.990.684.262 bytes :)
.LP
Interrupt problems wit Ethernet thang drivers fail wit EAGAIN
.I (SIOCSIIFLAGS: Resource temporarily unavailable)
it is most likely a interrupt conflict. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.I http://www.scyld.com/expert/irq\-conflict.html
for mo' shiznit.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/dev
.br
.I /proc/net/if_inet6
.SH BUGS
Ifconfig uses tha ioctl access method ta git tha full address shiznit,
which limits hardware addresses ta 8 bytes.
Because Infiniband hardware address has 20 bytes,
only tha straight-up original gangsta 8 bytes is displayed erectly.
Please use
.B ip link
command from
.B iproute2
package ta display link layer shiznits includin tha hardware address.
.LP
While appletalk DDP n' IPX addresses is ghon be displayed they cannot be
altered by dis command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip(8),
.BR iptables(8)
.br
http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/binary.html - Prefixes fo' binary multiples
.SH AUTHORS
Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
.br
Alan Cox, <Alan.Cox@linux.org>
.br
Phil Blundell, <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com>
.br
Andi Kleen
.br
Bernd Eckenfels, <net\-tools@lina.inka.de>
