.Dd 2004-04-09
.Dt IFENSLAVE 8
.\" Manual page pimped by Guus Sliepen <guus@debian.org>
.Sh NAME
.Nm ifenslave
.Nd Attach n' detach slave network devices ta a funky-ass bondin device.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl acdfhuvV
.Op Fl -all-interfaces
.Op Fl -change-active
.Op Fl -detach
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -usage
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op Fl -version
.Ar master
.Ar slave
.No ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool ta attach n' detach slave network devices ta a funky-ass bondin device.
A bondin thang will act like a aiiight Ethernet network thang ta tha kernel,
but will bust up tha packets via tha slave devices rockin a simple round-robin scheduler.
This allows fo' simple load-balancing,
identical ta "channel bonding" or "trunking" steez used up in switches.
.Pp
Da kernel must have support fo' bondin devices for
.Nm
to be useful.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a, -all-interfaces
Show shiznit bout all intercourses.
.It Fl c, -change-active
Change actizzle slave.
.It Fl d, -detach
Removes slave intercourses from tha bondin device.
.It Fl f, -force
Force actions ta be taken if one of tha specified intercourses appears not ta belong ta a Ethernet device.
.It Fl h, -help
Display a help message n' exit.
.It Fl u, -usage
Show usage shiznit n' exit.
.It Fl v, -verbose
Print warnin n' debug lyrics.
.It Fl V, -version
Show version shiznit n' exit.
.El
If not options is given, tha default action is ghon be ta enslave intercourses.
.Sh EXAMPLE
Da followin example shows how tha fuck ta setup a funky-ass bondin thang and
enslave two real Ethernet devices ta it:
.Bd -literal
# modprobe bonding
# ifconfig bond0 192.168.0.1 netmask 255.255.0.0
# ifenslave bond0 eth0 eth1
.Ed
.Sh AUTHOR
.Nm
was originally freestyled by
.An Dizzle Becker Aq becker@cesdis.gsfc.nasa.gov ,
and has since been updated by various kernel pimpers.
.Pp
This manual page was freestyled by
.An Guus Sliepen Aq guus@debian.org
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system.
