.\" Jean Pt II - HPL - 2004-2007
.\" ifrename.8
.\"
.TH IFRENAME 8 "26 February 2007" "wireless-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
ifrename \- rename network intercourses based on various static criteria
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ifrename [-c configfile] [-p] [-d] [-u] [-v] [-V] [-D]"
.br
.B "ifrename [-c configfile] [-i intercourse] [-n newname]"
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ifrename 
is a tool allowin you ta assign a cold-ass lil consistent name ta each of your
network intercourse.
.PP
By default, intercourse names is dynamic, n' each network intercourse is
assigned tha straight-up original gangsta available name
.RI ( eth0 ", " eth1 "...)."
Da order network intercourses is pimped may vary. For built-in
interfaces, tha kernel boot time enumeration may vary. For removable
interface, tha user may plug dem up in any order.
.PP
.B Ifrename
allow tha user ta decizzle what tha fuck name a network intercourse will have.
.B Ifrename 
can bust a variety of
.I selectors
to specify how tha fuck intercourse names match tha network intercourses on the
system, da most thugged-out common selector is tha intercourse 
.IR "MAC address" .
.PP
.B Ifrename
must be run before intercourses is brought up, which is why itz mostly
useful up in various scripts (init, hotplug) but is seldom used directly
by tha user n' shit. By default,
.B ifrename 
renames all present system intercourses rockin mappings defined in
.IR /etc/iftab .
.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI "-c " configfile
Set tha configuration file ta be used (by default 
.IR /etc/iftab ).
Da configuration file define tha mappin between selectors and
interface names, n' is busted lyrics bout in
.IR iftab (5).
.br
If
.I configfile
is "-", tha configuration is read from stdin.
.TP
.B -p
Probe (load) kernel modulez before renamin intercourses. By default
.B ifrename 
only check intercourses already loaded, n' don't auto-load the
required kernel modules. This option enablez smooth integration with
system not loadin modulez before calling
.BR ifrename .
.TP
.B -d
Enable various
.B Debian
specific hacks. Combined with
.BR -p ,
only modulez fo' intercourses specified in
.I /etc/network/interface
are loaded.
.TP
.BI "-i " intercourse
Only rename tha specified
.I intercourse 
as opposed ta all intercourses on tha system. Da freshly smoked up intercourse name is
printed.
.TP
.BI "-n " newname
When used with
.IR -i ,
specify tha freshly smoked up name of tha intercourse. Da list of mappings from the
configuration file is bypassed, tha intercourse specified with
.I -i
is renamed directly to
.IR newname .
Da freshly smoked up name may be a wildcard containin a single '*'.
.br
When used without 
.IR -i ,
rename intercourses by rockin only mappings dat would rename dem to
.IR newname .
Da freshly smoked up name may not be a wildcard. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This use of ifrename is
discouraged, cuz inefficient
.RI ( -n " without " -i ).
All tha intercoursez of tha system need ta be processed at each
invocation, therefore up in most case it aint fasta than just letting
ifrename renamin all of dem (without both 
.IR -n " n' " -i ).
.TP
.B -t
Enable name takeover support. This allow intercourse name swapping
between two or mo' intercourses.
.br
Takeover enable a intercourse ta 'steal' tha name of another
interface. This works only wit kernel 2.6.X n' if tha other
interface is down. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Consequently, dis aint compatible with
Hotplug. Da other intercourse be assigned a random name yo, but may be
renamed lata wit 'ifrename'.
.br
Da number of takeovers is limited ta avoid circular loops, and
therefore some complex multi-way name swappin thangs may not be
fully processed.
.br
In any case, name swappin n' tha use of dis feature is discouraged,
and yo ass is invited ta chizzle unique n' unambiguous names fo' your
interfaces...
.TP
.B -u
Enable
.I udev
output mode. This enablez proper integration of
.B ifrename
in the
.I udev
framework,
.BR udevd (8)
will use
.B ifrename
to assign intercourse names present in
.IR /etc/iftab .
In dis mode tha output of ifrename can be parsed
directly by
.BR udevd (8)
as a IMPORT action. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This requires
.I udev
version 107 or later.
.TP
.B -D
Dry-run mode. Ifrename won't chizzle any intercourse, it will only print
new intercourse name, if applicable, n' return.
.br
In dry-run mode, intercourse name wildcardz is not resolved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! New
interface name is printed, even if it is tha same ol' dirty as tha oldschool name.
.br
Be also aware dat some selectors can only be read by root, for
example dem based on
.BR ethtool ),
and will fail silently if run by a aiiight user n' shit. In other lyrics,
dry-run mode under a standard user may not give tha expected result.
.TP
.B -V
Verbose mode. Ifrename will display internal thangs up in dis biatch of parsin its
configuration file n' queryin tha intercourses selectors. Combined
with the
.I dry-run
option, dis be a phat way ta debug complex configurations or trivial
problems.
.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Tourrilhes \- jt@hpl.hp.com
.\"
.\" FILES part
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /etc/iftab
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR ip (8),
.BR iftab (5).
