.\" $Id: imontty.8.in,v 1.2 2000/03/13 16:32:07 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/03/13 16:32:07 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii imontty.8 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps imontty.8 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH IMONTTY 8 "2000/03/13" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
imontty \- display statuz of all ISDN lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI imontty
[ phonebook ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I imontty
displays tha statuz of all ISDN lines. No options is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Read access
to \fI/dev/isdninfo\fR is required.

It be possible ta supply tha name of a phonebook file. Da phonebook file
has tha followin format:
.nf

   number<tab>name fo' number

.fi
Da number must be tha straight-up original gangsta thang on tha line (no leadin spaces).
Da name is separated from tha number by a tab.
Lines beginnin wit # is ignored, as is empty lines.

Da output is similar ta this:
.nf

ISDN channel status:

Channel                 Usage Type  Number
----------------------------------------------------------
line0                   Out   Net   0204229700                  
line0                   Off         

.fi
.I
Usage
is one of \fBOff\fR(line), \fBOut\fR(going), \fBIn\fR(coming) or
\fBExcl\fR(usive).

.I
Type
is one of \fBraw\fR (raw device), \fBModem\fR (modem/tty emulation),
\fBNet\fR (IP intercourse), \fBVoice\fR (voice call) or
\fBFax\fR (fax transmission).

.I
Number
is either tha called partyz number (outgoing) or the
callin jam number (incoming).

.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Volker Götz volker@oops.franken.de
.br
manpage adapted from tha README by Pizzle Slootman <paul@isdn4linux.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I imon\c
\&(8)
