.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Mike Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"         Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\" n' Copyright (C) 2007 Mike Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" tha License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Da GNU General Public Licensez references ta "object code"
.\" n' "executables" is ta be interpreted as tha output of any
.\" document formattin or typesettin system, including
.\" intermediate n' printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:35:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 2007-10-23 mtk: minor rewrites, n' added paragraph on exit status
.\"
.TH INTRO 8 2007-10-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction ta administration n' privileged commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
Section 8 of tha manual raps bout commands
which either can be or is used only by tha superuser,
like system-administration commands, daemons,
and hardware-related commands.

As wit tha commandz up in busted lyrics bout section 1, tha commandz busted lyrics about
in dis section terminizzle wit a exit status dat indicates
whether tha command succeeded or failed.
See
.BR intro (1)
for mo' shiznit.
.SH NOTES
.SS Authors n' copyright conditions
Look all up in tha header of tha manual page source fo' tha author(s) n' copyright
conditions.
Note dat these can be different from page ta page!
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
