.TH IP\-ADDRLABEL 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-addrlabel \- protocol address label pimpment
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]" 
.B addrlabel 
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] |
\fB\-r\fR[\fIesolve\fR] |
\fB\-f\fR[\fIamily\fR] {
.BR inet " | " inet6 " | " ipx " | " dnet " | " link " } | "
\fB\-o\fR[\fIneline\fR] }

.ti -8
.BR "ip addrlabel" " { " add " | " del " } " prefix
.BR PREFIX " [ "
.B dev
.IR DEV " ] [ "
.B label
.IR NUMBER " ]"

.ti -8
.BR "ip addrlabel" " { " list " | " flush " }"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
IPv6 address labels is used fo' address selection;
they is busted lyrics bout up in RFC 3484.  Precedence is managed by userspace,
and only tha label itself is stored up in tha kernel.

.SS ip addrlabel add - add a address label
add a address label entry ta tha kernel.
.TP
.BI prefix " PREFIX"
.TP
.BI dev " DEV"
the outgoin intercourse.
.TP
.BI label " NUMBER"
the label fo' tha prefix.
0xffffffff is reserved.
.SS ip addrlabel del - delete a address label
delete a address label entry from tha kernel.
.B Arguments:
coincizzle wit tha arguments of
.B ip addrlabel add
but tha label aint required.
.SS ip addrlabel list - list address labels
list tha current address label entries up in tha kernel.
.SS ip addrlabel flush - flush address labels
flush all address labels up in tha kernel. This do not restore any default settings.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Manpage by Yoshifuji Hideaki / ÂêâË-§Ëã±Êòé

