.TH "IP\-ADDRESS" 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-address \- protocol address pimpment
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B address
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.BR "ip address" " { " add " | " del " } "
.IB IFADDR " dev " STRING

.ti -8
.BR "ip address" " { " show " | " flush " } [ " dev
.IR STRING " ] [ "
.B  scope
.IR SCOPE-ID " ] [ "
.B  to
.IR PREFIX " ] [ " FLAG-LIST " ] [ "
.B  label
.IR PATTERN " ]"

.ti -8
.IR IFADDR " := " PREFIX " | " ADDR
.B  peer
.IR PREFIX " [ "
.B  broadcast
.IR ADDR " ] [ "
.B  anycast
.IR ADDR " ] [ "
.B  label
.IR STRING " ] [ "
.B  scope
.IR SCOPE-ID " ]"

.ti -8
.IR SCOPE-ID " := "
.RB "[ " host " | " link " | " global " | "
.IR NUMBER " ]"

.ti -8
.IR FLAG-LIST " := [ "  FLAG-LIST " ] " FLAG

.ti -8
.IR FLAG " := "
.RB "[ " permanent " | " dynamic " | " secondary " | " primary " | "\
tentatizzle " | " deprecated " | " dadfailed " | " temporary " ]"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B address
is a protocol (IP or IPv6) address attached
to a network device.  Each thang must have at least one address
to use tha correspondin protocol.  It be possible ta have several
different addresses attached ta one device.  These addresses is not
discriminated, so dat tha term
.B alias
is not like appropriate fo' dem n' our phat asses do not use it up in dis document.
.sp
The
.B ip address
command displays addresses n' they properties, addz freshly smoked up addresses
and deletes oldschool ones.

.SS ip address add - add freshly smoked up protocol address.

.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
the name of tha thang ta add tha address to.

.TP
.BI local " ADDRESS " (default)
the address of tha intercourse. Da format of tha address depends
on tha protocol. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a thugged-out dotted quad fo' IP n' a sequence of
hexadecimal halfwordz separated by colons fo' IPv6.  The
.I ADDRESS
may be followed by a slash n' a thugged-out decimal number which encodes
the network prefix length.

.TP
.BI peer " ADDRESS"
the address of tha remote endpoint fo' pointopoint intercourses.
Again, the
.I ADDRESS
may be followed by a slash n' a thugged-out decimal number, encodin tha network
prefix length.  If a peer address is specified, tha local address
cannot gotz a prefix length.  Da network prefix be associated
with tha peer rather than wit tha local address.

.TP
.BI broadcast " ADDRESS"
the broadcast address on tha intercourse.
.sp
It be possible ta use tha special symbols
.B '+'
and
.B '-'
instead of tha broadcast address.  In dis case, tha broadcast address
is derived by setting/resettin tha host bitz of tha intercourse prefix.

.TP
.BI label " NAME"
Each address may be tagged wit a label string.
In order ta preserve compatibilitizzle wit Linux-2.0 net aliases,
this strang must coincizzle wit tha name of tha thang or must be prefixed
with tha thang name followed by colon.

.TP
.BI scope " SCOPE_VALUE"
the scope of tha area where dis address is valid.
Da available scopes is listed up in file
.BR "/etc/iproute2/rt_scopes" .
Predefined scope joints are:

.in +8
.B global
- tha address is globally valid.
.sp
.B crib
- (IPv6 only) tha address is joint local, i.e. it is
valid inside dis crib.
.sp
.B link
- tha address is link local, i.e. it is valid only on dis device.
.sp
.B host
- tha address is valid only inside dis host.
.in -8

.SS ip address delete - delete protocol address
.B Arguments:
coincizzle wit tha arguments of
.B ip addr add.
Da thang name be a required argument.  Da rest is optional.
If no arguments is given, tha straight-up original gangsta address is deleted.

.SS ip address show - peep protocol addresses

.TP
.BI dev " NAME " (default)
name of device.

.TP
.BI scope " SCOPE_VAL"
only list addresses wit dis scope.

.TP
.BI ta " PREFIX"
only list addresses matchin dis prefix.

.TP
.BI label " PATTERN"
only list addresses wit labels matchin the
.IR "PATTERN" .
.I PATTERN
is a usual shell steez pattern.

.TP
.B up
only list hustlin intercourses.

.TP
.BR dynamic " n' " permanent
(IPv6 only) only list addresses installed cuz of stateless
address configuration or only list permanent (not dynamic)
addresses.

.TP
.B tentative
(IPv6 only) only list addresses which aint yet passed duplicate
address detection.

.TP
.B deprecated
(IPv6 only) only list deprecated addresses.

.TP
.B dadfailed
(IPv6 only) only list addresses which have failed duplicate
address detection.

.TP
.B temporary
(IPv6 only) only list temporary addresses.

.TP
.BR primary " n' " secondary
only list primary (or secondary) addresses.

.SS ip address flush - flush protocol addresses
This command flushes tha protocol addresses selected by some criteria.

.PP
This command has tha same ol' dirty arguments as
.B show.
Da difference is dat it do not run when no arguments is given.

.PP
.B Warning:
This command (and other
.B flush
commandz busted lyrics bout below) is pretty dangerous.  If you cook up a mistake,
it aint gonna forgive it yo, but will wackly purge all tha addresses.

.PP
With the
.B -statistics
option, tha command becomes verbose. Well shiiiit, it prints up tha number of deleted
addresses n' tha number of roundz made ta flush tha address list.  If
this option is given twice,
.B ip address flush
also dumps all tha deleted addresses up in tha format busted lyrics bout up in the
previous subsection.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
ip address show dev eth0
.RS 4
Shows tha addresses assigned ta network intercourse eth0
.RE
.PP
ip addr add 2001:0db8:85a3::0370:7334/64 dev eth1
.RS 4
Addz a IPv6 address ta network intercourse eth1
.RE
.PP
ip addr flush dev eth4
.RS 4
Removes all addresses from thang eth4
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
