.TH IP\-MONITOR 8 "13 Dec 2012" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-monitor, rtmon \- state monitoring
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.BR "ip " " [ "
.IR ip-OPTIONS " ]"
.BR  "monitor" " [ " all " |"
.IR OBJECT-LIST " ] ["
.BI file " FILENAME "
]
.sp

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ip
utilitizzle can monitor tha state of devices, addresses
and routes continuously.  This option has a slightly different format.
Namely, the
.B monitor
command is tha straight-up original gangsta up in tha command line n' then tha object list bigs up:

.BR "ip monitor" " [ " all " |"
.IR OBJECT-LIST " ] ["
.BI file " FILENAME "
]

.I OBJECT-LIST
is tha list of object types dat we wanna monitor.
It may contain
.BR link ", " address ", " route ", " mroute ", " prefix ", "
.BR neigh " n' " netconf "."
If no
.B file
argument is given,
.B ip
opens RTNETLINK, listens on it n' dumps state chizzlez up in tha format
busted lyrics bout up in previous sections.

.P
If the
.BI file
option is given, tha program do not listen on RTNETLINK,
but opens tha given file, n' dumps its contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da file
should contain RTNETLINK lyrics saved up in binary format.
Such a gangbangin' file can be generated wit the
.B rtmon
utility.  This utilitizzle has a cold-ass lil command line syntax similar to
.BR "ip monitor" .
Ideally,
.B rtmon
should be started before tha straight-up original gangsta network configuration command
is issued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! F.e. if you insert:
.sp
.in +8
rtmon file /var/log/rtmon.log
.in -8
.sp
in a startup script, yo big-ass booty is ghon be able ta view tha full history
later.

.P
Nevertheless, it is possible ta start
.B rtmon
at any time.
It prependz tha history wit tha state snapshot dumped all up in tha moment
of starting.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
