.TH IP\-NEIGHBOUR 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-neighbour \- neighbour/arp tablez pimpment.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B neigh
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.BR "ip neigh" " { " add " | " del " | " chizzle " | " replace " } { "
.IR ADDR " [ "
.B  lladdr
.IR LLADDR " ] [ "
.BR nud " { " permanent " | " noarp " | " stale " | " reachable " } ] | " proxy
.IR ADDR " } [ "
.B  dev
.IR DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.BR "ip neigh" " { " show " | " flush " } [ " proxy " ] [ " to
.IR PREFIX " ] [ "
.B  dev
.IR DEV " ] [ "
.B  nud
.IR STATE " ]"


.SH DESCRIPTION
Da 
.B ip neigh
command manipulates 
.I neighbour
objects dat establish bindings between protocol addresses and
link layer addresses fo' hosts pluggin tha same link.
Neighbour entries is organized tha fuck into tables. Da IPv4 neighbour table
is also known by another name - tha ARP table.

.P
Da correspondin commandz display neighbour bindings
and they properties, add freshly smoked up neighbour entries n' delete oldschool ones.

.TP
ip neighbour add
add a freshly smoked up neighbour entry
.TP
ip neighbour chizzle
change a existin entry
.TP
ip neighbour replace
add a freshly smoked up entry or chizzle a existin one
.RS
.PP
These commandz create freshly smoked up neighbour recordz or update existin ones.

.TP
.BI ta " ADDRESS " (default)
the protocol address of tha neighbour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Well shiiiit, it is either a IPv4 or IPv6 address.

.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
the intercourse ta which dis neighbour be attached.

.TP
.BI lladdr " LLADDRESS"
the link layer address of tha neighbour.
.I LLADDRESS
can also be
.BR "null" .

.TP
.BI nud " NUD_STATE"
the state of tha neighbour entry.
.B nud
is a abbreviation fo' 'Neighbour Unreachabilitizzle Detection'.
Da state can take one of tha followin joints:

.TP
.B permanent
the neighbour entry is valid forever n' can be only
be removed administratively.
.TP
.B noarp
the neighbour entry is valid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! No attempts ta validate
this entry is ghon be made but it can be removed when its gametime expires.
.TP
.B reachable
the neighbour entry is valid until tha reachability
timeout expires.
.TP
.B stale
the neighbour entry is valid but suspicious.
This option to
.B ip neigh
does not chizzle tha neighbour state if dat shiznit was valid n' tha address
is not chizzled by dis command.
.RE

.TP
ip neighbour delete
delete a neighbour entry
.RS
.PP
Da arguments is tha same as with
.BR "ip neigh add" ,
except that
.B lladdr
and
.B nud
are ignored.

.PP
.B Warning:
Attempts ta delete or manually chizzle a
.B noarp
entry pimped by tha kernel may result up in unpredictable behaviour.
Particularly, tha kernel may try ta resolve dis address even
on a
.B NOARP
interface or if tha address is multicast or broadcast.
.RE

.TP
ip neighbour show
list neighbour entries
.RS
.TP
.BI ta " ADDRESS " (default)
the prefix selectin tha neighbours ta list.

.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
only list tha neighbours attached ta dis device.

.TP
.BI proxy
list neighbour proxies.

.TP
.B unused
only list neighbours which is not currently up in use.

.TP
.BI nud " NUD_STATE"
only list neighbour entries up in dis state.
.I NUD_STATE
takes joints listed below or tha special value
.B all
which means all states.  This option may occur mo' than once.
If dis option be absent,
.B ip
lists all entries except for
.B none
and
.BR "noarp" .
.RE

.TP
ip neighbour flush
flush neighbour entries
.RS
This command has tha same ol' dirty arguments as
.B show.
Da differences is dat it do not run when no arguments is given,
and dat tha default neighbour states ta be flushed do not include
.B permanent
and
.BR "noarp" .

.PP
With the
.B -statistics
option, tha command becomes verbose.  It prints up tha number of
deleted neighbours n' tha number of roundz made ta flush the
neighbour table.  If tha option is given
twice,
.B ip neigh flush
also dumps all tha deleted neighbours.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
ip neighbour
.RS
Shows tha current neighbour table up in kernel.
.RE
.PP
ip neigh flush dev eth0
.RS
Removes entries up in tha neighbour table on thang eth0.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
