.TH IP\-RULE 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-rule \- routin policy database pimpment
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B rule
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B  ip rule
.RB " [ " list " | " add " | " del " | " flush " ]"
.I  SELECTOR ACTION

.ti -8
.IR SELECTOR " := [ "
.B  from
.IR PREFIX " ] [ "
.B  to
.IR PREFIX " ] [ "
.B  tos
.IR TOS " ] [ "
.B  fwmark
.IR FWMARK[/MASK] " ] [ "
.B  iif
.IR STRING " ] [ "
.B  oif
.IR STRING " ] [ "
.B  pref
.IR NUMBER " ]"

.ti -8
.IR ACTION " := [ "
.B  table
.IR TABLE_ID " ] [ "
.B  nat
.IR ADDRESS " ] [ "
.BR prohibit " | " reject " | " unreachable " ] [ " realms
.RI "[" SRCREALM "/]" DSTREALM " ]"
.I  SUPPRESSOR

.ti -8
.IR SUPPRESSOR " := [ "
.B  suppress_prefixlength
.IR NUMBER " ] [ "
.B  suppress_ifgroup
.IR GROUP " ]"

.ti -8
.IR TABLE_ID " := [ "
.BR local " | " main " | " default " |"
.IR NUMBER " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ip rule
manipulates rulez 
in tha routin policy database control tha route selection algorithm.

.P
Funky-Ass routin algorithms used up in tha Internizzle make routin decisions
based only on tha destination address of packets (and up in theory,
but not up in practice, on tha TOS field).

.P
In some circumstances we wanna route packets differently dependin not only
on destination addresses yo, but also on other packet fields: source address,
IP protocol, transhiznit protocol ports or even packet payload.
This task is called 'policy routing'.

.P
To solve dis task, tha conventionizzle destination based routin table, ordered
accordin ta tha longest match rule, is replaced wit a 'routin policy
database' (or RPDB), which selects routes by executin some set of rules.

.P
Each policy routin rule consistz of a
.B selector
and an
.B action predicate.
Da RPDB is scanned up in order of decreasin priority. Da selector
of each rule be applied ta {source address, destination address, incoming
interface, tos, fwmark} and, if tha selector matches tha packet,
the action is performed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da action predicate may return wit success.
In dis case, it will either give a route or failure indication
and tha RPDB lookup is terminated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Otherwise, tha RPDB program
continues wit tha next rule.

.P
Semantically, tha natural action is ta select tha nexthop n' tha output device.

.P
At startup time tha kernel configures tha default RPDB consistin of three
rules:

.TP
1.
Priority: 0, Selector: match anything, Action: lookup routing
table
.B local
(ID 255).
The
.B local
table be a special routin table containing
high prioritizzle control routes fo' local n' broadcast addresses.
.sp
Rule 0 is special. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Well shiiiit, it cannot be deleted or overridden.

.TP
2.
Priority: 32766, Selector: match anything, Action: lookup routing
table
.B main
(ID 254).
The
.B main
table is tha aiiight routin table containin all non-policy
routes. This rule may be deleted and/or overridden wit other
ones by tha administrator.

.TP
3.
Priority: 32767, Selector: match anything, Action: lookup routing
table
.B default
(ID 253).
The
.B default
table is empty.  It be reserved fo' some post-processin if no previous
default rulez selected tha packet.
This rule may also be deleted.

.P
Each RPDB entry has additional
attributes.  F.e. each rule has a pointa ta some routing
table.  NAT n' masqueradin rulez have a attribute ta select freshly smoked up IP
address ta translate/masquerade.  Besides that, rulez have some
optionizzle attributes, which routes have, namely
.BR "realms" .
These joints do not override dem contained up in tha routin tables.  They
are only used if tha route did not select any attributes.

.sp
Da RPDB may contain rulez of tha followin types:

.RS
.B unicast
- tha rule prescribes ta return tha route found
in tha routin table referenced by tha rule.

.B blackhole
- tha rule prescribes ta silently drop tha packet.

.B unreachable
- tha rule prescribes ta generate a 'Network is unreachable' error.

.B prohibit
- tha rule prescribes ta generate 'Communication be administratively
prohibited' error.

.B nat
- tha rule prescribes ta translate tha source address
of tha IP packet tha fuck into some other value.
.RE

.TP
.B ip rule add - bang a freshly smoked up rule
.TP
.B ip rule delete - delete a rule
.RS
.TP
.BI type " TYPE " (default)
the type of dis rule.  Da list of valid types was given up in tha previous
subsection.

.TP
.BI from " PREFIX"
select tha source prefix ta match.

.TP
.BI ta " PREFIX"
select tha destination prefix ta match.

.TP
.BI iif " NAME"
select tha incomin thang ta match.  If tha intercourse is loopback,
the rule only matches packets originatin from dis host.  This means
that you may create separate routin tablez fo' forwarded n' local
packets and, hence, straight-up segregate em.

.TP
.BI oif " NAME"
select tha outgoin thang ta match.  Da outgoin intercourse is only
available fo' packets originatin from local sockets dat is bound to
a device.

.TP
.BI tos " TOS"
.TP
.BI dsfield " TOS"
select tha TOS value ta match.

.TP
.BI fwmark " MARK"
select the
.B fwmark
value ta match.

.TP
.BI prioritizzle " PREFERENCE"
the prioritizzle of dis rule.  Each rule should have a explicitly
set
.I unique
prioritizzle value.
Da options preference n' order is synonyms wit priority.

.TP
.BI table " TABLEID"
the routin table identifier ta lookup if tha rule selector matches.
It be also possible ta use lookup instead of table.

.TP
.BI suppress_prefixlength " NUMBER"
reject routin decisions dat gotz a prefix length of NUMBER or less.

.TP
.BI suppress_ifgroup " GROUP"
reject routin decisions dat bust a thang belongin ta tha intercourse
group GROUP.

.TP
.BI realms " FROM/TO"
Realms ta select if tha rule matched n' tha routin table lookup
succeeded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Realm
.I TO
is only used if tha route did not select any realm.

.TP
.BI nat " ADDRESS"
Da base of tha IP address block ta translate (for source addresses).
The
.I ADDRESS
may be either tha start of tha block of NAT addresses (selected by NAT
routes) or a local host address (or even zero).
In tha last case tha routa do not translate tha packets yo, but
masquerades dem ta dis address.
Usin map-to instead of nat means tha same ol' dirty thang.

.B Warning:
Changes ta tha RPDB made wit these commandz do not become active
immediately.  It be assumed dat afta a script finishes a funky-ass batch of
updates, it flushes tha routin cache with
.BR "ip route flush cache" .
.RE
.TP
.B ip rule flush - also dumps all tha deleted rules.
This command has no arguments.
.TP
.B ip rule show - list rules
This command has no arguments.
Da options list or lst is synonyms wit show.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
