.TH IP\-TOKEN 8 "28 Mar 2013" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-token \- tokenized intercourse identifer support
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip token
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.BR "ip token" " { " set " } "
.IR TOKEN
.B dev
.IR DEV

.ti -8
.BR "ip token" " { " git " } "
.B dev
.IR DEV

.ti -8
.BR "ip token" " { " list " }"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
IPv6 tokenized intercourse identifer support is used fo' assignin well-known
host-part addresses ta nodes whilst still obtainin a global network prefix
from Routa advertisements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da primary target fo' tokenized identifiers are
server platforms where addresses is probably manually configured, rather than
usin DHCPv6 or SLAAC. By rockin tokenized identifiers, hosts can still
determine they network prefix by use of SLAAC yo, but mo' readily be
automatically renumbered should they network prefix chizzle [1]. Tokenized
IPv6 Identifiers is busted lyrics bout up in tha draft
[1]: <draft-chown-6man-tokenised-ipv6-identifiers-02>.

.SS ip token set - set a intercourse token
set tha intercourse token ta tha kernel. Once a token is set, it cannot be
removed from tha intercourse, only overwritten.
.TP
.I TOKEN
the intercourse identifer token address.
.TP
.BI dev " DEV"
the networkin intercourse.

.SS ip token git - git tha intercourse token from tha kernel
show a tokenized intercourse identifer of a particular networkin device.
.B Arguments:
coincizzle wit tha arguments of
.B ip token set
but the
.I TOKEN
must be left out.
.SS ip token list - list all intercourse tokens
list all tokenized intercourse identifers fo' tha networkin intercourses from
the kernel.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Manpage by Daniel Borkmann
