.TH IP\-TUNNEL 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-tunnel - tunnel configuration
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B tunnel
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp
.ti -8
.BR "ip tunnel" " { " add " | " chizzle " | " del " | " show " | " prl " }"
.RI "[ " NAME " ]"
.br
.RB "[ " mode
.IR MODE " ] [ "
.B remote
.IR ADDR " ] [ "
.B  local
.IR ADDR " ]"
.br
.RB "[ [" i "|" o "]" seq " ] [ [" i "|" o "]" key
.IR KEY " ] [ "
.RB "[" i "|" o "]" csum " ] ]"
.br
.RB "[ " encaplimit
.IR ELIM " ]"
.RB "[ " ttl
.IR TTL " ]"
.br
.RB "[ " tos
.IR TOS " ] [ "
.B flowlabel
.IR FLOWLABEL " ]"
.br
.RB "[ " prl-default
.IR ADDR " ] [ "
.B prl-nodefault
.IR ADDR " ] [ "
.B prl-delete
.IR ADDR " ]"
.br
.RB "[ [" no "]" pmtudisc " ]"
.RB "[ " dev
.IR PHYS_DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.IR MODE " := "
.RB " { " ipip " | " gre " | " sit " | " isatap " | " ip6ip6 " | " ipip6 " | " ip6gre " | " any " }"

.ti -8
.IR ADDR " := { " IP_ADDRESS " |"
.BR any " }"

.ti -8
.IR TOS " := { " STRING " | " 00 ".." ff " |"
.BR inherit " |"
.BI "inherit/" STRING
.RB "|"
.BI "inherit/" 00 ".." ff
.RB "}"

.ti -8
.IR ELIM " := {"
.BR none " | "
.IR 0 ".." 255 " }"

.ti -8
.ti -8
.IR TTL " := { " 1 ".." 255 " | "
.BR inherit " }"

.ti -8
.IR KEY " := { " DOTTED_QUAD " | " NUMBER " }"

.ti -8
.IR TIME " := " NUMBER "[s|ms]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tunnel
objects is tunnels, encapsulatin packets up in IP packets n' then
sendin dem over tha IP infrastructure.
Da encapsulatin (or outer) address crew is specified by the
.B -f
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is IPv4.

.TP
.B ip tunnel add
add a freshly smoked up tunnel
.TP
.B ip tunnel chizzle
change a existin tunnel
.TP
.B ip tunnel delete
destroy a tunnel
.RS
.TP
.BI name " NAME " (default)
select tha tunnel thang name.

.TP
.BI mode " MODE"
set tha tunnel mode fo' realz. Available modes depend on tha encapsulatin address crew.
.br
Modes fo' IPv4 encapsulation available:
.BR ipip ", " sit ", " isatap " n' " gre "."
.br
Modes fo' IPv6 encapsulation available:
.BR ip6ip6 ", " ipip6 ", " ip6gre ", n' " any "."

.TP
.BI remote " ADDRESS"
set tha remote endpoint of tha tunnel.

.TP
.BI local " ADDRESS"
set tha fixed local address fo' tunneled packets.
It must be a address on another intercourse of dis host.

.TP
.BI ttl " N"
set a gangbangin' fixed TTL
.I N
on tunneled packets.
.I N
is a number up in tha range 1--255. 0 be a special value
meanin dat packets inherit tha TTL value.
Da default value fo' IPv4 tunnels is:
.BR "inherit" .
Da default value fo' IPv6 tunnels is:
.BR "64" .


.TP
.BI tos " T"
.TP
.BI dsfield " T"
.TP
.BI tclass " T"
set tha type of steez (IPv4) or traffic class (IPv6) field on
tunneled packets, which can be specified as either a two-digit
hex value (e.g. c0) or a predefined strang (e.g. internet).
Da value
.B inherit
causes tha field ta be copied from tha original gangsta IP header n' shit. The
values
.BI "inherit/" STRING
or
.BI "inherit/" 00 ".." ff
will set tha field to
.I STRING
or
.IR 00 ".." ff
when tunnelin non-IP packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default value is 00.

.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
bind tha tunnel ta tha device
.I NAME
so dat tunneled packets will only be routed via dis thang n' will
not be able ta escape ta another thang when tha route ta endpoint
changes.

.TP
.B nopmtudisc
disable Path MTU Discovery on dis tunnel.
It be enabled by default.  Note dat a gangbangin' fixed ttl is incompatible
with dis option: tunnelin wit a gangbangin' fixed ttl always make pmtu
discovery.

.TP
.BI key " K"
.TP
.BI ikey " K"
.TP
.BI okey " K"
.RB ( " only GRE tunnels " )
use keyed GRE wit key
.IR K ". " K
is either a number or a IP address-like dotted quad.
The
.B key
parameta sets tha key ta use up in both directions.
The
.BR ikey " n' " okey
parametas set different keys fo' input n' output.

.TP
.BR csum ", " icsum ", " ocsum
.RB ( " only GRE tunnels " )
generate/require checksums fo' tunneled packets.
The
.B ocsum
flag calculates checksums fo' outgoin packets.
The
.B icsum
flag requires dat all input packets have tha erect
checksum.  The
.B csum
flag is equivalent ta tha combination
.BR "icsum ocsum" .

.TP
.BR seq ", " iseq ", " oseq
.RB ( " only GRE tunnels " )
serialize packets.
The
.B oseq
flag enablez sequencin of outgoin packets.
The
.B iseq
flag requires dat all input packets is serialized.
The
.B  seq
flag is equivalent ta tha combination
.BR "iseq oseq" .
.B It aint work. Don't use dat shit.

.TP
.BI encaplim " ELIM"
.RB ( " only IPv6 tunnels " )
set a gangbangin' fixed encapsulation limit.  Default is 4.

.TP
.BI flowlabel " FLOWLABEL"
.RB ( " only IPv6 tunnels " )
set a gangbangin' fixed flowlabel.
.RE

.TP
.B ip tunnel prl
potential routa list (ISATAP only)
.RS
.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
mandatory thang name.

.TP
.BI prl-default " ADDR"
.TP
.BI prl-nodefault " ADDR"
.TP
.BI prl-delete " ADDR"
.RB "Add or delete " ADDR
as a potential routa or default router.
.RE

.TP
.B ip tunnel show
list tunnels
This command has no arguments.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
