.TH "IP\-TCP_METRICS" 8 "23 Aug 2012" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-tcp_metrics \- pimpment fo' TCP Metrics
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B tcp_metrics
.RI "{ " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.BR "ip tcp_metrics" " { " show " | " flush " }
.IR SELECTOR

.ti -8
.BR "ip tcp_metrics delete " [ " address " ]
.IR ADDRESS

.ti -8
.IR SELECTOR " := "
.RB "[ [ " address " ] "
.IR PREFIX " ]"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ip tcp_metrics
is used ta manipulate entries up in tha kernel dat keep TCP shiznit
for IPv4 n' IPv6 destinations. Da entries is pimped when
TCP sockets wanna share shiznit fo' destinations n' are
stored up in a cold-ass lil cache keyed by tha destination address. Da saved
information may include joints fo' metrics (initially obtained from
routes), recent TSVAL fo' TIME-WAIT recyclin purposes, state fo' the
Fast Open feature, etc.
For performizzle reasons tha cache can not grow above configured limit
and tha olda entries is replaced wit fresh shiznit, sometimes
reclaimed n' used fo' freshly smoked up destinations. Da kernel never removes
entries, they can be flushed only wit dis tool.

.SS ip tcp_metrics show - show cached entries

.TP
.BI address " PREFIX " (default)
IPv4/IPv6 prefix or address. If no prefix is provided all entries is shown.

.LP
Da output may contain tha followin shiznit:

.BI age " <S.MMM>" sec
- time afta tha entry was pimped, reset or updated wit metrics
from sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da entry is reset n' refreshed on use wit metrics from
route if tha metrics is not updated up in last hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Not all cached joints
reset tha age on update.

.BI cwnd " <N>"
- CWND metric value

.BI fo_cookie " <HEX-STRING>"
- Cookie value received up in SYN-ACK ta be used by Fast Open fo' next SYNs

.BI fo_mss " <N>"
- MSS value received up in SYN-ACK ta be used by Fast Open fo' next SYNs

.BI fo_syn_drops " <N>/<S.MMM>" "sec ago"
- Number of dropz of initial outgoin Fast Open SYNs wit data
detected by monitorin tha received SYN-ACK afta SYN retransmission.
Da secondz show tha time afta last SYN drop n' together with
the drop count can be used ta disable Fast Open fo' some time.

.BI reorderin " <N>"
- Reorderin metric value

.BI rtt " <N>" us
- RTT metric value

.BI rttvar " <N>" us
- RTTVAR metric value

.BI ssthresh " <SSTHRESH>"
- SSTHRESH metric value

.BI tw_ts " <TSVAL>/<SEC>" "sec ago"
- recent TSVAL n' tha secondz afta savin it tha fuck into TIME-WAIT socket

.SS ip tcp_metrics delete - delete single entry

.TP
.BI address " ADDRESS " (default)
IPv4/IPv6 address. Da address be a required argument.

.SS ip tcp_metrics flush - flush entries
This command flushes tha entries selected by some criteria.

.PP
This command has tha same ol' dirty arguments as
.B show.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
ip tcp_metrics show address 192.168.0.0/24
.RS 4
Shows tha entries fo' destinations from subnet
.RE
.PP
ip tcp_metrics show 192.168.0.0/24
.RS 4
Da same but address keyword is optional
.RE
.PP
ip tcp_metrics
.RS 4
Show all is tha default action
.RE
.PP
ip tcp_metrics delete 192.168.0.1
.RS 4
Removes tha entry fo' 192.168.0.1 from cache.
.RE
.PP
ip tcp_metrics flush 192.168.0.0/24
.RS 4
Removes entries fo' destinations from subnet
.RE
.PP
ip tcp_metrics flush all
.RS 4
Removes all entries from cache
.RE
.PP
ip -6 tcp_metrics flush all
.RS 4
Removes all IPv6 entries from cache keepin tha IPv4 entries.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Julian Anastasov <ja@ssi.bg>
