.TH IP 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
ip \- show / manipulate routing, devices, policy routin n' tunnels
.SH SYNOPSIS

.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " OBJECT " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B ip 
.RB "[ " -force " ] "
.BI "-batch " filename
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OBJECT " := { "
.BR link " | " addr " | " addrlabel " | " route " | " rule " | " neigh " | "\
 ntable " | " tunnel " | " tuntap " | " maddr " | "  mroute " | " mrule " | "\
 monitor " | " xfrm " | " netns " | "  l2tp " | "  tcp_metrics " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] |
\fB\-r\fR[\fIesolve\fR] |
\fB\-f\fR[\fIamily\fR] {
.BR inet " | " inet6 " | " ipx " | " dnet " | " link " } | "
\fB\-o\fR[\fIneline\fR] }


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-V" , " -Version"
Print tha version of the
.B ip
utilitizzle n' exit.

.TP
.BR "\-b", " \-batch " <FILENAME>
Read commandz from provided file or standard input n' invoke em.
First failure will cause termination of ip.

.TP
.BR "\-force"
Don't terminizzle ip on errors up in batch mode.
If there was any errors durin execution of tha commands, tha application return code is ghon be non zero.

.TP
.BR "\-s" , " \-stats" , " \-statistics"
Output mo' shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha option
appears twice or more, tha amount of shiznit increases.
As a rule, tha shiznit is statistics or some time joints.

.TP
.BR "\-l" , " \-loops " <COUNT>
Specify maximum number of loops tha 'ip addr flush' logic
will attempt before givin up.  Da default is 10.
Zero (0) means loop until all addresses is removed.

.TP
.BR "\-f" , " \-family " <FAMILY>
Specifies tha protocol crew ta use. Da protocol crew identifier can be one of
.BR "inet" , " inet6" , " bridge" , " ipx" , " dnet"
or
.BR link .
If dis option aint present,
the protocol crew is guessed from other arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If tha rest
of tha command line do not give enough shiznit ta guess the
family,
.B ip
falls back ta tha default one, usually
.B inet
or
.BR "any" .
.B link
is a special crew identifier meanin dat no networkin protocol
is involved.

.TP
.B \-4
shortcut for
.BR "-family inet" .

.TP
.B \-6
shortcut for
.BR "\-family inet6" .

.TP
.B \-B
shortcut for
.BR "\-family bridge" .

.TP
.B \-D
shortcut for
.BR "\-family decnet" .

.TP
.B \-I
shortcut for
.BR "\-family ipx" .

.TP
.B \-0
shortcut for
.BR "\-family link" .

.TP
.BR "\-o" , " \-oneline"
output each record on a single line, replacin line feeds
with the
.B '\e'
character n' shit. This is convenient when you wanna count records
with
.BR wc (1)
or to
.BR grep (1)
the output.

.TP
.BR "\-r" , " \-resolve"
use tha systemz name resolver ta print DNS names instead of
host addresses.

.SH IP - COMMAND SYNTAX

.SS
.I OBJECT

.TP
.B address
- protocol (IP or IPv6) address on a thugged-out device.

.TP
.B addrlabel
- label configuration fo' protocol address selection.

.TP
.B l2tp
- tunnel ethernet over IP (L2TPv3).

.TP
.B link
- network device.

.TP
.B maddress
- multicast address.

.TP
.B monitor
- peep fo' netlink lyrics.

.TP
.B mroute
- multicast routin cache entry.

.TP
.B mrule
- rule up in multicast routin policy database.

.TP
.B neighbour
- manage ARP or NDISC cache entries.

.TP
.B netns
- manage network namespaces.

.TP
.B ntable
- manage tha neighbor cachez operation.

.TP
.B route
- routin table entry.

.TP
.B rule
- rule up in routin policy database.

.TP
.B tcp_metrics/tcpmetrics
- manage TCP Metrics

.TP
.B tunnel
- tunnel over IP.

.TP
.B tuntap
- manage TUN/TAP devices.

.TP
.B xfrm
- manage IPSec policies.

.PP
Da namez of all objects may be freestyled up in full or
abbreviated form, fo' exampe
.B address
can be abbreviated as
.B addr
or just
.B a.

.SS
.I COMMAND

Specifies tha action ta big-ass up on tha object.
Da set of possible actions dependz on tha object type.
As a rule, it is possible to
.BR "add" , " delete"
and
.B show
(or
.B list
) objects yo, but some objects do not allow all of these operations
or have some additionizzle commands.  The
.B help
command be available fo' all objects, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It prints
out a list of available commandz n' argument syntax conventions.
.sp
If no command is given, some default command be assumed.
Usually it is
.B list
or, if tha objectz of dis class cannot be listed,
.BR "help" .

.SH HISTORY
.B ip
was freestyled by Alexey N. Kuznetsov n' added up in Linux 2.2.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip-address (8),
.BR ip-addrlabel (8),
.BR ip-l2tp (8),
.BR ip-link (8),
.BR ip-maddress (8),
.BR ip-monitor (8),
.BR ip-mroute (8),
.BR ip-neighbour (8),
.BR ip-netns (8),
.BR ip-ntable (8),
.BR ip-route (8),
.BR ip-rule (8),
.BR ip-tcp_metrics (8),
.BR ip-tunnel (8),
.BR ip-xfrm (8)
.br
.RB "IP Command reference " ip-cref.ps
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs ta tha Network Developers mailin list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where tha pimpment n' maintenizzle is primarily done.
Yo ass do not gotta be subscribed ta tha list ta bust a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Original Gangsta Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
