.TH IP6TABLES-RESTORE 8 "Jan 30, 2002" "" ""
.\"
.\" Man page freestyled by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
.\" It be based on tha iptablez playa page.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"	(at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"	Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"	along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
ip6tables-restore \(em Restore IPv6 Tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBip6tables\-restore\fP [\fB\-chntv\fP] [\fB\-M\fP \fImodprobe\fP]
[\fB\-T\fP \fIname\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ip6tables-restore
is used ta restore IPv6 Tablez from data specified on STDIN. Use 
I/O redirection provided by yo' shell ta read from a gangbangin' file
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-counters\fR
restore tha jointz of all packet n' byte counters
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short option summary.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-noflush\fR 
don't flush tha previous contentz of tha table. If not specified,
\fBip6tables-restore\fP flushes (deletes) all previous contentz of the
respectizzle table.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-test\fP
Only parse n' construct tha ruleset yo, but do not commit dat shit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP
Print additionizzle debug info durin ruleset processing.
.TP
\fB\-M\fP, \fB\-\-modprobe\fP \fImodprobe_program\fP
Specify tha path ta tha modprobe program. By default, ip6tables-restore will
inspect /proc/sys/kernel/modprobe ta determine tha executablez path.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP, \fB\-\-table\fP \fIname\fP
Restore only tha named table even if tha input stream gotz nuff other ones.
.B ip6tables-restore
flushes (deletes) all previous contentz of tha respectizzle IPv6 Table.
.SH BUGS
None known az of iptables-1.2.1 release
.SH AUTHORS
Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
.br
Andras Kis-Szabo <kisza@sch.bme.hu>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBip6tables\-save\fP(8), \fBip6tables\fP(8)
.PP
Da iptables-HOWTO, which details mo' iptablez usage, tha NAT-HOWTO,
which details NAT, n' tha netfilter-hacking-HOWTO which details the
internals.
