.\"	@(#) $Id: ipppstats.man.in,v 1.1 1997/10/26 23:08:42 fritz Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 1997/10/26 23:08:42 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ipppstats.8 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps ipppstats.8 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH IPPPSTATS 8 "1997/10/26" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
pppstats \- print PPP statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppstats
[
.B -v
] [
.B -r
] [
.B -c
] [
.B -i
.I <secs>
] [
.I <unit#>
]
.ti 12
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pppstats
prints PPP-related statistics.
.PP
The
.B -v
flag causes
.B pppstats
to display additionizzle statistics, like fuckin tha number of packets tossed
(that is, which tha VJ TCP header decompression code rejected).
.PP
The
.B -r
flag causes
.B pppstats
to display tha overall packet compression rate.  Da rate value is
between 0 n' 1, wit 0 meanin dat tha data is incompressible.
.PP
The
.B -c
flag is used ta specify a alternate display mode dat shows
packet compression statistics: tha number of packets n' bytes
uncompressed (that is, before compression or afta decompression),
compressed, n' incompressible (packets which did not shrink on
compression n' was transmitted uncompressed), n' tha recent
compression rate.  This rate reflects tha recent performizzle of the
compression code rather than tha overall rate  bigged up  since
compression was enabled.
.PP
The
.B -i
flag is used ta specify tha interval between printouts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da default is
5 seconds.
.PP
<unit#> specifies which intercourse ta use fo' gatherin statistics.
