.TH IPTABLES-SAVE 8 "Jan 04, 2001" "" ""
.\"
.\" Man page freestyled by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
.\" It be based on tha iptablez playa page.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\"	(at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\"	Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\"	along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
iptables-save \(em dump iptablez rulez ta stdout
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBiptables\-save\fP [\fB\-M\fP \fImodprobe\fP] [\fB\-c\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fItable\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B iptables-save
is used ta dump tha contentz of a IP Table up in easily parseable format
to STDOUT. Use I/O-redirection provided by yo' shell ta write ta a gangbangin' file.
.TP
\fB\-M\fP \fImodprobe_program\fP
Specify tha path ta tha modprobe program. By default, iptables-save will
inspect /proc/sys/kernel/modprobe ta determine tha executablez path.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-counters\fR
include tha current jointz of all packet n' byte countas up in tha output
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-table\fR \fItablename\fP
restrict output ta only one table. If not specified, output includes all
available tables.
.SH BUGS
None known az of iptables-1.2.1 release
.SH AUTHOR
Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBiptables\-restore\fP(8), \fBiptables\fP(8)
.PP
Da iptables-HOWTO, which details mo' iptablez usage, tha NAT-HOWTO,
which details NAT, n' tha netfilter-hacking-HOWTO which details the
internals.
