.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii iptstate.8
.\"
.TH IPTSTATE 8 "JUNE 2012" "" ""
.\"
.\" Man page freestyled by Phil Dibowitz <phil AT ipom DOT com>
.\"
.\" IPTState is copyright by Phil Dibowitz. Please peep tha README n' LICENSE.
.\"
.SH NAME 
.B iptstate
\- A top-like display of IP Tablez state table entries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iptstate 
.RB [< options >]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iptstate
displays shiznit held up in tha IP Tablez state table up in real-time up in a top-like format.
Output can be sorted by any field, or any field reversed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Users can chizzle ta have tha output only print once n' exit, rather than tha top-like system. Refresh rate is configurable, IPs can be resolved ta names, output can be formatted, tha display can be filtered, n' color codin is among a shitload of tha nuff features.

.SH COMMAND\-LINE OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --no-color
Toggle color-code by protocol
.TP
.B -C, --counters
Toggle display of bytes/packets counters
.TP
.B -d, --dst-filta \fIIP\fP
Only show states wit a thugged-out destination of \fIIP\fP
Note, dat dis must be a IP, hostname matchin aint yet supported.
.TP
.B -D --dstpt-filta \fIport\fP
Only show states wit a thugged-out destination port of \fIport\fP
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help message
.TP
.B -l, --lookup
Show hostnames instead of IP addresses
.TP
.B -m, --mark-truncated
Mark truncated hostnames wit a '+'
.TP
.B -o, --no-dynamic
Toggle dynamic formatting
.TP
.B -L, --no-dns
Skip outgoin DNS lookup states
.TP
.B -f, --no-loopback
Filta states on loopback
.TP
.B -p, --no-scroll
No scrollin (don't bust a "pad"). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBSCROLLING AND PADS\fP fo' mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B -r, --reverse
Reverse sort order
.TP
.B -R, --rate \fIseconds\fP
Refresh rate, followed by rate up in \fIseconds\fP. Note dat dis is fo' statetop mode, n' not applicable fo' single-run mode (\-\-single).
.TP
.B -1, --single
Single run (no curses)
.TP
.B -b, --sort \fIcolumn\fP
This determines what tha fuck column ta sort by. Options:
.br
.B "	S"
Source Port
.br
.B "	d"
Destination IP (or Name)
.br
.B "	D"
Destination Port
.br
.B "	p"
Protocol
.br
.B "	s"
State
.br
.B "	t"
TTL
.br
.B "	b"
Bytes
.br
.B "	P"
Packets
.br
To sort by Source IP (or Name), don't use \-b. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sortin by bytes/packets is only available fo' kernels dat support it, n' only when compiled against libnetfilter_conntrack (the default).
.TP
.B -s, --src-filta \fIIP\fP
Only show states wit a source of \fIIP\fP. Note, dat dis must be a IP, hostname matchin aint yet supported.
.TP
.B -S, --srcpt-filta \fIport\fP
Only show states wit a source port of \fIport\fP
.TP
.B -t, --totals
Toggle display of totals

.SH INTERACTIVE OPTIONS
Az of version 2.0, all command-line options is now available interactively rockin tha same key as tha short-option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, \fB--sort\fP be also \fB-b\fP, so while \fBiptstate\fP is hustlin, hittin \fBb\fP will chizzle tha sortin ta tha next column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Similarly, \fBt\fP togglez tha display of totals, n' so on.
.PP
There is also extra interactizzle options: \fBB\fP - chizzle sortin ta previous column (opposite of \fBb\fP); \fBq\fP - quit; n' \fBx\fP - delete tha currently highlighted state from tha netfilta conntrack table.
.PP
Additionally, tha followin keys is used ta navigate within \fBiptstate\fP:
.TP
\fBUp\fP or \fBj\fP - Move up one line
.TP
\fBDown\fP or \fBk\fP - Move down one line
.TP
\fBLeft\fP or \fBh\fP - Move left one column
.TP
\fBRight\fP or \fBl\fP - Move right one column
.TP
\fBPageUp\fP or \fB^u\fP - Move up one page
.TP
\fBPageDown\fP or \fB^d\fP - Move down one page
.TP
\fBHome\fP - Go ta tha top
.TP
\fBEnd\fP - Go ta tha end
.PP
In nuff cases, \fBiptstate\fP need ta prompt you up in order ta chizzle something. For example, if you wanna set or chizzle tha source-ip filter, when you hit \fBs\fP, \fBiptstate\fP will pop up a prompt all up in tha top of tha window ta ask you what tha fuck you wanna set it to.
.PP
Note dat like nuff UNIX applications, ctrl-G will tell \fBiptstate\fP "nevermind" - it'll remove tha prompt n' forget you eva hit \fBs\fP.
.PP
In most cases, a funky-ass blank response means "clear" - clear tha source IP filter, fo' example.
.PP
At anytime while \fBiptstate\fP is hustlin, you can hit \fBh\fP ta git ta tha \fBinteractizzle help\fP which will display all tha current settings ta you as well hit you wit a list of all interactizzle commandz available.
.PP
While hustlin, \fBspace\fP will immediately update tha display. \fBIptstate\fP should gracefully handle all window resizes yo, but if it don't, you can force it ta re-calculate n' re-draw tha screen wit a \fBctrl-L\fP.

.SH SCROLLING AND PADS
For almost any user, there is no reason ta turn off scrolling. Da mobilitizzle ta turn dis off - n' especially tha mobilitizzle ta toggle dis interactively - is done mo' fo' theoretical completenizz than anythang else.
.TP
But, nonetheless, here is tha details. Typically up in a cold-ass lil curses application you create a "window." Windows don't scroll, however n' shit. They are, at most, tha size of yo' terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Windows provide double-bufferin ta make refreshin as fast n' seemless as possible. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat ta enable scrolling, one has ta use "pads" instead of windows. Padz can be bigger than tha current terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Then all necessary data is freestyled ta tha pad, n' "scrolling" becomes a gangbangin' function of just showin tha right part of dat pad on tha screen.
.TP
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat padz aint gots tha double-bufferin feature dat windows have. Thus, there _might_ be some case where fo' some user rockin some straight-up strange machine, havin scrollin enabled could cause skanky refreshing. Given tha nature of tha way \fBiptstate\fP uses tha screen though, I find dis highly unlikely. In addition, tha scrollin method uses a lil mo' memory. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat \fBiptstate\fP aint a memory intensive application, so dis shouldn't be a problem even on low-memory systems.
.TP
Nonetheless, if dis do negatively affect you, tha option ta turn it off is there.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Anythang other than 0 indicates n' error fo' realz. A list of current exit statuses is below:
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Wack command-line arguments
.TP
.B 2
Error communicatin wit tha netfilta subsystem.
.TP
.B 3
Terminal too narrow

.SH BUGS
Us dudes don't support filterin on resolved names, n' our phat asses don't support filterin on networks. IPv6 support is freshly smoked up n' tha dynamic formattin don't yet always handle IPv6 addresses as well as it should.

.SH BUG REPORTS
All bugs should be reported ta Phil Dibowitz <phil AT ipom DOT com>. Please peep tha \fBREADME\fR n' \fBBUGS\fR fo' mo' shiznit on bug reports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Please read tha \fBWISHLIST\fR before bustin  up in features you hope ta see.  

.SH NOTES
\fBiptstate\fP do a shitload of work ta try ta fit every last muthafuckin thang on tha screen up in a easy as fuck -to-read way. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat up in some cases, hostnames may need ta be truncated (in lookup mode). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Similarly, IPv6 addresses may need ta be truncated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da truncation of names happens from tha right fo' source cuz you most likely know yo' own domain name, n' from tha left fo' destination cuz knowin yo' playas is connection ta "mail.a." don't help much. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat fo' addresses, dis is reversed.
.PP
\fBiptstate\fP do not automatically handle window-resizes while up in tha \fBinteractizzle help\fP screen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you do resize while up in dis window, you should return ta tha main window, hit \fBctrl-L\fP ta re-calculate n' re-draw tha screen, n' then, if you chizzle, return ta tha \fBinteractizzle help\fP.
.PP
\fBiptstate\fP currently uses libnetfilter_conntrack ta access tha netfilta connection state table. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat olda versions read outta /proc/net/ip_conntrack, n' tha current version can still be compiled ta do all dis bullshit. This deprecated method can be racy on SMP systems, n' can hurt performizzle on straight-up heavily loaded firewalls. This deprecated method should be avoided - support is ghon be removed up in future versions.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iptablez (8)
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
\fBiptstate\fP was freestyled by Phil Dibowitz <phil AT ipom DOT com>
.br
http://www.phildev.net/iptstate/
