.TH ISCSISTART 8 "Jan 2010" "" "Linux Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
iscsistart \- iSCSI boot tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI iscsistart
[OPTION]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B iscsistart
will start a session rockin tha settings passed in, or
usin tha iBFT or Open Firmware [OF] boot shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This program should
not be run ta manage sessions. Its primary use is ta start
sessions used fo' iSCSI root boot.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI [-i|--initiatorname=]\fIname\fP
Set InitiatorName ta name (Required if not rockin iBFT or OF)
.TP
.BI [-t|--targetname=]\fIname\fP
Set TargetName ta name (Required if not rockin iBFT or OF)
.TP
.BI [-g|--tgpt=]\fIN\fP
Set target portal crew tag ta N (Required if not rockin iBFT or OF)
.TP
.BI [-a|--address=]\fIA.B.C.D\fP
Set IP addres ta A.B.C.D (Required if not rockin iBFT or OF)
.TP
.BI [-p|--port=]\fIN\fP
Set port ta N (Optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Default 3260)
.TP
.BI [-u|--username=]\fIN\fP
Set username ta N (Optional)
.TP
.BI [-w|--password=]\fIN\fP
Set password ta N (Optional)
.TP
.BI [-U|-username_in=]\fIN\fP
Set incomin username ta N (Optional)
.TP
.BI [-W|--password_in=]\fIN\fP
Set incomin password ta N (Optional)
.TP
.BI [-d|--debug=]\fIdebug_level\fP
Print debuggin shiznit
.TP
.BI [-b|--fwparam_connect]
Smoke a session ta tha target rockin tha iBFT or OF info
.TP
.BI [-N|--fwparam_network]
Brin up tha network as specified by iBFT or OF
.TP
.BI [-f|--fwparam_print]
Print tha iBFT or OF info ta STDOUT
.TP
.BI [-P|--param=]\fINAME=VALUE\fP
Set tha parameta wit tha name NAME ta VALUE. NAME is one of tha settings
in tha node record or iscsid.conf. Multiple params can be passed in.
.TP
.BI [-h|--help]
Display dis help n' exit
.TP
.BI [-v|--version]
Display version n' exit


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iscsiadm (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Open-iSCSI project <http://www.open-iscsi.org/>
.br
Mike Christie <mchristi@redhat.com>
