.TH ISCSID 8 "July 2005" "" "Linux Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
iscsid \- Open-iSCSI daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI iscsid
[OPTION]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B iscsid
implements tha control path of iSCSI protocol, plus some pimpment
facilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! For example, tha daemon could be configured ta automatically 
re-start discovery at startup, based on tha contentz of persistent 
iSCSI database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI [-c|--config=]\fIconfig\-file\fP
Read configuration from \fIconfig\-file\fR rather than tha default
\fI/etc/iscsi/iscsid.conf\fR file.
.TP
.BI [-i|--initiatorname=]\fIiname\-file\fP
Read initiator name from \fIiname\-file\fR rather than tha default
\fI/etc/iscsi/initiatorname.iscsi\fR file.
.TP
.BI [-f|--foreground]
run
.B iscsid
in tha foreground.
.TP
.BI [-d|--debug=]\fIdebug_level\fP
print debuggin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints fo' debug_level is 0 ta 8.
.TP
.BI [-u|--uid=]\fIuid\fP
run under user ID \fIuid\fR (default is tha current user ID)
.TP
.BI [-g|--gid=]\fIgid\fP
run under user crew ID \fIgid\fR (default is tha current user crew ID).
.TP
.BI [-n|--no-pid-file]\fP
do not write a process ID file.
.TP
.BI [-p|--pid=]\fIpid\-file\fP
write process ID ta \fIpid\-file\fR rather than tha default
\fI/var/run/iscsid.pid\fR
.TP
.BI [-h|--help]
display dis help n' exit
.TP
.BI [-v|--version]
display version n' exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/iscsi/iscsid.conf
Da configuration file read by
.B iscsid
and
.B iscsiadm
on startup.
.TP
/etc/iscsi/initiatorname.iscsi
Da file containin tha iSCSI initiatorname
and initiatoralias read by
.B iscsid
and
.B iscsiadm
on startup.
.TP
/etc/iscsi/nodes
Open-iSCSI persistent configuration database

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iscsiadm (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Open-iSCSI project <http://www.open-iscsi.org/>
.br
Alex Aizman <itn780@yahoo.com>
.br
Dmitry Yusupov <dmitry_yus@yahoo.com>
