.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Broadcom Corporation
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" bnx2.4,v 0.7.8.1b
.\"
.TH iscsiuio 8 "12/10/2013" "Broadcom Corporation"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iscsiuio \- iSCSI UserSpace I/O driver
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iscsiuio
.RB [ -d -f -v ]
.PP
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
iscsiuio is tha UserSpace I/O driver fo' tha Broadcom NetXtreme Pt II
BCM5706/5708/5709 series PCI/PCI-X Gigabit Ethernet Network Interface Card
(NIC) n' fo' tha Broadcom NetXtreme Pt II BCM57710/57711/57712/57800/57810/57840
series PCI-E 10 Gigabit Ethernet Network Interface Card.
Da driver has been tested on 2.6.28 kernels n' above.
.PP
Refer ta tha README.TXT from tha driver package on how tha fuck to
compile n' install tha driver.
.PP
Refer ta various Linux documentations
on how tha fuck ta configure network protocol n' address.
.\"
.\" DRIVER DEPENDENCIES part
.\"
.SH DRIVER DEPENDENCIES

.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
There is straight-up few parametas when hustlin dis application.
.TP
.BI -d <debug level>
This is ta enable debug mode where debug lyrics is ghon be busted ta stdout
Da followin debug modes is supported
.P
.RS
DEBUG         4 - Print all lyrics
.P
INFO          3 - Print lyrics needed ta follow tha uIP code (default)
.P
WARN          2 - Print warnin lyrics
.P
ERROR         1 - Only print critical errors
.RE
.PP
.TP
.TP
.BI -f
This is ta enable forground mode so dat dis application don't git sent
into tha background.
.PP
.TP
.BI -v
This is ta print tha version.
.PP
.TP
.BI -p <pidfile>
Use pidfile (default  /var/run/iscsiuio.pid )
.PP
.TP
.BI -h
Display dis help n' exit.


.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Li \- benli@broadcom.com
.P
Eddie Wai \- eddie.wai@broadcom.com
