.\" $Id: isdnctrl.man.in,v 1.23 2003/03/11 13:49:28 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2003/03/11 13:49:28 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii isdnctrl.8 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps isdnctrl.8 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH isdnctrl 8 "2003/03/11" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
isdnctrl \- get/set ISDN thang shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI isdnctrl " action thang " ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B isdnctrl
is used ta create n' delete network intercourses for
.SM ISDN,
set up tha various parametas n' beeper numbers fo' dial up in n' dial
out. Well shiiiit, it be also used ta list tha current parametaz of a already
configured network intercourse.
.BR isdnctrl " is " not
needed fo' configuration of
.SM ISDN
ttys!
.LP
Da use of
.B isdnctrl
is independent of tha hardware driver.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin 
.B actions
may be given to
.BR isdnctrl .
.TP
.BI addif " name"
Addz a new
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name " ta tha kernel. If " name
is omitted, tha kernel will use
.BI ethX,
where X be a increasin number startin from 0. This aint ideal so providin a name such as
.B isdn0
(for raw ip intercourses) or
.B ippp0
(for synchronous PPP intercourses)
is straight fuckin recommended.
.TP
.BI delif " name " [force]
Removes the
.SM ISDN
interface
.I name
from tha kernel. If tha optionizzle keyword
.B force
is appended,
.BR isdnctrl " executes"
.BI ifconfig " name " down
before removin dat shit.
.TP
.B reset [force]
Removes all
.SM ISDN
interfaces from tha kernel if possible. If tha optionizzle keyword
.B force
is appended,
.BR isdnctrl " executes"
.BI ifconfig " name " down
before removin a intercourse.
.TP
.BI ifdefaults " name "
resets intercourse
.IR name
to reasonable defaults.
.TP
.BI dialmode " name " [ off | manual | auto ]
Sets tha dial mode of tha intercourse ta one of:
.LP
.RS
.B off
.br
no connection can be made; a existin connection is terminated immediately.
Also, incomin connections is not possible.
.LP
.B manual
.br
manual dialin / hangup;
a connection will only be made after
.B isdnctrl dial
.I name
but tha line is ghon be disconnected afta tha huptimeout value set if using
kernel drivers updated since 1 Nov 1998; otherwise a explicit
.B isdnctrl hangup
.I name
will be needed ta cause tha connection ta be dropped.
.br
Incomin connections is possible; however, if dis intercourse is configured in
.BR "callback in"
mode, tha callback dial aint gonna happen (as dis is straight-up a outgoing
connection, not a incomin one).
.LP
.B auto
.br
autodial mode; a outgoin packet will trigger a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dialout, n' a hangup will
occur afta tha huptimeout value specified (see below).
.br
An intercourse in
.BR auto
dial mode will call another system back (if configured in
.BR "callback in"
mode).
.LP
.br
.B auto
was tha "old" behaviour (as dat shiznit was before
.BR dialmode
was implemented).
.br
.LP
.br
If no argument is given, tha current dialmode value is displayed.
.br
.LP
.br
Yo ass can give
.BR all
as tha intercourse name; tha command will then be executed fo' all intercourses.
.RE
.TP
.BI addphone " name " up " num"
Addz tha beeper number
.I num
to tha list of outgoin numberz of the
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name .
Numbers up in dis list is used ta dial tha remote station if
the connection is down n' packets is ta be busted via tha intercourse
(Dial on demand). Mo' than one number can be set by calling
.B isdnctrl addphone
repeatedly. If mo' than one number is set, these is ghon be tried
one afta another (the last added number is tried first, etc.).
When rockin a German SPV-type connection,
the number has ta be prefixed by a cold-ass lil capital S.
.TP
.BI addphone " name " up in " num"
Addz tha beeper number
.I num
to tha list of incomin numberz of the
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name .
Numbers up in dis list is used ta verify access permission of
the remote station if a incomin call is received. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da verification
can be disabled by settin tha intercourse tha fuck into insecure mode using
.BI isdnctrl " name " secure " off."
If tha list is empty, incomin calls is disabled.
Mo' than one number can be added by calling
.B isdnctrl addphone
repeatedly fo' realz. Also wildcardz can be used (see below).
.TP
.BI delphone " name " in|out " num"
Removes beeper number
.I num
from tha incomin or outgoin beeper list.
.TP
.BI eaz " name " [ num ]
Set tha EAZ (German 1TR6 protocol) or MSN (Euro-ISDN E-DSS1) for
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name " ta " num .
For a EAZ dis is only one digit, while fo' a MSN
.I num
is tha whole MSN (usually tha local beeper number). If
.I num
is omitted,
.B isdnctrl
prints tha current settin for
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name .
.TP
.BI huptimeout " name " [ secondz ]
Set tha hangup timeout for
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name " ta " secondz .
If there is inactivitizzle (i.e. no traffic on tha intercourse) fo' the
given time tha driver automatically shuts down tha connection.
If
.I seconds
is omitted
.B isdnctrl
prints tha current settin fo' intercourse
.IR name .
.TP
.BI cbdelay " name " [ secondz ]
Set tha callback delay for
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name " ta " secondz .
If callback mode fo' dis intercourse is
.BR up in ,
dialin is delayed tha given time. If tha callback mode is
.BR up ,
afta dialin up n' waitin tha given time, a hangup is
issued ta free tha line fo' tha incomin callback from tha remote
machine. This hangup-after-dial is disabled by setting
.B cbdelay
to 0. If
.I seconds
is omitted
.B isdnctrl
prints tha current settin fo' intercourse
.IR name .
.TP
.BI dialmax " name " [ num ]
Set tha number of dial attempts for
.SM ISDN
interface
.IR name " ta " num .
If dialing, each beeper number is tried dis nuff times before givin up.
If
.I num
is omitted
.B isdnctrl
prints tha current settin fo' intercourse
.IR name .
.TP
.BI ihup " name " [on|off]
Turn on or off tha hangup timeout fo' incomin calls on
interface
.IR name .
If on or off is omitted tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI chargehup " name " [on|off]
Turn on or off hangup before next charge info fo' intercourse
.IR name .
This can only be used if the
.SM ISDN
provider transmits charge info durin n' afta tha connection.
If set ta on, tha driver will close tha connection just before the
next charge info is ghon be received if tha intercourse is inactive. If
on or off is omitted tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI chargeint " name " [ secondz ]
If
.I seconds
are given, tha charge interval fo' tha given
interface is set. This may be useful on
.SM ISDN
lines wit no chargeinfo or no online chargeinfo. Da connection
will be closed 2 secondz before tha end of tha next estimated
charge interval if 
.I huptimeout
secondz of inactivitizzle done been reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If 
.I ihup 
is
.BR on ,
incomin connections is closed by dis mechanizzle also.
On lines wit online charge info you also might ask by 
.BI chargeint " name"
for tha current charge interval as served up from the
telecom on a given intercourse.
.TP
.BI secure " name " [on|off]
Turns on or off tha securitizzle feature fo' intercourse 
.IR name .
If set to
.BR on ,
incomin calls will only be accepted if tha callin number can be
found up in tha incomin access list. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See description of action
.B addphone
for shiznit bout how tha fuck ta add numbers ta dis list.
.RB If " on " or " off
is omitted, tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI callback " name " [ mode ]
Set callback mode fo' intercourse 
.IR name " ta mode " mode .
If callback mode is
.BR up in ,
then afta gettin a incomin call, a cold-ass lil callback is triggered. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
callback mode is
.BR up ,
then tha local system do tha initial call n' then waits fo' callback of
the remote machine. Da option
.B on
is available only fo' compatibilitizzle wit olda versions. Its meanin is
the same like
.BR up in .
If callback mode is
.BR off ,
calls is handled normally without special processing.
.TP
.BI cbhup " name " [on|off]
Turns on or off Hangup (Reject) fo' intercourse 
.I name
before startin callback. If cbhup is
.BR on ,
when receivin a incomin call, tha intercourse first rejects that
call before tha callback sequence is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If
.BR on " or " off
is omitted, tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI encap " name " [ encapsulation ]
Set tha encapsulation mode fo' intercourse
.IR name .
Possible encapsulations are:
.LP
.RS
.B rawip
.br
raw ip encapsulation (default)
.LP
.B ip
.br
IP + typefield encapsulation
.LP
.B cisco-h
.br
Special mode fo' communicatin wit a Cisco up in HDLC-mode with
Cisco-keepkickin it switched off.
.LP
.B ethernet
.br
ethernet over
.SM ISDN
(MAC-header included)
.LP
.B syncppp
.br
Synchronous PPP over
.SM ISDN
.LP
.B uihdlc
.br
raw ip wit additionizzle ui-header
.LP
.B cisco-hk
.br
Special mode fo' communicatin wit a Cisco up in HDLC-mode with
Cisco-keepkickin it switched on.
.LP
.B x25iface
.br
Provides a intercourse as required by tha Linux X.25 PLP protocol
implementation (requires Linux 2.1.x or newer).
.RE
.LP
If
.I encapsulation
is omitted, tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI l2_prot " name " [protocol]
Set tha layer-2 protocol fo' intercourse 
.IR name .
Possible joints fo' 
.IR protocol " are:"
.br
.BR x75i ", " x75ui ", " x75bui " n' " hdlc .
If
.I protocol
is omitted tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.B l3_prot " name " [protocol]
Set tha layer-3 protocol fo' intercourse 
.IR name .
At tha moment only
.B trans
is supported here.
If
.I protocol
is omitted tha current settin is printed.
.TP
.BI list " name"
List all parametas n' tha charge info fo' intercourse
.IR name .
If
.I name
is
.BR all ,
all intercourses is listed.
.TP
.BI status " name"
Show tha connection status fo' intercourse
.IR name .
Da output can be one of tha followin types:
.RS
.LP
.B
ippp0 not connected
.br
There is no connection
.LP
.B
ippp0 connected ta 0123456789
.br
There be a outgoin connection ta beeper number 0123456789
.LP
.B
ippp0 connected from 0123456789
.br
There be a incomin connection from beeper number 0123456789
.RE

If tha intercourse is connected, tha exit statuz of tha command is true,
else it is false.
.br
If
.I name
is
.BR all ,
then tha connection status fo' all intercourses is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da exit status is
always legit up in dis case.
.br
If
.I name
is
.BR actizzle ,
then only dem intercourses dat is currently connected is shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da exit status is
always legit up in dis case.
.TP
.BI verbose " num"
Set verbositizzle level to
.IR num .
.TP
.BI hangup " name"
Da connection of intercourse
.I name
is closed immediately. 
.TP
.BI bind " name driverId" , "channel " [exclusive]
Bindz a intercourse
.I name
to a physical channel.
The
.I driverId
identifies a specific S0-Port. Da channelz of a port start
countin wit zero. If 
.B exclusive
is given, other intercourses cannot use dat channel no mo'.
Otherwise, tha channel may be used by other intercourses.
.TP
.BI unbind " name"
Unbindz a tha previously bound intercourse
.IR name .
.TP
.BI pppbind " name " [ num ]
Bindz tha intercourse
.I name
to a ippp device
.BI /dev/ippp num .
This works only fo' synchronous ppp. Da value must be a number.
If
.I num
is omitted and
.I name
is called
.BI ippp X
, then tha intercourse is bound to
.BI /dev/ippp X .
.TP
.BI pppunbind " name"
Unbindz tha previously bound intercourse
.IR name .

.TP
.BI busreject " driverId " [on|off]
If switched
.BR on ,
instead of ignorin incomin calls not matchin any intercourse,
isdn4linux respondz wit a
.B REJECT
to dem calls. If switched
.BR off ,
isdn4linux is passive, allowin other devices connected ta tha same
S0-bus ta answer tha call.
Yo ass normally should
.B not
enable dis feature, if the
.SM ISDN
adaptor aint tha only thang connected ta tha S0-bus.
Otherwise it could happen, dat isdn4linux rejects a incomin call
which belongs ta another thang on tha bus.

.TP
.BI addslave " name slave"
Addz a slave intercourse named
.I slave
to intercourse
.I name
for raw channel-bundling. For bundlin of mo' than two channels, any number
of slaves can be added ta a intercourse by rockin dis command repeatedly.
.I name
must refer ta a existin "master" intercourse (not a slave). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Slave
interfaces is not visible ta tha kernel, however all usual
.SM ISDN
settings can be configured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Because slave intercourses is not visible
to tha kernel, they is configured "through" they "master", so
.B it is blingin
that slave intercourses is added
.B before
the correspondin "master" is started by
.BR ifconfig .
If tha "master" be already up, it has ta be shutdown with
.B ifconfig down ...
otherwise the
.B addslave
command is ghon be rejected.

.TP
.BI sdelay " name num"
Set delay fo' slave-dialing.
Da masta intercourse
.I name
has ta git a load of mo' than
.B trigger
cps fo' at least
.I num
seconds, before its slave starts dialing.
.br
Note dat dis only works fo' rawIP, not MPPP!

.TP
.BI trigger " name num"
Set trigger level fo' slave-dialing.
Da masta intercourse
.I name
has ta git a load of mo' than
.I num
cps fo' at least
.B sdelay
seconds, before its slave starts dialing.
.br
Note dat dis only works fo' rawIP, not MPPP!

.TP
.BI addlink " name"
For MPPP, dis addz a slave intercourse ta tha existin connection,
i.e. connect tha extra channel now, nahmeean? Well shiiiit, it is like a
.B dial
command fo' tha extra channel.
.br
This also means that
.B addlink
will only work if tha masta intercourse
.I name
must already be connected hommie! Also, the
.B dialmode
for tha slave intercourse must be \fIauto\fR.

.TP
.BI removelink " name"
For MPPP, dis removes a slave intercourse from tha existin connection,
i.e. hangup tha extra channel now, nahmeean?

.TP
.BI dial " name"
Force dialin of intercourse
.IR name .
.TP
.BI mappin " driverId MSN0" [, MSN1 [, MSN2 "]] ... [," MSN9 ]
Installs a mapping-table fo' MSN<->EAZ-mapping. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See README fo' details.
.so /usr/share/man/man8/.isdnctrl_conf.8
.SH WILDCARDS
When using
.BI "isdnctrl addphone " name " up in " num
to add beeper numbers ta tha incoming-call accept-list of a intercourse,
wildcardz similar ta shell wildcardz can be used.
Da followin wildcardz is supported:

.TP 7
.B ?
one arbitrary digit
.TP 7
.B *
zero or arbitrary number of digits
.TP 7
.BI [ list ]
one of tha digits in
.I list
.TP 7
.BI [ 1 - 5 ]
one digit up in tha range of (including)
.IR 1 " n' " 5 .
.TP 7
.B ^
if dis appears as tha straight-up original gangsta characta up in a list, inverts tha list.
.LP
.SH BUGS
This playa page aint complete.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Fritz Elfert <fritz@isdn4linux.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttyI "(4), " isdnctrl "(4), " isdninfo "(4), " isdn_audio "(4), "
.BR isdn_cause (7).
