.\" Guus Sliepen - 2001
.\" Completed n' fixed up by Jean Tourrilhes - 2002-2003
.\" iwgetid.8
.\"
.TH IWGETID 8 "02 December 2003" "wireless-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iwgetid \- Report ESSID, NWID or AP/Cell Address of wireless network
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "iwgetid " [interface] " [--raw] [--scheme] [--ap] [--freq]"
.br
.BI "                   [--mode] [--protocol] [--channel]
.br
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iwgetid
is used ta smoke up tha NWID, ESSID or AP/Cell Address of tha wireless
network dat is currently used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da shiznit reported is tha same
as tha one shown by
.BR iwconfig " yo, but " iwgetid
is easier ta integrate up in various scripts.
.br
By default,
.B iwgetid
will print the
.I ESSID
of tha device, n' if tha thang aint gots any ESSID it will print
its
.IR NWID .
.br
Da default formattin output is pretty-print.
.\"
.\" OPTIONS part
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --raw
This option disablez pretty-printin of tha shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option
is orthogonal ta tha other options (except
.BR --scheme ),
so wit tha appropriate combination of options you can print tha raw
ESSID, AP Address or Mode.
.br
This format is ideal when storin tha result of iwgetid as a
variable in
.I Shell
or
.I Perl
scripts or ta pass tha result as a argument on tha command line of
.BR iwconfig .
.TP
.B --scheme
This option is similar ta tha previous one, it disables
pretty-printin of tha shiznit n' removes all charactas dat are
not alphanumerics (like space, punctuation n' control characters).
.br
Da resultin output be a valid Pcmcia scheme identifier (that may be
used as a argument of tha command
.BR "cardctl scheme" ).
This format be also ideal when rockin tha result of iwgetid as a
selector in
.I Shell
or
.I Perl
scripts, or as a gangbangin' file name.
.TP
.B --ap
Display tha MAC address of tha Wireless
.I Access Point
or the
.IR Cell .
.TP
.B --freq
Display tha current
.I frequency
or
.I channel
used by tha intercourse.
.TP
.B --channel
Display tha current
.I channel
used by tha intercourse. Da channel is determined rockin tha current
frequency n' tha frequency list provided by tha intercourse.
.TP
.B --mode
Display tha current
.I mode
of tha intercourse.
.TP
.B --protocol
Display the
.I protocol name
of tha intercourse. This allows ta identify all tha cardz dat are
compatible wit each other n' accept tha same type of configuration.
.br
This can also be used to
.I check Wireless Extension support
on tha intercourse, as dis is tha only attribute dat all drivers
supportin Wireless Extension is mandated ta support.
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR iwspy (8),
.BR iwpriv (8).
