.\" Jean Pt II - HPLB - 96
.\" iwlist.8
.\"
.TH IWLIST 8 "13 April 2006" "wireless-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iwlist \- Git mo' detailed wireless shiznit from a wireless intercourse
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] scanning"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] frequency"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] rate"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] keys"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] power"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] txpower"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] retry"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] event"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] auth"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] wpakeys"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] genie"
.br
.BI "iwlist [" intercourse "] modulation"
.br
.BI "iwlist --help"
.br
.BI "iwlist --version"
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Iwlist
is used ta display some additionizzle shiznit from a wireless network
interface dat aint displayed by
.IR iwconfig (8).
Da main argument is used
to select a cold-ass lil category of shiznit,
.B iwlist
displays up in detailed form all shiznit related ta dis category,
includin shiznit already shown by
.IR iwconfig (8).
.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BR scan [ning]
Give tha list of Access Points n' Ad-Hoc cells up in range, and
optionally a whole bunch of shiznit bout dem (ESSID, Quality,
Frequency, Mode...). Da type of shiznit returned dependz on what
the card supports.
.br
Triggerin scannin be a privileged operation
.RI ( root
only) n' aiiight playas can only read left-over scan thangs up in dis biatch. By
default, tha way scannin is done (the scope of tha scan) is dependant
on tha card n' card settings.
.br
This command take optionizzle arguments, however most drivers will ignore
those. Da option
.B essid
is used ta specify a scan on a specific ESSID. Da option
.B last
do not trigger a scan n' read left-over scan thangs up in dis biatch.
.TP
.BR freq [uency]/ channel
Give tha list of available frequencies up in tha thang n' tha number of
defined channels. Please note dat probably tha driver returns the
total number of channels n' only tha frequencies available up in the
present locale, so there is no one-to-one mappin between frequencies
displayed n' channel numbers.
.TP
.BR rate / bit [rate]
List tha bit-rates supported by tha device.
.TP
.BR keys / enc [ryption]
List tha encryption key sizes supported n' list all tha encryption
keys set up in tha device.
.TP
.B power
List tha various Juice Management attributes n' modez of tha device.
.TP
.B txpower
List tha various Transmit Powers available on tha device.
.TP
.B retry
List tha transmit retry limits n' retry gametime on tha device.
.TP
.BR ap / accesspoint / peers
Give tha list of Access Points up in range, n' optionally tha qualitizzle of
link ta em. This feature is
.B obsolete
and now deprecated up in favor of scannin support (above), n' most
drivers don't support dat shit.
.br
Some drivers may use dis command ta return a specific list of Peers
or Access Points, like fuckin tha list of Peers associated/registered with
the card. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See yo' driver documentation fo' details.
.TP
.B event
List tha wireless events supported by tha device.
.TP
.B auth
List tha WPA authentication parametes curently set.
.TP
.BR wpa [keys]
List all tha WPA encryption keys set up in tha device.
.TP
.B genie
List tha Generic Hype Elements set up in tha thang (used fo' WPA
support).
.TP
.BR modu [lation]
List tha modulations supported by tha thang n' tha modulations
currently enabled.
.TP
.B --version
Display tha version of tha tools, as well as tha recommended and
current Wireless Extensions version fo' tha tool n' tha various
wireless intercourses.
.TP
.B --help
Display short help message.
.\"
.\" FILES part
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/wireless
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iwspy (8).
.BR iwevent (8),
.BR iwpriv (8),
.BR wireless (7).

