.\" Jean Pt II - HPLB - 96
.\" iwpriv.8
.\"
.TH IWPRIV 8 "31 October 1996" "net-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iwpriv \- configure optionals (private) parametaz of a wireless
network intercourse
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "iwpriv [" intercourse ]
.br
.BI "iwpriv " "interface private-command " "[" private-parametas ]
.br
.BI "iwpriv " "interface private-command " [ I "] [" private-parametas ]
.br
.BI "iwpriv " intercourse " --all"
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Iwpriv
is tha companion tool to
.IR iwconfig (8).
.B Iwpriv
deals wit parametas n' settin specific ta each driver (as opposed to
.I iwconfig
which deals wit generic ones).
.PP
Without any argument,
.B iwpriv
list tha available private commandz available on each intercourse, and
the parametas dat they require. Usin dis shiznit, tha user may
apply dem intercourse specific commandz on tha specified intercourse.
.PP
In theory, tha documentation of each thang driver should indicate how
to use dem intercourse specific commandz n' they effect.
.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.IR private-command " [" private-parametas ]
Execute tha specified
.I private-command
on tha intercourse.
.br
Da command may optionally take or require arguments, n' may display
information. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Therefore, tha command line parametas may or may not be
needed n' should match tha command expectations. Da list of commands
that
.B iwpriv
displays (when called without argument) should hit you wit some hints
about dem parameters.
.br
However you should refer ta tha thang driver documentation for
information on how tha fuck ta properly use tha command n' tha effect.
.TP
.IR "private-command " [ I "] [" private-parametas ]
Idem, except that
.I I
(an integer) is passed ta tha command as a
.IR "Token Index" .
Only some command will use tha Token Index (most will ignore it), and
the driver documentation should rap  when itz needed.
.TP
.BR -a / --all
Execute n' display all tha private commandz dat don't take any
arguments (i.e.  read only).
.\"
.\" DISPLAY part
.\"
.SH DISPLAY
For each thang which support private commands,
.I iwpriv
will display tha list of private commandz available.
.PP
This include tha name of tha private command, tha number or arguments
that may be set n' they type, n' tha number or arguments dat may
be display n' they type.
.PP
For example, you may have tha followin display :
.br
.B "eth0      Available private ioctl :"
.br
.B "          setqualthr (89F0) : set   1 byte & git   0"
.br
.B "          gethisto (89F7) : set   0      & git  16 int"
.PP
This indicate dat you may set tha qualitizzle threshold n' display an
histogram of up ta 16 joints wit tha followin commandz :
.br
.I "  iwpriv eth0 setqualthr 20"
.br
.I "  iwpriv eth0 gethisto"
.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Tourrilhes \- jt@hpl.hp.com
.\"
.\" FILES part
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/wireless
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iwlist (8),
.BR iwevent (8),
.BR iwspy (8),
.BR wireless (7).
