.\" Jean Pt II - HPLB - 96
.\" iwspy.8
.\"
.TH IWSPY 8 "31 October 1996" "net-tools" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iwspy \- Git wireless statistics from specific nodes
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "iwspy [" intercourse ]
.br
.BI "iwspy " intercourse " [+] " DNSNAME " | " IPADDR " | " HWADDR " [...]"
.br
.BI "iwspy " intercourse " off"
.br
.BI "iwspy " intercourse " setthr " "low high"
.br
.BI "iwspy " intercourse " getthr"
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Iwspy
is used ta set a list of addresses ta monitor up in a wireless network
interface n' ta read back qualitizzle of link shiznit fo' each of
those. This shiznit is tha same ol' dirty as tha one available in
.I /proc/net/wireless
: qualitizzle of tha link, signal strength n' noise level.
.PP
This shiznit is updated each time a freshly smoked up packet is received, so
each address of tha list addz some overhead up in tha driver.
.PP
Note dat dis functionalitizzle works only fo' nodes part of tha current
wireless cell, you can not monitor Access Points yo ass is not
associated wit (you can use Scannin fo' that) n' nodes up in other
cells. In Managed mode, up in most case packets is relayed by tha Access
Point, up in dis case yo big-ass booty is ghon git tha signal strength of tha Access
Point. For dem reasons dis functionalitizzle is mostly useful up in Ad-Hoc
and Masta mode.
.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
Yo ass may set any number of addresses up ta 8.
.TP
.BR DNSNAME " | " IPADDR
Set a IP address, or up in some cases a DNS name (usin tha name
resolver) fo' realz. As tha hardware works wit hardware addresses,
.B iwspy
will translate dis IP address through
.IR ARP .
In some case, dis address might not be up in tha ARP cache and
.B iwspy
will fail. In dem case,
.IR pin (8)
this name/address n' retry.
.TP
.B HWADDR
Set a hardware (MAC) address (this address aint translated & checked
like tha IP one). Da address must contain a cold-ass lil colon
.RB ( : )
to be recognised as a hardware address.
.TP
.B +
Add tha freshly smoked up set of addresses all up in tha end of tha current list instead of
replacin dat shit. Da address list is unique fo' each device, so each user
should use dis option ta avoid conflicts.
.TP
.B off
Remove tha current list of addresses n' disable tha spy functionality
.TP
.B setthr
Set the
.I low
and
.I high
signal strength threshold fo' tha iwspy event (for drivers that
support it).
.br
Every time tha signal strength fo' any of tha address monitored
with iwspy goes lower than tha low threshold or goes higher than the
high threshold, a Wireless Event is ghon be generated.
.br
This can be used ta monitor link outages without havin ta run iwspy
periodically.
.TP
.B getthr
Retrieve tha current
.I low
and
.I high
signal strength threshold fo' tha iwspy event.
\"
.\" FILES part
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/wireless
.\"
.\" SEE ALSO part
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iwlist (8),
.BR iwevent (8),
.BR iwpriv (8),
.BR wireless (7).

