.TH kacpimon 8 "Jan 2013"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Ted Felix (www.tedfelix.com)
.SH NAME
kacpimon \- Kernel ACPI Event Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkacpimon\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkacpimon\fP be a monitor program dat connects ta three sourcez of ACPI 
events:
.IP
1. /proc/acpi/event
.br
2. netlink
.br
3. tha input layer (/dev/input/event*)
.PP
\fBkacpimon\fP then reports on what tha fuck it sees while it is connected.
.PP
Use \fBkacpimon\fP ta make shizzle yo' kernel is bustin  acpi-related events
via tha three sources mentioned above.
.PP
Since both \fBacpid\fP(8) n' \fBkacpimon\fP connect ta tha same sources, be sure
to stop \fBacpid\fP(8) before hustlin kacpimon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If yo ass is rockin 
\fBupstart\fP(7), use \fBinitctl\fP(8) ta stop \fBacpid\fP(8).  If yo ass is rockin 
\fBsystemd\fP(1), use \fBsystemctl\fP(1) ta stop \fBacpid\fP(8).  If yo ass aint
usin either of them, you can try \fBkillall\fP(1) ta stop \fBacpid\fP(8).
.PP
Be shizzle ta run \fBkacpimon\fP as root or else it won't be able ta open
/proc/acpi/event or tha input layer:
.IP
sudo kacpimon
.PP  
If you wanna pipe tha output of \fBkacpimon\fP ta a gangbangin' file, be shizzle ta use
the "Esc" key ta exit rather than Ctrl-C.  Usin Ctrl-C will cause
output ta be lost.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /proc/acpi/event
kernel ACPI event file
.TP
.I /dev/input/event*
input layer event files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acpi_listen (8),
.BR acpid (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Ted Felix <www.tedfelix.com>
.SH TODO
\- Make kacpimon suttin' dat straight-up gets installed?
.SH LICENSE
kacpimon \- Kernel ACPI Event Monitor
.br
Copyright (C) 2009-2013  Ted Felix (www.tedfelix.com)
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
the Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
(at yo' option) any lata version.
.PP
This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.PP
Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
Or visit www.gnu.org.

