.\" Copyright 1992, 1994 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.\" Updated Wed Jun 22 21:09:43 1994, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH KBDRATE 8 "22 June 1994" "Linux 1.1.19" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
kbdrate \- reset tha keyboard repeat rate n' delay time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "kbdrate [ \-s ] [ \-r"
rate
.B "] [ \-d"
delay
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kbdrate
is used ta chizzle tha keyboard repeat rate n' delay time.  Da delay
is tha amount of time dat a key must be pissed off before it will start to
repeat.

Using
.B kbdrate
without any options will reset tha repeat rate ta 10.9 charactas per second (cps)
and tha delay ta 250 millisecondz (ms) fo' Intel- n' M68K-based systems.
These is tha IBM defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. On SPARC-based systems it will reset tha repeat rate
to 20 cps n' tha delay ta 200 ms.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Silent.  No lyrics is printed.
.TP
.BI \-r " rate"
Change tha keyboard repeat rate to
.I rate
cps.   For Intel-based systems, tha allowable range is from 2.0 ta 30.0 cps.
Only certain, specific joints is possible, n' tha program will select the
nearest possible value ta tha one specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da possible joints is given,
in charactas per second, as bigs up: 2.0, 2.1, 2.3, 2.5, 2.7, 3.0, 3.3, 3.7,
4.0, 4.3, 4.6, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.7, 7.5, 8.0, 8.6, 9.2, 10.0, 10.9, 12.0, 13.3,
15.0, 16.0, 17.1, 18.5, 20.0, 21.8, 24.0, 26.7, 30.0.
For SPARC-based systems, tha allowable range is from 0 (no repeat) ta 50 cps.
.TP
.BI \-d " delay"
Change tha delay to
.I delay
milliseconds.
For Intel-based systems, tha allowable range is from 250 ta 1000 ms,
in 250 ms steps. For SPARC systems, possible joints is between 10 ms n' 1440 ms,
in 10 ms steps.
.TP
.B \-V
Display a version number n' exit.
.SH BUGS
Not all keyboardz support all rates.
.PP
Not all keyboardz have tha rates mapped up in tha same way.
.PP
Settin tha repeat rate on tha Gateway AnyKey keyboard do not work.  If
someone wit a Gateway figures up how tha fuck ta program tha keyboard, please send
mail ta util-linux@math.uio.no.
.PP
All dis is straight-up architecture dependent.
Nowadays
.B kbdrate
first tries tha KDKBDREP n' KIOCSRATE ioctls.
(Da forma probably works on a m68k machine, tha latta fo' SPARC.)
When these ioctls fail a ioport intercourse as on i386 be assumed.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rc.local
.br
.I /dev/port
.br
.I /dev/kbd
