.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii kexec.8
.\"
.TH kexec 8 "April 2006" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
kexec \- directly boot tha fuck into a freshly smoked up kernel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/kexec
.B [-v (\-\-version)] [-f (\-\-force)] [-x (\-\-no-ifdown)] [-l (\-\-load)] [-p (\-\-load-panic)] [-u (\-\-unload)] [-e (\-\-exec)] [-t (\-\-type)]
.BI [\-\-mem\-min= addr ]
.BI [\-\-mem\-max= addr ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kexec
is a system call dat enablez you ta load n' boot tha fuck into another
kernel from tha currently hustlin kernel.
.B kexec
performs tha function of tha boot loader from within tha kernel. The
primary difference between a standard system boot n' a
.B kexec
boot is dat tha hardware initialization normally performed by tha BIOS
or firmware (dependin on architecture) aint performed durin a
.B kexec
boot. This has tha effect of reducin tha time required fo' a reboot.
.PP
Make shizzle you have selected
.B CONFIG_KEXEC=y
when configurin tha kernel. The
.B CONFIG_KEXEC
option enablez the
.B kexec
system call.
.SH USAGE
Using
.B kexec
consists of

.RS
(1) loadin tha kernel ta be rebooted ta tha fuck into memory, and
.RE
.RS
(2) straight-up rebootin ta tha pre-loaded kernel.
.RE
.PP
To load a kernel, tha syntax be as bigs up:

.RS
.B kexec
.RI \-l\  kernel-image
.RI "\-\-append=" command\-line\-options
.RI "\-\-initrd=" initrd\-image
.RE

where
.I kernel\-image
is tha kernel file dat you intend ta reboot to.
.PP
Insert tha command-line parametas dat must be passed ta tha new
kernel into
.IR command\-line\-options .
Passin tha exact contentz of /proc/cmdline into
.I command\-line\-options
is tha safest way ta ensure dat erect joints is passed ta the
rebootin kernel.
.PP
Da optional
.I initrd-image
is tha initrd image ta be used durin boot.
.PP
It aint nuthin but also possible ta invoke
.B kexec
without a option parameter n' shit. In dat case, kexec loadz tha specified
kernel n' then invokes
.BR shutdown (8).
If tha shutdown scriptz of yo' Linux distribution support
kexec-based rebooting, they then call
.B kexec
.I -e
just before straight-up rebootin tha machine. That way, tha machine do
a clean shutdown includin all shutdown scripts.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
For example, if tha kernel image you wanna reboot ta is
.BR /boot/vmlinux ,
the contentz of /proc/cmdline is
.BR "root\=/dev/hda1" ,
and tha path ta tha initrd is
.BR /boot/initrd ,
then you would use tha followin command ta load tha kernel:

.RS
.B kexec
.RB \-l\  /boot/vmlinux
.RB "\-\-append=" "root=/dev/hda1" "\ \-\-initrd=" /boot/initrd
.RE
.PP
Afta dis kernel is loaded, it can be booted ta at any time rockin the
command:

.RS
.BR kexec \ \-e
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e\ (\-\-exec)
Run tha currently loaded kernel. Note dat it will reboot tha fuck into tha loaded kernel without callin shutdown(8).
.TP
.B \-f\ (\-\-force)
Force a immediate
.B kexec
call, do not call
.BR shutdown (8)
(contrary ta tha default action without any option parameter). This option
performs tha same ol' dirty actions like executing
.IR -l
and
.IR -e
in one call.
.TP
.B \-h\ (\-\-help)
Open a help file for
.BR kexec .
.TP
.BI \-l\ (\-\-load) \ kernel
Load tha specified
.I kernel
into tha current kernel.
.TP
.B \-p\ (\-\-load\-panic)
Load tha freshly smoked up kernel fo' use on panic.
.TP
.BI \-t\ (\-\-type= type )
Specify dat tha freshly smoked up kernel iz of this
.I type.
.TP
.B \-u\ (\-\-unload)
Unload tha current
.B kexec
target kernel. If a cold-ass lil capture kernel is bein unloaded then specify -p wit -u.
.TP
.B \-v\ (\-\-version)
Return tha version number of tha installed utility.
.TP
.B \-x\ (\-\-no\-ifdown)
Shut down tha hustlin kernel yo, but restore tha intercourse on reload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (If
this option is used, it must be specified last.)
.TP
.BI \-\-mem\-min= addr
Specify tha lowest memory address
.I addr
to load code into.
.TP
.BI \-\-mem\-max= addr
Specify tha highest memory address
.I addr
to load code into.

.SH SUPPORTED KERNEL FILE TYPES AND OPTIONS
.B Beoboot-x86
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-args\-elf
Pass ELF boot notes.
.TP
.B \-\-args\-linux
Pass Linux kernel steez options.
.TP
.B \-d \ (\-\-debug)
Enable debuggin lyrics.
.TP
.B \-\-real\-mode
Use tha kernelz real mode entry point.
.RE
.PP
.B elf-x86
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-append= string
Append
.I string
to tha kernel command line.
.TP
.BI \-\-command\-line= string
Set tha kernel command line to
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI \-\-reuse-cmdline
Use tha command line from tha hustlin system. When a panic kernel is loaded, it
strips the
.I
crashkernel
parameta automatically. The
.I BOOT_IMAGE
parameta be also stripped.
.TP
.BI \-\-initrd= file
Use
.I file
as tha kernelz initial ramdisk.
.TP
.BI \-\-ramdisk= file
Use
.I file
as tha kernelz initial ramdisk.
.RE
.PP
.B bzImage-x86
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-append= string
Append
.I string
to tha kernel command line.
.TP
.BI \-\-command\-line= string
Set tha kernel command line to
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI \-\-reuse-cmdline
Use tha command line from tha hustlin system. When a panic kernel is loaded, it
strips the
.I
crashkernel
parameta automatically. The
.I BOOT_IMAGE
parameta be also stripped.
.TP
.BI \-\-initrd= file
Use
.I file
as tha kernelz initial ramdisk.
.TP
.BI \-\-ramdisk= file
Use
.I file
as tha kernelz initial ramdisk.
.TP
.BI \-\-real-mode
Use real-mode entry point.
.RE
.PP
.B multiboot-x86
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-command\-line= string
Set tha kernel command line to
.IR strang .
.TP
.BI \-\-reuse-cmdline
Use tha command line from tha hustlin system. When a panic kernel is loaded, it
strips the
.I
crashkernel
parameta automatically. The
.I BOOT_IMAGE
parameta be also stripped.
.TP
.BI \-\-module= "mod arg1 arg2 ..."
Load module
.I mod
with command-line arguments
.I "arg1 arg2 ..."
This parameta can be specified multiple times.
.RE

.SH ARCHITECTURE OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-console\-serial
Enable tha serial console.
.TP
.B \-\-console\-vga
Enable tha VGA console.
.TP
.B \-\-elf32\-core\-headers
Prepare core headaz up in ELF32 format.
.TP
.B \-\-elf64\-core\-headers
Prepare core headaz up in ELF64 format.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-vga
Attempt ta reset a standard VGA device.
.TP
.BI \-\-serial= port
Specify tha serial
.I port
for debug output.
.TP
.BI \-\-serial\-baud= baud_rate
Specify the
.I baud rate
of tha serial port.
