'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH KILLALL5 8 "04 Nov 2003" "" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
killall5 -- bust a signal ta all processes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B killall5
.RB -signalnumber
.RB [ \-o
.IR omitpid[,omitpid..]]
.RB [ \-o
.IR omitpid[,omitpid..].. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B killall5
is tha SystemV killall command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it sendz a signal ta all processes except
kernel threadz n' tha processes up in its own session, so it won't kill
the shell dat is hustlin tha script dat shiznit was called from. Its primary
(only) use is up in tha \fBrc\fP scripts found up in tha /etc/init.d directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-o \fIomitpid\fP"
Tells \fIkillall5\fP ta omit processes wit dat process id.
.SH NOTES
\fIkillall5\fP can also be invoked as pidof, which is simply a
(symbolic) link ta tha \fIkillall5\fP program.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Da program return zero if it capped processes.  It return 2 if no
process was capped, n' 1 if dat shiznit was unable ta find any processes
(/proc/ is missing).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR pidof (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
