.\" Copyright 2008 Tilman Schmidt (tilman@imap.cc)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License version 2 or later
.TH LDATTACH 8 "February 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
ldattach \- attach a line discipline ta a serial line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldattach
.RB [ \-dhV78neo12 ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR speed ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR iflag ]
.I ldisc device
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldattach
daemon opens tha specified
.I device
file
(which should refer ta a serial device)
and attaches tha line discipline
.I ldisc
to it fo' processin of tha busted and/or received data.
It then goes tha fuck into tha background keepin tha thang open so dat the
line discipline stays loaded.

Da line discipline
.I ldisc
may be specified either by name
or by number.

In order ta detach tha line discipline,
.BR bust a cap up in (1)
the
.B ldattach
process.

With no arguments,
.B ldattach
prints usage shiznit.
.SH LINE DISCIPLINES
Dependin on tha kernel release, tha followin line disciplines is supported:
.TP
.BR TTY ( 0 )
Da default line discipline,
providin transparent operation (raw mode)
as well as tha habitual terminal line editin capabilitizzles (cooked mode).
.TP
.BR SLIP ( 1 )
Serial Line IP (SLIP) protocol processor
for transmittin TCP/IP packets over serial lines.
.TP
.BR MOUSE ( 2 )
Device driver fo' RS232 connected pointin devices (serial mice).
.TP
.BR PPP ( 3 )
Point ta Point Protocol (PPP) processor
for transmittin network packets over serial lines.
.TP
.BR STRIP ( 4 )
.TP
.BR AX25 ( 5 )
.TP
.BR X25 ( 6 )
Line driver fo' transmittin X.25 packets over asynchronous serial lines.
.TP
.BR 6PACK ( 7 )
.TP
.BR R3964 ( 9 )
Driver fo' Simatic R3964 module.
.TP
.BR IRDA ( 11 )
Linux IrDa (infrared data transmission) driver -
see http://irda.sourceforge.net/
.TP
.BR HDLC ( 13 )
Synchronous HDLC driver.
.TP
.BR SYNC_PPP ( 14 )
Synchronous PPP driver.
.TP
.BR HCI ( 15 )
Bluetooth HCI UART driver.
.TP
.BR GIGASET_M101 ( 16 )
Driver fo' Siemens Gigaset M101 serial DECT adapter.
.TP
.BR PPS ( 18 )
Driver fo' serial line Pulse Per Second (PPS) source.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fP | \fB--debug\fP
Causes
.B ldattach
to stay up in tha foreground so dat it can be interrupted or debugged,
and ta print verbose lyrics bout its progress ta tha standard error output.
.TP
\fB-h\fP | \fB--help\fP
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fP | \fB--version\fP
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIvalue\fP | \fB--speed\fP \fIvalue\fP
Set tha speed of tha serial line ta tha specified value.
.TP
\fB-7\fP | \fB--sevenbits\fP
Sets tha characta size of tha serial line ta 7 bits.
.TP
\fB-8\fP | \fB--eightbits\fP
Sets tha characta size of tha serial line ta 8 bits.
.TP
\fB-n\fP | \fB--noparity\fP
Sets tha paritizzle of tha serial line ta none.
.TP
\fB-e\fP | \fB--evenparity\fP
Sets tha paritizzle of tha serial line ta even.
.TP
\fB-o\fP | \fB--oddparity\fP
Sets tha paritizzle of tha serial line ta odd.
.TP
\fB-1\fP | \fB--onestopbit\fP
Sets tha number of stop bitz of tha serial line ta one.
.TP
\fB-2\fP | \fB--twostopbits\fP
Sets tha number of stop bitz of tha serial line ta two.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIvalue\fP | \fB--iflag\fP [\fB-\fP]\fIvalue\fP{,...}
Sets tha specified bits up in tha c_iflag word of tha serial line.
\fIValue\fP may be a number or a symbolic name.
If \fIvalue\fP is prefixed by a minus sign, clear tha specified bits instead.
Several comma separated \fIvalue\fPs may be given up in order to
set n' clear multiple bits.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR inputattach (1),
.BR ttys (4)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Tilman Schmidt (tilman@imap.cc)
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da ldattach command is part of tha util-linux package
and be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
