.\" Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\" License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 6 May 2002, Mike Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"   Chizzle listed order of /usr/lib n' /lib
.TH LDCONFIG 8 2012-05-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
ldconfig \- configure dynamic linker run-time bindings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/ldconfig
[
.B \-nNvXV
]
[
.BR \-f\ conf
]
[
.BR \-C\ cache
]
[
.BR \-r\ root
]
.IR directory \ ...
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.B /sbin/ldconfig
.B \-l
[
.B \-v
]
.IR library \ ...
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.B /sbin/ldconfig
.B \-p
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldconfig
creates tha necessary links n' cache ta da most thugged-out recent shared
libraries found up in tha directories specified on tha command line,
in tha file
.IR /etc/ld.so.conf ,
and up in tha trusted directories
.RI ( /lib
and
.IR /usr/lib ).
Da cache is used by tha run-time linker,
.I ld.so
or
.IR ld-linux.so .
.B ldconfig
checks tha header n' filenamez of tha libraries it encountas when
determinin which versions should have they links updated.
.PP
.B ldconfig
will attempt ta deduce tha type of ELF libs (i.e., libc5 or libc6/glibc)
based on what tha fuck C libs, if any, tha library was linked against.
.\" Da followin sentence looks suspect
.\" (like oldschool cruft) -- MTK, Jul 2005
.\" Therefore, when makin dynamic libraries,
.\" it is wise ta explicitly link against libc (use \-lc).
.PP
Some existin libs do not contain enough shiznit ta allow tha deduction of
their type.
Therefore, the
.I /etc/ld.so.conf
file format allows tha justification of a expected type.
This is used
.I only
for dem ELF libs which we can not work out.
Da format
is "dirname=TYPE", where TYPE can be libc4, libc5, or libc6.
(This syntax also works on tha command line.)
Spaces are
.I not
allowed.
Also peep the
.B \-p
option.
.B ldconfig
should normally be run by tha superuser as it may require write
permission on some root owned directories n' files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
Print current version number, tha name of each directory as it
is scanned, n' any links dat is pimped.
Overrides on tha down-low mode.
.TP
.B \-n
Only process directories specified on tha command line.
Don't process tha trusted directories
.RI ( /lib
and
.IR /usr/lib )
nor dem specified in
.IR /etc/ld.so.conf .
Implies
.BR \-N .
.TP
.B \-N
Don't rebuild tha cache.
Unless
.B \-X
is also specified, links is still updated.
.TP
.B \-X
Don't update links.
Unless
.B \-N
is also specified, tha cache is still rebuilt.
.TP
.B \-f conf
Use
.B conf
instead of
.IR /etc/ld.so.conf .
.TP
.B \-C cache
Use
.B cache
instead of
.IR /etc/ld.so.cache .
.TP
.B \-r root
Change ta n' use
.I root
as tha root directory.
.TP
.B \-l
Library mode.
Manually link individual libraries.
Intended fo' use by smart-ass muthafuckas only.
.TP
.B \-p
Print tha listz of directories n' muthafucka libraries stored in
the current cache.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.I /lib/ld.so
run-time linker/loader
.TP 20
.I /etc/ld.so.conf
File containin a list of colon, space, tab, newline, or comma-separated
directories up in which ta search fo' libraries.
.TP 20
.I /etc/ld.so.cache
File containin a ordered list of libraries found up in tha directories
specified in
.IR /etc/ld.so.conf ,
as well as dem found in
.I /lib
and
.IR /usr/lib .
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldd (1),
.BR ld.so (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
