.TH LES 8 "Sep 11, 1996" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
les, bus \- ATM LAN Emulation steez demons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B les
.RB [ \-d\ \fImodule\fP ]
.RB [ \-m\ \fImodule\fP ]
.RB [ \-f\ \fIconfiguration_file\fP ]
.PP
.B bus
.RB [ \-d\ \fImodule\fP ]
.RB [ \-m\ \fImodule\fP ]
.RB [ \-f\ \fIconfiguration_file\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
LE Service consistz of three components: LAN Emulation Configuration 
Server (\fBlecs(8)\fP), LAN Emulation Server (\fBles\fP) n' Broadcast 
and Unknown Server (\fBbus\fP).
.PP
\fBLes\fP performs tha control coordination function fo' tha emulated LAN. 
LE clients regista MAC addresses and/or route descriptors they represent 
to \fBles\fP, n' lata query it when they wanna resolve MAC addresses/route 
descriptors tha fuck into ATM addresses. Other LE control lyrics which is ta be 
distributed ta every last muthafuckin client up in ELAN is also busted ta \fBles\fP. \fBLes\fP
forwardz these lyrics rockin Control Distribute VCC which it has set up 
to every last muthafuckin client up in ELAN.
.PP
\fBBus\fP handlez data busted by clients ta broadcast n' multicast 
MAC addresses n' a shitload of tha data pimped up ta unicast addresses. LE 
Client has a possibilitizzle ta bust data pimped up ta some unicast address 
to tha \fBbus\fP before targetz ATM address has been resolved n' tha Data 
Direct VCC has been established.
.PP
Configuration file example fo' \fBles\fP n' \fBbus\fP:
.PP
.in +2m
.nf
[main]
memdebug=True
debug=True
[load]
#memdebug=True
#debug=True
[conn]
debug=True
#S1, LE Serverz ATM address
#S1=:47:00:23:00:00:00:03:00:00:01:00:02:01:00:20:ea:00:05:aa:00
S1=:47:00:23:00:00:00:03:03:00:01:00:02:01:00:20:ea:00:0a:e9:01
#S2, LAN Type
S2="802.3"
#S3, Maximum Frame Size
S3=1516
#S4, Join Timeout, s
S4=15
#S5, Maximum Frame Age, s
S5=6
#S6, BUS Atm address
S6=:47:00:23:00:00:00:03:03:00:01:00:02:01:00:20:ea:00:0a:e9:02 #viulu
#S6=0,0,170
#ELANNAME="asdf"

.DT
.fi
.in
Da configuration file gotz nuff each modulez name up in brackets followed by 
variable definitions fo' dat module. Da definitions iz of form 
.I variable=value, 
where value can be either a integer, a truth value (True/False), a 
strin enclosed up in double quotes 
.I ("string") 
or a ATM address up in hexadecimal format. Variablez dat can be set is 
the debug/memdebug fo' each module n' variablez S1-S6 as defined up in 
LE justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

.nf
S1=Address of tha LES. This address is used up in ATM 
   signalling.
S2=Type of tha emulated LAN. Valid joints is "802.3".
S3=Maximum frame size. Valid value is 1516.
S4=Join Timeout. Time up in secondz which LES waits fo' 
   LE_JOIN_REQUEST before tearin down a cold-ass lil connection.
S5=Maximum frame Age. Currently not used.
S6=Address of tha BUS. This address is used up in ATM signalling.
ELANNAME= Name of tha emulated LAN
.fi
.PP
\fBSIGHUP\fP causes restart of tha server n' shiznit fo' realz. All resources is 
released n' server is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. \fBSIGUSR1\fP causes the
server ta dump its internal state. \fBSIGUSR2\fP shuts
down tha server (hopefully) gracefully.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IP \fB\-d\ \fImodule\fP
Set debuggin lyrics on fo' a module. "All" sets debugging
on fo' all modules.
.IP \fB\-m\ \fImodule\fP
Set memory debuggin lyrics on fo' a module. "All" sets debugging
on fo' all modules.
.IP \fB\-f\ \fIconfiguration_file\fP
Use tha specified configuration file instead of \fB.lanevars\fP.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B .lanevars
configuration file
.PD
.SH BUGS
Servers don't establish point-to-multipoint connections ta LE
clients as tha justification states, which means dat some
LE clients won't work wit these servers.
.PP
Supports only IEEE 802.3 / Ethernet type of ELANs.
.PP
This manual page is confusing.
.SH AUTHOR
Marko Kiiskila, TUT <carnil@cs.tut.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lecs(8), atmsigd(8), zeppelin(8)
.\"{{{}}}
