.TH LNSTAT 8
.SH NAME
lnstat \- unified linux network statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lnstat
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B lnstat
command.
.PP
\fBlnstat\fP be a generalized n' mo' feature-complete replacement fo' tha oldschool rtstat program.
In addizzle ta routin cache statistics, it supports any kind of statistics tha linux kernel
exports via a gangbangin' file up in /proc/net/stat/.
.SH OPTIONS
lnstat supports tha followin options.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-count <count>
Print <count> number of intervals.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dump
Dump list of available files/keys.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file <file>
Statistics file ta use.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interval <intv>
Set interval ta 'intv' seconds.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
Display thangs up in dis biatch up in JSON format
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keys k,k,k,...
Display only keys specified.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-subject [0-2]
Specify display of subject/header n' shit. '0' means no header at all, '1' prints a header only at start of tha program n' '2' prints a header every last muthafuckin 20 lines.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width n,n,n,...
Width fo' each field.
.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.TP
.B # lnstat -d
Git a list of supported statistics files.
.TP
.B # lnstat -k arp_cache:entries,rt_cache:in_hit,arp_cache:destroys
Select tha specified filez n' keys.
.TP
.B # lnstat -i 10
Use a interval of 10 seconds.
.TP
.B # lnstat -f ip_conntrack
Use only tha specified file fo' statistics.
.TP
.B # lnstat -s 0
Do not print a header at all.
.TP
.B # lnstat -s 20
Print a header at start n' every last muthafuckin 20 lines.
.TP
.B # lnstat -c -1 -i 1 -f rt_cache -k entries,in_hit,in_slow_tot
Display statistics fo' keys entries, in_hit n' in_slow_tot of field rt_cache every last muthafuckin second.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
and /usr/share/doc/iproute-doc/README.lnstat (package iproute-doc on Debian)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
lnstat was freestyled by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Mike Prokop <mika@grml.org> fo' tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
