.TH LOCAL 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
local
\-
Postfix local mail delivery
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBlocal\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon processes delivery requests from the
Postfix queue manager ta serve up mail ta local recipients.
Each delivery request specifies a queue file, a sender address,
a domain or host ta serve up to, n' one or mo' recipients.
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Da \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon thugged-out shiznit queue filez n' marks recipients
as finished, or it informs tha queue manager dat delivery should
be tried again n' again n' again at a lata time. Delivery status reports is sent
to tha \fBbounce\fR(8), \fBdefer\fR(8) or \fBtrace\fR(8) daemon as
appropriate.
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
All delivery decisions is made rockin tha bare recipient
name (i.e. tha address localpart), folded ta lower case.
See also under ADDRESS EXTENSION below fo' all dem exceptions.
.SH "SYSTEM-WIDE AND USER-LEVEL ALIASING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da system administrator can set up one or mo' system-wide
\fBsendmail\fR-style alias databases.
Users can have \fBsendmail\fR-style ~/.\fBforward\fR files.
Mail fo' \fIname\fR is served up ta tha alias \fIname\fR, to
destinations up in ~\fIname\fR/.\fBforward\fR, ta tha mailbox owned
by tha user \fIname\fR, or it is busted back as undeliverable.

Da system administrator can specify a cold-ass lil comma/space separated list
of ~\fR/.\fBforward\fR like filez all up in tha \fBforward_path\fR
configuration parameter n' shit. Upon delivery, tha local delivery agent
tries each pathname up in tha list until a gangbangin' file is found.

Delivery via ~/.\fBforward\fR filez is done wit tha privileges
of tha recipient.
Thus, ~/.\fBforward\fR like filez must be readable by the
recipient, n' they parent directory need ta have "execute"
permission fo' tha recipient.

Da \fBforward_path\fR parameta is subject ta interpolation of
\fB$user\fR (recipient username), \fB$home\fR (recipient home
directory), \fB$shell\fR (recipient shell), \fB$recipient\fR
(complete recipient address), \fB$extension\fR (recipient address
extension), \fB$domain\fR (recipient domain), \fB$local\fR
(entire recipient address localpart) and
\fB$recipient_delimiter.\fR Da forms \fI${name?value}\fR and
\fI${name:value}\fR expand conditionally ta \fIvalue\fR when
\fI$name\fR is (is not) defined.
Charactas dat may have special meanin ta tha shell or file system
are replaced by underscores.  Da list of aaight characters
is specified wit tha \fBforward_expansion_filter\fR configuration
parameter.

An alias or ~/.\fBforward\fR file may list any combination of external
commands, destination file names, \fB:include:\fR directives, or
mail addresses.
See \fBaliases\fR(5) fo' a precise description. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Each line up in a
userz .\fBforward\fR file has tha same ol' dirty syntax as tha right-hand part
of a alias.

When a address is found up in its own alias expansion, delivery is
made ta tha user instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When a user is listed up in tha userz own
~/.\fBforward\fR file, delivery is made ta tha userz mailbox instead.
An empty ~/.\fBforward\fR file means do not forward mail.

In order ta prevent tha mail system from rockin up unreasonable
amountz of memory, input recordz read from \fB:include:\fR or from
~/.\fBforward\fR filez is fucked up tha fuck into chunkz of length
\fBline_length_limit\fR.

While expandin aliases, ~/.\fBforward\fR files, n' so on, the
program attempts ta avoid duplicate deliveries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! The
\fBduplicate_filter_limit\fR configuration parameta limits the
number of remembered recipients.
.SH "MAIL FORWARDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
For tha sake of reliability, forwarded mail is re-submitted as
a freshly smoked up message, so dat each recipient has a separate on-file
delivery status record.

In order ta stop mail forwardin loops early, tha software addz an
optional
\fBDelivered-To:\fR header wit tha final envelope recipient address. If
mail arrives fo' a recipient dat be already listed up in a
\fBDelivered-To:\fR header, tha message is bounced.
.SH "MAILBOX DELIVERY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da default per-user mailbox be a gangbangin' file up in tha UNIX mail spool
directory (\fB/var/mail/\fIuser\fR or \fB/var/spool/mail/\fIuser\fR);
the location can be specified wit tha \fBmail_spool_directory\fR
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a name endin up in \fB/\fR for
\fBqmail\fR-compatible \fBmaildir\fR delivery.

Alternatively, tha per-user mailbox can be a gangbangin' file up in tha userz home
directory wit a name specified via tha \fBhome_mailbox\fR
configuration parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a relatizzle path name. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specify a name
endin up in \fB/\fR fo' \fBqmail\fR-compatible \fBmaildir\fR delivery.

Mailbox delivery can be delegated ta a external command specified
with tha \fBmailbox_command_maps\fR n' \fBmailbox_command\fR
configuration parameters. Da command
executes wit tha privilegez of tha recipient user (exceptions:
secondary crews is not enabled; up in case of delivery as root,
the command executes wit tha privilegez of \fBdefault_privs\fR).

Mailbox delivery can be delegated ta alternatizzle message transports
specified up in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file.
Da \fBmailbox_transport_maps\fR n' \fBmailbox_transport\fR
configuration parametas specify a optional
message transhiznit dat is ta be used fo' all local recipients,
regardless of whether they is found up in tha UNIX passwd database.
Da \fBfallback_transport_maps\fR and
\fBfallback_transport\fR parametas specify a optional
message transport
for recipients dat is not found up in tha aliases(5) or UNIX
passwd database.

In tha case of UNIX-style mailbox delivery,
the \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon prependz a "\fBFrom \fIsender time_stamp\fR"
envelope header ta each message, prependz an
\fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as given to
Postfix, prependz an
optionizzle \fBDelivered-To:\fR header
with tha final envelope recipient address, prependz a \fBReturn-Path:\fR
header wit tha envelope sender address, prependz a \fB>\fR character
to lines beginnin wit "\fBFrom \fR", n' appendz a empty line.
Da mailbox is locked fo' exclusive access while delivery is in
progress. In case of problems, a attempt is made ta truncate the
mailbox ta its original gangsta length.

In tha case of \fBmaildir\fR delivery, tha local daemon prepends
an optional
\fBDelivered-To:\fR header wit tha final envelope recipient address,
prependz an
\fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as given to
Postfix,
and prependz a \fBReturn-Path:\fR header wit tha envelope sender
address.
.SH "EXTERNAL COMMAND DELIVERY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBallow_mail_to_commands\fR configuration parameta restricts
delivery ta external commands. Da default settin (\fBalias,
forward\fR) forbidz command destinations up in \fB:include:\fR files.

Optionally, tha process hustlin directory is chizzled ta tha path
specified wit \fBcommand_execution_directory\fR (Postfix 2.2 and
later). Failure ta chizzle directory causes mail ta be deferred.

Da \fBcommand_execution_directory\fR parameta value is subject
to interpolation of \fB$user\fR (recipient username),
\fB$home\fR (recipient home directory), \fB$shell\fR
(recipient shell), \fB$recipient\fR (complete recipient
address), \fB$extension\fR (recipient address extension),
\fB$domain\fR (recipient domain), \fB$local\fR (entire
recipient address localpart) n' \fB$recipient_delimiter.\fR
Da forms \fI${name?value}\fR n' \fI${name:value}\fR expand
conditionally ta \fIvalue\fR when \fI$name\fR is (is not)
defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Charactas dat may have special meanin ta the
shell or file system is replaced by underscores.  Da list
of aaight charactas is specified wit the
\fBexecution_directory_expansion_filter\fR configuration
parameter.

Da command is executed directly where possible fo' realz. Assistizzle by the
shell (\fB/bin/sh\fR on UNIX systems) is used only when tha command
gotz nuff shell magic characters, or when tha command invokes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell
built-in command.

A limited amount of command output (standard output n' standard
error) is captured fo' inclusion wit non-delivery status reports.
A command is forcibly terminated if it do not complete within
\fBcommand_time_limit\fR seconds.  Command exit status codes are
sposed ta fuckin follow tha conventions defined up in <\fBsysexits.h\fR>.
Exit status 0 means aiiight successful completion.

Postfix version 2.3 n' lata support RFC 3463-style enhanced
status codes.  If a cold-ass lil command terminates wit a non-zero exit
status, n' tha command output begins wit a enhanced
status code, dis status code takes precedence over the
non-zero exit status.

A limited amount of message context is exported via environment
variables. Charactas dat may have special meanin ta tha shell
are replaced by underscores.  Da list of aaight characters
is specified wit tha \fBcommand_expansion_filter\fR configuration
parameter.
.IP \fBSHELL\fR
Da recipient userz login shell.
.IP \fBHOME\fR
Da recipient userz home directory.
.IP \fBUSER\fR
Da bare recipient name.
.IP \fBEXTENSION\fR
Da optionizzle recipient address extension.
.IP \fBDOMAIN\fR
Da recipient address domain part.
.IP \fBLOGNAME\fR
Da bare recipient name.
.IP \fBLOCAL\fR
Da entire recipient address localpart (text ta tha left of the
rightmost @ character).
.IP \fBORIGINAL_RECIPIENT\fR
Da entire recipient address, before any address rewriting
or aliasin (Postfix 2.5 n' later).
.IP \fBRECIPIENT\fR
Da entire recipient address.
.IP \fBSENDER\fR
Da entire sender address.
.PP
Additionizzle remote client shiznit is made available via
the followin environment variables:
.IP \fBCLIENT_ADDRESS\fR
Remote client network address fo' realz. Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBCLIENT_HELO\fR
Remote client EHLO command parameter n' shiznit fo' realz. Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBCLIENT_HOSTNAME\fR
Remote client hostname fo' realz. Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBCLIENT_PROTOCOL\fR
Remote client protocol fo' realz. Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBSASL_METHOD\fR
SASL authentication method specified up in the
remote client AUTH command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBSASL_SENDER\fR
SASL sender address specified up in tha remote client MAIL
FROM command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fBSASL_USERNAME\fR
SASL username specified up in tha remote client AUTH command.
Available az of Postfix 2.2.
.PP
Da \fBPATH\fR environment variable be always reset ta a
system-dependent default path, n' environment variables
whose names is pimped by tha \fBexport_environment\fR
configuration parameta is exported unchanged.

Da current hustlin directory is tha mail queue directory.

Da \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon prependz a "\fBFrom \fIsender time_stamp\fR"
envelope header ta each message, prependz an
\fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as given to
Postfix, prependz an
optionizzle \fBDelivered-To:\fR
header wit tha final recipient envelope address, prependz a
\fBReturn-Path:\fR header wit tha sender envelope address,
and appendz no empty line.
.SH "EXTERNAL FILE DELIVERY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da delivery format dependz on tha destination filename syntax.
Da default is ta use UNIX-style mailbox format.  Specify a name
endin up in \fB/\fR fo' \fBqmail\fR-compatible \fBmaildir\fR delivery.

Da \fBallow_mail_to_files\fR configuration parameta restricts
delivery ta external files. Da default settin (\fBalias,
forward\fR) forbidz file destinations up in \fB:include:\fR files.

In tha case of UNIX-style mailbox delivery,
the \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon prependz a "\fBFrom \fIsender time_stamp\fR"
envelope header ta each message, prependz an
\fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as given to
Postfix, prependz an
optionizzle \fBDelivered-To:\fR
header wit tha final recipient envelope address, prependz a \fB>\fR
characta ta lines beginnin wit "\fBFrom \fR", n' appendz an
empty line.
Da envelope sender address be available up in tha \fBReturn-Path:\fR
header.
When tha destination be a regular file, it is locked fo' exclusive
access while delivery is up in progress. In case of problems, a attempt
is made ta truncate a regular file ta its original gangsta length.

In tha case of \fBmaildir\fR delivery, tha local daemon prepends
an optional
\fBDelivered-To:\fR header wit tha final envelope recipient address,
and prependz an
\fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as given to
Postfix.
Da envelope sender address be available up in tha \fBReturn-Path:\fR
header.
.SH "ADDRESS EXTENSION"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da optionizzle \fBrecipient_delimiter\fR configuration parameter
specifies how tha fuck ta separate address extensions from local recipient
names.

For example, wit "\fBrecipient_delimita = +\fR", mail for
\fIname\fR+\fIfoo\fR is served up ta tha alias \fIname\fR+\fIfoo\fR
or ta tha alias \fIname\fR, ta tha destinations listed in
~\fIname\fR/.\fBforward\fR+\fIfoo\fR or up in ~\fIname\fR/.\fBforward\fR,
to tha mailbox owned by tha user \fIname\fR, or it is busted back as
undeliverable.
.SH "DELIVERY RIGHTS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Deliveries ta external filez n' external commandz is made with
the muthafuckin rightz of tha receivin user on whose behalf tha delivery is made.
In tha absence of a user context, tha \fBlocal\fR(8) daemon uses the
balla muthafuckin rightz of tha \fB:include:\fR file or alias database.
When dem filez is owned by tha superuser, delivery is made with
the muthafuckin rights specified wit tha \fBdefault_privs\fR configuration
parameter.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
RFC 3463 (Enhanced status codes)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
Corrupted message filez is marked so dat tha queue
manager can move dem ta tha \fBcorrupt\fR queue afterwards.

Dependin on tha settin of tha \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmasta is notified of bounces n' of other shit.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent needz a thugged-out dual personality
1) ta access tha private Postfix queue n' IPC mechanisms,
2) ta impersonate tha recipient n' serve up ta recipient-specified
filez or commands. Well shiiiit, it is therefore securitizzle sensitive.

Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent disallows regular expression
substitution of $1 etc. up in \fBalias_maps\fR, cuz that
would open a securitizzle hole.

Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent will silently ignore
requests ta use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server within
\fBalias_maps\fR. Instead it will open tha table directly.
Before Postfix version 2.2, tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
For securitizzle reasons, tha message delivery statuz of external commands
or of external filez is never checkpointed ta file fo' realz. As a result,
the program may occasionally serve up mo' than once ta a cold-ass lil command or
external file. Betta safe than sorry bout dat bullshit.

Mutually-recursive aliases or ~/.\fBforward\fR filez is not detected
early.  Da resultin mail forwardin loop is fucked up by tha use of the
\fBDelivered-To:\fR message header.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as \fBlocal\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBbiff (yes)\fR"
Whether or not ta use tha local biff service.
.IP "\fBexpand_baller_alias (no)\fR"
When deliverin ta a alias "aliasname" dat has a "baller-aliasname"
companion alias, set tha envelope sender address ta tha expansion
of tha "baller-aliasname" alias.
.IP "\fBballer_request_special (yes)\fR"
Give special treatment ta baller-listname n' listname-request
address localparts: don't split such addresses when the
recipient_delimita is set ta "-".
.IP "\fBsun_mailtool_compatibilitizzle (no)\fR"
Obsolete SUN mailtool compatibilitizzle feature.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBfrozen_delivered_to (yes)\fR"
Update tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agentz scam of tha Delivered-To:
address (see prepend_delivered_header) only once, all up in tha start of
a delivery attempt; do not update tha Delivered-To: address while
expandin aliases or .forward files.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBstrict_mailbox_ballershizzle (yes)\fR"
Defer delivery when a mailbox file aint owned by its recipient.
.IP "\fBreset_baller_alias (no)\fR"
Reset tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agentz scam of tha baller-alias
attribute, when deliverin mail ta a cold-ass lil lil pimp alias dat do not have
its own balla alias.
.SH "DELIVERY METHOD CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da precedence of \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery methodz from high ta low is:
aliases, .forward files, mailbox_transport_maps,
mailbox_transport, mailbox_command_maps, mailbox_command,
home_mailbox, mail_spool_directory, fallback_transport_maps,
fallback_transport, n' luser_relay.
.IP "\fBalias_maps (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da alias databases dat is used fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery.
.IP "\fBforward_path (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent search list fo' findin a .forward
file wit user-specified delivery methods.
.IP "\fBmailbox_transport_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient message delivery
transports ta use fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox delivery, whether or not the
recipients is found up in tha UNIX passwd database.
.IP "\fBmailbox_transhiznit (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle message delivery transhiznit dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent should use fo' mailbox delivery ta all local recipients,
whether or not they is found up in tha UNIX passwd database.
.IP "\fBmailbox_command_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient external commandz ta use
for \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox delivery.
.IP "\fBmailbox_command (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle external command dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent should
use fo' mailbox delivery.
.IP "\fBhome_mailbox (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle pathname of a mailbox file relatizzle ta a \fBlocal\fR(8) user's
home directory.
.IP "\fBmail_spool_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory where \fBlocal\fR(8) UNIX-style mailboxes is kept.
.IP "\fBfallback_transport_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit per-recipient message delivery
transports fo' recipients dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent could
not find up in tha \fBaliases\fR(5) or UNIX password database.
.IP "\fBfallback_transhiznit (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle message delivery transhiznit dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent should use fo' names dat is not found up in tha \fBaliases\fR(5)
or UNIX password database.
.IP "\fBluser_relay (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle catch-all destination fo' unknown \fBlocal\fR(8) recipients.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBcommand_execution_directory (empty)\fR"
Da \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent hustlin directory fo' delivery to
external command.
.SH "MAILBOX LOCKING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_attempts (20)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_delay (1s)\fR"
Da time between attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBstale_lock_time (500s)\fR"
Da time afta which a stale exclusive mailbox lockfile is removed.
.IP "\fBmailbox_delivery_lock (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
How tha fuck ta lock a UNIX-style \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox before attemptin delivery.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBcommand_time_limit (1000s)\fR"
Time limit fo' delivery ta external commands.
.IP "\fBduplicate_filter_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal number of addresses remembered by tha address
duplicate filta fo' \fBaliases\fR(5) or \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias expansion, or
for \fBshowq\fR(8) queue displays.
.IP "\fBlocal_destination_concurrency_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries via tha local mail
delivery transhiznit ta tha same recipient (when
"local_destination_recipient_limit = 1") or tha maximal number of
parallel deliveries ta tha same local domain (when
"local_destination_recipient_limit > 1").
.IP "\fBlocal_destination_recipient_limit (1)\fR"
Da maximal number of recipients per message delivery via the
local mail delivery transport.
.IP "\fBmailbox_size_limit (51200000)\fR"
Da maximal size of any \fBlocal\fR(8) individual mailbox or maildir
file, or zero (no limit).
.SH "SECURITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBallow_mail_to_commandz (alias, forward)\fR"
Restrict \fBlocal\fR(8) mail delivery ta external commands.
.IP "\fBallow_mail_to_filez (alias, forward)\fR"
Restrict \fBlocal\fR(8) mail delivery ta external files.
.IP "\fBcommand_expansion_filta (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows in
$name expansionz of $mailbox_command n' $command_execution_directory.
.IP "\fBdefault_privs (nobody)\fR"
Da default muthafuckin rights used by tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent fo' delivery
to external file or command.
.IP "\fBforward_expansion_filta (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows in
$name expansionz of $forward_path.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBexecution_directory_expansion_filta (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Restrict tha charactas dat tha \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery agent allows
in $name expansionz of $command_execution_directory.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBstrict_mailbox_ballershizzle (yes)\fR"
Defer delivery when a mailbox file aint owned by its recipient.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBexport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment variablez dat a Postfix process will export
to non-Postfix processes.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBlocal_command_shell (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle shell program fo' \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery ta non-Postfix command.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprepend_delivered_header (command, file, forward)\fR"
Da message delivery contexts where tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8) delivery
agent prependz a Delivered-To:  message header wit tha address
that tha mail was served up to.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBpropagate_unmatched_extensions (canonical, virtual)\fR"
What address lookup tablez copy a address extension from tha lookup
key ta tha lookup result.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBrecipient_delimita (empty)\fR"
Da separator between user names n' address extensions (user+foo).
.IP "\fBrequire_home_directory (no)\fR"
Require dat a \fBlocal\fR(8) recipientz home directory exists
before mail delivery be attempted.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
Da followin is examples; details differ between systems.
$HOME/.forward, per-user aliasing
/etc/aliases, system-wide alias database
/var/spool/mail, system mailboxes
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
newaliases(1), create/update alias database
postalias(1), create/update alias database
aliases(5), format of alias database
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBDelivered-To:\fR message header appears up in tha \fBqmail\fR
system by Daniel Bernstein.

Da \fImaildir\fR structure appears up in tha \fBqmail\fR system
by Daniel Bernstein.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
