.TH LOGROTATE 8 "Wed Nov 5 2002" "Linux" "System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
logrotate \(hy rotates, compresses, n' mails system logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlogrotate\fR [\fB\-dv\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-state \fIfile\fR] \fIconfig_file\fR ..
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlogrotate\fR is designed ta ease administration of systems dat generate
pimpin' numberz of log files.  It allows automatic rotation, compression, 
removal, n' mailin of log files.  Each log file may be handled everyday,
weekly, monthly, or when it grows too large.
.P
Normally, \fBlogrotate\fR is run as a thugged-out everyday cron thang.  It aint gonna modify
a log multiple times up in one dizzle unless tha criterion fo' dat log is
based on tha logz size n' \fBlogrotate\fR is bein run multiple times
each day, or unless tha \fB\-f\fR or \fB\-\-force\fR option is used.
.P
Any number of config filez may be given on tha command line. Lata config
filez may override tha options given up in earlier files, so tha order
in which tha \fBlogrotate\fR config filez is listed is blingin.
Normally, a single config file which includes any other config files
which is needed should be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See below fo' mo' shiznit on how
to use tha \fBinclude\fR directizzle ta accomplish all dis bullshit.  If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory
is given on tha command line, every last muthafuckin file up in dat directory is used as
a config file.
.P
If no command line arguments is given, \fBlogrotate\fR will print
version n' copyright shiznit, along wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage summary.  If
any errors occur while rotatin logs, \fBlogrotate\fR will exit with
non-zero status.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help message.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Turns on debug mode n' implies \fB-v\fR.  In debug mode, no chizzlez will
be made ta tha logs or ta tha \fBlogrotate\fR state file.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Tells \fBlogrotate\fR ta force tha rotation, even if it don't think
this is necessary.  Sometimes dis is useful afta addin freshly smoked up entries to
a \fBlogrotate\fR config file, or if oldschool log filez done been removed
by hand, as tha freshly smoked up filez is ghon be pimped, n' loggin will continue
correctly.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mail <command>\fR
Tells \fBlogrotate\fR which command ta use when mailin logs. This
command should accept two arguments: 1) tha subject of tha message, and
2) tha recipient. Da command must then read a message on standard input
and mail it ta tha recipient. Da default mail command is \fB/bin/mail
-s\fR.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-state <statefile>\fR
Tells \fBlogrotate\fR ta use a alternate state file.  This is useful
if logrotate is bein run as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different user fo' various sets of
log files.  Da default state file is \fI/var/lib/logrotate.status\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Prints a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message.

.TP
+\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Turns on verbose mode.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE

\fBlogrotate\fR readz every last muthafuckin thang bout tha log filez it should be handling
from tha seriez of configuration filez specified on tha command line.  Each
configuration file can set global options (local definitions override
global ones, n' lata definitions override earlier ones) n' specify
logfilez ta rotate fo' realz. A simple configuration file be lookin like this:

.nf
.ta +8n
# sample logrotate configuration file
compress

/var/log/lyrics {
    rotate 5
    weekly
    postrotate
        /usr/bin/killall \-HUP syslogd
    endscript
}

"/var/log/httpd/access.log" /var/log/httpd/error.log {
    rotate 5
    mail www@my.org
    size 100k
    sharedscripts
    postrotate
        /usr/bin/killall \-HUP httpd
    endscript
}

/var/log/news/* {
    monthly
    rotate 2
    olddir /var/log/news/old
    missingok
    postrotate
        bust a cap up in \-HUP `cat /var/run/inn.pid`
    endscript
    nocompress
}

~/log/*.log {}

.fi

.PP
Da first few lines set global options; up in tha example, logs are
compressed afta they is rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Note dat comments may appear
anywhere up in tha config file as long as tha straight-up original gangsta non-whitespace
characta on tha line be a #.

Da next section of tha config filez defined how tha fuck ta handle tha log file
\fI/var/log/lyrics\fR. Da log will go all up in five weekly rotations before
bein removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Afta tha log file has been rotated (but before tha old
version of tha log has been compressed), tha command 
\fI/sbin/killall \-HUP syslogd\fR is ghon be executed.

Da next section defines tha parametas fo' both
\fI/var/log/httpd/access.log\fR n' \fI/var/log/httpd/error.log\fR.
They is rotated whenever it grows over 100k up in size, n' tha oldschool logs
filez is mailed (uncompressed) ta www@my.org afta goin all up in 5
rotations, rather than bein removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fBsharedscripts\fR means that
the \fBpostrotate\fR script will only be run once (afta tha oldschool logs have 
been compressed), not once fo' each log which is rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Note dat tha double
quotes round tha straight-up original gangsta filename all up in tha beginnin of dis section allows
logrotate ta rotate logs wit spaces up in tha name. Normal shell quotin rules
apply, wit ', ", n' \\ charactas supported.

Da next section defines tha parametas fo' all of tha filez in
\fI/var/log/news\fR. Each file is rotated on a monthly basis.  This is
considered a single rotation directizzle n' if errors occur fo' mo' than
one file, tha log filez is not compressed.

Da last section uses tilde expansion ta rotate log filez up in tha home
directory of tha current user n' shit. This is only available, if yo' glob
library supports tilde expansion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. GNU glob do support all dis bullshit.

Please use wildcardz wit caution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If you specify *, \fBlogrotate\fR will
rotate all files, includin previously rotated ones.  A way round this
is ta use tha \fBolddir\fR directizzle or a mo' exact wildcard (like fuckin *.log).

Here is mo' shiznit on tha directives which may be included in
a \fBlogrotate\fR configuration file:

.TP
\fBcompress\fR
Oldskool versionz of log filez is compressed wit \fBgzip\fR(1) by default. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also
\fBnocompress\fR. 

.TP
\fBcompresscmd\fR
Specifies which command ta use ta compress log files.  Da default is
\fBgzip\fR.  See also \fBcompress\fR.

.TP
\fBuncompresscmd\fR
Specifies which command ta use ta uncompress log files.  Da default is
\fBgunzip\fR.

.TP
\fBcompressext\fR
Specifies which extension ta use on compressed logfiles, if compression
is enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da default bigs up dat of tha configured compression
command.

.TP
\fBcompressoptions\fR
Command line options may be passed ta tha compression program, if one is
in use.  Da default, fo' \fBgzip\fR(1), is "\-6" (biased towardz high
compression all up in tha expense of speed).
If you bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different compression command, you may need ta chizzle the
\fBcompressoptions\fR ta match.


.TP
\fBcopy\fR
Make a cold-ass lil copy of tha log file yo, but don't chizzle tha original gangsta at all.
This option can be used, fo' instance, ta cook up a snapshot of tha current
log file, or when some other utilitizzle need ta truncate or parse tha file.
When dis option is used, tha \fBcreate\fR option gonna git no effect,
as tha oldschool log file stays up in place.

.TP
\fBcopytruncate\fR
Truncate tha original gangsta log file up in place afta bustin a cold-ass lil copy,
instead of movin tha oldschool log file n' optionally bustin a freshly smoked up one.
It can be used when some program cannot be holla'd at ta close its logfile
and thus might continue freestylin (appending) ta tha previous log file alllll muthafuckin day.
Note dat there be a straight-up lil' small-ass time slice between copyin tha file and
truncatin it, so some loggin data might be lost.
When dis option is used, tha \fBcreate\fR option gonna git no effect,
as tha oldschool log file stays up in place.

.TP
\fBcreate \fImode\fR \fIballer\fR \fIgroup\fR, \fBcreate \fIballer\fR \fIgroup\fR
Immediately afta rotation (before tha \fBpostrotate\fR script is run)
the log file is pimped (with tha same name as tha log file just rotated).
\fImode\fR specifies tha mode fo' tha log file up in octal (the same
as \fBchmod\fR(2)), \fIballer\fR specifies tha user name whoz ass will own the
log file, n' \fIgroup\fR specifies tha crew tha log file will belong
to fo' realz. Any of tha log file attributes may be omitted, up in which case them
attributes fo' tha freshly smoked up file will use tha same joints as tha original gangsta log
file fo' tha omitted attributes. This option can be disabled rockin the
\fBnocreate\fR option.

.TP
\fBdaily\fR
Log filez is rotated every last muthafuckin day.

.TP
\fBdateext\fR
Archive oldschool versionz of log filez addin a thugged-out date extension like YYYYMMDD
instead of simply addin a number n' shit. Da extension may be configured using
the \fBdateformat\fR n' \fBdateyesterday\fR options.

.TP
\fBdateformat\fR \fIformat_string\fR
Specify tha extension fo' \fBdateext\fR rockin tha notation similar to
\fBstrftime\fR(3) function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Only %Y %m %d n' %s specifiers is allowed.
Da default value is \-%Y%m%d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note dat also tha characta separatin log
name from tha extension is part of tha dateformat string. Da system clock
must be set past Sep 9th 2001 fo' %s ta work erectly.
Note dat tha datestamps generated by dis format must be lexically sortable
(i.e., first tha year, then tha month then tha day. It make me wanna hollar playa! e.g., 2001/12/01 is ok,
but 01/12/2001 is not, since 01/11/2002 would sort lower while it is later).
This is cuz when rockin tha \fBrotate\fR option, logrotate sorts all
rotated filenames ta smoke up which logfilez is olda n' should be removed.

.TP
\fBdateyesterday\fR
Use yesterdayz instead of todizzlez date ta create tha \fBdateext\fR
extension, so dat tha rotated log file has a thugged-out date up in its name dat is
the same as tha timestamps within dat shit.

.TP
\fBdelaycompress\fR
Postpone compression of tha previous log file ta tha next rotation cycle.
This only has effect when used up in combination wit \fBcompress\fR.
It can be used when some program cannot be holla'd at ta close its logfile
and thus might continue freestylin ta tha previous log file fo' some time.

.TP
\fBextension \fIext\fR
Log filez wit \fIext\fR extension can keep it afta tha rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
If compression  is  used,  tha compression extension (normally \fB.gz\fR) 
appears afta \fIext\fR. For example you gotz a logfile named mylog.foo 
and wanna rotate it ta mylog.1.foo.gz instead of mylog.foo.1.gz.

.TP
\fBhourly\fR
Log filez is rotated every last muthafuckin hour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Note dat probably \fIlogrotate\fR is
configured ta be run by cron everyday. Yo ass gotta chizzle dis configuration
and run \fIlogrotate\fR hourly ta be able ta straight-up rotate logs hourly.

.TP
\fBifempty\fR
Rotate tha log file even if it is empty, overridin tha \fBnotifempty\fR
option (\fBifempty\fR is tha default).

.TP
\fBinclude \fIfile_or_directory\fR
Readz tha file given as a argument as if dat shiznit was included inline
where tha \fBinclude\fR directizzle appears. If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is given,
most of tha filez up in dat directory is read up in alphabetic order
before processin of tha includin file continues. Da only files
which is ignored is filez which is not regular filez (such as
directories n' named pipes) n' filez whose names end wit one of
the taboo extensions, as specified by tha \fBtabooext\fR directive.

.TP
\fBmail \fIaddress\fR
When a log is rotated out-of-existence, it is mailed ta \fIaddress\fR. If
no mail should be generated by a particular log, tha \fBnomail\fR directive
may be used.

.TP
\fBmailfirst\fR
When rockin tha \fBmail\fR command, mail tha just-rotated file,
instead of tha about-to-expire file.

.TP
\fBmaillast\fR
When rockin tha \fBmail\fR command, mail tha about-to-expire file,
instead of tha just-rotated file (this is tha default).

.TP
\fBmaxage\fR \fIcount\fR
Remove rotated logs olda than <count> days. Da age is only checked
if tha logfile is ta be rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da filez is mailed ta the
configured address if \fBmaillast\fR n' \fBmail\fR is configured.

.TP
\fBmaxsize\fR \fIsize\fR
Log filez is rotated when they grow bigger than \fIsize\fR bytes even
before tha additionally specified time interval (\fBdaily\fR, \fBweekly\fR,
\fBmonthly\fR, or \fByearly\fR).  Da related \fBsize\fR option is similar
except dat it is mutually exclusive wit tha time interval options, n' it
causes log filez ta be rotated without regard fo' tha last rotation time.
When \fBmaxsize\fR is used, both tha size n' timestamp of a log file are
considered.

.TP
\fBminsize\fR  \fIsize\fR
Log filez is rotated when they grow bigger than \fIsize\fR bytes yo, but not
before tha additionally specified time interval (\fBdaily\fR, \fBweekly\fR,
\fBmonthly\fR, or \fByearly\fR).  Da related \fBsize\fR option is similar
except dat it is mutually exclusive wit tha time interval options, n' it
causes log filez ta be rotated without regard fo' tha last rotation time.
When \fBminsize\fR is used, both tha size n' timestamp of a log file are
considered.

.TP
\fBmissingok\fR
If tha log file is missing, go on ta tha next one without issuin a error
message. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also \fBnomissingok\fR.

.TP
\fBmonthly\fR
Log filez is rotated tha last time \fBlogrotate\fR is run up in a month
(this is normally on tha straight-up original gangsta dizzle of tha month).

.TP
\fBnocompress\fR
Oldskool versionz of log filez is not compressed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See also \fBcompress\fR.

.TP
\fBnocopy\fR
Do not copy tha original gangsta log file n' leave it up in place.
(this overrides tha \fBcopy\fR option).

.TP
\fBnocopytruncate\fR
Do not truncate tha original gangsta log file up in place afta bustin a cold-ass lil copy
(this overrides tha \fBcopytruncate\fR option).

.TP
\fBnocreate\fR
New log filez is not pimped (this overrides tha \fBcreate\fR option).

.TP
\fBnodelaycompress\fR
Do not postpone compression of tha previous log file ta tha next rotation cycle
(this overrides tha \fBdelaycompress\fR option).

.TP
\fBnodateext\fR
Do not archive  oldschool versionz of log filez wit date extension
(this overrides tha \fBdateext\fR option).

.TP
\fBnomail\fR
Don't mail oldschool log filez ta any address.

.TP
\fBnomissingok\fR
If a log file do not exist, issue a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This is tha default.

.TP
\fBnoolddir\fR
Logs is rotated up in tha same directory tha log normally resides up in (this 
overrides tha \fBolddir\fR option).

.TP
\fBnosharedscripts\fR
Run \fBprerotate\fR n' \fBpostrotate\fR scripts fo' every last muthafuckin log file which
is rotated (this is tha default, n' overrides tha \fBsharedscripts\fR
option). Da absolute path ta tha log file is passed as first argument 
to tha script. If tha scripts exit wit error, tha remainin actions will
not be executed fo' tha affected log only.

.TP
\fBnoshred\fR
Do not use \fBshred\fR when deletin oldschool log files. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also \fBshred\fR. 

.TP
\fBnotifempty\fR
Do not rotate tha log if it is empty (this overrides tha \fBifempty\fR option).

.TP
\fBolddir \fIdirectory\fR
Logs is moved tha fuck into \fIdirectory\fR fo' rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da \fIdirectory\fR
must be on tha same physical thang as tha log file bein rotated,
and be assumed ta be relatizzle ta tha directory holdin tha log file
unless a absolute path name is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When dis option is used all
old versionz of tha log end up in \fIdirectory\fR.  This option may be
overridden by tha \fBnoolddir\fR option.

.TP
\fBpostrotate\fR/\fBendscript\fR
Da lines between \fBpostrotate\fR n' \fBendscript\fR (both of which
must step tha fuck up on lines by theyselves) is executed (usin \fB/bin/sh\fR) 
afta tha log file is rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. These directives may only step tha fuck up inside 
a log file definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Normally, tha absolute path ta tha log file is 
passed as first argument ta tha script. If \fBsharedscripts\fR is specified, 
whole pattern is passed ta tha script.
See also \fBprerotate\fR. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBsharedscripts\fR n' \fBnosharedscripts\fR
for error handling.

.TP
\fBprerotate\fR/\fBendscript\fR
Da lines between \fBprerotate\fR n' \fBendscript\fR (both of which
must step tha fuck up on lines by theyselves) is executed (usin \fB/bin/sh\fR) before 
the log file is rotated n' only if tha log will straight-up be rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. These 
directives may only step tha fuck up inside a log file definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Normally, 
the absolute path ta tha log file is passed as first argument ta tha script.
If  \fBsharedscripts\fR is specified, whole pattern is passed ta tha script.
See also \fBpostrotate\fR.
See \fBsharedscripts\fR n' \fBnosharedscripts\fR fo' error handling.

.TP
\fBfirstaction\fR/\fBendscript\fR
Da lines between \fBfirstaction\fR n' \fBendscript\fR (both of which
must step tha fuck up on lines by theyselves) is executed (usin \fB/bin/sh\fR) once 
before all log filez dat match tha wildcarded pattern is rotated, before 
prerotate script is run n' only if at least one log will straight-up be rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
These directives may only step tha fuck up inside a log file definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Whole pattern is
passed ta tha script as first argument. If tha script exits wit error, 
no further processin is done. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also \fBlastaction\fR.

.TP
\fBlastaction\fR/\fBendscript\fR
Da lines between \fBlastaction\fR n' \fBendscript\fR (both of which
must step tha fuck up on lines by theyselves) is executed (usin \fB/bin/sh\fR) once 
afta all log filez dat match tha wildcarded pattern is rotated, afta 
postrotate script is run n' only if at least one log is rotated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. These 
directives may only step tha fuck up inside a log file definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Whole pattern is
passed ta tha script as first argument. If tha script exits 
with error, just a error message is shown (as dis is tha last
action). Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also \fBfirstaction\fR.

.TP
\fBpreremove\fR/\fBendscript\fR
Da lines between \fBpreremove\fR n' \fBendscript\fR (both of which must
appear on lines by theyselves) is executed (usin \fB/bin/sh\fR) once just
before removal of a log file.  Da logrotate will pass
the name of file which is soon ta be removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See also \fBfirstaction\fR.

.TP
\fBrotate \fIcount\fR
Log filez is rotated \fIcount\fR times before bein removed or mailed ta the
address specified up in a \fBmail\fR directive. If \fIcount\fR is 0, oldschool versions
are removed rather than rotated.

.TP
\fBsize \fIsize\fR
Log filez is rotated only if they grow bigger then \fIsize\fR bytes. If
\fIsize\fR is followed by \fIk\fR, tha size be assumed ta be up in kilobytes.
If tha \fIM\fR is used, tha size is up in megabytes, n' if \fIG\fR is used, the
size is up in gigabytes. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So \fIsize 100\fR, \fIsize 100k\fR, \fIsize 100M\fR and
\fIsize 100G\fR is all valid.

.TP
\fBsharedscripts\fR
Normally, \fBprerotate\fR n' \fBpostrotate\fR scripts is run fo' each
log which is rotated n' tha absolute path ta tha log file is passed as first 
argument ta tha script. That means a single script may be run multiple
times fo' log file entries which match multiple filez (like fuckin tha 
\fI/var/log/news/*\fR example). If \fBsharedscripts\fR is specified, tha scripts
are only run once, no matta how tha fuck nuff logs match tha wildcarded pattern, 
and whole pattern is passed ta em.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if none of tha logs up in tha pattern require rotating, tha scripts
will not be run at all. If tha scripts exit wit error, tha remaining
actions aint gonna be executed fo' any logs. This option overrides the
\fBnosharedscripts\fR option n' implies \fBcreate\fR option.

.TP
\fBshred\fR
Delete log filez rockin \fBshred\fR \-u instead of unlink().  This should
ensure dat logs is not readable afta they scheduled deletion; dis is
off by default.  See also \fBnoshred\fR.

.TP
\fBshredcycles\fR \fIcount\fR
Asks GNU \fBshred\fR(1) ta overwrite log filez \fBcount\fR times before 
deletion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Without dis option, \fBshred\fRz default is ghon be used.

.TP
\fBstart \fIcount\fR
This is tha number ta use as tha base fo' rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For example, if
you specify 0, tha logs is ghon be pimped wit a .0 extension as they are
rotated from tha original gangsta log files.  If you specify 9, log filez will
be pimped wit a .9, skippin 0-8.  Filez will still be rotated the
number of times specified wit tha \fBrotate\fR directive.

.TP
\fBsu \fIuser\fR \fIgroup\fR
Rotate log filez set under dis user n' crew instead of rockin default
user/group (usually root). \fIuser\fR specifies tha user name used for
rotation n' \fIgroup\fR specifies tha crew used fo' rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 

.TP
\fBtabooext\fR [+] \fIlist\fR
Da current taboo extension list is chizzled (see tha \fBinclude\fR directive
for shiznit on tha taboo extensions). If a + precedes tha list of
extensions, tha current taboo extension list be augmented, otherwise it
is replaced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! At startup, tha taboo extension list 
gotz nuff .rpmsave, .rpmorig, ~, .disabled, .dpkg\-old, .dpkg\-dist, .dpkg\-new, .cfsaved, .ucf\-old, .ucf\-dist, .ucf\-new, .rpmnew, .swp, .cfsaved, .rhn\-cfg\-tmp\-*

.TP
\fBweekly\fR
Log filez is rotated if tha current weekdizzle is less than tha weekday
of tha last rotation or if mo' than a week has passed since tha last
rotation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is normally tha same as rotatin logs on tha straight-up original gangsta day
of tha week yo, but it works betta if \fIlogrotate\fR aint run every
night.

.TP
\fByearly\fR
Log filez is rotated if tha current year aint tha same as tha last rotation.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 27
\fI/var/lib/logrotate.status\fR
Default state file.
.TP 27
\fI/etc/logrotate.conf\fR
Configuration options.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gzip (1)

<http://fedorahosted.org/logrotate/>

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Erik Troan, Preston Brown, Jan Kaluza.

<logrotate-baller@fedoraproject.org>

.fi
