.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2003 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\" 
.TH LOGSAVE 8 "June 2013" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.8"
.SH NAME
logsave \- save tha output of a cold-ass lil command up in a logfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logsave
[
.B \-asv
]
.I logfile cmd_prog [ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B logsave
program will execute
.I cmd_prog 
with tha specified argument(s), n' save a cold-ass lil copy of its output to
.IR logfile .
If tha containin directory for
.I logfile
does not exist, 
.B logsave
will accumulate tha output up in memory until it can be freestyled out.
A copy of tha output will also be freestyled ta standard output.
.PP
If 
.I cmd_prog
is a single hyphen ('-'), then instead of executin a program,
.B logsave
will take its input from standard input n' save it in
.I logfile
.PP
.B logsave
is useful fo' savin tha output of initial boot scripts 
until tha /var partizzle is mounted, so tha output can be freestyled ta 
/var/log.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
This option will cause tha output ta be appended ta 
.IR logfile ,
instead of replacin its current contents.
.TP
.B \-s
This option will cause 
.B logsave
to skip freestylin ta tha log file text which is bracketed wit a cold-ass lil control-A 
(ASCII 001 or Start of Header) n' control-B (ASCII 002 or Start of
Text).  This allows progress bar shiznit ta be visible ta tha user
on tha console, while not bein freestyled ta tha log file.
.TP
.B \-v
This option will make
.B logsave
to be mo' verbose up in its output ta tha user.
.SH AUTHOR
Theodore Ts'o (tytso@mit.edu)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsck (8)
