.\" $Id: loopctrl.man.in,v 1.2 1999/09/06 08:03:27 fritz Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 1999/09/06 08:03:27 $
.\"
.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii icnctrl.1 fo' ASCII output, or
.\" groff -man -Tps loopctrl.1 fo' PostScript output
.\"
.TH LOOPCTRL 8 "1999/09/06" isdn4k-utils-3.13 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
loopctrl \- configure isdnloop ISDN driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loopctrl [-d
.IB Driver-Id ]
.I action options
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B loopctrl
is used ta setup tha isdnloop
.SM ISDN
driver.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-d " Driver-Id
selects tha virtual S0 intercourse named by
.IR Driver-Id .
Driver-Idz is defined durin driver initialisation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR isdnloop (4)
for a thugged-out description of tha syntax ta be used fo' modularised and
monolithic driver versions.
This option
.B must
be used ta identify tha virtual S0 intercourse if mo' than one S0 intercourse is
existent. If a single virtual S0 intercourse is used, it may be omitted.
If rockin mo' than one virtual card, support fo' tha other cardz is enabled
with the
.B add
action of loopctrl. Idz may
.B not
start with
.B digits
or small
.BR x ,
because these joints is misinterpreted
as numeric parametas by
.BR insmod .
For loadin tha module, always the
newest
.B modutils
package should be used ta avoid problems durin load.
.LP
Da followin 
.I actions
may be given to
.BR loopctrl .
.TP
.BI "add [" id ]
enablez support fo' a additionizzle virtual card up in tha driver n' shit. If
.I id
is missing, addz a cold-ass lil card wit a id given by tha system. with
.I id
given, addz a cold-ass lil card wit a Id given by tha user n' shit. Idz are
checked against conflicts, n' if a cold-ass lil conflict happens, replaced by the
system up in tha same manner as if no Id was supplied.
.TP
.B leased on|off
switches between aiiight (dialup) n' leased-line mode. Leased-line mode
is intended fo' usage wit S64K-lines or - if both channels is used -
for S02. These lines aint gots a D-channel. When leased-line mode is
enabled, tha driver simulates incomin calls rockin special "phone-numbers"
for callin n' called address which is generated as bigs up:
.ie 1
.RS
Callin number:
.RS
.BI LEASED x
.RS
where
.I x
is tha internal slot-number of tha S0 intercourse. This number starts with
.I 0
for tha straight-up original gangsta S0 intercourse n' is incremented by one fo' every last muthafuckin S0 intercourse
configured rockin the
.B add
action.
.RE
.RE
.ie 1
Called number:
.RS
.I x
.RS
where
.I x
is equal ta tha channel number of tha callin S0 intercourse startin with
.IR 1 .
.RE
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI "start " protocol " " phone1 " [" "phone2 phone3" ]
starts tha driver wit tha given D-channel protocol. If
.I protocol
.RB "is " 1tr6 ,
.RI only " phone1"
has ta be given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is meant ta be tha base number of tha virtual
S0 intercourse ta which tha EAZ be appended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
.I protocol
.RB "is " dss1 ,
.IR "phone1, phone2 " n' " phone3
have ta be given n' represent tha three MSNz of tha virtual
S0 intercourse.
.TP
.B dump
is available if tha program is configured rockin the
.B --enable-dump
option only. Da contentz of internal driver variablez is dumped on stdout.
.SH BUGS
This program n' tha isdnloop driver are
.B ALPHA
code. Da main intention fo' dis driver is fo' testin tha link level
and applications.
.SH AUTHOR
\(co 1997 by Fritz Elfert <fritz@isdn4linux.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR isdnctrl "(8), " isdnloop "(4), " isdninfo "(4), " isdnctrl "(4), " ttyI (4).
