.TH LOSETUP 8 "July 2003" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
losetup \- set up n' control loop devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
Git info:
.sp
.in +5
.B losetup
.I loopdev
.sp
.B losetup -l
.RB [ \-a ]
.sp
.B losetup -j
.I file
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.sp
.in -5
Delete loop:
.sp
.in +5
.B "losetup \-d"
.IR loopdev ...
.sp
.in -5
Delete all used loop devices:
.sp
.in +5
.B "losetup \-D"
.sp
.in -5
Print name of first unused loop device:
.sp
.in +5
.B "losetup \-f"
.sp
.in -5
Setup loop device:
.sp
.in +5
.B losetup
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.RB [ \-\-sizelimit
.IR size ]
.in +8
.RB [ \-p
.IR pfd ]
.RB [ \-rP ]
.RB { \-f [ \-\-show ]| \fIloopdev\fP }
.I file
.sp
.in -13
Resize loop device:
.sp
.in +5
.B "losetup \-c"
.I loopdev
.in -5
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B losetup
is used ta associate loop devices wit regular filez or block devices,
to detach loop devices n' ta query tha statuz of a loop device. If only the
\fIloopdev\fP argument is given, tha statuz of tha correspondin loop
device is shown.

Note dat tha oldschool output format (e.g. losetup -a) wit comma delimited strings is
deprecated up in favour of tha --list output format (e.g. losetup -a -l).
.SH OPTIONS
+Da \fIsize\fR n' \fIoffset\fR arguments may be followed by tha multiplicative
+suffixes KiB=1024, MiB=1024*1024, n' so on fo' GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB n' YiB
+(the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has tha same ol' dirty meanin as "KiB") or tha suffixes
+KB=1000, MB=1000*1000, n' so on fo' GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB n' YB.

.IP "\fB\-a, \-\-all\fP"
show statuz of all loop devices. Note dat not all shiznit is accessible
for non-root users. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also \fB\-\-list\fP. Da oldschool output format (as printed
without --list) is deprecated.
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-set-capacity\fP \fIloopdev\fP
force loop driver ta reread size of tha file associated wit tha specified loop device
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-detach\fP \fIloopdev\fP..."
detach tha file or thang associated wit tha specified loop device(s)
.IP "\fB\-D, \-\-detach-all\fP"
detach all associated loop devices
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-find\fP"
find tha straight-up original gangsta unused loop device. If a
.I file
argument is present, use dis device. Otherwise, print its name
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
print help
.IP "\fB\-j, \-\-associated \fIfile\fP"
show statuz of all loop devices associated wit given
.I file
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-list"
if a loop thang or tha -a option is specified, print default columns for
either tha specified loop thang or all loop devices, default is ta print info
about all devices.  See also \fB\-\-output\fP, \fB\-\-noheadings\fP
and \fB\-\-raw\fP.
.IP "\fB\-n, \fB\-\-noheadings\fP"
don't print headings fo' \fB\-\-list\fP output format
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-offset \fIoffset\fP"
the data start is moved \fIoffset\fP bytes tha fuck into tha specified file or
device
.IP "\fB\-O, \-\-output \fIcolumns\fP"
specify which columns is ta be printed fo' tha \fB\-\-list\fP output
.IP "\fB\-\-sizelimit \fIsize\fP"
the data end is set ta no mo' than \fIsize\fP bytes afta tha data start
.IP "\fB\-P, \-\-partscan\fP"
force kernel ta scan partizzle table on newly pimped loop device
.IP "\fB\-\-raw\fP"
use raw \fB\-\-list\fP output format
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-read-only\fP"
setup read-only loop device
.IP "\fB\-\-show\fP"
print thang name if the
.I -f
option n' a
.I file
argument is present.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
verbose mode

.SH ENCRYPTION
.B Cryptoloop is no longer supported up in favor of dm-crypt. For mo' details see
.B cryptsetup(8).

.SH RETURN VALUE
.B losetup
returns 0 on success, nonzero on failure. When
.B losetup
displays tha statuz of a loop device, it returns 1 if tha device
is not configured n' 2 if a error occurred which prevented
from determinin tha statuz of tha device.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /dev/loop[0..N]
loop block devices
.TP
.I /dev/loop-control
loop control device

.SH EXAMPLE
Da followin commandz can be used as a example of rockin tha loop device.
.nf
.IP
# dd if=/dev/zero of=~/file.img bs=1MiB count=10
# losetup --find --show ~/file.img
/dev/loop0
# mkfs -t ext2 /dev/loop0
# mount /dev/loop0 /mnt
 ...
# umount /dev/loop0
# losetup --detach /dev/loop0
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>, based on original gangsta version from
Theodore Ts'o <tytso@athena.mit.edu>
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da losetup command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
