.\"
.\" "$Id: lpadmin.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpadmin playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpadmin 8 "CUPS" "16 July 2012" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpadmin \- configure cups printas n' classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -d
.I destination
.br
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -p
.I destination
[ -R
.I name-default
]
.I option(s)
.br
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -x
.I destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpadmin\fR configures printa n' class queues provided by
CUPS. Well shiiiit, it can also be used ta set tha server default printa or
class.
.LP
When specified before tha \fI-d\fR, \fI-p\fR, or \fI-x\fR
options, tha \fI-E\fR option forces encryption when connectin to
the server.
.LP
Da first form of tha command (\fI-d\fR) sets tha default printer
or class ta \fIdestination\fR.  Subsequent print thangs submitted
via tha \fIlp(1)\fR or \fIlpr(1)\fR commandz will use this
destination unless tha user specifies otherwise wit the
\fIlpoptions(1)\fR command.
.LP
Da second form of tha command (\fI-p\fR) configures tha named
printa or class.  Da additionizzle options is busted lyrics bout below.
.LP
Da third form of tha command (\fI-x\fR) deletes tha printa or
class \fIdestination\fR fo' realz. Any thangs dat is pendin fo' the
destination is ghon be removed n' any thang dat is currently printed
will be aborted.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
Da followin options is recognized when configurin a printer
queue:
.TP 5
-c class
.br
Addz tha named \fIprinter\fR ta \fIclass\fR.  If \fIclass\fR do
not exist it is pimped automatically.
.TP 5
-i intercourse
.br
Sets a System V steez intercourse script fo' tha printer n' shit. This
option cannot be specified wit tha \fI-P\fR option (PPD file)
and is intended fo' providin support fo' legacy printa drivers.
.TP 5
-m model
.br
Sets a standard System V intercourse script or PPD file fo' tha printa from the
\fImodel\fR directory or rockin one of tha driver intercourses. Use tha \fI-m\fR
option wit tha \fIlpinfo(8)\fR command ta git a list of supported models.
.TP 5
-o cupsIPPSupplies=true
.TP 5
-o cupsIPPSupplies=false
.br
Specifies whether IPP supply level joints should be reported.
.TP 5
-o cupsSNMPSupplies=true
.TP 5
-o cupsSNMPSupplies=false
.br
Specifies whether SNMP supply level (RFC 3805) joints should be reported.
.TP 5
-o thang-k-limit=value
.br
Sets tha kilobyte limit fo' per-user quotas. Da value be an
integer number of kilobytes; one kilobyte is 1024 bytes.
.TP 5
-o thang-page-limit=value
.br
Sets tha page limit fo' per-user quotas. Da value is tha integer
number of pages dat can be printed; double-sided pages are
counted as two pages.
.TP 5
-o thang-quota-period=value
.br
Sets tha accountin period fo' per-user quotas. Da value be an
integer number of seconds; 86,400 secondz is up in one day.
.TP 5
-o thang-sheets-default=banner
.TP 5
-o thang-sheets-default=banner,banner
.br
Sets tha default banner page(s) ta use fo' print thangs.
.TP 5
-o name=value
.br
Sets a PPD option fo' tha printer n' shit. PPD options can be listed rockin tha \fI-l\fR
option wit tha \fIlpoptions(1)\fR command.
.TP 5
-o name-default=value
.br
Sets a thugged-out default server-side option fo' tha destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch fo' realz. Any print-time
option can be defaulted, e.g. "-o cpi-default=17" ta set tha default
"cpi" option value ta 17.
.TP 5
-o port-monitor=name
.br
Sets tha binary communications program ta use when printing,
"none", "bcp", or "tbcp". Da default program is "none". The
specified port monitor must be listed up in tha printerz PPD file.
.TP 5
-o printer-error-policy=name
.br
Sets tha error policy ta be used when tha printa backend is
unable ta bust tha thang ta tha printer n' shit. Da name must be one of
"abort-job", "retry-job", "retry-current-job", or "stop-printer". Da default
error policy is "stop-printer" fo' printas n' "retry-current-job" for
classes.
.TP 5
-o printer-is-shared=true/false
.br
Sets tha destination ta shared/published or unshared/unpublished.
Shared/published destinations is publicly announced by tha server
on tha LAN based on tha browsin configuration in
\fBcupsd.conf\fR, while unshared/unpublished destinations is not
announced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da default value is "true".
.TP 5
-o printer-op-policy=name
.br
Sets tha IPP operation policy associated wit tha destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
name must be defined up in tha \fBcupsd.conf\fR up in a Policy section.
Da default operation policy is "default".
.TP 5
-R name-default
.br
Deletes tha named option from \fIprinter\fR.
.TP 5
-r class
.br
Removes tha named \fIprinter\fR from \fIclass\fR.  If the
resultin class becomes empty it is removed.
.TP 5
-u allow:user,user,@group
.TP 5
-u deny:user,user,@group
.TP 5
-u allow:all
.TP 5
-u deny:none
.br
Sets user-level access control on a thugged-out destination. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Names startin with
"@" is interpreted as UNIX groups. Da latta two forms turn
user-level access control off.
.TP 5
-v "device-uri"
.br
Sets tha \fIdevice-uri\fR attribute of tha printa queue. Use tha \fI-v\fR
option wit tha \fIlpinfo(8)\fR command ta git a list of supported thang URIs
and schemes.
.TP 5
-D "info"
.br
Provides a textual description of tha destination.
.TP 5
-E
.br
Enablez tha destination n' accepts thangs; dis is tha same ol' dirty as hustlin the
\fIcupsaccept(8)\fR n' \fIcupsenable(8)\fR programs on tha destination.
.TP 5
-L "location"
.br
Provides a textual location of tha destination.
.TP 5
-P ppd-file
.br
Specifies a PostScript Printa Description file ta use wit the
printer n' shit. If specified, dis option overrides tha \fI-i\fR option
(interface script).
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
Finally, tha CUPS version of \fIlpadmin\fR may ask tha user for
an access password dependin on tha printin system
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This differs from tha System V version which
requires tha root user ta execute dis command.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Da CUPS version of \fIlpadmin\fR do not support all of the
System V or Solaris printin system configuration options.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcupsaccept(8)\fR, \fIcupsenable(8)\fR, \fIlpinfo(8)\fR,
\fIlpoptions(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpadmin.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
