.\"
.\" "$Id: lpc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpc playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpc 8 "CUPS" "3 November 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpc \- line printa control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpc
[
.I command
[
.I parameter(s)
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpc\fR serves up limited control over printa n' class queues
provided by CUPS. Well shiiiit, it can also be used ta query tha state of
queues.
.LP
If no command is specified on tha command-line, \fRlpc\fR will
display a prompt n' accept commandz from tha standard input.
.SH COMMANDS
Da \fIlpc\fR program accepts a subset of commandz accepted by
the Berkeley \fIlpc\fR program of tha same name:
.TP 5
exit
.br
Exits tha command interpreter.
.TP 5
help [command]
.TP 5
, biatch? [command]
.br
Displays a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message.
.TP 5
quit
.br
Exits tha command interpreter.
.TP 5
status [queue]
.br
Displays tha statuz of one or mo' printa or class queues.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Since \fIlpc\fR is geared towardz tha Berkeley printin system,
it is impossible ta use \fIlpc\fR ta configure printa or class
queues provided by CUPS.  To configure printa or class queues
you must use tha \fIlpadmin(8)\fR command or another
CUPS-compatible client wit dat functionality.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da CUPS version of \fIlpc\fR do not implement all of the
standard Berkeley or LPRng commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIcupsaccept(8)\fR, \fIcupsenable(8)\fR,
\fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR, \fIlprm(1)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpc.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
