.\"
.\" "$Id: lpinfo.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpinfo playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpinfo 8 "CUPS" "5 December 2008" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpinfo \- show available devices or drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpinfo
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -l ] [ --device-id
.I device-id-string
] [ --exclude-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [ --include-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [ --language
.I locale
] [ --make-and-model
.I name
] [ --product
.I name
] -m
.br
.B lpinfo
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -l ] [ --exclude-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [ --include-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [ --timeout
.I seconds
] -v
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpinfo\fR lists tha available devices or drivers known ta the
CUPS server n' shit. Da first form (\fI-m\fR) lists tha available
drivers, while tha second form (\fI-v\fR) lists tha available
devices.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIlpinfo\fR accepts tha followin options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Sets tha username ta use when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Selects a alternate server.
.TP 5
-l
.br
Shows a "long" listin of devices or drivers.
.TP 5
--device-id device-id-string
.br
Specifies tha IEEE-1284 thang ID ta match when listin drivers wit the
\fI-m\fR option.
.TP 5
--exclude-schemes scheme-list
.br
Specifies a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of thang or PPD schemes dat should be
excluded from tha thangs up in dis biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Static PPD filez use tha "file" scheme.
.TP 5
--include-schemes scheme-list
.br
Specifies a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of thang or PPD schemes dat should be
included up in tha thangs up in dis biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Static PPD filez use tha "file" scheme.
.TP 5
--language locale
.br
Specifies tha language ta match when listin drivers wit tha \fI-m\fR option.
.TP 5
--make-and-model name
.br
Specifies tha make n' model ta match when listin drivers wit tha \fI-m\fR
option.
.TP 5
--thang name
.br
Specifies tha thang ta match when listin drivers wit tha \fI-m\fR option.
.TP 5
--timeout seconds
.br
Specifies tha timeout when listin devices wit tha \fI-v\fR option.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Da \fIlpinfo\fR command is unique ta CUPS.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlpadmin(8)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpinfo.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
