.\"
.\" "$Id: lpmove.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   lpmove playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpmove 8 "CUPS" "12 February 2006" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
lpmove \- move a thang or all thangs ta a freshly smoked up destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpmove
[ -E ] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -U
.I username
]
.I thang destination
.br
.B lpmove
[ -E ] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -U
.I username
]
.I source destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpmove\fR moves tha specified \fIjob\fR or all thangs from
\fIsource\fR ta \fIdestination\fR. \fIjob\fR can be tha thang ID
number or tha oldschool destination n' thang ID:
.br
.nf

     lpmove 123 newprinter
     lpmove oldprinter-123 newprinter
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
Da \fIlpmove\fR command supports tha followin options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies a alternate username.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Specifies a alternate server.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpmove.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
