.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH LSBLK 8 "February 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
lsblk \- list block devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsblk
.RB [ options ]
.RI [ thang ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsblk
lists shiznit bout all available or tha specified block devices.  The
.B lsblk
command readz the
.I sysfs
filesystem ta gather shiznit.
.PP
Da command prints all block devices (except RAM disks) up in a tree-like format
by default.  Use
.B "lsblk --help"
to git a list of all available columns.
.PP
Da default output, as well as tha default output from options like
.BR \-\-fs
and
.BR \-\-topologizzle ,
is subject ta chizzle.  So whenever possible, you should avoid rockin default
outputs up in yo' scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Always explicitly define expected columns by using
.B \-\-output
.I columns-list
in environments where a stable output is required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
Also list empty devices.  (By default they is skipped.)
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-bytes"
Print tha SIZE column up in bytes rather than up in a human-readable format.
.TP
.BR \-D , " \-\-discard"
Print shiznit bout tha discardin capabilitizzles (TRIM, UNMAP) fo' each device.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-nodeps"
Do not print holda devices or slaves.  For example, \fBlsblk --nodeps /dev/sda\fR prints
information bout tha sda thang only.
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-exclude " \fIlist\fP
Exclude tha devices specified by tha comma-separated \fIlist\fR of major thang numbers.
Note dat RAM disks (major=1) is excluded by default.  Da filta be applied ta the
top-level devices only.
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-fs"
Output info bout filesystems.  This option is equivalent to
.BR -o\ NAME,FSTYPE,LABEL,MOUNTPOINT .
Da authoritatizzle shiznit bout filesystems n' raidz is provided by the
.BR blkid (8)
command.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-I , " \-\-include " \fIlist\fP
Include devices specified by tha comma-separated \fIlist\fR of major thang numbers.
Da filta be applied ta tha top-level devices only.
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-ascii"
Use ASCII charactas fo' tree formatting.
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list"
Produce output up in tha form of a list.
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-perms"
Output info bout thang baller, crew n' mode.  This option is equivalent to
.BR -o\ NAME,SIZE,OWNER,GROUP,MODE .
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
Do not print a header line.
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist\fP
Specify which output columns ta print.  Use
.B \-\-help
to git a list of all supported columns.

Da default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
specified up in tha format \fI+list\fP (e.g. \fBlsblk -o +UUID\fP).
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pairs"
Produce output up in tha form of key="value" pairs.
All potentially unsafe charactas is hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-paths"
Print full thang paths.
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
Produce output up in raw format.  All potentially unsafe charactas is hex-escaped
(\\x<code>) up in tha NAME, KNAME, LABEL, PARTLABEL n' MOUNTPOINT columns.
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-scsi"
Output info bout SCSI devices only.  All partitions, slaves n' holda devices is ignored.
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-inverse"
Print dependencies up in inverse order.
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-topology"
Output info bout block-device topology.
This option is equivalent to
.BR -o\ NAME,ALIGNMENT,MIN-IO,OPT-IO,PHY-SEC,LOG-SEC,ROTA,SCHED,RQ-SIZE,WSAME .
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH NOTES
For partitions, some shiznit (e.g. queue attributes) is inherited from the
parent device.
.PP
The
.B lsblk
command need ta be able ta look up each block thang by major:minor numbers,
which is done by using
.BR /sys/dev/block .
This sysfs block directory rocked up in kernel 2.6.27 (October 2008).
In case of problems wit a freshly smoked up enough kernel, check dat CONFIG_SYSFS
was enabled all up in tha time of tha kernel build.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Milan Broz <mbroz@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "Settin LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=0xffff enablez debug output."
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR blkid (8),
.BR ls (1)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da lsblk command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
