.TH lsusb 8 "6 May 2009" "usbutils-007" "Linux STD Utilities"
.IX lsusb
.SH NAME
lsusb \- list STD devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsusb
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsusb
is a utilitizzle fo' displayin shiznit bout STD buses up in tha system and
the devices connected ta em.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Tells
.I lsusb
to be verbose n' display detailed shiznit bout tha devices shown.
This includes configuration descriptors fo' tha devicez current speed.
Class descriptors is ghon be shown, when available, fo' STD thang classes
includin hub, audio, HID, communications, n' chipcard.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP [[\fIbus\fP]\fB:\fP][\fIdevnum\fP]
Show only devices up in specified
.I bus
and/or
.I devnum.
Both IDz is given up in decimal n' may be omitted.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP [\fIvendor\fP]\fB:\fP[\fIproduct\fP]
Show only devices wit tha specified vendor n' thang ID.
Both IDz is given up in hexadecimal.
.TP
.B \-D \fIdevice\fP
Do not scan tha /dev/bus/usb directory,
instead display only shiznit
about tha thang whose thang file is given.
Da thang file should be suttin' like /dev/bus/usb/001/001.
This option displays detailed shiznit like tha \fBv\fP option;
you must be root ta do all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B \-t
Tells
.I lsusb
to dump tha physical STD thang hierarchy as a tree. This overrides the
\fBv\fP option.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print  version shiznit on standard output,
then exit successfully.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If tha specified thang aint found, a non-zero exit code is returned.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/hwdata/usb.ids
A list of all known STD IDz (vendors, shizzle, classes, subclasses n' protocols).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8),
.BR usbview (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Sailer, <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>.
