.TH LVDISPLAY 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvdisplay \- display attributez of a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvdisplay
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-colon ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-maps ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ LogicalVolumePath
.RI [ LogicalVolumePath ...]]
.br

.B lvdisplay
.BR \-C | \-\-columns
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o | \-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field [ ,Field ...]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | - ] Key1 [ , [ + | - ] Key2 ...]]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-segments ]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ LogicalVolumePath
.RI [ LogicalVolumePath ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvdisplay allows you ta peep tha attributez of a logical volume
like size, read/write status, snapshot shiznit etc.
.P
\fBlvs\fP(8) be a alternatizzle dat serves up tha same shiznit
in tha steez of \fBps\fP(1).
\fBlvs\fP(8) is recommended over \fBlvdisplay\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options n' \fBlvs\fP fo' options given with
\fB\-\-columns\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Include shiznit up in tha output bout internal Logical Volumes that
are componentz of normally-accessible Logical Volumes, like fuckin mirrors,
but which is not independently accessible (e.g. not mountable).
For example, afta bustin a mirror using
\fBlvcreate \-m1 \-\-mirrorlog disk\fP,
this option will reveal three internal Logical Volumes, wit suffixes
mimage_0, mimage_1, n' mlog.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-columns
Display output up in columns, tha equivalent of \fBlvs\fP(8).
Options listed is tha same as options given up in \fBlvs\fP(8).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-colon
Generate colon separated output fo' easier parsin up in scripts or programs.
N.B. \fBlvs\fP(8) serves up considerably mo' control over tha output.
.nf

Da joints are:

* logical volume name
* volume crew name
* logical volume access
* logical volume status
* internal logical volume number
* open count of logical volume
* logical volume size up in sectors
* current logical extents associated ta logical volume
* allocated logical extentz of logical volume
* allocation policy of logical volume
* read ahead sectorz of logical volume
* major thang number of logical volume
* minor thang number of logical volume

.fi
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-maps
Display tha mappin of logical extents ta physical volumes and
physical extents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  To map physical extents
to logical extents use:
.B pvs \-\-segments \-o+lv_name,seg_start_pe,segtype
.SH Examples
Shows attributez of dat logical volume. If snapshot
logical volumes done been pimped fo' dis original gangsta logical volume,
this command shows a list of all snapshot logical volumes n' their
status (actizzle or inactive) as well:
.sp
.B lvdisplay \-v /dev/vg00/lvol2

Shows tha attributez of dis snapshot logical volume n' also which
original gangsta logical volume it be associated with:
.sp
.B lvdisplay /dev/vg00/snapshot

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvcreate (8),
.BR lvs (8),
.BR lvscan (8),
.BR pvs (8)
