.TH "LVM-DUMPCONFIG" "8" "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat, Inc" "\""
.SH "NAME"
lvm-dumpconfig \- dump LVM configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvm dumpconfig
.RB [ \-f | \-\-file ]
.IR filename ]
.RB [ \-\-type
.RI { current | default | diff | missin | freshly smoked up | profilable }
.RB [ \-\-atversion
.IR version ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreadvanced ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreunsupported ]
.RB [ \-\-mergedconfig ]
.RB [ \-\-validate ]
.RB [ \-\-withcomments ]
.RB [ \-\-withversions ]
.RB [ ConfigurationNode... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lvm dumpconfig produces formatted output wit LVM configuration tree.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " \fIfilename"
Dump configuration ta a gangbangin' file named 'filename'.

.TP
.IR \fB\-\-type " {" current | default | diff | missin | freshly smoked up | profilable }
Select tha type of configuration ta dump. Da configuration settings dumped
have either default joints or currently used joints assigned based on the
type selected (if no type is selected, \fB\-\-type current\fP is used
by default). Whenever a cold-ass lil configuration settin wit a thugged-out default value is
commented out, it means tha settin aint gots any concrete default
value defined. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! All output can be saved n' reused as proper \fBlvm.conf\fP(5)
file.
.RS
.IP current 3
Dump current \fBlvm.conf\fP configuration merged wit any \fBtag config\fP
if used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! See also \fBlvm.conf\fP(5) fo' mo' info bout LVM configuration methods.
.IP default 3
Dump all possible configuration settings wit default joints assigned.
.IP diff 3
Dump all configuration settings fo' which tha joints used differ from defaults.
Da value assigned fo' each configuration settin is tha value currently used.
This is straight-up minimal LVM configuration which can be used without
a chizzle ta current configured behaviour.
.IP missin 3
Dump all configuration settings wit default joints assigned which are
missin up in tha configuration currently used n' fo' which LVM automatically
fallbacks ta rockin these default joints.
.IP freshly smoked up 3
Dump all freshly smoked up configuration settings introduced up in current LVM version
or specific version as defined by \fB\-\-atversion\fP option.
.IP profilable 3
Dump all profilable configuration settings wit default joints assigned.
See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5) fo' mo' info bout \fBprofile config\fP method.
.RE

.TP
.BI \-\-atversion " version"
Specify a LVM version up in x.y.z format where x is tha major version,
the y is tha minor version n' z is tha patchlevel (e.g. 2.2.106).
When configuration is dumped, tha configuration settings recognized
at dis LVM version is ghon be considered only. This can be used
to dump a cold-ass lil configuration dat certain LVM version understandz and
which do not contain any newer settings fo' which LVM would
issue a warnin message when checkin tha configuration.

.TP
.B \-\-ignoreadvanced
Ignore advanced configuration settings on dump.

.TP
.B \-\-ignoreunsupported
Ignore unsupported configuration settings on dump. These settings are
either used fo' debuggin purposes only or they support aint yet
complete n' they is not meant ta be used up in thang.

.TP
.B \-\-mergedconfig
When tha dumpconfig command is run wit tha \fB\-\-config\fP option
and/or \fB\-\-profile\fP option (common options dat is recognized
by all LVM tools, peep also \fBlvm\fP(8)), merge tha \fB\-\-config\fP
and/or \fB\-\-profile\fP config wit current configuration used
(see \fB\-\-type current\fP above). Otherwise, only tha configuration
specified within \fB\-\-config\fP or \fB\-\-profile\fP option is dumped
(see also \fBlvm.conf\fP(5) fo' mo' info bout \fBconfig cascade\fP).

.TP
.B \-\-validate
Validate current configuration used n' exit wit appropriate
return code. Da validation is done even if \fBconfig/checks\fP
\fBlvm.conf\fP(5) option is disabled.

.TP
.B \-\-withcomments
Also dump comments fo' each configuration node.

.TP
.B \-\-withversions
Also dump a cold-ass lil comment containin tha version of introduction for
each configuration node.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8)
.BR lvm.conf (5)
