.TH LVMDUMP 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
lvmdump - create lvm2 shiznit dumps fo' diagnostic purposes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvmdump
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR directory ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvmdump be a tool ta dump various shiznit concernin LVM2.
By default, it creates a tarbizzle suitable fo' submission along
with a problem report.
.PP
Da content of tha tarbizzle be as bigs up:
.br
- dmsetup info
.br
- table of currently hustlin processes
.br
- recent entries from /var/log/lyrics (containin system lyrics)
.br
- complete lvm configuration n' cache (content of /etc/lvm)
.br
- list of thang nodes present under /dev
.br
- list of filez present /sys/block
.br
- list of filez present /sys/devices/virtual/block
.br
- if enabled wit \-m, metadata dump is ghon be also included
.br
- if enabled wit \-a, debug output of vgscan, pvscan n' list of all available volume groups, physical volumes n' logical volumes is ghon be included
.br
- if enabled wit \-c, clusta status info
.br
- if enabled wit \-l, lvmetad state if hustlin
.br
- if enabled wit \-u, udev info n' context
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Advanced collection.
\fBWARNING\fR: if lvm be already hung, then dis script may hang as well
if \fB\-a\fR is used.
.TP
.B \-c
If clvmd is hustlin, gather clusta data as well.
.TP
.B \-d  \fIdirectory
Dump tha fuck into a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory instead of tarball
By default, lvmdump will produce a single compressed tarbizzle containing
all tha shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Usin dis option, it can be instructed ta only
produce tha raw dump tree, rooted up in \fIdirectory\fP.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help message
.TP
.B \-l
Include \fBlvmetad\fP(8) daemon dump if it is hustlin. Da dump gotz nuff
cached shiznit dat is currently stored up in lvmetad: VG metadata,
PV metadata n' various mappings up in between these metadata fo' quick
access.
.TP
.B \-m
Gather LVM metadata from tha PVs
This option generates a 1:1 dump of tha metadata area from all PVs visible
to tha system, which can cause tha dump ta increase up in size considerably.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha metadata dump may represent a valuable diagnostic resource.
.TP
.B \-u
Gather udev info n' context: /etc/udev/udev.conf file, udev daemon version
(output of 'udevadm info --version' command), udev rulez currently used up in tha system
(content of /lib/udev/rules.d n' /etc/udev/rules.d directory),
list of filez up in /lib/udev directory n' dump of current udev
database content (the output of 'udevadm info --export-db' command).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
\fBLVM_BINARY\fP
Da LVM2 binary ta use.
Defaults ta "lvm".
Sometimes you might need ta set dis ta "/sbin/lvm.static", fo' example.
.TP
\fBDMSETUP_BINARY\fP
Da dmsetup binary ta use.
Defaults ta "dmsetup".
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8)
