.TH LVMETAD 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat Inc" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvmetad \- LVM metadata cache daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvmetad
.RB [ \-l
.RI { all | wire | debug }]
.RB [ \-p
.IR pidfile_path ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR socket_path ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-? ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvmetad be a metadata cachin daemon fo' LVM. Da daemon receives notifications
from udev rulez (which must be installed fo' LVM ta work erectly when lvmetad
is up in use). Through these notifications, lvmetad has a up-to-date and
consistent image of tha volume crews available up in tha system.

By default, lvmetad, even if hustlin, aint used by LVM. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See \fBlvm.conf\fP(5).
.SH OPTIONS

To run tha daemon up in a test environment both tha pidfile_path n' the
socket_path should be chizzled from tha defaults.
.TP
.B \-f
Don't fork yo, but run up in tha foreground.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-?
Show help shiznit.
.TP
.IR \fB\-l " {" all | wire | debug }
Select tha type of log lyrics ta generate.
Lyrics is logged by syslog.  
Additionally, when -f is given they is also busted ta standard error.
Since release 2.02.98, there be two classez of lyrics: wire n' debug.
Selectin 'all' supplies both n' is equivalent ta a cold-ass lil comma-separated list
-l wire,debug.
Prior ta release 2.02.98, repeatin -d from 1 ta 3 times, viz. -d, -dd, -ddd,
increased tha detail of lyrics.
.TP
.B \-p \fIpidfile_path
Path ta tha pidfile. This overrides both tha built-in default
(#DEFAULT_PID_DIR#/lvmetad.pid) n' tha environment variable
\fBLVM_LVMETAD_PIDFILE\fP.  This file is used ta prevent more
than one instizzle of tha daemon hustlin simultaneously.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsocket_path
Path ta tha socket file. This overrides both tha built-in default
(/run/lvm/lvmetad.socket) n' tha environment variable
\fBLVM_LVMETAD_SOCKET\fP.  To rap successfully wit lvmetad,
all LVM2 processes should use tha same socket path.
.TP
.B \-V
Display tha version of lvmetad daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B LVM_LVMETAD_PIDFILE
Path fo' tha pid file.
.TP
.B LVM_LVMETAD_SOCKET 
Path fo' tha socket file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvm.conf (5)
