.TH LVREMOVE 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvremove \- remove a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvremove
.RB [ \-A | \-\-autobackup
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-noudevsync ]
.IR LogicalVolume { Name |  Path }
.RI [ LogicalVolume { Name | Path }...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvremove removes one or mo' logical volumes.
Confirmation is ghon be axed before deactivatin any actizzle logical
volume prior ta removal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Logical volumes cannot be deactivated
or removed while they is open (e.g. if they contain a mounted filesystem).
Removin a origin logical volume will also remove all dependent snapshots.
.sp
If tha logical volume is clustered then it must be deactivated on all
nodes up in tha clusta before it can be removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A single lvchange command
issued from one node can do all dis bullshit.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Remove actizzle logical volumes without confirmation.
.TP
.B \-\-noudevsync
Disable udev synchronisation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. The
process aint gonna wait fo' notification from udev.
It will continue irrespectizzle of any possible udev processing
in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass should only use dis if udev aint hustlin
or has rulez dat ignore tha devices LVM2 creates.
.SH Examples
Remove tha actizzle logical volume lvol1 up in volume crew vg00
without askin fo' confirmation:
.sp
.B lvremove \-f vg00/lvol1
.sp
Remove all logical volumes up in volume crew vg00:
.sp
.B lvremove vg00
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvcreate (8),
.BR lvdisplay (8),
.BR lvchange (8),
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvs (8),
.BR lvscan (8),
.BR vgremove (8)
