.TH LVS 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvs \- report shiznit bout logical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvs
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-nameprefixes ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o | \-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field [, Field ]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | \- ] Key1 [,[ + | \- ] Key2 [,...]]]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-rows ]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-segments ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-\-unquoted ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ VolumeGroupName
.RI [ VolumeGroupName ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lvs produces formatted output bout logical volumes.
.SH OPTIONS
See
.BR lvm (8)
for common options.
.TP
.B \-\-aligned
Use wit \fB\-\-separator\fP ta align tha output columns.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Include shiznit up in tha output bout internal Logical Volumes that
are componentz of normally-accessible Logical Volumes, like fuckin mirrors,
but which is not independently accessible (e.g. not mountable).
Da namez of such Logical Volumes is enclosed within square brackets
in tha output.  For example, afta bustin a mirror using
.B lvcreate -m1 --mirrorlog disk
, dis option will reveal three internal Logical
Volumes, wit suffixes mimage_0, mimage_1, n' mlog.
.TP
.B \-\-nameprefixes
Add a "LVM2_" prefix plus tha field name ta tha output.  Useful
with \fB\-\-noheadings\fP ta produce a list of field=value pairs dat can
be used ta set environment variablez (for example, in
.BR udev (7)
rules).
.TP
.B \-\-noheadings
Suppress tha headings line dat is normally tha straight-up original gangsta line of output.
Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-nosuffix
Suppress tha suffix on output sizes.  Use wit \fB\-\-units\fP
(except h n' H) if processin tha output.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-options
Comma-separated ordered list of columns.  Precede tha list wit '\fI+\fP'
to append ta tha default selection of columns instead of replacin dat shit.
.IP
Use \fB\-o lv_all\fP ta select all logical volume columns,
and \fB\-o seg_all\fP
to select all logical volume segment columns.
.IP
Use \fB\-o help\fP ta view tha full list of columns available.
.IP
Column names include:
chunk_size,
convert_lv,
copy_percent,
data_lv,
devices,
discards,
lv_attr,
lv_host,
lv_kernel_major,
lv_kernel_minor,
lv_kernel_read_ahead,
lv_major,
lv_minor,
lv_name,
lv_path,
lv_profile,
lv_read_ahead,
lv_size,
lv_tags,
lv_time,
lv_uuid,
metadata_lv,
mirror_log,
modules,
move_pv,
origin,
origin_size,
pool_lv,
raid_max_recovery_rate,
raid_min_recovery_rate,
raid_mismatch_count,
raid_sync_action,
raid_write_behind,
region_size,
segtype,
seg_count,
seg_pe_ranges,
seg_size,
seg_size_pe,
seg_start,
seg_start_pe,
seg_tags,
snap_percent,
stripes,
stripe_size,
sync_percent,
thin_count,
transaction_id,
writebehind,
zero.
.IP
With \fB\-\-segments\fP, any "seg_" prefixes is optional;
otherwise any "lv_" prefixes is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Columns mentioned in
.BR vgs (8)
can also be chosen.
.IP
Da lv_attr bits are:
.RS
.IP 1 3
Volume type: (C)ache, (m)irrored, (M)irrored without initial sync, (o)rigin,
(O)rigin wit mergin snapshot, (r)aid, (R)aid without initial sync,
(s)napshot, mergin (S)napshot, (p)vmove, (v)irtual,
mirror or raid (i)mage, mirror or raid (I)mage out-of-sync, mirror (l)og device,
under (c)onversion, thin (V)olume, (t)hin pool, (T)hin pool data, raid or
pool m(e)tadata or pool metadata spare.
.IP 2 3
Permissions: (w)riteable, (r)ead-only, (R)ead-only activation of non-read-only
volume
.IP 3 3
Allocation policy:  (a)nywhere, (c)ontiguous, (i)nherited, c(l)ing, (n)ormal
This is capitalised if tha volume is currently locked against allocation
changes, fo' example during
.BR pvmove (8).
.IP 4 3
fixed (m)inor
.IP 5 3
State: (a)ctive, (s)uspended, (I)nvalid snapshot, invalid (S)uspended snapshot,
snapshot (m)erge failed, suspended snapshot (M)erge failed,
mapped (d)evice present without tables, mapped thang present wit (i)nactizzle table
.IP 6 3
device (o)pen
.IP 7 3
Target type: (m)irror, (r)aid, (s)napshot, (t)hin, (u)nknown, (v)irtual.
This crews logical volumes related ta tha same kernel target together n' shit.  So,
for example, mirror images, mirror logs as well as mirrors theyselves step tha fuck up as
(m) if they use tha original gangsta device-mapper mirror kernel driver; whereas tha raid
equivalents rockin tha md raid kernel driver all step tha fuck up as (r).
Snapshots rockin tha original gangsta device-mapper driver step tha fuck up as (s); whereas
snapshotz of thin volumes rockin tha freshly smoked up thin provisionin driver step tha fuck up as (t).
.IP 8 3
Newly-allocated data blocks is overwritten wit blockz of (z)eroes before use.
.IP 9 3
Volume Health: (p)artial, (r)efresh needed, (m)ismatches exist, (w)ritemostly.
(p)artial signifies dat one or mo' of tha Physical Volumes dis Logical
Volume uses is missin from tha system.  (r)efresh signifies dat one or
more of tha Physical Volumes dis RAID Logical Volume uses had suffered a
write error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Da write error could be cuz of a temporary failure of that
Physical Volume or a indication dat it is failing.  Da thang should be
refreshed or replaced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  (m)ismatches signifies dat tha RAID logical volume
has portionz of tha array dat is not coherent.  Inconsistencies are
detected by initiatin a "check" on a RAID logical volume.  (Da scrubbing
operations, "check" n' "repair", can be performed on a RAID logical
volume via tha 'lvchange' command.)  (w)ritemostly signifies tha devices in
a RAID 1 logical volume dat done been marked write-mostly.
.IP 10 3
s(k)ip activation: dis volume is flagged ta be skipped durin activation.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-sort
Comma-separated ordered list of columns ta sort by.  Replaces tha default
selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Precede any column wit '\fI\-\fP' fo' a reverse sort on dat column.
.TP
.B \-\-rows
Output columns as rows.
.TP
.B \-\-segments
Use default columns dat emphasize segment shiznit.
.TP
.B \-\-separator \fISeparator
Strin ta use ta separate each column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-unbuffered
Produce output immediately without sortin or alignin tha columns properly.
.TP
.B \-\-units \fIhHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE
All sizes is output up in these units: (h)uman-readable, (b)ytes, (s)ectors,
(k)ilobytes, (m)egabytes, (g)igabytes, (t)erabytes, (p)etabytes, (e)xabytes.
Capitalise ta use multiplez of 1000 (S.I.) instead of 1024.  Can also specify
custom units e.g. \fB\-\-units 3M\fP
.TP
.B \-\-unquoted
When used wit \fB\-\-nameprefixes\fP, output joints up in tha field=value
pairs is not quoted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvdisplay (8),
.BR pvs (8),
.BR vgs (8)
