.\" playa page fo' makedeltarpm
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
.\" See LICENSE.BSD fo' license
.TH MAKEDELTARPM 8 "Jul 2010"
.SH NAME
makedeltarpm \- create a thugged-out deltarpm from two rpms

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makedeltarpm
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V
.IR version ]
.RB [ -z
.IR compression ]
.RB [ -m
.IR mbytes ]
.RB [ -s
.IR seqfile ]
.RB [ -r ]
.RB [ -u ]
.I oldrpm
.I newrpm
.I deltarpm
.br
.B makedeltarpm
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V
.IR version ]
.RB [ -z
.IR compression ]
.RB [ -s
.IR seqfile ]
.RB [ -u ]
.B -p
.I oldrpmprint
.IR oldpatchrpm
.I oldrpm
.I newrpm
.I deltarpm

.SH DESCRIPTION
makedeltarpm creates a thugged-out deltarpm from two rpms. Da deltarpm can
lata be used ta recreate tha freshly smoked up rpm from either filesystem data
or tha oldschool rpm. Use the
.B -v
option ta make makedeltarpm mo' verbose bout its work (use it
twice ta make it even mo' verbose).
.PP
If you wanna create a
smalla n' fasta ta combine "rpm-only" deltarpm which do not
work wit filesystem data, specify the
.B -r
option.
.PP
makedeltarpm normally produces
a V3 format deltarpm, use the
.B -V
option ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different version if desired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! The
.B -z
option can be used ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different compression method, the
default is ta use tha same compression method as used up in the
new rpm.
.PP
The
.B -s
option make makedeltarpm write up tha sequence id ta tha specified
file
.IR seqfile .

If you also use patch rpms you should use the
.B -p
option ta specify tha rpm-print of
.I oldrpm
and tha pimped
patch rpm. This option  drops some lyrics ta makedeltarpm ta exclude tha filez that
were not included up in tha patch rpm but is not byteswise identical
to tha ones up in oldrpm.
.PP
makedeltarpm can also create a "identity" deltarpm by addin the
.B -u
switch. In dis case only one rpm has ta be specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! An identity
deltarpm can be useful ta just replace tha signature header of a
rpm or ta reconstruct a rpm from tha filesystem.

.SH MEMORY CONSIDERATIONS
makedeltarpm normally needz bout three ta four times tha size
of tha rpmz uncompressed payload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Yo ass can use the
.B -m
option ta enable a slidin block algorithm dat needs
.IR mbytes
megabytez of memory. This trades memory usage wit tha size of
the pimped deltarpm. Furthermore, tha uncompressed deltarpm
payload is currently also stored up in memory when dis option is
used yo, but it tendz ta be lil' small-ass up in most cases.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR applydeltarpm (8)
.BR combinedeltarpm (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Schroeder <mls@suse.de>
