'\" t
.\" Man page fo' mandb
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Yo ass may distribute under tha termz of tha GNU General Public
.\" License as specified up in tha file COPYING dat comes wit the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\" 
.\" Tue Apr 26 12:56:44 BST 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) 
.\"
.pc
.TH %thmandb% 8 "%date%" "%version%" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
%mandb% \- create or update tha manual page index caches
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %mandb%  
.RB [\| \-dqsucpt?V \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RI [\| manpath \|]
.br
.B %mandb%
.RB [\| \-dqsut \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.B \-f
.IR filename \ .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B %mandb%
is used ta initialise or manually update
.B index 
database caches dat is probably maintained by 
.BR %man% .
Da caches contain shiznit relevant ta tha current state of tha manual
page system n' tha shiznit stored within dem is used by tha man-db 
utilitizzles ta enhizzle they speed n' functionality.

When bustin or uppimpin an
.BR index ,
.B %mandb%
will warn of wack ROFF .so requests, bogus manual page filenames n' 
manual pages from which tha 
.B whatis 
cannot be parsed.

Supplyin 
.B %mandb% 
with a optionizzle colon-delimited path will override tha internal system
manual page hierarchy search path, determined from shiznit found within 
the man-db configuration file.
.SH "DATABASE CACHES"
.B %mandb%
can be compiled wit support fo' any one of tha followin database types.

.TS
tab (@);
l l l l.
Name@Type@Async@Filename
_
Berkeley db@T{
Binary tree
T}@Yes@\fIindex.bt\fR
GNU gdbm v >= 1.6@T{
Hashed
T}@Yes@\fIindex.db\fR
GNU gdbm v <  1.6@T{
Hashed
T}@No@\fIindex.db\fR
UNIX ndbm@T{
Hashed
T}@No@\fIindex.(dir|pag)\fR
.TE

Those database types dat support asynchronous thugged-out shiznit provide enhanced
speed all up in tha cost of possible corruption up in tha event of unusual
termination.
In a unusual case where dis has occurred, it may be necessary ta rerun
.B %mandb% 
with tha 
.B \-c
option ta re-create tha databases from scratch. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debuggin shiznit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Produce no warnings.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-s ", " \-\-no-straycats
Do not spend time lookin fo' or addin shiznit ta tha databases
regardin stray cats.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-p ", " \-\-no-purge
Do not spend time checkin fo' deleted manual pages n' purgin dem from
the databases.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-c ", " \-\-create
By default, 
.B %mandb%
will try ta update any previously pimped databases.
If a thugged-out database do not exist, it will create dat shit.
This option forces 
.B %mandb%
to delete previous databases n' re-create dem from scratch, n' implies
.B \-\-no-purge.
This may be necessary if a thugged-out database becomes corrupt or if a freshly smoked up database
storage scheme is introduced up in tha future.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-u ", " \-\-user-db
Smoke user databases only, even wit write permissions necessary ta create
system databases.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-t ", " \-\-test
Perform erectnizz checks on manual pages up in tha hierarchy search path.
With dis option,
.B %mandb%
will not alta existin databases.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-f ", " \-\-filename
Update only tha entries fo' tha given filename.
This option aint fo' general use; it is used internally by
.B %man%
when it has been compiled wit the
.B MAN_DB_UPDATES
option n' findz dat a page is outta date.
It implies
.B \-p
and disables
.B \-c
and
.BR \-s .
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use dis user configuration file rather than tha default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-, biatch? ", " \-\-help
Show tha usage message, then exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-\-usage
Print a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage message n' exit.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show tha version, then exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 1
Usage, syntax, or configuration file error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 2
Operationizzle error.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .B 3
A lil pimp process failed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Da followin warnin lyrics can be emitted durin database building.
.TP 
.B <filename>: whatis parse fo' page(sec) failed
An attempt ta extract whatis line(s) from tha given <filename> failed.
This is probably cuz of a skankyly freestyled manual page yo, but if nuff such
lyrics is emitted it is likely dat tha system gotz nuff non-standard
manual pages which is incompatible wit tha man-db whatis parser.
See the
.B WHATIS PARSING
section in
.BR lexgrog (1)
for mo' shiznit.
.TP
.B <filename>: be a thugged-out danglin symlink
<filename> do not exist but is referenced by a symbolic link. 
Further diagnostics is probably emitted ta identify tha <filename> of the
offendin link. 
.TP
.B <filename>: wack symlink or ROFF `.so' request
<filename> is either a symbolic link to, or gotz nuff a ROFF include
request to, a non existent file.
.TP
.B <filename>: ignorin bogus filename
Da <filename> may or may not be a valid manual page but its name is
invalid.
This is probably cuz of a manual page wit sectionizzle extension <x> bein put
in manual page section <y>. 
.TP
.B <filename_mask>: competin extensions
Da wildcard <filename_mask> aint unique.
This is probably caused by tha existence of both a cold-ass lil compressed and
uncompressed version of tha same manual page.
All but da most thugged-out recent is ignored.
.SH FILES
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I %manpath_config_file%
man-db configuration file.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An FHS compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.PP
Older locations fo' tha database cache included:
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /usr/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
A traditionizzle global
.I index
database cache.
.TP
.if !'po4a'hide' .I /var/catman/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An alternate or FSSTND
compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR lexgrog (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %man% (1),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR manpath (5),
.if !'po4a'hide' .BR %catman% (8)
.PP
The
.B "WHATIS PARSING"
section formerly up in dis manual page is now part of
.BR lexgrog (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.if !'po4a'hide' Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
.if !'po4a'hide' Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
.if !'po4a'hide' Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
