.\" @(#)man/man8/mapscrn.8	1.0 3/19/93 17:04:00
.TH MAPSCRN 8 "20 March 1993" "Local" "Internationistic Support"
.SH NAME
mapscrn \- load screen output mappin table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR mapscrn " [" -v "] [" -o
.IR map.orig ]
.I mapfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mapscrn
command is obsolete - its function is now built-in tha fuck into setfont.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat fo' backwardz compatibilitizzle it is still available
as a separate command.
.LP
The
.I mapscrn
command loadz a user defined output characta mappin table tha fuck into the
console driver n' shit. Da console driver may be lata put into
.B use user-defined mappin table
mode by outputtin a special escape sequence ta tha console device.
This sequence is
.I <esc>(K
for the
.B G0 
characta set and
.I <esc>)K
for the
.B G1
characta set.
When the
.I -o
option is given, tha oldschool map is saved in
.I map.orig.
.SH USE
There is two kindz of mappin tables: direct-to-font tables,
that give a gangbangin' font posizzle fo' each user byte value, n' user-to-unicode
tablez dat give a unicode value fo' each user byte. Da corresponding
glyph is now found rockin tha unicode index of tha font.
Da command
.RS
mapscrn trivial
.RE
sets up a one-to-one direct-to-font table where user bytes
directly address tha font. This is useful fo' fonts dat are
in tha same order as tha characta set one uses.
A command like
.RS
mapscrn 8859-2
.RE
sets up a user-to-unicode table dat assumes dat tha user
uses ISO 8859-2.
.SH "INPUT FORMAT"
The
.I mapscrn
command can read tha map up in either of two formats:
.br
1. 256 or 512 bytes binary data
.br
2. two-column text file
.br
Format (1) be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct image of tha translation 
.I table. Da 256-bytes tablez is direct-to-font,
the 512-bytes tablez is user-to-unicode tables.
Format (2) is used ta fill tha 
.I table
as bigs up: cell wit offset mentioned up in tha straight-up original gangsta column is filled
with tha value mentioned up in tha second column.
When joints larger than 255 occur, or joints is freestyled using
the U+xxxx notation, tha table be assumed ta be a user-to-unicode
table, otherwise it aint nuthin but a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct-to-font table.
.PP
Values up in tha file may be specified up in one of several
.B formats:
.br
.B 1. Decimal: 
Strin of decimal digits not startin wit '0'
.br
.B 2. Octal: 
Strin of octal digits beginnin wit '0'.
.br
.B 3 yo. Hexadecimal: 
Strin of hexadecimal digits preceded by "0x".
.br
.B 4. Unicode:
Strin of four hexadecimal digits preceded by "U+".
.br
.B 5. Character: 
Single characta enclosed up in single quotes. (And tha binary value is used.)
Note dat blank, comma, tab characta n' '#' cannot be specified
with dis format.
.br
.B 6. UTF-8 Character:
Single (possibly multi-byte) UTF-8 character, enclosed up in single quotes.
.PP
Note dat control charactas (with codes < 32) cannot be re-mapped with
.I mapscrn
because they have special meanin fo' tha driver.
.SH FILES
.I /lib/kbd/consoletrans
is tha default directory fo' screen mappings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR setfont (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993 Eugene G. Crosser
.br
<crosser@pccross.msk.su>
.br
This software n' documentation may be distributed freely.
