.TH MASTER 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
master
\-
Postfix masta process
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBmaster\fR [\fB-Ddtvw\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB-e \fIexit_time\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBmaster\fR(8) daemon is tha resident process dat runs Postfix
daemons on demand: daemons ta bust or receive lyrics via the
network, daemons ta serve up mail locally, etc.  These daemons are
created on demand up ta a cold-ass lil configurable maximum number per service.

Postfix daemons terminizzle voluntarily, either afta bein idle for
a configurable amount of time, or afta havin serviced a
configurable number of requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Exceptions ta dis rule is the
resident queue manager, address verification server, n' tha TLS
session cache n' pseudo-random number server.

Da behavior of tha \fBmaster\fR(8) daemon is controlled by the
\fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file, as busted lyrics bout up in \fBmaster\fR(5).

Options:
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read tha \fBmain.cf\fR n' \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration filez in
the named directory instead of tha default configuration directory.
This also overrides tha configuration filez fo' other Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP \fB-D\fR
Afta initialization, run a thugged-out debugger on tha masta process. The
debuggin command is specified wit tha \fBdebugger_command\fR in
the \fBmain.cf\fR global configuration file.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Do not redirect stdin, stdout or stderr ta /dev/null, and
do not discard tha controllin terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. This must be used
for debuggin only.
.IP "\fB-e \fIexit_time\fR"
Terminizzle tha masta process afta \fIexit_time\fR seconds. Child
processes terminizzle at they convenience.
.IP \fB-t\fR
Test mode. Return a zero exit status when tha \fBmaster.pid\fR lock
file do not exist or when dat file aint locked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is evidence
that tha \fBmaster\fR(8) daemon aint hustlin.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose loggin fo' debuggin purposes. This option
is passed on ta lil pimp processes. Multiple \fB-v\fR options
make tha software mo' n' mo' n' mo' verbose.
.IP \fB-w\fR
Wait up in a thugged-out dummy foreground process, while tha real master
daemon initializes up in a funky-ass background process.  Da dummy
foreground process returns a zero exit status only if the
masta daemon initialization is successful, n' if it
completes up in a reasonable amount of time.
.sp
This feature be available up in Postfix 2.10 n' later.
.PP
Signals:
.IP \fBSIGHUP\fR
Upon receipt of a \fBHUP\fR signal (e.g., afta "\fBpostfix reload\fR"),
the masta process re-readz its configuration files. If a steez has
been removed from tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file, its hustlin processes
are terminated immediately.
Otherwise, hustlin processes is allowed ta terminizzle as soon
as is convenient, so dat chizzlez up in configuration settings
affect only freshly smoked up steez requests.
.IP \fBSIGTERM\fR
Upon receipt of a \fBTERM\fR signal (e.g., afta "\fBpostfix abort\fR"),
the masta process passes tha signal on ta its lil pimp processes and
terminates.
This is useful fo' a emergency shutdown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Normally one would
terminizzle only tha masta ("\fBpostfix stop\fR") n' allow hustlin
processes ta finish what tha fuck they is bustin.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems is reported ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8). Da exit status
is non-zero up in case of problems, includin problems while
initializin as a masta daemon process up in tha background.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_DEBUG\fR
Afta initialization, start a thugged-out debugger as specified wit the
\fBdebugger_command\fR configuration parameta up in tha \fBmain.cf\fR
configuration file.
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory wit Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Unlike most Postfix daemon processes, tha \fBmaster\fR(8) server do
not automatically pick up chizzlez ta \fBmain.cf\fR. Chizzles
to \fBmaster.cf\fR is never picked up automatically.
Use tha "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command afta a cold-ass lil configuration chizzle.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdefault_process_limit (100)\fR"
Da default maximal number of Postfix lil pimp processes dat provide
a given service.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBservice_throttle_time (60s)\fR"
How tha fuck long tha Postfix \fBmaster\fR(8) waits before forkin a server that
appears ta be malfunctioning.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBmaster_service_disable (empty)\fR"
Selectively disable \fBmaster\fR(8) listener ports by steez type
or by steez name n' type.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix support programs n' daemon programs.
.IP "\fBdebugger_command (empty)\fR"
Da external command ta execute when a Postfix daemon program is
invoked wit tha -D option.
.IP "\fBinet_interfaces (all)\fR"
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives
mail on.
.IP "\fBinet_protocols (all)\fR"
Da Internizzle protocols Postfix will attempt ta use when making
or acceptin connections.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment parametas dat a Postfix process will
import from a non-Postfix parent process.
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
To expand tha directory names below tha fuck into they actual joints,
use tha command "\fBpostconf config_directory\fR" etc.
.na
.nf

$config_directory/main.cf, global configuration file.
$config_directory/master.cf, masta server configuration file.
$queue_directory/pid/master.pid, masta lock file.
$data_directory/master.lock, masta lock file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
verify(8), address verification
master(5), master.cf configuration file syntax
postconf(5), main.cf configuration file syntax
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
