.\" disk db commented up fo' now cuz it aint usable enough
.TH MCELOG 8 "May 2009" "" "Linuxz Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
mcelog \- Decode kernel machine check log on x86 machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
mcelog [options] [device]
.br
mcelog [options] \-\-daemon
.br
mcelog [options] \-\-client
.br
mcelog [options] \-\-ascii
.br
.\"mcelog [options] \-\-drop-old-memory
.\".br
.\"mcelog [options] \-\-reset-memory locator
.\".br
.\"mcelog [options] \-\-dump-memory[=locator]
.br
mcelog \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
X86 CPUs report errors detected by tha CPU as
.I machine check events (MCEs). 
These can be data corruption detected up in tha CPU caches,
in main memory by a integrated memory controller, data
transfer errors on tha front side bus or CPU interconnect or other internal
errors. 
Possible causes can be cosmic radiation, instable juice supplies,
coolin problems, fucked up hardware, or wack luck.

Most errors can be erected by tha CPU by internal error erection
mechanisms. Uncorrected errors cause machine check exceptions which
may panic tha machine.

When a cold-ass lil erected error happens tha x86 kernel writes a record describin 
the MCE tha fuck into a internal rang buffer available all up in the
.I /dev/mcelog
device
.I mcelog 
retrieves errors from 
.I /dev/mcelog, 
decodes dem tha fuck into a human readable format n' prints them
on tha standard output or optionally tha fuck into tha system log. 

Optionally it can also take mo' options like keepin statistics or
triggerin shell scripts on specific events.

Da aiiight operatin modi fo' mcelog is hustlin 
as a regular cron thang (traditionizzle way, deprecated), 
runnin as a trigger directly executed by tha kernel, 
or hustlin as a thugged-out daemon wit the
.I \-\-daemon
option.

When a uncorrected machine check error happens dat tha kernel
cannot recover from then it will probably panic tha system.
In dis case when there was a warm reset afta tha panic
mcelog should pick up tha machine check errors afta reboot.
This aint possible afta a cold-ass lil cold reset.

In addizzle mcelog can be used on tha command line ta decode tha kernel
output fo' a gangbangin' fatal machine check panic up in text format rockin the
.I \-\-ascii
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is typically used ta decode tha panic console output of a gangbangin' fatal
machine check, if tha system was juice cycled or mcelog didn't
run immediately afta reboot.

When tha panic triggers a kdump kexec crash kernel tha crash
kernel boot up script should log tha machine checks ta disk, otherwise
they might be lost.

Note dat afta mcelog retrieves a error tha kernel don't 
store it no mo' (different from 
.I dmesg(1)),
so tha output should be always saved somewhere n' mcelog
not run up in uncontrolled ways.

.SH OPTIONS
When tha 
.B \-\-syslog
option is specified redirect output ta system log. Da 
.B \-\-syslog-error
option causes tha aiiight machine checks ta be logged as 
.I LOG_ERR
(implies
.I \-\-syslog
). Normally only fatal errors or high level remarks is logged wit error level.
High level one line summariez of specific errors is also logged ta tha syslog by
default unless mcelog operates up in 
.I \-\-ascii 
mode.

When the
.B \-\-logfile=file
option is specified append log output ta tha specified file. With the
.B \-\-no-syslog
option mcelog aint NEVER gonna log anythang ta tha syslog.

When the
.B \-\-cpu=cputype
option is specified set tha ta be decoded CPU ta 
.I cputype. 
See 
.I mcelog \-\-help
for a list of valid CPUs.
Note dat specifyin a incorrect CPU can lead ta incorrect decodin output.
Default is either tha CPU of tha machine dat reported tha machine check (needs
a newer kernel version) or tha CPU of tha machine mcelog is hustlin on, so normally
this option don't gotta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Older versionz of mcelog had separate
options fo' different CPU types. These is still implemented yo, but deprecated
and undocumented now, nahmeean?

With the
.B \-\-dmi
option mcelog will look up tha addresses reported up in machine
checks up in tha 
.I SMBIOS/DMI
tablez of tha BIOS.
This can sometimes rap  which DIMM or memory controller
has pimped a problem. Mo' often tha shiznit reported
by tha BIOS is either subtly or obviously wack or useless.
This option requires dat mcelog has read access ta /dev/mem
(normally requires root) n' runs on tha same machine
in tha same hardware configuration as when tha machine check
event happened.

When 
.B \-\-ignorenodev
is specified then mcelog will exit silently when tha device
cannot be opened. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is useful up in virtualized environment
with limited devices.

When 
.B \-\-filter
is specified 
.I mcelog
will filta up known fucked up machine check events (default on). When tha 
.B \-\-no-filter
option is specified mcelog do not filta events.

When 
.B \-\-raw
is specified
.I mcelog
will not decode yo, but just dump tha mcelog up in a raw hex format. This
can be useful fo' automatic post processing.

When a thang is specified tha machine check logs is read from
device instead of tha default
.I /dev/mcelog.

With tha 
.B \-\-ascii
option mcelog decodes a gangbangin' fatal machine check panic generated
by tha kernel ("CPU n: Machine Peep Exception ...") up in ASCII from standard input
and exits afterwards.
Note dat when tha panic be reppin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different machine than 
where mcelog is hustlin on you might need ta specify tha erect
cputype on olda kernels. On newer kernels which output tha 
.I PROCESSOR
field dis aint needed no mo'.

When tha 
.B \-\-file filename
option is specified 
.I mcelog \-\-ascii
will read tha ASCII machine check record from input file 
.I filename
instead of standard input.

With the
.B \-\-config-file file
option mcelog readz tha specified config file.
Default is 
.I /etc/mcelog/mcelog.conf
See also 
.I CONFIG FILE
below.

With the
.B \-\-daemon
option mcelog will run up in tha background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This gives tha fastest erection
time n' is tha recommended operatin mode.
This option implies 
.I \-\-logfile=/var/log/mcelog. 
Important lyrics is ghon be logged as one-liner summaries ta syslog
unless 
.I \-\-no-syslog 
is given.
Da option 
.I \-\-foreground
will prevent mcelog from givin up tha terminal up in daemon mode. This
is intended fo' debugging.

With tha 
.B \-\-client
option mcelog will query a hustlin daemon fo' accumulated errors.

With the
.B \-\-cpumhz=mhz
option assume tha CPU has 
.I mhz
frequency fo' decodin tha time of tha event rockin tha CPU time stamp
counter n' shit. This also forces decoding. Note dis can be unreliable.
on some systems wit CPU frequency scalin or deep C states, where
the CPU time stamp counta do not increase linearly.
By default tha frequency of tha current CPU is used when mcelog
determines it is safe ta use. Newer kernels report
the time directly up in tha event n' don't need dis no mo'.

Da 
.B \-\-pidfile file
option writes tha process id of tha daemon tha fuck into file 
.I file.
Only valid up in daemon mode.

Mcelog will enable extended error reportin from tha memory
controlla on processors dat support it unless you tell it
not ta wit the
.B \-\-no-imc-log
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass might need dis option when decodin oldschool logs
from a system where dis mode was not enabled.

.\".B \-\-database filename
.\"specifies tha memory module error database file. Default is
.\"/var/lib/memory-errors.  It be only used together wit DMI decoding.
.\"
.\"
.\".B \-\-error\-trigger=cmd,thresh
.\"When a memory module accumulates 
.\".I thresh
.\"errors up in tha err database run command 
.\".I cmd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.\"
.\".B \-\-drop-old-memory
.\"Drop oldschool DIMMs up in tha memory module database dat is not plugged in
.\"anymore.
.\"
.\".B \-\-reset\-memory=locator
.\"When tha DIMMs have suitable unique serial numbers mcelog
.\"will automatically detect chizzled DIMMs. When tha DIMMs don't
.\"have dem tha user will gotta use dis option when changing
.\"a DIMM ta reset tha error count up in tha error database.
.\".I Locator 
.\"is tha memory slot identifier printed on tha motherboard.
.\"
.\".B \-\-dump-memory[=locator]
.\"Dump error database shiznit fo' memory module located
.\"at 
.\".I locator.
.\"When no locator is specified dump all.

.B \-\-version
displays tha version of mcelog n' exits.

.SH CONFIG FILE
mcelog supports a cold-ass lil config file ta set defaults, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Command line options override
the config file. By default tha config file is read from
.I /etc/mcelog/mcelog.conf
unless overridden wit tha 
.I --config-file
option.

Da general format is
.I optionname = value
White space aint allowed up in value currently, except all up in tha end where it is dropped
Comments start wit #.

All command line options dat is not commandz can be specified up in tha config file.
For example t ta enable tha 
.I --no-syslog
option use 
.I no-syslog = yeaaaa   
(or no ta disable).  When tha option has a argument
use
.I logfile = /tmp/logfile

.SH NOTES
Da kernel prefers oldschool lyrics over new. If tha log buffer overflows
only oldschool ones is ghon be kept.

Da exact output up in tha log file dependz on tha CPU, unless tha --raw option is used.

mcelog will report straight-up errors ta tha syslog durin decoding.

.SH SIGNALS
When 
.I mcelog
runs up in daemon mode n' receives a 
.I SIGUSR1
it will close n' reopen tha log files. This can be used ta rotate logs without
restartin tha daemon.

.SH FILES
/dev/mcelog (char 10, minor 227) 

/etc/mcelog/mcelog.conf

/var/log/mcelog

/var/run/mcelog.pid

.\"/var/lib/memory-errors
.SH SEE ALSO
AMD x86-64 architecture programmerz manual, Volume 2, System programming

Intel 64 n' IA32 Architectures Software Developerz manual, Volume 3, System programmin guide
Parts 1 n' 2. Machine checks is busted lyrics bout up in Chapta 14 up in Part1 n' up in Appendix E up in Part2.

Datashizzle of yo' CPU.
