.\" t
.\" Copyright 2005-2006 Christoph Lameter, Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" based on Andi Kleenz numactl manpage
.\"
.TH MIGRATEPAGES 8 "Jan 2005" "SGI" "Linux Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
migratepages \- Migrate tha physical location a processes pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B migratepages
pid from-nodes to-nodes
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B migratepages
moves tha physical location of a processes pages without any chizzlez of the
virtual address space of tha process. Movin tha pages allows one ta chizzle
the distancez of a process ta its memory. Performizzle may be optimized by moving
a processes pages ta tha node where it is executing.

If multiple nodes is specified fo' from-nodes or to-nodes then
an attempt is made ta preserve tha relatizzle location of
each page up in each nodeset.

For example if we move from nodes 2-5 ta 7,9,12-13 then tha preferred mode of
operation is ta move pages from 2->7, 3->9, 4->12 n' 5->13. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat this
is only posssible if enough memory be available.
.TP
Valid node specifiers
.TS
tab(:);
l l. 
all:All nodes
number:Node number
number1{,number2}:Node number1 n' Node number2
number1-number2:Nodes from number1 ta number2
! nodes:Invert selection of tha followin justification.
.TE
.SH NOTES
Requires a NUMA policy aware kernel wit support fo' page migration
(linux 2.6.16 n' later).

migratepages will only move pages dat is not shared wit other
processes if called by a user without administratizzle priviledges (but
with tha right ta modify tha process).

migratepages will move all pages if invoked from root (or a user with
administratizzle priviledges).

.SH FILES
.I /proc/<pid>/numa_maps
for shiznit bout tha NUMA memory use of a process.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2005-2006 Christoph Lameter, Silicon Graphics, Inc.
migratepages is under tha GNU General Public License, v.2

.SH SEE ALSO
.I numactl(8)
,
.I set_mempolicy(2)
,
.I get_mempolicy(2)
,
.I mbind(2)
,
.I sched_setaffinity(2)
, 
.I sched_getaffinity(2)
,
.I proc(5)
, 
.I ftok(3)
,
.I shmat(2)
,
.I taskset(1)

