.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Dizzy A yo. Hindz -- dhinds@pcmcia.sourceforge.org
.\"
.TH MII\-TOOL 8 "2013\-02\-15" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"

.SH NAME
mii\-tool \- view, manipulate media-independent intercourse status

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mii\-tool
[\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restart\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR]
[\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-advertise=\fImedia,...\fR]
[\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force=\fImedia\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy=\fIaddr\fR]
.RI "interface\ ..."

.SH NOTE
.P 
This program is obsolete. For replacement check \fBethtool\fB.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utilitizzle checks or sets tha statuz of a network intercoursez Media
Independent Interface (MII) unit.  Most fast ethernet adaptas use an
MII ta autonegotiate link speed n' duplex setting.
.PP
Most intelligent network devices use a autonegotiation protocol to
communicate what tha fuck media technologies they support, n' then select the
fastest mutually supported media technology.  Da \fB\-A\fR or
\fB\-\-advertise\fR options can be used ta tell tha MII ta only
advertise a subset of its capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Some passive devices, such as
single-speed hubs, is unable ta autonegotiate.  To handle such
devices, tha MII protocol also allows fo' establishin a link by
simply detectin either a 10baseT or 100baseT link beat.  Da \fB\-F\fR
or \fB\-\-force\fR options can be used ta force tha MII ta operate in
one mode, instead of autonegotiating.  Da \fB\-A\fR n' \fB\-F\fR
options is mutually exclusive.
.PP
Da default short output reports tha negotiated link speed n' link
status fo' each intercourse.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display mo' detailed MII status shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If used twice, also
display raw MII regista contents.
.br
\fBAlert:\fR If used three times, will force readin all MII
registers, includin non standard ones. It aint nuthin but not guaranteed any
valid answer from PHY while PHY communication can even hang.
With driver e1000e will fail while readin regista 0x07.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display program version shiznit.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR
Reset tha MII ta its default configuration.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restart\fR
Restart autonegotiation.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR
Watch intercourse(s) n' report chizzlez up in link status.  Da MII
interfaces is polled at one second intervals.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR
Used wit \fB\-w\fR, recordz link status chizzlez up in tha system log
instead of printin on standard output.
.TP
\fB\-F\fI media\fR, \fB\-\-force=\fImedia\fR
Disable autonegotiation, n' force tha MII ta either \fB100baseTx-FD\fR,
\fB100baseTx-HD\fR, \fB10baseT-FD\fR, or \fB10baseT-HD\fR operation.
.TP
\fB\-A\fI media,...\fR, \fB\-\-advertise=\fImedia,...\fR
Enable n' restart autonegotiation, n' advertise only tha specified
media technologies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Multiple technologies should be separated by
commas.  Valid media is \fB100baseT4\fR, \fB100baseTx-FD\fR,
\fB100baseTx-HD\fR, \fB10baseT-FD\fR, n' \fB10baseT-HD\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fI addr\fR, \fB\-\-phy=\fIaddr\fR
Override tha MII address provided by kernel wit value \fBaddr\fR.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'eth?' failed: Invalid argument
If tha intercourse aint hustlin (up), kernel will refuse ta report its link state.
.TP
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'eth?' failed: Operation not permitted
Most kernels restrict access ta root.
.TP
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'eth?' failed: No such device
This error is shown, if tha kernel do not know bout tha named device.
.TP
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'eth?' failed: Operation not supported 
Da intercourse up in question do not support MII queries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Most likely, it aint gots 
MII transceivers, at all.

.SH SEE ALSO
ethtool(8)

.SH AUTHORS
Dizzy Hindz \- dhinds@pcmcia.sourceforge.org
.br
Dizzle Becker \- becker@scyld.com
.br
Bernd Eckenfels \- net-tools@lina.inka.de

.SH SEE ALSO
http://net-tools.sourceforge.net \- Homepizzy of tha net-tools project
