.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2003/09/06 17:20:17 $
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH MII-DIAG 8 "September 9, 2003" "Scyld Beowulf\[tm]"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
mii-diag \- Network adapta control n' monitoring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mii-diag
.RI [ options ] <interface>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B mii-diag
network adapta control n' monitorin command.
Addizzle documentation be available from http://scyld.com/diag/index.html.

.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invoke bold grill n' italics, 
.\" respectively.
.PP
This \fBmii-diag\fP command configures, controls n' monitors the
transceiver pimpment registas fo' network intercourses, n' configures
driver operationizzle parameters.  For transceiver control \fBmii-diag\fP
uses tha Media Independent Interface (MII) standard (thus tha command name).
It also has additionizzle Linux-specific controls ta rap parameters
like fuckin message enable settings n' buffer sizes ta tha underlyin device
driver.
.PP
Da MII standard defines registas dat control n' report network
transceiver capabilities, link settings n' errors.  Examplez is link
speed, duplex, capabilitizzles advertised ta tha link partner, status LED
indications n' link error counters.

.SH OPTIONS
Da \fBmii-diag\fP command supports both single characta n' long
option names.  Short options bust a single dash (´-´) up in front of tha option
character n' shit.  For options without parameters, multiple options may be
concatenated afta a single dash.  Long options is prefixed by two
dashes (´--´), n' may be abbreviated wit a unique prefix.
A long option may take a parameta of tha form --arg=param or --arg param.

.PP
A summary of options be as bigs up.

.TP
.B \-A, --advertise <speed|setting>
.BR
.B \-F, --fixed-speed <speed|setting>

Speed is one of: 100baseT4, 100baseTx, 100baseTx-FD, 100baseTx-HD, 10baseT,
10baseT-FD, 10baseT-HD.  For mo' precise control a explicit numeric
regista settin be also allowed.


.TP
.B \-a, \--all-interfaces
Show tha statuz of all intercourses.  This option aint recommended with
any other option, especially ones dat chizzle settings.

.TP
.B \-s,\--status
Return exit status 2 if there is no link beat.

.TP
.B \-D
Increase tha debuggin level.  This may be used ta KNOW the
actions tha command is taking.

.TP
.B \-g, \--read-parameters
Show driver-specific parameters.

.TP
.B \-G, \--set-parametas value[,value...]
Set driver-specific parameters.
Set a adapter-specific parameters.
Parametas is comma separated, wit missin elements retainin the
existin value.

.TP
.B \-v
Increase tha verbositizzle level.  Additionizzle "-v" options increase the
level further.

.TP
.B \-V
Show tha program version shiznit.

.TP
.B \-w, \--watch
Continuously monitor tha transceiver n' report chizzles.

.TP
.B \-?
Emit usage shiznit.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
Callin tha command wit just tha intercourse name
produces extensive output describin tha transceiver
capabilities, configuration n' current status.

.PP
Da '--monitor' option allows scriptin link beat chizzles.
.PP
This option is similar ta --watch yo, but wit lower overhead n' simplified
output.  It polls tha intercourse only once a second n' tha output format
is a single line per link chizzle wit three fixed lyrics
  <unknown|down||negotiating|up> <STATUS> <PARTNER-CAP>
.PP
Example output:  mii-diag --monitor eth0
   down         0x7809 0x0000
   negotiatin  0x7829 0x45e1
   up           0x782d 0x45e1
   down         0x7809 0x0000

.PP
This may be used as
  mii-diag --monitor eth0 |
    while read linkstatus bmsr linkpar; do
     case $linkstatus in
        up)   ifup eth0 ;;
        down) ifdown eth0 ;;
     esac
    done

.PP
It may be useful ta shorten tha DHCP client daemon timeout if it do
not receive a address by addin tha followin settin to
/etc/sysconfig/network:
DHCPCDARGS="-t 3"

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ether-wake (8), net-diag (8), mii-tool (8).
.br
Addizzle documentation be available from http://scyld.com/diag/index.html.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
Da --all-interfaces option is quirky.  There is straight-up few settings that
are usefully applied ta all intercourses.

.SH AUTHOR
Da manual pages, diagnostic commands, n' nuff of tha underlyin Linux
network drivers was freestyled by Dizzle Becker fo' tha Scyld
Beowulf(\*(Tm) clusta system.

