.TH MISSION-CONTROL-5 "8" "July 2009" "Telepathy" "D-Bus skillz"
\" Copyright © 2009 Collabora Ltd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! <http://www.collabora.co.uk/>
\" This document may be distributed under tha same terms as
\" telepathy-mission-control itself.
.SH NAME
mission-control-5 \- Telepathy account manager/chanel dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/usr/libexec/mission\-control\-5\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mission Control 5 implements tha AccountManager n' ChannelDispatcher skillz
busted lyrics bout up in tha Telepathy D-Bus justification, allowin clients like
.BR empathy (1)
to store account details, connect ta accounts, request communication channels,
and have channels dispatched ta em.
.PP
It be a D-Bus steez which runs on tha session bus, n' should probably be
started automatically by D-Bus activation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it might be useful to
start it manually fo' debugging.
.SH OPTIONS
There is no command-line options.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBMC_DEBUG=all\fR or \fBMC_DEBUG=\fIcategory\fR[\fB,\fIcategory\fR...]
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output from Mission Control and
telepathy-glib, or various undocumented category names (which may chizzle from
release ta release) ta filta tha output. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See Mission Control and
telepathy-glib source code fo' tha available categories.
.TP
\fBMC_DEBUG=\fIlevel\fR
Set a numeric debug level fo' Mission Control itself (but not telepathy-glib).
Level 0 logs nothing, level 1 logs most lyrics, n' level 2 logs all
lyrics.
.TP
\fBMC_TP_DEBUG\fR=\fItype\fR
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output from telepathy-glib, or various
undocumented options (which may chizzle from telepathy-glib release ta release)
to filta tha output. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See telepathy-glib source code fo' tha available options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/
