.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH MKFS 8 "June 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
mkfs \- build a Linux filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs
.RI [ options ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR type "] [" fs-options ] " thang " [ size ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs
is used ta build a Linux filesystem on a thugged-out device, usually
a hard disk partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  The
.I device
argument is either tha thang name (e.g.
.IR /dev/hda1 ,
.IR /dev/sdb2 ),
or a regular file dat shall contain tha filesystem.  The
.I size
argument is tha number of blocks ta be used fo' tha filesystem.
.PP
Da exit code returned by
.B mkfs
is 0 on success n' 1 on failure.
.PP
In actuality,
.B mkfs
is simply a gangbangin' front-end fo' tha various filesystem builders
(\fBmkfs.\fIfstype\fR)
available under Linux.
Da filesystem-specific builder is searched fo' up in a number
of directories, like like
.IR /sbin ,
.IR /sbin/fs ,
.IR /sbin/fs.d ,
.IR /etc/fs ,
.I /etc
(the precise list is defined at compile time but at least
gotz nuff
.I /sbin
and
.IR /sbin/fs ),
and finally up in tha directories
listed up in tha PATH environment variable.
Please peep tha filesystem-specific builder manual pages for
further details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-type " \fItype\fR
Specify tha \fItype\fR of filesystem ta be built.
If not specified, tha default filesystem type
(currently ext2) is used.
.TP
.I fs-options
Filesystem-specific options ta be passed ta tha real filesystem builder.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-verbose"
Produce verbose output, includin all filesystem-specific commands
that is executed.
Specifyin dis option mo' than once inhibits execution of any
filesystem-specific commands.
This is straight-up only useful fo' testing.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.  (Option \fB\-V\fR will display
version shiznit only when it is tha only parameter, otherwise it
will work as \fB\-\-verbose\fR.)
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.SH BUGS
All generic options must precede n' not be combined with
filesystem-specific options.
Some filesystem-specific programs do not automatically
detect tha thang size n' require the
.I size
parameta ta be specified.
.SH AUTHORS
Dizzy Engel (david@ods.com)
.br
Fred N.\& van Kempen (waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org)
.br
Ron Sommelin (sommel@sci.kun.nl)
.br
Da manual page was shamelessly adapted from Remy Cardz version
for tha ext2 filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.BR fs (5),
.BR badblocks (8),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR mkdosfs (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mkfs.bfs (8),
.BR mkfs.ext2 (8),
.BR mkfs.ext3 (8),
.BR mkfs.ext4 (8),
.BR mkfs.minix (8),
.BR mkfs.msdos (8),
.BR mkfs.vfat (8),
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR mkfs.xiafs (8)
.ad
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da mkfs command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
