.TH EXAMPLE "8" "April 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
mkfs.cramfs \- make compressed ROM file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.cramfs
[options]
.I directory file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Filez on cramfs file systems is zlib-compressed one page at a time to
allow random read access.  Da metadata aint compressed yo, but is
expressed up in a terse representation dat is mo' space-efficient than
conventionizzle file systems.
.PP
Da file system is intentionally read-only ta simplify its design; random
write access fo' compressed filez is hard as fuck ta implement.  cramfs
ships wit a utilitizzle (mkcramfs) ta pack filez tha fuck into freshly smoked up cramfs images.
.PP
File sizes is limited ta less than 16\ MB.
.PP
Maximum file system size be a lil under 272\ MB.  (Da last file on the
file system must begin before tha 256\ MB block yo, but can extend past dat shit.)
.SH ARGUMENTS
The
.I directory
is simply tha root of tha directory tree dat we wanna generate a
compressed filesystem up of.
.PP
The
.I file
will contain tha cram file system, which lata can be mounted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose messaging.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR
Treat all warnings as errors, which is reflected as command return value.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIblocksize\fR
Use defined block size, which has ta be divisible by page size.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIedition\fR
Use defined file system edizzle number up in superblock.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR \fIbig, lil, host\fR
Use defined endianness.  Value defaults to
.IR host .
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIfile\fR
Insert a
.I file
to cramfs file system.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIname\fR
Set name of tha cramfs file system.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Pad by 512 bytes fo' boot code.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
This option is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Originally tha \-s turned on directory entry
sorting.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR
Make explicit holes.  Use of dis option will require 2.3.39 kernel, or newer.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display help n' exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
success
.TP
.B 8
operation error, like fuckin unable ta allocate memory
.PD
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mount (8),
.BR fsck.cramfs (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da example command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
