.\" Copyright (c) 2001\-2006 Anton Altaparmakov.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005\-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH MKNTFS 8 "January 2006" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
mkntfs \- create a NTFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkntfs
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice \fR[\fInumber\-of\-sectors\fR]
.PP
.B mkntfs
[
.B \-C
]
[
.B \-c
.I cluster\-size
]
[
.B \-F
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-H
.I heads
]
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-I
]
[
.B \-L
.I volume\-label
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-p
.I part\-start\-sect
]
[
.B \-Q
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-S
.I sectors\-per\-track
]
[
.B \-s
.I sector\-size
]
[
.B \-T
]
[
.B \-U
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-z
.I mft\-zone\-multiplier
]
[
.B \-\-debug
]
.I device
[
.I number\-of\-sectors
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkntfs
is used ta create a NTFS file system on a thang (usually a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partition)
or file.
.I device
is tha special file correspondin ta tha thang (e.g
.IR /dev/hdXX ).
.I number\-of\-sectors
is tha number of sectors on tha device. If omitted,
.B mkntfs
automagically figures tha file system size.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B mkntfs
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.SS Basic options
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fast\fR, \fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-quick\fR
Perform quick (fast) format. This will skip both zeroin of tha volume n' bad
sector checking.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR STRING
Set tha volume label fo' tha filesystem.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-enable\-compression\fR
Enable compression on tha volume.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-action\fR
Causes
.B mkntfs
to not straight-up create a gangbangin' filesystem yo, but display what tha fuck it would do if it were
to create a gangbangin' filesystem fo' realz. All stepz of tha format is carried up except the
actual freestylin ta tha device.
.SS Advanced options
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cluster\-size\fR BYTES
Specify tha size of clustas up in bytes. Valid clusta size joints is powers of
two, wit at least 256, n' at most 65536 bytes per clusta n' shit. If omitted,
.B mkntfs
uses 4096 bytes as tha default clusta size.
.sp
Note dat tha default clusta size is set ta be at least equal ta tha sector
size as a cold-ass lil clusta cannot be smalla than a sector fo' realz. Also, note dat joints
greata than 4096 have tha side effect dat compression is disabled on the
volume (due ta limitations up in tha NTFS compression algorithm currently up in use
by Windows).
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sector\-size\fR BYTES
Specify tha size of sectors up in bytes. Valid sector size joints is 256, 512,
1024, 2048 n' 4096 bytes per sector. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts ta determine the
.I sector\-size
automatically n' if dat fails a thugged-out default of 512 bytes per sector is used.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\-start\fR SECTOR
Specify tha partizzle start sector. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Da maximum is 4294967295 (2^32\-1). If
omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts ta determine
.I part\-start\-sect
automatically n' if dat fails a thugged-out default of 0 is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note that
.I part\-start\-sect
is required fo' Windows ta be able ta boot from tha pimped volume.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-heads\fR NUM
Specify tha number of heads. Da maximum is 65535 (0xffff). If omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts ta determine tha number of
.I heads
automatically n' if dat fails a thugged-out default of 0 is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note that
.I heads
is required fo' Windows ta be able ta boot from tha pimped volume.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sectors\-per\-track\fR NUM
Specify tha number of sectors per track. Da maximum is 65535 (0xffff). If
omitted,
.B mkntfs
attempts ta determine tha number of
.I sectors\-per\-track
automatically n' if dat fails a thugged-out default of 0 is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note that
.I sectors\-per\-track
is required fo' Windows ta be able ta boot from tha pimped volume.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-mft\-zone\-multiplier\fR NUM
Set tha MFT unit multiplier, which determines tha size of tha MFT unit ta use
on tha volume. Da MFT unit is tha area all up in tha beginnin of tha volume reserved
for tha masta file table (MFT), which stores tha on disk inodes (MFT records).
It be noteworthy dat lil' small-ass filez is stored entirely within tha inode;
thus, if you expect ta use tha volume fo' storin big-ass numberz of straight-up small
files, it is useful ta set tha unit multiplier ta a higher value. Note, that
the MFT unit is resized on tha fly as required durin operation of tha NTFS
driver but choosin a phat value will reduce fragmentation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid joints
are 1, 2, 3 n' 4. Da joints have tha followin meaning:
.TS
box;
lB lB
lB lB
c l.
MFT unit	MFT unit size
multiplier	(% of volume size)
1	12.5% (default)
2	25.0%
3	37.5%
4	50.0%
.TE
.sp
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-zero\-time\fR
Fake tha time ta be 00:00:00 UTC, Jan 1, 1970 instead of tha current system
time.  This is only straight-up useful fo' debuggin purposes.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-with\-uuid\fR
Generate a random volume UUID.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-no\-indexing\fR
Disable content indexin on tha volume. (This is only meaningful on
Windows 2000 n' later n' shit. Windows NT 4.0 n' earlier ignore dis as they do
not implement content indexin at all.)
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force
.B mkntfs
to run, even if tha specified
.I device
is not a funky-ass block special device, or appears ta be mounted.
.SS Output options
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Quiet execution; only errors is freestyled ta stderr, no output ta stdout
occurs at all. Useful if
.B mkntfs
is run up in a script.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose execution.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Straight-Up verbose execution; includes tha verbose output from the
.B \-v
option as well as additionizzle output useful fo' debugging
.B mkntfs.
.SS Help options
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha version number of
.B mkntfs
and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-license\fR
Print tha licensin shiznit of
.B mkntfs
and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
When applyin chkdsk ta a gangbangin' file system, it sometimes throws a warning
"Correctin errors up in tha uppercase file." Da uppercase file is pimped
while formattin n' it defines tha mappin of lower case  charactas to
upper case ones, as needed ta sort file names up in directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da warning
means dat tha uppercase file defined on tha file system aint tha same as
the one used by tha Windows OS on which chkdsk is hustlin, n' dis may
happen cuz newer versionz of Windows take tha fuck into account freshly smoked up characters
defined by tha Unicode consortium.
.P
Currently, mkntfs creates tha uppercase table so dat no warnin is thrown
by Windows Vista, Windows 7 or Windows 8 fo' realz. A warnin may be thrown by
other Windows versions, or if chkdsk be applied up in succession on different
Windows versions.
.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B mkntfs
was freestyled by Anton Altaparmakov, Slick Rick Russon, Erik Sornes n' Szabolcs Szakacsits.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson n' Jean-Pierre Andre.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mkntfs
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR badblocks (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
