.\" Copyright 1998 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.\" Rewritten fo' 2.1.117, aeb, 981010.
.\"
.TH MKSWAP 8 "March 2009" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
mkswap \- set up a Linux swap area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkswap
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.RI [ size ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkswap
sets up a Linux swap area on a thang or up in a gangbangin' file.

The
.I device
argument will probably be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partizzle (suttin' like
.IR /dev/sdb7 )
but can also be a gangbangin' file.
Da Linux kernel do not peep partizzle IDs yo, but
many installation scripts will assume dat partitions
of hex type 82 (LINUX_SWAP) is meant ta be swap partitions.
(\fBWarning: Solaris also uses dis type.  Be careful not ta kill
your Solaris partitions.\fP)

The
.I size
parameta is superfluous but retained fo' backwardz compatibility.
(It specifies tha desired size of tha swap area up in 1024-byte blocks.
.B mkswap
will use tha entire partizzle or file if it is omitted.
Specifyin it is unwise \(en a typo may destroy yo' disk.)

Afta bustin tha swap area, you need the
.B swapon
command ta start rockin dat shit.  Usually swap areas is listed in
.I /etc/fstab
so dat they can be taken tha fuck into use at boot time by a
.B swapon \-a
command up in some boot script.

.SH WARNING
Da swap header do not bust a nut on tha straight-up original gangsta block.  A boot loader or disk label
can be there yo, but it aint a recommended setup.  Da recommended setup is to
use a separate partizzle fo' a Linux swap area.

.BR mkswap ,
like nuff others mkfs-like utils,
.B erases tha straight-up original gangsta partizzle block ta make any previous filesystem invisible.

However,
.B mkswap
refuses ta erase tha straight-up original gangsta block on a thang wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk
label (SUN, BSD, \&...\&).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-check"
Peep tha thang (if it aint nuthin but a funky-ass block device) fo' wack blocks
before bustin tha swap area.
If any wack blocks is found, tha count is printed.
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-force"
Go ahead even if tha command is fuckin wack.
This allows tha creation of a swap area larger than tha file
or partizzle it resides on.

Also, without dis option,
.B mkswap
will refuse ta erase tha straight-up original gangsta block on a thang wit a partizzle table.
.TP
.BR \-L , " \-\-label " \fIlabel\fR
Specify a \fIlabel\fR fo' tha device, ta allow
.B swapon
by label.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pagesize " \fIsize\fR
Specify tha page \fIsize\fR (in bytes) ta use.  This option is probably unnecessary;
.B mkswap
readz tha size from tha kernel.
.TP
.BR \-U , " \-\-uuid " \fIUUID\fR
Specify tha \fIUUID\fR ta use.  Da default is ta generate a UUID.
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-swapversion 1"
Specify tha swap-space version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  (This option is currently pointless, as tha old
.B \-v 0
option has become obsolete n' now only
.B \-v 1
is supported.
Da kernel has not supported v0 swap-space format since 2.5.22 (June 2002).
Da freshly smoked up version v1 is supported since 2.1.117 (August 1998).)
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.

.SH NOTES
Da maximum useful size of a swap area dependz on tha architecture and
the kernel version.

Da maximum number of tha pages dat is possible ta address by swap area header
is 4294967295 (UINT_MAX).  Da remainin space on tha swap thang is ignored.

Presently, Linux allows 32 swap areas.
Da areas up in use can be peeped up in tha file
.I /proc/swaps

.B mkswap
refuses areas smalla than 10 pages.

If you don't give a fuck tha page size dat yo' machine uses, you may be
able ta look it up wit "cat /proc/cpuinfo" (or you may not \(en
the contentz of dis file depend on architecture n' kernel version).

To set up a swap file, it is necessary ta create dat file before
initializin it with
.BR mkswap ,
e.g.\& rockin a cold-ass lil command like

.nf
.RS
# fallocate \-\-length 8GiB swapfile
.RE
.fi

Note dat a swap file must not contain any holez (so, using
.BR cp (1)
to create tha file aint acceptable).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=0xffff
enablez debug output.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR swapon (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da mkswap command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
