.\" $Id: mkzonedb.man.in,v 1.1 2003/03/11 13:08:00 paul Exp $
.\"
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2003/03/11 13:08:00 $
.\"
.TH MKZONEDB 8 "2003/03/11" mkzonedb "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
mkzonedb \- Utilitizzle create a unit file fo' isdnlog
.SH SYNOPSIS
mkzonedb -r unitfile -d database [-v] [-V] [-o Oz] [-l len]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkzonedb
readz a text file wit unit (area code) shiznit,
and writes it up in a special format ta tha database file
so dat other apps like fuckin isdnlog can easily access tha data.

This data is used ta determine up in what tha fuck "zone" a given area code
is up in relation ta another, ta peep what tha fuck rate applies ta a cold-ass lil call
between these area codes ("is tha call a local call").

This utilitizzle is straight-up only used durin tha buildin of tha isdnlog-data
package yo, but it may be useful fo' dem playas whoz ass wanna create they own
custom tables.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-r" " unitfile"
the text file wit tha unit shiznit.
Use "-" fo' standard input.

.TP
.BI "-d" " database"
the output database filename

.TP
.BI -v
verbose mode

.TP
.BI -V
show version shiznit, n' quit (don't do anything)

.TP
.BI "-o" " Oz"
Use "Oz" area unit. Default is 1. (What do dis mean, exactly?)

.TP
.BI "-l" " len"
"len" is tha length of areacodes.
.br
If 5 or mo' is given, then mo' space be allocated fo' tha internal tables
(40000 instead of 10000 numbers allowed). Other joints aren't straight-up used.

.SH AUTHOR
manpage freestyled from C source by Pizzle Slootman <paul@debian.org>.
