.\" ModemManager(8) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Aleksander Morgado
.\"
.TH MODEMMANAGER "8" "31 October 2011"
.SH NAME
ModemManager \- modem pimpment daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ModemManager [\-\-version] | [\-\-help]
.PP
.B ModemManager [\-\-debug] [\-\-log\-level=<level>] [\-\-log\-file=<filename>] [\-\-timestamps] [\-\-relative\-timestamps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da ModemManager daemon serves up a unified high level API
for communicatin wit (mobile broadband) modems. While tha basic commandz are
standardized, tha mo' advanced operations (like signal qualitizzle monitoring
while connected) varies all muthafuckin day.
.TP
ModemManager be a system daemon n' aint meant ta be used directly from the
command line.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported:
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print tha ModemManager software version n' exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print ModemManagerz available options n' exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-debug"
Runs ModemManager wit "DEBUG" log level n' without daemonizing. This is useful
for debugging, as it directs log output ta tha controllin terminal up in addizzle to
syslog.
.TP
.I "\-\-log\-level=<level>"
Sets how tha fuck much shiznit ModemManager sendz ta tha log destination (usually
syslogz "daemon" facility). By default, only shiznital, warning, n' error
lyrics is logged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Given level must be one of "ERR", "WARN", "INFO" or "DEBUG".
.TP
.I "\-\-log\-file=<filename>"
Specify location of tha file where ModemManager will dump its log lyrics,
instead of syslog.
.TP
.I "\-\-timestamps"
Include absolute timestamps up in tha log output.
.TP
.I "\-\-relative-timestamps"
Include timestamps, relatizzle ta tha start time of tha daemon, up in tha log output.
.TP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR NetworkManager (8).
