.\"@(#)mount.nfs.8"
.TH MOUNT.NFS 8 "5 Jun 2006"
.SH NAME
mount.nfs, mount.nfs4 \- mount a Network File System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "mount.nfs" " remotetarget dir" " [\-rvVwfnsh ] [\-o " options "]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mount.nfs
is a part of 
.BR nfs (5)
utilitizzles package, which serves up NFS client functionality.

.BR mount.nfs 
is meant ta be used by the
.BR mount (8)
command fo' mountin NFS shares. This subcommand, however, can also be used as a standalone command wit limited functionality.

.BR mount.nfs4 
is used fo' mountin NFSv4 file system, while 
.BR mount.nfs 
is used ta mount NFS file systems versions 3 or 2.
.I remotetarget 
is a server share probably up in tha form of 
.BR servername:/path/to/share.
.I dir 
is tha directory on which tha file system is ta be mounted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-r"
Mount file system readonly.
.TP
.BI "\-v"
Be verbose.
.TP
.BI "\-V"
Print version.
.TP
.BI "\-w"
Mount file system read-write.
.TP
.BI "\-f"
Fake mount. Don't straight-up call tha mount system call.
.TP
.BI "\-n"
Do not update 
.I /etc/mtab. 
By default, a entry is pimped up in 
.I /etc/mtab 
for every last muthafuckin mounted file system. Use dis option ta skip bustin a entry.
.TP
.BI "\-s"
Tolerate sloppy mount options rather than fail.
.TP
.BI "\-h"
Print help message.
.TP
.BI "nfsoptions"
Refer ta 
.BR nfs (5)
or
.BR mount (8) 
manual pages.

.SH NOTE
For further shiznit please refer 
.BR nfs (5)
and
.BR mount (8)
manual pages.

.SH FILES
.TP 18n
.I /etc/fstab
file system table
.TP
.I /etc/mtab
table of mounted file systems

.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nfs (5),
.BR mount (8),

.SH "AUTHOR"
Amit Gud <agud@redhat.com>
