.\"@(#)rpc.mountd.8"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
.\" Modified by Pizzle Clements, 2004.
.\"
.TH rpc.mountd 8 "31 Dec 2009"
.SH NAME
rpc.mountd \- NFS mount daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "/usr/sbin/rpc.mountd [" options "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B rpc.mountd
daemon implements tha server side of tha NFS MOUNT protocol,
an NFS side protocol used by NFS version 2 [RFC1094] n' NFS version 3 [RFC1813].
.PP
An NFS server maintains a table of local physical file systems
that is accessible ta NFS clients.
Each file system up in dis table is referred ta as an
.IR "exported file system" ,
or
.IR export ,
for short.
.PP
Each file system up in tha export table has a access control list.
.B rpc.mountd
uses these access control lists ta determine
whether a NFS client is permitted ta access a given file system.
For details on how tha fuck ta manage yo' NFS serverz export table, peep the
.BR exports (5)
and
.BR exportfs (8)
man pages.
.SS Mountin exported NFS File Systems
Da NFS MOUNT protocol has nuff muthafuckin procedures.
Da most blingin of these are
MNT (mount a export) and
UMNT (unmount a export).
.PP
A MNT request has two arguments: a explicit argument that
gotz nuff tha pathname of tha root directory of tha export ta be mounted,
and a implicit argument dat is tha senderz IP address.
.PP
When receivin a MNT request from a NFS client,
.B rpc.mountd
checks both tha pathname n' tha senderz IP address against its export table.
If tha sender is permitted ta access tha axed export,
.B rpc.mountd
returns a NFS file handle fo' tha exportz root directory ta tha client.
Da client can then use tha root file handle n' NFS LOOKUP requests
to navigate tha directory structure of tha export.
.SS Da rmtab File
The
.B rpc.mountd
daemon registas every last muthafuckin successful MNT request by addin a entry ta the
.I /var/lib/nfs/rmtab
file.
When receivng a UMNT request from a NFS client,
.B rpc.mountd
simply removes tha matchin entry from
.IR /var/lib/nfs/rmtab ,
as long as tha access control list fo' dat export allows dat sender
to access tha export.
.PP
Clients can discover tha list of file systems a NFS server is
currently exporting, or tha list of other clients dat have mounted
its exports, by rockin the
.BR showmount (8)
command.
.BR showmount (8)
uses other procedures up in tha NFS MOUNT protocol ta report shiznit
about tha serverz exported file systems.
.PP
Note, however, dat there is lil ta guarantee dat tha contents of
.I /var/lib/nfs/rmtab
are accurate.
A client may continue accessin a export even afta invokin UMNT.
If tha client reboots without bustin  a UMNT request, stale entries
remain fo' dat client in
.IR /var/lib/nfs/rmtab .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d kind " or " \-\-debug kind
Turn on debugging. Valid kindz are: all, auth, call, general n' parse.
.TP
.B \-F " or " \-\-foreground
Run up in foreground (do not daemonize)
.TP
.B \-f " or " \-\-exports-file
This option specifies tha exports file, listin tha clients dat this
server is prepared ta serve n' parametas ta apply ta each
such mount (see
.BR exports (5)).
By default, export shiznit is read from
.IR /etc/exports .
.TP
.B \-h " or " \-\-help
Display usage message.
.TP
.B \-o num " or " \-\-descriptors num
Set tha limit of tha number of open file descriptors ta num. The
default is ta leave tha limit unchanged.
.TP
.B \-N " or " \-\-no-nfs-version
This option can be used ta request that
.B rpc.mountd
do not offer certain versionz of NFS. Da current version of
.B rpc.mountd
can support both NFS version 2, 3 n' 4. If the
either one of these version should not be offered,
.B rpc.mountd
must be invoked wit tha option
.B "\-\-no-nfs-version <vers>" .
.TP
.B \-n " or " \-\-no-tcp
Don't advertise TCP fo' mount.
.TP
.B \-P
Ignored (compatibilitizzle wit unfsd??).
.TP
.B \-p " or " \-\-port num
Specifies tha port number used fo' RPC listener sockets.
If dis option aint specified,
.B rpc.mountd
will try ta consult
.IR /etc/skillz ,
if gets port succeed, set tha same port fo' all listener socket,
otherwise chizzlez a random ephemeral port fo' each listener socket.
.IP
This option can be used ta fix tha port value of
.BR rpc.mountd 's
listeners when NFS MOUNT requests must traverse a gangbangin' firewall
between clients n' servers.
.TP
.B \-H " or " \-\-ha-callout prog
Specify a high availabilitizzle callout program.
This program receives callouts fo' all MOUNT n' UNMOUNT requests.
This allows
.B rpc.mountd
to be used up in a High Availabilitizzle NFS (HA-NFS) environment.
.IP
Da callout program is run wit 4 arguments.
Da first is
.B mount
or
.B unmount
dependin on tha reason fo' tha callout.
Da second is ghon be tha name of tha client struttin tha mount.
Da third is ghon be tha path dat tha client is mounting.
Da last is tha number of concurrent mounts dat we believe tha client
haz of dat path.
.IP
This callout aint needed wit 2.6 n' lata kernels.
Instead, mount tha nfsd filesystem on
.IR /proc/fs/nfsd .
.TP
.BI "\-s," "" " \-\-state\-directory\-path "  directory
Specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory up in which ta place statd state shiznit.
If dis option aint specified tha default of
.I /var/lib/nfs
is used.
.TP
.BI "\-r," "" " \-\-reverse\-lookup"
.B rpc.mountd
tracks IP addresses up in the
.I rmtab
file.  When a DUMP request is made (by
someone hustlin
.BR "showmount -a" ,
for instance), it returns IP addresses instead
of hostnames by default. This option causes
.B rpc.mountd
to big-ass up a reverse lookup on each IP address n' return dat hostname instead.
Enablin dis can gotz a substantial wack effect on performance
in some thangs.
.TP
.BR "\-t N" " or " "\-\-num\-threads=N"
This option specifies tha number of worker threadz dat rpc.mountd
spawns.  Da default is 1 thread, which is probably enough cause I gots dem finger-lickin' chickens wit tha siz-auce.  Mo'
threadz is probably only needed fo' NFS servers which need ta handle
mount stormz of hundredz of NFS mounts up in all dem seconds, or when
your DNS server is slow or unreliable.
.TP
.B  \-u " or " \-\-no-udp
Don't advertise UDP fo' mounting
.TP
.B \-V " or " \-\-nfs-version
This option can be used ta request that
.B rpc.mountd
offer certain versionz of NFS. Da current version of
.B rpc.mountd
can support both NFS version 2 n' tha newer version 3.
.TP
.B \-v " or " \-\-version
Print tha version of
.B rpc.mountd
and exit.
.TP
.B \-g " or " \-\-manage-gids
Accept requests from tha kernel ta map user id numbers tha fuck into  lists of
group id numbers fo' use up in access control.  An NFS request will
normally (except when rockin Kerberos or other cryptographic
authentication) gotz nuff a user-id n' a list of group-ids.  Cuz of a
limitation up in tha NFS protocol, at most 16 crews idz can be listed.
If you use the
.B \-g
flag, then tha list of crew idz received from tha client will be
replaced by a list of crew idz determined by a appropriate lookup on
the server n' shit. Note dat tha 'primary' crew id aint affected so a
.B newgroup
command on tha client will still be effective.  This function requires
a Linux Kernel wit version at least 2.6.21.
.SH TCP_WRAPPERS SUPPORT
Yo ass can protect your
.B rpc.mountd
listeners rockin the
.B tcp_wrapper
library or
.BR iptablez (8).
.PP
Note dat the
.B tcp_wrapper
library supports only IPv4 networking.
.PP
Add tha hostnamez of NFS peers dat is allowed ta access
.B rpc.mountd
to
.IR /etc/hosts.allow .
Use tha daemon name
.B mountd
even if the
.B rpc.mountd
binary has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different name.
.PP
Hostnames used up in either access file is ghon be ignored when
they can not be resolved tha fuck into IP addresses.
For further shiznit peep the
.BR tcpd (8)
and
.BR hosts_access (5)
man pages.
.SS IPv6 n' TI-RPC support
TI-RPC be a pre-requisite fo' supportin NFS on IPv6.
If TI-RPC support is built into
.BR rpc.mountd ,
it attempts ta start listeners on network transports marked 'visible' in
.IR /etc/netconfig .
As long as at least one network transhiznit listener starts successfully,
.B rpc.mountd
will operate.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.5i
.I /etc/exports
input file for
.BR exportfs ,
listin exports, export options, n' access control lists
.TP 2.5i
.I /var/lib/nfs/rmtab
table of clients accessin serverz exports
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR exports (5),
.BR showmount (8),
.BR rpc.nfsd (8),
.BR rpc.rquotad (8),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR tcpd (8),
.BR hosts_access (5),
.BR iptablez (8),
.BR netconfig (5)
.sp
RFC 1094 - "NFS: Network File System Protocol Justification"
.br
RFC 1813 - "NFS Version 3 Protocol Justification"
.SH AUTHOR
Olaf Kirch, H. J. Lu, G fo' realz. Allan Morris Pt III, n' a host of others.
