.TH  "mozilla_plugin_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "mozilla_plugin" "SELinux Policy mozilla_plugin"
.SH "NAME"
mozilla_plugin_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha mozilla_plugin processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha mozilla_plugin processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da mozilla_plugin processes execute wit tha mozilla_plugin_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep mozilla_plugin_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da mozilla_plugin_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBmozilla_plugin_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha mozilla_plugin_t domain is tha following:

/usr/lib/xulrunner[^/]*/plugin-container, /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/npviewer.bin, /usr/bin/nspluginscan, /usr/bin/nspluginviewer, /usr/lib/firefox/plugin-container
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux mozilla_plugin policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they mozilla_plugin processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' mozilla_plugin:

.EX
.B mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_plugin_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a mozilla_plugin_t
can be used ta make tha process type mozilla_plugin_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  mozilla_plugin policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run mozilla_plugin wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow mozilla plugin domain ta bind unreserved tcp/udp ports, you must turn on tha mozilla_plugin_bind_unreserved_ports boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_plugin_bind_unreserved_ports 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow mozilla plugin domain ta connect ta tha network rockin TCP, you must turn on tha mozilla_plugin_can_network_connect boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_plugin_can_network_connect 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow mozilla plugin ta use Bluejeans, you must turn on tha mozilla_plugin_use_bluejeans boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_plugin_use_bluejeans 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow mozilla plugin ta support GPS, you must turn on tha mozilla_plugin_use_gps boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_plugin_use_gps 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow mozilla plugin ta support spice protocols, you must turn on tha mozilla_plugin_use_spice boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_plugin_use_spice 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow regular playas direct dri thang access, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all unconfined executablez ta use libraries requirin text relocation dat is not labeled textrel_shlib_t, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execmod boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execmod 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unconfined playas ta transizzle ta tha Mo'jizzle plugin domain when hustlin xulrunner plugin-container, you must turn on tha unconfined_mozilla_plugin_transizzle boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_mozilla_plugin_transizzle 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support ecryptfs home directories, you must turn on tha use_ecryptfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_ecryptfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support fusefs home directories, you must turn on tha use_fusefs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_fusefs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_plugin_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_plugin_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type mozilla_plugin_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B dosfs_t


.br
.B ecryptfs_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B gnome_home_type


.br
.B home_cert_t

	/root/\.pki(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.cert(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/.kde/share/apps/networkmanagement/certificates(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.pki(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cert(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B mozilla_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.lyx(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.java(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.adobe(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnash(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.webex(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.galeon(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.spicec(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.IBMERS(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/POkemon.*(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.mozilla(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.phoenix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.icedtea(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.netscape(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.quakelive(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ICAClient(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.macromedia(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.thunderbird(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gcjwebplugin(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.grl-podcasts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/mozilla(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.icedteaplugin(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/zimbrauserdata(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.config/chromium(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.juniper_networks(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/icedtea-web(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/abc
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnashpluginrc
.br

.br
.B mozilla_plugin_tmp_t


.br
.B mozilla_plugin_tmpfs_t


.br
.B mplayer_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.mplayer(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B pulseaudio_home_t

	/root/\.pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.config/pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.esd_auth
.br
	/root/\.pulse-cookie
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.config/pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.esd_auth
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.pulse-cookie
.br

.br
.B texlive_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2012(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2013(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2014(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/var/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/home/[^/]*/tmp
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.tmp
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_t

	/dev/shm/mono.*
.br
	/dev/shm/pulse-shm.*
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux mozilla_plugin policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they mozilla_plugin processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha mozilla_plugin, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t mozilla_plugin_config_exec_t '/srv/mozilla_plugin/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mymozilla_plugin_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' mozilla_plugin:


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_config_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_config_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha mozilla_plugin_config_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha mozilla_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/xulrunner[^/]*/plugin-container, /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/npviewer.bin, /usr/bin/nspluginscan, /usr/bin/nspluginviewer, /usr/lib/firefox/plugin-container

.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_rw_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_rw_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as mozilla plugin read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_tmp_t type, if you wanna store mozilla plugin temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store mozilla plugin filez on a tmpfs file system.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), mozilla_plugin(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), mozilla_plugin_config_selinux(8), mozilla_plugin_config_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
