.TH  "mozilla_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "mozilla" "SELinux Policy mozilla"
.SH "NAME"
mozilla_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha mozilla processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha mozilla processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da mozilla processes execute wit tha mozilla_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep mozilla_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da mozilla_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBmozilla_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha mozilla_t domain is tha following:

/usr/lib/[^/]*firefox[^/]*/firefox, /usr/lib/[^/]*firefox[^/]*/firefox-bin, /usr/lib/mozilla[^/]*/reg.+, /usr/lib/mozilla[^/]*/mozilla-.*, /usr/lib/firefox[^/]*/mozilla-.*, /usr/bin/mozilla-[0-9].*, /usr/lib/netscape/.+/communicator/communicator-smotif\.real, /usr/bin/mozilla-bin-[0-9].*, /usr/bin/mozilla, /usr/bin/netscape, /usr/bin/epiphany, /usr/bin/epiphany-bin, /usr/lib/galeon/galeon, /usr/bin/mozilla-snapshot, /usr/lib/netscape/base-4/wrapper
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux mozilla policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they mozilla processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' mozilla:

.EX
.B mozilla_t, mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_plugin_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a mozilla_t
can be used ta make tha process type mozilla_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  mozilla policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run mozilla wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow confined wizzy browsers ta read home directory content, you must turn on tha mozilla_read_content boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_read_content 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny user domains applications ta map a memory region as both executable n' writable, dis is fucked up n' tha executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha deny_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow regular playas direct dri thang access, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unconfined executablez ta make they stack executable.  This should never, eva be necessary. Probably indicates a funky-ass badly coded executable yo, but could indicate a attack. This executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support ecryptfs home directories, you must turn on tha use_ecryptfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_ecryptfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support fusefs home directories, you must turn on tha use_fusefs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_fusefs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allows clients ta write ta tha X server shared memory segments, you must turn on tha xserver_clients_write_xshm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_clients_write_xshm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support X userspace object manager, you must turn on tha xserver_object_manager boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_t, mozilla_plugin_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha mozilla_plugin_config_t, mozilla_t, mozilla_plugin_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type mozilla_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B ecryptfs_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B gconf_home_t

	/root/\.local.*
.br
	/root/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gnome_home_type


.br
.B mozilla_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.lyx(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.java(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.adobe(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnash(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.webex(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.galeon(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.spicec(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.IBMERS(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/POkemon.*(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.mozilla(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.phoenix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.icedtea(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.netscape(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.quakelive(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ICAClient(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.macromedia(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.thunderbird(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gcjwebplugin(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.grl-podcasts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/mozilla(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.icedteaplugin(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/zimbrauserdata(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.config/chromium(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.juniper_networks(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/icedtea-web(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/abc
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnashpluginrc
.br

.br
.B mozilla_tmp_t


.br
.B mozilla_tmpfs_t


.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B pulseaudio_home_t

	/root/\.pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.config/pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.esd_auth
.br
	/root/\.pulse-cookie
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.config/pulse(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.esd_auth
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.pulse-cookie
.br

.br
.B texlive_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2012(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2013(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.texlive2014(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux mozilla policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they mozilla processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha mozilla, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t mozilla_conf_t '/srv/mozilla/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mymozilla_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' mozilla:


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_conf_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_conf_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as mozilla configuration data, probably stored under tha /etc directory.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha mozilla_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/[^/]*firefox[^/]*/firefox, /usr/lib/[^/]*firefox[^/]*/firefox-bin, /usr/lib/mozilla[^/]*/reg.+, /usr/lib/mozilla[^/]*/mozilla-.*, /usr/lib/firefox[^/]*/mozilla-.*, /usr/bin/mozilla-[0-9].*, /usr/lib/netscape/.+/communicator/communicator-smotif\.real, /usr/bin/mozilla-bin-[0-9].*, /usr/bin/mozilla, /usr/bin/netscape, /usr/bin/epiphany, /usr/bin/epiphany-bin, /usr/lib/galeon/galeon, /usr/bin/mozilla-snapshot, /usr/lib/netscape/base-4/wrapper

.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_home_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_home_t type, if you wanna store mozilla filez up in tha playas home directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/home/[^/]*/\.lyx(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.java(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.adobe(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.gnash(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.webex(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.galeon(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.spicec(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.IBMERS(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/POkemon.*(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.mozilla(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.phoenix(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.icedtea(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.netscape(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.quakelive(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.ICAClient(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.macromedia(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.thunderbird(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.gcjwebplugin(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.grl-podcasts(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.cache/mozilla(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.icedteaplugin(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/zimbrauserdata(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.config/chromium(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.juniper_networks(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.cache/icedtea-web(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/abc, /home/[^/]*/\.gnashpluginrc

.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_config_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_config_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha mozilla_plugin_config_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha mozilla_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/lib/xulrunner[^/]*/plugin-container, /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/npviewer.bin, /usr/bin/nspluginscan, /usr/bin/nspluginviewer, /usr/lib/firefox/plugin-container

.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_rw_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_rw_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as mozilla plugin read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_tmp_t type, if you wanna store mozilla plugin temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_plugin_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_plugin_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store mozilla plugin filez on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_tmp_t type, if you wanna store mozilla temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mozilla_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha mozilla_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store mozilla filez on a tmpfs file system.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), mozilla(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), mozilla_plugin_selinux(8), mozilla_plugin_selinux(8), mozilla_plugin_config_selinux(8), mozilla_plugin_config_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
