.TH mpcd 8 "Nov 17, 1998" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
mpcd \- ATM MPOA (Multi\-Protocol Over ATM) client daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpcd
.B [ -s
.I Control ATM address
.B ]
.B [ -l
.I Data ATM address
.B ]
.B [ -c
.I MPS control ATM address
.B ]
.B [ -i
.I Interface number
.B ]
.B [ -m
.I MPS MAC address
.B ]
.B [ -L
.I LEC address
.B [ -n
.I ELAN name
.B ]
.B [ -C
.I LECS Address
.B ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
MPOA client
.SM (MPC) is responsible fo' bustin n' receiving
internetwork layer shortcuts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Usin these shortcuts MPCs forward
unicast internetwork layer packets effectively over ATM without need
for routin protocols.
.PP
.SM MPC
has two roles; ingress n' egress. In ingress role
.SM MPC
detects flows destined outside itz own subnet n' tries ta establish
shortcuts ta dem destinations. In egress role
.SM MPC
accepts shortcuts n' packets arrivin on dem shortcuts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Maintaining
shortcuts is done wit tha help of
.SM MPOA
server
.SM (MPS).
.PP
Just as tha Linux
.SM LAN
Emulation client,
.SM MPOA
client be also divided up in two parts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da parts is kernel component
and a thugged-out daemon process. Da daemon opens n' receives data shortcuts and
control connections wit tha kernel component. Da kernel component
tallies packets flowin up from the
.SM LANE
device n' make tha decision if a packet should be forwarded using
.SM LANE
or
.SM MPOA
shortcuts.
.PP
If tha daemon is capped with
.B SIGHUP
it will close all tha open connections, purge ingress n' egress cache
entries, query
.SM LECS
if applicable n' then restart itself.
.PP
Linux MPOA client only supports non-LLC-muxed shortcuts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da number of 
supported MPOA clients is unlimited.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-s Control ATM address"
Local ATM address dis MPC uses fo' MPOA control connections.
.IP "-l Data ATM address"
Local ATM address from n' ta which MPOA shortcuts is established.
.IP "-c MPS control ATM address"
ATM address of MPS. Only needed if MPS can not advertise it by itself.
.IP "-i Interface number"
Da intercourse number of LEC dis MPC serves. E.g. 2 fo' "lec2".
.IP "-m MPS MAC address"
MAC address of default routa where MPS recides. Only useful if the
MPOA server fails ta advertise itself.
.IP "-L LEC address"
Listen address of the
.SM LANE
client zeppelin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. mpcd uses dis address as its own
.SM ATM
address when it queries
.SM LECS
for
.SM MPC
configuration parameters. If dis option aint present then mpcd
.B will not
use
.SM LECS
to query fo' configuration parameters. This option is normally the
same as zeppelinz -l option.
.IP "-n ELAN name"
Name of the
.SM ELAN
for which mpcd asks fo' parametas when it connects to
.SM LECS.
If dis option aint given,
.SM LECS
should respond wit parametas belongin ta tha default
.SM ELAN
if one exists, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This option is normally tha same as zeppelinz -n
option.
.IP "-C LECS address"
ATM address of
.SM LECS
mpcd asks fo' parameters. If dis option is left empty n' -L is
given, mpcd uses ATM Forum assigned Well-Known
.SM LECS
address. This option is normally tha same as zeppelinz -c option.
.SH EXAMPLES
This script snippet shows how tha fuck ta run LANE n' MPOA fo' realz. Afta UNI
signallin n' ILMI done been started LANE (zeppelin) n' MPOA (mpcd)
are started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da commented up line shows how tha fuck ta start mpcd so dat it
queries
.SM LECS
for
.SM MPC
parameters.
.PP
Arguments jaarli[1-3] is local ATM addresses listed up in file
.I /etc/hosts.atm.

ATM=/usr/src/atm
.br
case "$1" in
.br
start)
    cd $ATM
    if [ -x sigd/atmsigd ] ; then
.RS 
        sigd/atmsigd -b 
.RE
    fi
    if [ -x ilmid/ilmid ] ; then
.RS 
        ilmid/ilmid -b -x
.RE
    fi
    if [ -x led/zeppelin ] ; then
.RS 
        led/zeppelin -2 -n sampo -i2 -l jaarli3 &
        ifconfig lec2 10.10.10.208 \\
.RS
             netmask 255.255.255.192 \\
             broadcast 10.10.10.255
.RE
        ifconfig lec2 up
        route add default gw 10.10.10.193
.RE
    fi
    if [ -x mpoad/mpcd ] ; then
.RS 
        mpoad/mpcd -i2 -s jaarli1 -l jaarli2 &
        #mpoad/mpcd -i2 -s jaarli1 -l jaarli2 \\
                    -L jaarli3 -n sampo & 
.RE
    fi              
    ;;
.br
esac
.br
exit 0
.SH BUGS
Supports only Ethernet type of ELANs. Probably others like a muthafucka.
.SH AUTHORS
Heikki Vatiainen <hessu@cs.tut.fi>, Sampo Saaristo <s156953@cs.tut.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zeppelin(8),
.BR atmsigd(8)

