.TH MTR 8 "March 4, 1999" "mtr" "mtr"


.SH NAME
mtr \- a network diagnostic tool


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mtr 
[\c
.B \-BfhvrctglxspQemniuTP46\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-help\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-version\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-report\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-report-wide\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-report\-cycles\ COUNT\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-curses\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-split\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-raw\c
]
[
.B \-\-xml\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-mpls\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-no-dns\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-show-ips\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-gtk\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-address\ IP.ADD.RE.SS\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-interval\ SECONDS\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-max-ttl\ NUM\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-first-ttl\ NUM\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-bitpattern\ NUM\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-tos\ NUM\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-psize\ BYTES | -s BYTES\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-tcp\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-udp\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-port\ PORT\c
]
[\c
.B \-\-timeout\ SECONDS\c
]
.B HOSTNAME [PACKETSIZE]


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mtr 
combines tha functionalitizzle of tha 
.B traceroute
and 
.B ping
programs up in a single network diagnostic tool.

.PP
As 
.B mtr 
starts, it investigates tha network connection between tha host 
.B mtr
runs on n' 
.BR HOSTNAME . 
by bustin  packets wit purposely low TTLs. Well shiiiit, it continues ta send
packets wit low TTL, notin tha response time of tha intervening
routers.  This allows 
.B mtr 
to print tha response cementage n' response timez of tha internet
route ta 
.BR HOSTNAME . 
A sudden increase up in packet loss or response time is often a indication
of a wack (or simply overloaded) link. 

.PP
Da thangs up in dis biatch is probably reported as round-trip-response times up in milisecondz 
and tha cementage of packetloss. 

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h
.TP
.B \-\-help
.br
Print tha summary of command line argument options.

.TP
.B \-v
.TP
.B \-\-version
.br
Print tha installed version of mtr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  

.TP
.B \-r
.TP
.B \-\-report
.br
This option puts 
.B mtr
into 
.B report
mode.  When up in dis mode,
.B mtr
will run fo' tha number of cyclez specified by tha 
.B \-c
option, n' then print statistics n' exit.  
.TP
\c
This mode is useful fo' generatin statistics bout network quality.  
Note dat each hustlin instizzle of 
.B mtr
generates a thugged-out dope amount of network traffic.  Usin 
.B mtr
to measure tha qualitizzle of yo' network may result up in decreased
network performance.  

.TP
.B \-w
.TP
.B \-\-report-wide
.br
This option puts 
.B mtr
into 
.B wide report
mode.  When up in dis mode,
.B mtr
will not cut hostnames up in tha report. 

.TP
.B \-c\ COUNT
.TP
.B \-\-report\-cycles\ COUNT
Use dis option ta set tha number of pings busted ta determine
both tha machines on tha network n' tha reliabilitizzle of 
those machines.  Each cycle lasts one second.

.TP
.B \-s\ BYTES
.TP
.B \-\-psize\ BYTES
.TP
.B PACKETSIZE
These options or a trailin PACKETSIZE on tha command line sets 
the packet size used fo' probing.
It be up in bytes inclusive IP n' ICMP headers

If set ta a wack number, every last muthafuckin iteration will bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different, random
packet size upto dat number n' shit. 
.TP
.B \-t
.TP
.B \-\-curses
.br
Use dis option ta force 
.B mtr 
to use tha curses based terminal
interface (if available).

.TP
.B \-e
.TP
.B \-\-mpls
.br
Use dis option ta tell 
.B mtr 
to display shiznit from ICMP extensions fo' MPLS (RFC 4950)
that is encoded up in tha response packets.

.TP
.B \-n
.TP
.B \-\-no-dns
.br
Use dis option ta force 
.B mtr 
to display numeric IP numbers n' not try ta resolve the
host names. 

.TP
.B \-b
.TP
.B \-\-show-ips
.br
Use dis option ta tell
.B mtr
to display both tha host names n' numeric IP numbers.  In split mode
this addz a extra field ta tha output. In report mode, there is usually
too lil space ta add tha IPs, n' they is ghon be truncated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use tha 
wide report (-w) mode ta peep tha IPs up in report mode. 

.TP
.B \-o\ fields\ order
.TP
.B \-\-order\ fields\ order
.br
Use dis option ta specify tha fieldz n' they order when loadin mtr.
.br
Available fields:
.TS
centa allbox tab(%);
ll.
L%Loss ratio
D%Dropped packets
R%Received packets
S%Sent Packets
N%Newest RTT(ms)
B%Min/Best RTT(ms)
A%Average RTT(ms)
W%Max/Worst RTT(ms)
V%Standard Deviation
G%Geometric Mean
J%Current Jitter
M%Jitta Mean/Avg.
X%Worst Jitter
I%Interarrival Jitter
.TE
.br

Example:
-o "LSD NBAW"
.TP
.B \-g
.TP
.B \-\-gtk
.br
Use dis option ta force
.B mtr 
to use tha GTK+ based X11 window intercourse (if available).  
GTK+ must done been available on tha system when 
.B mtr 
was built fo' dis ta work.  See tha GTK+ wizzy page at 
.B http://www.gtk.org/
for mo' shiznit bout GTK+.

.TP
.B \-p
.TP
.B \-\-split
.br
Use dis option ta set
.B mtr 
to spit up a gangbangin' format dat is suitable fo' a split-user intercourse.

.TP
.B \-l
.TP
.B \-\-raw
.br
Use dis option ta tell
.B mtr
to use tha raw output format. This format is betta suited for
archival of tha measurement thangs up in dis biatch. Well shiiiit, it could be parsed ta 
be presented tha fuck into any of tha other display methods. 

.TP
.B \-x
.TP
.B \-\-xml
.br
Use dis option ta tell
.B mtr
to use tha xml output format. This format is betta suited for
automated processin of tha measurement thangs up in dis biatch.

.TP
.B \-a\ IP.ADD.RE.SS
.TP
.B \-\-address\ IP.ADD.RE.SS
.br
Use dis option ta bind outgoin packets' socket ta specific intercourse,
so dat any packet is ghon be busted all up in dis intercourse. NOTE dat this
option don't apply ta DNS requests (which could be n' could not be 
what you want).

.TP
.B \-i\ SECONDS
.TP
.B \-\-interval\ SECONDS
.br
Use dis option ta specify tha positizzle number of secondz between ICMP
ECHO requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Da default value fo' dis parameta is one second.

.TP
.B \-m\ NUM
.TP
.B \-\-max-ttl\ NUM
.br
Specifies tha maximum number of hops (max time-to-live value) traceroute will
probe. Default is 30.

.TP
.B \-f\ NUM
.TP
.B \-\-first-ttl\ NUM
.br
Specifies wit what tha fuck TTL ta start. Defaults ta 1.

.TP
.B \-B\ NUM
.TP
.B \-\-bitpattern\ NUM
.br
Specifies bit pattern ta use up in payload. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Should be within range 0 - 255.

.TP
.B \-Q\ NUM
.TP
.B \-\-tos\ NUM
.br
Specifies value fo' type of steez field up in IP header n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should be within range 0
- 255.

.TP
.B \-u
.TP
.B \-\-udp
.br
Use UDP datagrams instead of ICMP ECHO.

.TP
.B \-T
.TP
.B \-\-tcp
.br
Use TCP SYN packets instead of ICMP ECHO. PACKETSIZE is ignored, since
SYN packets can not contain data.

.TP
.B \-P\ PORT
.TP
.B \-\-port\ PORT
.br
Da target port number fo' TCP traces.

.TP
.B \-\-timeout\ SECONDS
.br
Da number of secondz ta keep tha TCP socket open before givin up on
the connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This will only affect tha final hop. Usin big-ass joints
for this, especially combined wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short interval, will use up a lot
of file descriptors.

.TP
.B \-4
.br
Use IPv4 only.

.TP
.B \-6
.br
Use IPv6 only.

.SH BUGS

Some modern routas give a lower prioritizzle ta ICMP ECHO packets than 
to other network traffic.  Consequently, tha reliabilitizzle of these
routas reported by 
.B mtr
will be hella lower than tha actual reliabilitizzle of 
these routers.  


.SH CONTACT INFORMATION

.PP
For tha sickest fuckin version, peep tha mtr wizzy page at 
.BR http://www.bitwizard.nl/mtr/ .

.PP
Da mtr mailinglist was lil used n' is no longer active. 

.PP
Bug reports n' feature requests should be submitted ta the
launchpad mtr bugtracker n' shit. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

traceroute(8),
ping(8)
TCP/IP Illustrated (Stevens, ISBN 0201633469).
