.\"
.\" netstat.8 
.\"
.\" Original: (mdw@tc.cornell.edu & dc6iq@insu1.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Modified: Bernd.Eckenfels@inka.de
.\" Modified: Andi Kleen ak@muc.de 
.\" Modified: Tuan Hoang tqhoang@bigfoot.com 
.\" Modified: Brian Micek bmicek@gmail.com
.\"
.\"
.TH NETSTAT 8 "2012\-09\-15" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"

.SH NAME
netstat \- Print network connections, routin tables, intercourse statistics, masquerade connections, n' multicast memberships

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B netstat 
.RI [ address_family_options ]
.RB [ \-\-tcp | \-t ]
.RB [ \-\-udp | \-u ]
.RB [ \-\-udplite | \-U ]
.RB [ \-\-raw | \-w ]
.RB [ \-\-listenin | \-l ]
.RB [ \-\-all | \-a ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric\-hosts "] [" \-\-numeric\-ports "] [" \-\-numeric\-users ]
.RB [ \-\-symbolic | \-N ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  [ \-\-extend | \-e] ]
.RB [ \-\-timers | \-o ]
.RB [ \-\-program | \-p ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]
.RB [ \-\-wide | \-W]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-route | \-r }
.RI [ address_family_options ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  [ \-\-extend | \-e] ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric\-hosts "] [" \-\-numeric\-ports "] [" \-\-numeric\-users ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat
.RB { \-\-interfaces | \-I | \-i }
.RB [ \-\-all | \-a ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-program | \-p ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric-hosts "] [" \-\-numeric-ports "] [" \-\-numeric-users ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat
.RB { \-\-groups | \-g }
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric\-hosts "] [" \-\-numeric\-ports "] [" \-\-numeric\-users ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat
.RB { \-\-masquerade | \-M }
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric\-hosts "] [" \-\-numeric\-ports "] [" \-\-numeric\-users ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat
.RB { \-\-statistics | -s }
.RB [ \-\-tcp | \-t ]
.RB [ \-\-udp | \-u ]
.RB [ \-\-udplite | \-U ]
.RB [ \-\-raw | \-w ]
.RB [delay]
.P
.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-version | \-V }
.P
.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-help | \-h }
.P
.IR address_family_options :
.PP
.RB [ -4 | \-\-inet ]
.RB [ -6 | \-\-inet6 ]
.RB [ \-\-protocol= { inet , inet6 , unix , ipx , ax25 , netrom , ddp ", ... } ]"
.RB [ \-\-unix | \-x ] 
.RB [ \-\-inet | \-\-ip | \-\-tcpip ]
.RB [ \-\-ax25 ]
.RB [ \-\-x25 ]
.RB [ \-\-rose ]
.RB [ \-\-ash ]
.RB [ \-\-ipx ] 
.RB [ \-\-netrom ]
.RB [ \-\-ddp | \-\-appletalk ]
.RB [ \-\-econet | \-\-ec ]

.SH NOTES
This program is obsolete.
Replacement fo' \fBnetstat\fR is \fBss\fR.
Replacement fo' \fBnetstat -r\fR is \fBip route\fR.
Replacement fo' \fBnetstat -i\fR is \fBip -s link\fR.
Replacement fo' \fBnetstat -g\fR is \fBip maddr\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Netstat
prints shiznit bout tha Linux networkin subsystem.  Da type of
information printed is controlled by tha straight-up original gangsta argument, as bigs up:
.SS (none)
By default,
.B
netstat 
displays a list of open sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If you don't specify any
address crews, then tha actizzle socketz of all configured address
families is ghon be printed.
.SS "\-\-route , \-r"
Display tha kernel routin tables. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha description up in 
.BR route (8) 
for details. 
.B netstat -r 
and 
.B route -e 
produce tha same output.
.SS "\-\-groups , \-g"
Display multicast crew membershizzle shiznit fo' IPv4 n' IPv6.
.SS "\-\-interfaces=\fIiface \fR, \fB\-I=\fIiface \fR, \fB\-i"
Display a table of all network intercourses, or tha specified \fIiface\fR.
.SS "\-\-masquerade , \-M"
Display a list of masqueraded connections.
.SS "\-\-statistics , \-s"
Display summary statistics fo' each protocol.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "\-\-verbose , \-v"
Tell tha user what tha fuck is goin on by bein verbose. Especially print some
useful shiznit bout unconfigured address crews.
.SS "\-\-wide , \-W"
Do not truncate IP addresses by rockin output as wide as needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is
optionizzle fo' now ta not break existin scripts.
.SS "\-\-numeric , \-n"
Show numerical addresses instead of tryin ta determine symbolic host, port
or user names.
.SS "\-\-numeric\-hosts"
shows numerical host addresses but do not affect tha resolution of
port or user names.
.SS "\-\-numeric\-ports"
shows numerical port numbers but do not affect tha resolution of
host or user names.
.SS "\-\-numeric\-users"
shows numerical user IDs but do not affect tha resolution of host or
port names.

.SS "\-\-protocol=\fIfamily \fR, \fB\-A"
Specifies tha address crews (like betta busted lyrics bout as low level
protocols) fo' which connections is ta be shown.
.I crew 
is a cold-ass lil comma (',') separated list of address crew keywordz like
.BR inet , 
.BR inet6 ,
.BR unix , 
.BR ipx , 
.BR ax25 , 
.BR netrom ,
.BR econet ,
and
.BR ddp .
This has tha same ol' dirty effect as rockin tha 
.BR \-\-inet | -4 ,
.BR \-\-inet6 | -6 ,
.BR \-\-unix | -x ,
.BR \-\-ipx ,
.BR \-\-ax25 ,
.BR \-\-netrom ,
and
.B \-\-ddp 
options.
.P
Da address crew
.B inet
(Iv4) includes raw, udp, udplite n' tcp protocol sockets.
.SS "\-c, \-\-continuous"
This will cause
.B netstat
to print tha selected shiznit every last muthafuckin second continuously.
.SS "\-e, \-\-extend"
Display additionizzle shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Use dis option twice fo' maximum detail.
.SS "\-o, \-\-timers"
Include shiznit related ta networkin timers.
.SS "\-p, \-\-program"
Show tha PID n' name of tha program ta which each socket belongs.
.SS "\-l, \-\-listening"
Show only listenin sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  (These is omitted by default.)
.SS "\-a, \-\-all"
Show both listenin n' non-listenin (for TCP dis means established
connections) sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  With the
.B \-\-interfaces
option, show intercourses dat is not up
.SS "\-F"
Print routin shiznit from tha FIB.  (This is tha default.)
.SS "\-C"
Print routin shiznit from tha route cache.
.SS delay
Netstat will cycle printin all up in statistics every last muthafuckin 
.B delay 
seconds.
.P
.SH OUTPUT
.P
.SS Actizzle Internizzle connections \fR(TCP, UDP, UDPLite, raw)\fR
.SS "Proto" 
Da protocol (tcp, udp, udpl, raw) used by tha socket. 
.SS "Recv\-Q"
Established: Da count of bytes not copied by tha user program connected ta dis socket.
Listening: Since Kernel 2.6.18 dis column gotz nuff tha current syn backlog.
.SS "Send\-Q"
Established: Da count of bytes not bigged up by tha remote host.
Listening: Since Kernel 2.6.18 dis column gotz nuff tha maximum size of tha syn backlog.
.SS "Local Address" 
Address n' port number of tha local end of tha socket.  Unless the
.BR \-\-numeric " (" \-n )
option is specified, tha socket address is resolved ta its canonical
host name (FQDN), n' tha port number is translated tha fuck into the
correspondin steez name.
.SS "Foreign Address"
Address n' port number of tha remote end of tha socket.
Analogous ta "Local Address."
.SS "State"
Da state of tha socket. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since there be no states up in raw mode n' probably no
states used up in UDP n' UDPLite, dis column may be left blank. Normally dis can be one
of nuff muthafuckin joints:
.TP
.I
ESTABLISHED
Da socket has a established connection.
.TP
.I
SYN_SENT
Da socket be actively attemptin ta establish a cold-ass lil connection.
.TP
.I
SYN_RECV
A connection request has been received from tha network.
.TP
.I
FIN_WAIT1
Da socket is closed, n' tha connection is shuttin down.
.TP
.I
FIN_WAIT2
Connection is closed, n' tha socket is waitin fo' a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shutdown from the
remote end.
.TP
.I
TIME_WAIT
Da socket is waitin afta close ta handle packets still up in tha network.
.TP
.I
CLOSE
Da socket aint bein used.
.TP
.I
CLOSE_WAIT
Da remote end has shut down, waitin fo' tha socket ta close.
.TP
.I
LAST_ACK
Da remote end has shut down, n' tha socket is closed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Waitin for
acknowledgement.
.TP
.I
LISTEN
Da socket is listenin fo' incomin connections.  Such sockets is 
not included up in tha output unless you specify tha 
.BR \-\-listenin " (" \-l )
or 
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a )
option.
.TP
.I
CLOSING
Both sockets is shut down but we still aint gots all our data
sent.
.TP
.I
UNKNOWN
Da state of tha socket is unknown.
.SS "User"
Da username or tha user id (UID) of tha balla of tha socket.
.SS "PID/Program name"
Slash-separated pair of tha process id (PID) n' process name of tha 
process dat owns tha socket.
.B \-\-program
causes dis column ta be included. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass will also need
.I superuser
privileges ta peep dis shiznit on sockets you don't own. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This
identification shiznit aint yet available fo' IPX sockets.
.SS "Timer"
(this need ta be written)
.P
.SS Actizzle UNIX domain Sockets
.SS "Proto" 
Da protocol (usually unix) used by tha socket.
.SS "RefCnt"
Da reference count (i.e. attached processes via dis socket).
.SS "Flags"
Da flags displayed is SO_ACCEPTON (displayed as 
.BR ACC ),
SO_WAITDATA 
.RB ( W )
or SO_NOSPACE 
.RB ( N ). 
SO_ACCECPTON 
is used on unconnected sockets if they corresponding
processes is waitin fo' a cold-ass lil connect request. Da other flags is not
of aiiight interest.
.SS "Type"
There is nuff muthafuckin typez of socket access:
.TP
.I
SOCK_DGRAM
Da socket is used up in Datagram (connectionless) mode.
.TP
.I
SOCK_STREAM
This be a stream (connection) socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_RAW
Da socket is used as a raw socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_RDM
This one serves reliably-delivered lyrics.
.TP
.I
SOCK_SEQPACKET
This be a sequential packet socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_PACKET
Raw intercourse access socket.
.TP
.I
UNKNOWN
Dum diddy-dum, here I come biaaatch! Who tha fuck eva knows what tha fuck tha future will brang our asses - just fill up in here :-)
.PP
.SS "State"
This field will contain one of tha followin Keywords:
.TP
.I FREE
Da socket aint allocated
.TP
.I LISTENING 
Da socket is listenin fo' a cold-ass lil connection request.  Such
sockets is only included up in tha output if you specify the
.BR \-\-listenin " (" \-l )
or
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a )
option.
.TP
.I CONNECTING
Da socket be bout ta establish a cold-ass lil connection.
.TP
.I CONNECTED
Da socket is connected.
.TP
.I DISCONNECTING
Da socket is disconnecting.
.TP
.I (empty)
Da socket aint connected ta another one.
.TP
.I UNKNOWN
This state should never happen.
.SS "PID/Program name"
Process ID (PID) n' process name of tha process dat has tha socket open. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
Mo' info available in
.B "Actizzle Internizzle connections"
section freestyled above.
.SS "Path"
This is tha path name as which tha correspondin processes attached
to tha socket.
.P
.SS Actizzle IPX sockets
(this need ta be done by some muthafucka whoz ass knows it)
.P
.SS Actizzle NET/ROM sockets
(this need ta be done by some muthafucka whoz ass knows it)
.P
.SS Actizzle AX.25 sockets
(this need ta be done by some muthafucka whoz ass knows it)
.PP

.SH FILES
.ta
.I /etc/skillz
-- Da skillz translation file

.I /proc
-- Mount point fo' tha proc filesystem, which gives access ta kernel 
status shiznit via tha followin files.

.I /proc/net/dev
-- thang shiznit

.I /proc/net/raw
-- raw socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/tcp
-- TCP socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/udp
-- UDP socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/udplite
-- UDPLite socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/igmp
-- IGMP multicast shiznit

.I /proc/net/unix
-- Unix domain socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/ipx
-- IPX socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/ax25
-- AX25 socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/appletalk
-- DDP (appletalk) socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/nr
-- NET/ROM socket shiznit

.I /proc/net/route
-- IP routin shiznit

.I /proc/net/ax25_route
-- AX25 routin shiznit

.I /proc/net/ipx_route
-- IPX routin shiznit

.I /proc/net/nr_nodes
-- NET/ROM nodelist

.I /proc/net/nr_neigh
-- NET/ROM neighbours

.I /proc/net/ip_masquerade
-- masqueraded connections

.I /proc/net/snmp
-- statistics
.fi
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR route (8), 
.BR ifconfig (8), 
.BR iptablez (8),
.BR proc (5)
.BR ss (8)
.BR ip (8)
.P
.SH BUGS
Occasionally strange shiznit may step tha fuck up if a socket chizzles
as it is viewed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is unlikely ta occur.
.P
.SH AUTHORS
Da netstat user intercourse was freestyled by Fred Baumgarten
<dc6iq@insu1.etec.uni\-karlsruhe.de>, tha playa page basically
by Mack Welsh <mdw@tc.cornell.edu>. Dat shiznit was updated by
Alan Cox <Alan.Cox@linux.org>, updated again n' again n' again by Tuan Hoang
<tqhoang@bigfoot.com>. Da playa page n' tha command included 
in tha net\-tools package is straight-up rewritten by Bernd Eckenfels 
<ecki@linux.de>.  UDPLite options was added by Brian Micek
<bmicek@gmail.com>
