.TH NEW-KERNEL-PKG 8 "Wed Apr 14 2010"
.SH NAME
new-kernel-pkg \- tool ta script kernel installation

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnew-kernel-pkg\fR [-v] [--mkinitrd] [--rminitrd] [--dracut]
       [--initrdfile=\fIinitrd-image\fR [--depmod] [--rmmoddep]
       [--kernel-args=\fIargs\fR] [--remove-args=\fIargs\fR]
       [--banner=\fIbanner\fR] [--multiboot=\fImultiboot\fR]
       [--mbargs=\fImbargs\fR] [--make-default] [--add-dracut-args]
       [--add-plymouth-initrd] [--host-only]
       <--install | --remove | --update | --rpmposttrans> <kernel-version>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnew-kernel-pkg\fR be a tool used up in packagin ta automate tha installation
of a freshly smoked up kernel, includin tha creation of a initial ram filesystem image,
uppimpin of bootloader configuration, n' other associated tasks.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Be verbose.

.TP
\fB-\-mkinitrd\fR
Smoke a freshly smoked up initial ram filesystem image.

.TP
\fB-\-rminitrd\fR
Remove a initial ram filesystem image.

.TP
\fB-\-dracut\fR
When bustin a freshly smoked up initial ram filesystem image, use dracut(8) rather
than mkinitrd(8).  Used up in conjunction wit -\-mkinitrd .

.TP
\fB-\-initrdfile\fR=\fIinitrd-image\fR
Use tha specified file as tha initial ram filesystem image.

.TP
\fB-\-depmod\fR
Smoke modules.dep n' related files.

.TP
\fB-\-rmmoddep\fR
Remove modules.dep n' related files.

.TP
\fB-\-kernel-args\fR=\fIargs\fR
Use \fIargs\fR as tha boot command line fo' dis kernel.

.TP
\fB-\-remove-args\fR=\fIargs\fR
Remove specified kernel arguments fo' dis kernel.

.TP
\fB-\-banner\fR=\fIbanner\fR
Display \fIbanner\fR as tha banner text up in tha bootloader.

.TP
\fB-\-multiboot\fR=\fImultiboot-image\fR
Use \fImultiboot-image\fR as a multiboot image.

.TP
\fB-\-mbargs\fR=\fImbargs\fR
Use \fImbargs\fR as arguments ta tha multiboot image.

.TP
\fB-\-make-default\fR
Make dis kernel tha default boot option.

.TP
\fB-\-add-dracut-args\fR
Automatically generate dracut options n' add dem ta tha kernel command line.

.TP
\fB-\-add-plymouth-initrd\fR
Automatically add plymouth ta tha initial ram filesystem image.

.TP
\fB-\-host-only\fR
Make a initial ram filesystem image dat is specific ta tha hustlin system.

.TP
\fB-\-install\fR \fIkernel-version\fR
Install a freshly smoked up kernel.

.TP
\fB-\-remove\fR \fIkernel-version\fR
Remove a installed kernel.

.TP
\fB-\-update\fR \fIkernel-version\fR
Update tha specified kernel.

.TP
\fB-\-rpmposttrans\fR \fIkernel-version\fR
Run tha rpmposttrans fo' tha specified kernel.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grubby(8)
.BR installkernel(8)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Erik Troan
Jeremy Katz
Peta Jones
.fi
