.\"
.\" nfsd(8)
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
.TH rpc.nfsd 8 "20 Feb 2014"
.SH NAME
rpc.nfsd \- NFS server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "/usr/sbin/rpc.nfsd [" options "]" " "nproc
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B rpc.nfsd
program implements tha user level part of tha NFS service. The
main functionalitizzle is handled by the
.B nfsd
kernel module. Da user space program merely specifies what tha fuck sort of sockets
the kernel steez should listen on, what tha fuck NFS versions it should support, and
how nuff kernel threadz it should use.
.P
The
.B rpc.mountd
server serves up a ancillary steez needed ta satisfy mount requests
by NFS clients.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d " or " \-\-debug
enable loggin of debuggin lyrics
.TP
.B \-H " or " \-\-host  hostname
specify a particular hostname (or address) dat NFS requests will
be accepted on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. By default,
.B rpc.nfsd
will accept NFS requests on all known network addresses.
Note that
.B lockd
(which performs file lockin skillz fo' NFS) may still accept
request on all known network addresses.  This may chizzle up in future
releasez of tha Linux Kernel. This option can be used multiple time 
to dig mo' than one intercourse.
.TP
.B \-p " or " \-\-port  port
specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different port ta listen on fo' NFS requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. By default,
.B rpc.nfsd
will listen on port 2049.
.TP
.B \-r " or " \-\-rdma
specify dat NFS requests on tha standard RDMA port ("nfsrdma", port
20049) should be honored.
.TP
.BI \-\-rdma= port
Listen fo' RDMA requests on a alternate port - may be a number or a
name listed in
.BR /etc/skillz .
.TP
.B \-N " or " \-\-no-nfs-version vers
This option can be used ta request dat 
.B rpc.nfsd
does not offer certain versionz of NFS. Da current version of
.B rpc.nfsd
can support NFS versions 2,3,4 n' tha newer version 4.1.
.TP
.B \-s " or " \-\-syslog
By default,
.B rpc.nfsd
logs error lyrics (and debug lyrics, if enabled) ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This option make 
.B rpc.nfsd
log these lyrics ta syslog instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note dat errors encountered during
option processin will still be logged ta stderr regardless of dis option.
.TP
.B \-T " or " \-\-no-tcp
Disable 
.B rpc.nfsd 
from acceptin TCP connections from clients.
.TP
.B \-U " or " \-\-no-udp
Disable
.B rpc.nfsd
from acceptin UDP connections from clients.
.TP
.B \-V " or " \-\-nfs-version vers
This option can be used ta request dat 
.B rpc.nfsd
offer certain versionz of NFS. Da current version of
.B rpc.nfsd
can support NFS versions 2,3,4 n' tha newer version 4.1.
.TP
.B \-L " or " \-\-lease-time seconds
Set tha lease-time used fo' NFSv4.  This correspondz ta how tha fuck often
clients need ta confirm they state wit tha server n' shit. Valid range is
from 10 ta 3600 seconds.
.TP
.B \-G " or " \-\-grace-time seconds
Set tha grace-time used fo' NFSv4 n' NLM (for NFSv2 n' NFSv3).
New file open requests (NFSv4) n' freshly smoked up file locks (NLM) aint gonna be
allowed until afta dis time has passed ta allow clients ta recover state.
.TP
.I nproc
specify tha number of NFS server threads. By default, just one
thread is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat fo' optimum performizzle nuff muthafuckin threads
should be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da actual figure dependz on tha number of n' tha work
load pimped by tha NFS clients yo, but a useful startin point is
8 threads. Effectz of modifyin dat number can be checked using
the
.BR nfsstat (8)
program.
.P
Note dat if tha NFS server be already hustlin, then tha options for
specifyin host, port, n' protocol is ghon be ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da number of
processes given is ghon be tha only option considered, n' tha number of
active
.B nfsd
processes is ghon be increased or decreased ta match dis number.
In particular
.B rpc.nfsd 0
will stop all threadz n' thus close any open connections.

.SH NOTES
If tha program is built wit TI-RPC support, it will enable any protocol and
address crew combinations dat is marked visible up in the
.B netconfig
database.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc.mountd (8),
.BR exports (5),
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR rpc.rquotad (8),
.BR nfsstat (8),
.BR netconfig(5).
.SH AUTHOR
Olaf Kirch, Bizzle Hawes, H. J. Lu, G fo' realz. Allan Morris Pt III,
and a host of others.
