.ie \nF \{\
.    de IX
.    tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.    nr % 0
.    rr F
.\}
.el \{\
.    de IX
..
.\}
.IX Title "NFSDCLTRACK 8"
.TH NFSDCLTRACK 8 "2012-10-24" "" ""
.\" For nroff, turn off justification. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Always turn off hyphenation; it makes
.\" way too nuff mistakes up in technical documents.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH "NAME"
nfsdcltrack \- NFSv4 Client Trackin Callout Program
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
nfsdcltrack [\-d] [\-f] [\-s stable storage dir] <command> <args...>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
nfsdcltack is tha NFSv4 client trackin callout program. Well shiiiit, it aint necessary
to install dis daemon on machines dat is not actin as NFSv4 servers.
.PP
When a network partizzle is combined wit a server reboot, there are
edge conditions dat can cause tha server ta grant lock reclaims when
other clients have taken conflictin locks up in tha interim fo' realz. A mo' detailed
explanation of dis issue is busted lyrics bout up in \s-1RFC\s0 3530, section 8.6.3.
.PP
In order ta prevent these problems, tha server must track a lil' small-ass amount
of per-client shiznit on stable storage. This program serves up the
userspace piece of dat functionality. When tha kernel need ta manipulate
the database dat stores dis info, it will execute dis program ta handle
it.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR" 4
.IX Item "-d, --debug"
Enable debug level logging.
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR" 4
.IX Item "-f, --foreground"
Log ta stderr instead of syslog.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR \fIstoragedir\fR, \fB\-\-storagedir\fR=\fIstorage_dir\fR" 4
.IX Item "-s storagedir, --storagedir=storage_dir"
Directory where stable storage shiznit should be kept. Da default
value is \fI/var/lib/nfs/nfsdcltrack\fR.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.IX Header "COMMANDS"
nfsdcltrack requires a cold-ass lil command fo' each invocation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Supported commands
are:
.IP "\fBinit\fR" 4
.IX Item "init"
Initialize tha database. This command requires no argument.
.IP "\fBcreate\fR" 4
.IX Item "create"
Smoke a freshly smoked up client record (or update tha timestamp on a existin one). This command requires a hex-encoded nfs_client_id4 as a argument.
.IP "\fBremove\fR" 4
.IX Item "remove"
Remove a cold-ass lil client record from tha database. This command requires a hex-encoded nfs_client_id4 as a argument.
.IP "\fBcheck\fR" 4
.IX Item "check"
Peep ta peep if a nfs_client_id4 be allowed ta reclaim. This command requires a hex-encoded nfs_client_id4 as a argument.
.IP "\fBgracedone\fR" 4
.IX Item "gracedone"
Remove any unreclaimed client recordz from tha database. This command requires a epoch boot time as a argument.
.SH "LEGACY TRANSITION MECHANISM"
.IX Header "LEGACY TRANSITION MECHANISM"
Da Linux kernel NFSv4 server has historically tracked dis shiznit
on stable storage by manipulatin shiznit on tha filesystem
directly, up in tha directory ta which \fI/proc/fs/nfsd/nfsv4recoverydir\fR
points, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. If tha kernel passes tha erect shiznit, then nfsdcltrack
can use it ta allow a seamless transizzle from tha oldschool client tracking
scheme ta tha freshly smoked up one.
.PP
On a \fBcheck\fR operation, if there is no record of tha client up in the
database, nfsdcltrack will look ta peep if tha \fB\s-1NFSDCLTRACK_LEGACY_RECDIR\s0\fR
environment variable is set. If it is, then it will fetch dat value and
see if a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory exists by dat name. If it do, then tha check
operation will succeed n' tha directory is ghon be removed.
.PP
On a \fBgracedone\fR operation, nfsdcltrack will look ta peep if the
\&\fB\s-1NFSDCLTRACK_LEGACY_TOPDIR\s0\fR environment variable is set. If it is, then
it will attempt ta clean up dat directory prior ta exiting.
.PP
Note dat dis transizzle is one-way. If tha machine subsequently reboots
back tha fuck into a olda kernel dat do not support tha nfsdcltrack upcall
then tha clients aint gonna be able ta recover they state.
.SH "NOTES"
.IX Header "NOTES"
This program requires a kernel dat supports tha nfsdcltrack usermodehelper
upcall. This support was first added ta mainline kernels up in 3.8.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.IX Header "AUTHORS"
nfsdcltrack was pimped by Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>.
