.\"
.\" nfsiostat(8)
.\"
.TH nfsiostat 8 "15 Apr 2010"
.SH NAME
nfsiostat \- Emulate iostat fo' NFS mount points rockin /proc/self/mountstats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "nfsiostat [[" <interval> "] [" <count> "]] [" <options> "]["<mount_point> "]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nfsiostat
command displays NFS client per-mount statisitics. 
.TP 
<interval>
specifies tha amount of time up in secondz between each report.
Da first report gotz nuff statistics fo' tha time since each file
system was mounted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Each subsequent report gotz nuff statistics collected
durin tha interval since tha previous report.
.TP
<count>
If the
.I <count>
parameta is
specified, tha value of 
.I <count> 
determines tha number of reports generated at
.I <interval> 
secondz apart. if tha interval parameta is 
specified without the
.I <count> 
parameter, tha command generates reports continuously.
.TP
<options>
Define below
.TP
<mount_point>
If one or more
.I <mount point> 
names is specified, statistics fo' only these mount points will
be displayed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Otherwise, all NFS mount points on tha client is listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a " or " \-\-attr
displays statistics related ta tha attribute cache
.TP
.B \-d " or " \-\-dir 
displays statistics related ta directory operations
.TP
.B \-h " or " \-\-help 
shows help message n' exit
.TP
.B \-l LIST or " \-\-list=LIST 
only print stats fo' first LIST mount points
.TP
.B \-p " or " \-\-page
displays statistics related ta tha page cache
.TP
.B \-s " or " \-\-sort
Sort NFS mount points by ops/second
.TP
.B \-\-version
show programz version number n' exit
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /proc/self/mountstats
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iostat (8),
.BR mountstats (8),
.BR nfsstat(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
