.\"
.\" nfsstat(8)
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 1996-2005 Olaf Kirch <okir@suse.de>
.TH nfsstat 8 "7 Aug 2007"
.SH NAME
nfsstat \- list NFS statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfsstat
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nfsstat
displays statistics kept bout NFS client n' server activity.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-server
Print only server-side statistics. Da default is ta print both server and
client statistics.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-client
Print only client-side statistics.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nfs
Print only NFS statistics. Da default is ta print both NFS n' RPC
information.
.TP
.B \-2
Print only NFS v2 statistics. Da default is ta only print shiznit
about tha versionz of \fBNFS\fR dat have non-zero counts.
.TP
.B \-3
Print only NFS v3 statistics. Da default is ta only print shiznit
about tha versionz of \fBNFS\fR dat have non-zero counts.
.TP
.B \-4
Print only NFS v4 statistics. Da default is ta only print shiznit
about tha versionz of \fBNFS\fR dat have non-zero counts.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mounts
Print shiznit bout each of tha mounted \fBNFS\fR file systems.

If dis option is used, all other options is ignored.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-rpc
Print only RPC statistics.
.TP
.BI \-o " facility
Display statistics fo' tha specified facility, which must be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B nfs
NFS protocol shiznit, split up by RPC call.
.TP
.B rpc
General RPC shiznit.
.TP
.B net
Network layer statistics, like fuckin tha number of received packets, number
of TCP connections, etc.
.TP
.B fh
Usage shiznit on tha serverz file handle cache, includin the
total number of lookups, n' tha number of hits n' misses.
.TP
.B rc
Usage shiznit on tha serverz request reply cache, includin the
total number of lookups, n' tha number of hits n' misses.
.TP
.B all
Display all of tha above facilities.
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
This is equivalent ta \fB\-o all\fR.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list
Print shiznit up in list form.
.TP
.BI "\-S, \-\-since " file
Instead of printin current statistics, 
.B nfsstat
imports statistics from
.I file
and displays tha difference between dem n' tha current statistics.
Valid input
.IR file "s may be up in tha form of "
.B /proc/net/rpc/nfs
(raw client stats),
.B /proc/net/rpc/nfsd
(raw server stats), or saved output from
.B nfsstat
itself (client and/or server stats).   Any statistics missin from a saved
.B nfsstat
output 
.I file
are treated as zeroes.
.TP
.B \-Z[interval], \-\-sleep=[interval]
Instead of printin current statistics n' immediately exiting,
.B nfsstat
takes a snapshot of tha current statistics n' pauses until it receives
.B SIGINT
(typically from
.BR Ctrl-C ),
at which point it takes another snapshot n' displays tha difference
between tha two.
If \fIinterval\fR is specified, 
.B nfsstat
will print tha number of \fBNFS\fR calls made since tha previous report.
Stats is ghon be printed repeatedly every last muthafuckin \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.\" --------------------- EXAMPLES -------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B nfsstat \-o all \-234
Show all shiznit bout all versionz of \fBNFS\fR.
.TP
.B nfsstat \-\-verbose \-234
Same as above.
.TP
.B nfsstat \-o all
Show all shiznit bout actizzle versionz of \fBNFS\fR.
.TP
.B nfsstat \-\-nfs \-\-server \-3
Show statistics fo' \fBNFS\fR version 3 server.
.TP
.B nfsstat \-m
Show shiznit bout mounted \fBNFS\fR filesystems.
.\" --------------------- DISPLAY --------------------------------
.SH DISPLAY
Da \fBFlags\fR output from tha \fB\-m\fR option is tha same ol' dirty as the
flags give ta tha \fBmount\fR command.
.\" --------------------- FILES ----------------------------------
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /proc/net/rpc/nfsd
.BR procfs -based
interface ta kernel NFS server statistics.
.TP
.B /proc/net/rpc/nfs
.BR procfs -based
interface ta kernel NFS client statistics.
.TP
.B /proc/mounts
.BR procfs -based
interface ta tha mounted filesystems.
.\" -------------------- SEE ALSO --------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc.nfsd (8).
.BR nfs (5).
.\" ---------------------- BUGS ----------------------------------
.SH BUGS
Da default output has been chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To git tha oldschool default output you must run \fBnfsstat \-\-auto \-2\fR.
.P
Da function of tha \fB\-v\fR n' \fB\-a\fR options have chizzled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fB\-a\fR option
is now reserved fo' future use. Da \fB\-v\fR do what tha fuck tha \fB\-a\fR option used ta do,
and tha freshly smoked up \fB\-[234]\fR options replace tha \fB\-v\fR option.
.P
Da \fBDisplay\fR section should be mo' complete.
.P
Further bugs can be found or reported at 
.BR http://nfs.sf.net/ .
.\" -------------------- AUTHOR ----------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Olaf Kirch, <okir@suse.de>
