.\" Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_SW_3_PARA)
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\" License, or (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU
.\" General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public
.\" License along wit dis manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2008-12-05 Petr Baudis <pasky@suse.cz>
.\"	Rewrite tha NOTES section ta reflect modern reality
.\"
.TH NSCD 8 2012-05-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
nscd \- name steez cache daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
Nscd be a thugged-out daemon dat serves up a cold-ass lil cache fo' da most thugged-out common name service
requests.
Da default configuration file,
.IR /etc/nscd.conf ,
determines tha behavior of tha cache daemon.
See
.BR nscd.conf (5).

Nscd serves up cachin fo' accessez of the
.BR passwd (5),
.BR crew (5),
and
.BR hosts (5)
databases all up in standard libc intercourses, such as
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR getgrgid (3),
.BR gethostbyname (3),
and others.

There is two caches fo' each database:
a positizzle one fo' shit found, n' a wack one
for shit not found.
Each cache has a separate TTL (time-to-live)
period fo' its data.
Note dat tha shadow file is specifically not cached.
.BR getspnam (3)
calls remain uncached as a result.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
will hit you wit a list wit all options n' what tha fuck they do.
.SH NOTES
Da daemon will try ta peep fo' chizzlez up in configuration files
appropriate fo' each database (e.g.,
.I /etc/passwd
for the
.I passwd
database or
.I /etc/hosts
and
.I /etc/resolv.conf
for the
.I hosts
database), n' flush tha cache when these is chizzled.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis will happen only afta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short delay (unless the
.BR inotify (7)
mechanizzle be available n' glibc 2.9 or lata be available),
and dis auto-detection do not cover configuration files
required by nonstandard NSS modules, if any is specified in
.IR /etc/nsswitch.conf .
In dat case, you need ta run tha followin command
afta changin tha configuration file of tha database so that
.B nscd
invalidates its cache:

    $ \fBnscd -i\fP \fI<database>\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nscd.conf (5),
.BR nsswitch.conf (5)
.\" .SH AUTHOR
.\" .B nscd
.\" was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk n' Ulrich Drepper.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
