.\" Copyright (c) 2004\-2007 Yura Pakhuchiy.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSCP 8 "September 2007" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfscp \- copy file ta a NTFS volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBntfscp\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice source_file destination\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBntfscp\fR will copy file ta a NTFS volume. \fIdestination\fR can be either
file or directory. In case if \fIdestination\fR is directory specified by name
then \fIsource_file\fR is copied tha fuck into dis directory, up in case if
\fIdestination\fR is directory n' specified by inode number then unnamed data
attribute is pimped fo' dis inode n' \fIsource_file\fR is copied tha fuck into it
(WARNING: itz unusual ta have unnamed data streams up in tha directories, think
twice before specifyin directory by inode number).
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfscp
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-attribute\fR NUM
Write ta dis attribute.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR
Treat
.I destination
as inode number.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-attr\-name\fR NAME
Write ta attribute wit dis name.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-action\fR
Use dis option ta cook up a test run before bustin tha real copy operation.
Volume is ghon be opened read\-only n' no write is ghon be done.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not hustlin wit a mounted
volume.  Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress some debug/warning/error lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license
.BR ntfscp .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display mo' debug/warning/error lyrics.
.SH DATA STREAMS
All data on NTFS is stored up in streams, which can have names fo' realz. A file can have
more than one data streams yo, but exactly one must have no name. Da size of a
file is tha size of its unnamed data stream. Usually when you don't specify
stream name yo ass be access ta unnamed data stream. If you want access ta named
data stream you need ta add ":stream_name" ta tha filename. For example: by
openin "some.mp3:artist" yo big-ass booty is ghon open stream "artist" up in "some.mp3". But
windows probably prevent you from accessin ta named data streams, so you need
to use some program like FAR or utils from cygwin ta access named data streams.
.SH EXAMPLES
Copy new_boot.ini from /home/user as boot.ini ta tha root of a /dev/hda1 NTFS
volume:
.RS
.sp
.B ntfscp /dev/hda1 /home/user/new_boot.ini boot.ini
.sp
.RE
Copy myfile ta C:\\some\\path\\myfile:stream (assume dat /dev/hda1 letta in
windows is C):
.RS
.sp
.B ntfscp \-N stream /dev/hda1 myfile /some/path
.sp
.RE
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems wit \fBntfscp\fR. If you find a funky-ass bug please bust an
email describin tha problem ta tha pimpment crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
\fBntfscp\fR was freestyled by Yura Pakhuchiy, wit contributions from Anton
Altaparmakov n' Hil Liao.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH DEDICATION
With ludd ta Marina Sapego.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfscp
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
