.\" Copyright (c) 2005\-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSCMP 8 "April 2006" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfscmp \- compare two NTFS filesystems n' tell tha differences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfscmp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I DEVICE1
.I DEVICE2
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ntfscmp
program cook up a cold-ass lil comparison between two NTFS filesystems from all aspects n' 
reports all variances it finds.
Da filesystems can be on block devices or images files. Ntfscmp can be used
for volume verification however its primary purpose was ta be a efficient
development tool, used ta quickly locate, identify n' check tha erectness
of tha metadata chizzlez made ta NTFS. 

If one is interested only up in tha NTFS metadata chizzlez then it could be useful
to compare tha metadata images pimped by 
usin tha --metadata option of
.BR ntfsclone (8)
to eliminizzle tha probably uninterestin timestamp chizzles.

Da terse output of
.B ntfscmp
is intentionizzle cuz tha provided shiznit is enough up in each case
to determine tha exact differences. This can be  bigged up , fo' instance,
if one compares tha verbose outputs of
.BR ntfsinfo (8)
for each reported inodes by tha 
.BR diff (1)
utility.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of tha options that
.B ntfscmp
accepts.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-no\-progress\-bar\fR
Don't show progress bars.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Mo' shiznital output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help n' exit.
.SH EXIT CODES
Da exit code is 0 on success, non\-zero otherwise.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
No problem is known. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you would find otherwise then please send
your report ta tha pimpment crew:
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHOR
.B ntfscmp
was freestyled by Szabolcs Szakacsits.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfscmp
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsinfo (8),
.BR ntfscat (8),
.BR diff (1),
.BR ntfsclone (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
