.\" Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSFIX 8 "January 2006" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsfix \- fix common errors n' force Windows ta check NTFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsfix
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsfix
is a utilitizzle dat fixes some common NTFS problems.
.B ntfsfix
is
.B NOT
a Linux version of chkdsk.  It only repairs some fundamenstrual NTFS
inconsistencies, resets tha NTFS journal file n' schedulez a NTFS consistency
check fo' tha straight-up original gangsta boot tha fuck into Windows.
.sp
Yo ass may run
.B ntfsfix
on a NTFS volume if you be thinkin dat shiznit was damaged by Windows or some other way 
and it cannot be mounted.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfsfix
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-clear\-bad\-sectors\fR
Clear tha list of wack sectors. This is useful afta clonin a oldschool disk
with wack sectors ta a freshly smoked up disk.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-clear\-dirty\fR
Clear tha volume dirty flag if tha volume can be fixed n' mounted.
If tha option aint present or tha volume cannot be fixed, tha dirty
volume flag is set ta request a volume checkin at next mount.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-action\fR
Do not write anything, just show what tha fuck would done been done.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems with
.BR ntfsfix .
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfsfix
was freestyled by Anton Altaparmakov, wit contributions from Szabolcs Szakacsits.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson n' Jean-Pierre Andre.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsfix
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkntfs (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
