.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFS-3G.PROBE 8 "January 2008" "ntfs-3g.probe 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfs-3g.probe \- Probe a NTFS volume mountability
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfs-3g.probe
.I <\-\-readonly|\-\-readwrite>
.I volume 
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBntfs-3g.probe\fR utilitizzle tests a volume if itz NTFS mountable 
read-only or read-write, n' exits wit a status value accordingly. 
Da \fIvolume\fR can be a funky-ass block thang or image file.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of tha options dat \fBntfs-3g.probe\fR accepts.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-readonly
Test if tha volume can be mounted read-only.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-readwrite
Test if tha volume can be mounted read-write.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
Test if /dev/sda1 can be mounted read-write:
.RS
.sp
.B ntfs-3g.probe --readwrite /dev/sda1
.sp
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
Da exit codes is as bigs up:
.IP 0
Volume is mountable.
.IP 11
Syntax error, command line parsin failed.
.IP 12
Da volume aint gots a valid NTFS.
.IP 13
Inconsistent NTFS, hardware or thang driver fault, or unsetup 
SoftRAID/FakeRAID hardware. 
.IP 14
Da NTFS partizzle is hibernated.
.IP 15
Da volume was not cleanly unmounted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.IP 16
Da volume be already exclusively opened n' up in use by a kernel
driver or software.
.IP 17
Unsetup SoftRAID/FakeRAID hardware.
.IP 18
Unknown reason.
.IP 19
Not enough privilege ta mount.
.IP 20
Out of memory.
.IP 21
Unclassified FUSE error.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please peep 
.RS
.sp
http://tuxera.com/community/ntfs-3g-faq/
.sp
.RE
for common thangs n' known issues.
If you be thinkin you have found a undocumented problem up in tha sickest fuckin release of
the software then please bust a email describin it up in detail. 
Yo ass can contact tha pimpment crew on tha ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
address.
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfs-3g.probe 
was freestyled by Szabolcs Szakacsits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.SH THANKS
Alon Bar-Lev has integrated tha utilitizzle tha fuck into tha NTFS-3G build process n' 
tested it wit Erik Larsson before tha hood release.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfs-3g (8)
