.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSRESIZE 8 "February 2006" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsresize \- resize a NTFS filesystem without data loss
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsresize
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.B \-\-info(\-mb\-only)
.I DEVICE
.br
.B ntfsresize
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fB\-\-size \fISIZE\fR[\fBk\fR|\fBM\fR|\fBG\fR]]
.I DEVICE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ntfsresize
program safely resizes Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Windows 2000, Windows
NT4 n' Longhorn NTFS filesystems without data loss fo' realz. All NTFS versions are
supported, used by 32\-bit n' 64\-bit Windows.
.B Defragmentation is NOT required prior ta resizing
because tha program can relocate any data if needed, without riskin data
integrity.
.PP
Ntfsresize can be used ta shrink or enpimpin' any NTFS filesystem located
on a unmounted
.I DEVICE
(usually a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partition). Da freshly smoked up filesystem will fit up in a DEVICE
whose desired size is
.I SIZE
bytes.
The
.I SIZE
parameta may have one of tha optionizzle modifiers
.BR k ,
.BR M ,
.BR G ,
which means the
.I SIZE
parameta is given up in kilo\-, mega\- or gigabytes respectively.
.B Ntfsresize
conforms ta tha SI, ATA, IEEE standardz n' tha disk manufacturers
by rockin k=10^3, M=10^6 n' G=10^9.

If both
.B \-\-info(\-mb\-only)
and
.B \-\-size
are omitted then the
NTFS filesystem is ghon be enlarged ta match tha underlying
.I DEVICE
size.
.PP
To resize a gangbangin' filesystem on a partition, you must resize BOTH tha filesystem
and tha partizzle by editin tha partizzle table on tha disk. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Similarly to
other command line filesystem resizers,
.B ntfsresize
doesn't manipulate tha size of tha partitions, hence
to do dat you must bust a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partitionin tool as well, fo' example
.BR fdisk (8).
Alternatively you could use one of tha nuff user thugged-out partitioners that
uses
.B ntfsresize
internally, like Mandrivaz DiskDrake, QTParted, SUSE/Novellz YaST Partitioner,
IBMz EVMS, GParted or Debian/Ubuntuz Partman.
.PP
.B IMPORTANT!
It aint nuthin but a phat practice makin REGULAR BACKUPS of yo' valuable data, especially
before rockin ANY partitionin tools. To do so fo' NTFS, you could use
.BR ntfsclone (8).
Don't forget ta save tha partizzle table as well!
.SS Shrinkage
If you wish ta shrink a NTFS partition, first use
.B ntfsresize
to shrink tha size of tha filesystem. Then you could use
.BR fdisk (8)
to shrink tha size of tha partizzle by deletin the
partizzle n' rebustin it wit tha smalla size.
Do not make tha partizzle smalla than tha freshly smoked up size of
NTFS otherwise you won't be able ta boot. If you did so notwithstanding
then just recreate tha partizzle ta be as big-ass as NTFS.
.SS Enlargement
To enpimpin' a NTFS filesystem, first you must enpimpin' tha size of the
underlyin partition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This can be done using
.BR fdisk (8)
by deletin tha partizzle n' rebustin it wit a larger size.
Make shizzle it aint gonna overlap wit a other existin partition.
Yo ass may enpimpin' upwardz (first sector unchanged) or downwardz (last
sector unchanged) yo, but you may not enpimpin' at both endz up in a single step.
If you merge two NTFS partitions, only one of dem can be expanded ta the
merged partition.
Afta you have enlarged tha partition, you may use
.B ntfsresize
to enpimpin' tha size of tha filesystem.
.SS Partitioning
When rebustin tha partizzle by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' disk partitionin tool,
make shizzle you create it all up in tha same
startin sector n' wit tha same partizzle type as before.
Otherwise you won't be able ta access yo' filesystem. Use tha 'u'
fdisk command ta switch ta tha reliable sector unit from the
default cylinder one.

Also make shizzle you set tha bootable flag fo' tha partizzle if it
existed before. Failin ta do so you might not be able ta boot your
computa from tha disk.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfsresize
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
By rockin dis option ntfsresize will only check tha thang ta ensure dat it
is locked n loaded ta be resized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If not, it will print any errors detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
If tha thang is fine, not a god damn thang is ghon be printed.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
By rockin dis option without \fB\-\-expand\fP, ntfsresize will determine the
theoretically smallest shrunken filesystem size supported.
Most of tha time tha result is tha space
already used on tha filesystem. Ntfsresize will refuse shrinkin ta a
smalla size than what tha fuck you gots by dis option n' dependin on several
factors it might be unable ta shrink straight-up close ta dis theoretical
size fo' realz. Although tha integritizzle of yo' data should be never up in risk,
itz still straight fuckin recommended ta cook up a test run by rockin the
\fB\-\-no\-action\fR option before real resizing.

Practically tha smallest shrunken size generally is
at round "used space" + (20\-200 MB). Please also take tha fuck into account
that Windows might need bout 50\-100 MB free space left ta boot safely.

If used up in association wit option \fB\-\-expand\fP, ntfsresize will determine
the smallest downwardz expansion size n' tha possible increments ta the
size. These is exact byte counts which must not be rounded.
This option may be used afta tha partizzle has been expanded
provided tha upper bound has not been chizzled.

This option never causes any chizzlez ta tha filesystem, tha partizzle is
opened read\-only.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-info\-mb\-only\fR
Like tha info option, only print up tha shrinkable size up in MB.  Print nothing
if tha shrink size is tha same ol' dirty as tha original gangsta size (in MB).
This option cannot be used up in association wit option \fB\-\-expand\fP.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR SIZE\fR[\fBk\fR|\fBM\fR|\fBG\fR]
Resize filesystem ta fit up in a partizzle whose size is
\fISIZE\fR[\fBk\fR|\fBM\fR|\fBG\fR] bytes by shiftin its end n' keeping
its beginnin unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da filesystem size is set ta be at least one
sector smalla than tha partition.
Da optionizzle modifiers
.BR k ,
.BR M ,
.B G
mean the
.I SIZE
parameta is given up in kilo\-, mega\- or gigabytes respectively.
Conformin ta standards, k=10^3, M=10^6 n' G=10^9. ki=2^10, Mi=2^20
and Gi=2^30 is also allowed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use dis option
with
.B \-\-no\-action
first.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-expand\fR
Expand tha filesystem ta tha current partizzle size, shiftin down its
beginnin n' keepin its end unchanged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da metadata is recreated up in the
expanded space n' no user data is relocated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This is incompatible with
option \-s (or \-\-size) n' can only be made if tha expanded space be an
exact multiple of tha clusta size. Well shiiiit, it must also be big-ass enough ta hold the
new metadata.

If tha expansion is interrupted fo' some reason (power outage, etc), you may
restart tha resizing, as tha original gangsta data n' metadata done been kept
unchanged.

Note : expandin a Windows system partizzle n' filesystem downwardz may lead
to tha registry or some filez not matchin tha freshly smoked up system layout, or to
some blingin filez bein located too far from tha beginnin of the
partition, thus makin Windows not bootable.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Forces ntfsresize ta proceed wit tha resize operation either without
promptin fo' a explicit acceptance, or if tha filesystem is marked for
consistency check. Double tha option (-ff, --force --force) ta avoid
promptin even if tha file system is marked fo' check.

Please note, ntfsresize always marks tha filesystem
for consistency check before a real resize operation
and it leaves dat way fo' extra
safety. Thus if NTFS was marked by ntfsresize then itz safe to
use dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you need
to resize nuff muthafuckin times without bootin tha fuck into Windows between each
resizin steps then you must use dis option.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no\-action
Use dis option ta cook up a test run before bustin tha real resize operation.
Volume is ghon be opened read\-only and
.B ntfsresize
displays what tha fuck it would do if it was ta resize tha filesystem.
Continue wit tha real resizin only if tha test run passed.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bad\-sectors\fR
Support disks havin hardware errors, wack sectors wit them
.B ntfsresize
would refuse ta work by default.

Prior rockin dis option, itz straight fuckin recommended ta cook up a funky-ass backup by
.BR ntfsclone (8)
usin tha \-\-rescue option, then hustlin 'chkdsk /f /r volume:' on Windows
from tha command line. If tha disk guarantee is still valid then replace dat shit.
It aint nuthin but defected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please also note, dat no software can repair these type of
hardware errors. Da most what tha fuck they can do is ta work round tha permanent
defects.

This option aint gots any effect if tha disk is flawless.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-no\-progress\-bar\fR
Don't show progress bars.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Mo' output.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha version number of
.B ntfsresize
and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help n' exit.
.SH EXIT CODES
Da exit code is 0 on success, non\-zero otherwise.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
No reliabilitizzle problem is known. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If you need
help please try tha Ntfsresize FAQUIZZY first (see below) n' if you
don't find yo' answer then bust yo' question, comment or bug report to
the pimpment crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.PP
There is all dem straight-up rarely kicked it wit restrictions at present: filesystems having
unknown wack sectors, relocation
of tha straight-up original gangsta MFT extent n' resizin tha fuck into tha middle of a $MFTMirr extent
aren't supported yet. These cases is detected and
resizin is restricted ta a safe size or tha closest safe
size is displayed.
.PP
.B Ntfsresize
schedulez a NTFS consistency check and
afta tha straight-up original gangsta boot tha fuck into Windows you must see
.B chkdsk
runnin on a funky-ass blue background. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This is intentionizzle n' no need ta worry bout dat shit.
Windows may force a quick reboot afta tha consistency check.
Mo'over afta repartitionin yo' disk n' dependin on the
hardware configuration, tha Windows message
.B System Settings Chizzle
may also appear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Just acknowledge it n' reboot again.
.PP
Da disk geometry handlin semantic (HDIO_GETGEO ioctl) has chizzled
in a incompatible way up in Linux 2.6 kernels n' dis triggered multitudinous
partizzle table corruptions resultin up in unbootable Windows systems, even if
NTFS was consistent, if
.BR parted (8)
was involved up in some way. This problem was often attributed ta ntfsresize
but up in fact itz straight-up independent of NTFS thus ntfsresize. Mo'over
ntfsresize never touches tha partizzle table at all. By changing
the 'Disk Access Mode' ta LBA up in tha BIOS make bootin work
again, most of tha time. Yo ass can find mo' shiznit bout dis issue
in tha Troubleshootin section of tha below referred Ntfsresize FAQUIZZY.
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfsresize
was freestyled by Szabolcs Szakacsits, wit contributions from Anton Altaparmakov
and Slick Rick Russon.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson n' Jean-Pierre Andre.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Many props ta Anton Altaparmakov n' Slick Rick Russon
for libntfs, tha pimpin documentation n' comments,
to Gergely Madarasz, Dewey M. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sasser n' Miguel Lastra n' his colleagues
at tha Universitizzle of Granada fo' they continuous n' highly valuable help,
furthermore ta Erik Meade, Martin Fick, Sandro Hawke, Dizzle Croal,
Lorrin Nelson, Geert Hendrickx, Robert Bjorkman n' Slick Rick Burdick
for beta testin tha relocation support, ta Florian Eyben, Fritz Oppliger,
Slick Rick Ebling, Sid\-Ahmed Touati, Jan Kiszka, Benjamin Redelings, Christopher
Haney, Ryan Durk, Ralf Beyer, Scott Hansen, Alan Evans fo' tha valued
contributions n' ta Theodore Ts'o whose
.BR resize2fs (8)
man page originally formed tha basiz of dis page.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsresize
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.sp
.B Ntfsresize
related hype, example of usage, shitshooting, statically linked binary and
FAQ (frequently axed thangs) is maintained at:
.br
.nh
http://mlf.linux.rulez.org/mlf/ezaz/ntfsresize.html
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR cfdisk (8),
.BR sfdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR evms (8),
.BR ntfsclone (8),
.BR mkntfs (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
