.\" Copyright (c) 2003\-2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSCLUSTER 8 "November 2005" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsclusta \- identify filez up in a specified region of a NTFS volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfscluster
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfscluster
has three modez of operation:
.IR info ,
.I sector
and
.IR clusta .
.SS Info
.PP
Da default mode,
.I info
is currently not implemented. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  It will display general shiznit bout the
NTFS volume when it is working.
.SS Sector
.PP
The
.I sector
mode will display a list of filez dat have data up in tha specified range of
sectors.
.SS Cluster
The
.I cluster
mode will display a list of filez dat have data up in tha specified range of
clusters.  When tha clusta size is one sector, dis is ghon be equivalent ta the
.I sector
mode of operation.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfscluster
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cluster\fR RANGE
Any filez whose data is up in dis range of clustas is ghon be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-filename\fR NAME
Show shiznit bout dis file.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not hustlin wit a mounted
volume.  Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR NUM
Show shiznit bout dis inode.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
This option aint yet implemented.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Reduce tha amount of output ta a minimum.  Naturally, it don't make sense to
combine dis option with
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sector\fR RANGE
Any filez whose data is up in dis range of sectors is ghon be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase tha amount of output that
.B ntfscluster
prints.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license for
.BR ntfsclusta .
.SH EXAMPLES
Git some shiznit bout tha volume /dev/hda1.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsclusta /dev/hda1
.sp
.RE
Look fo' filez up in tha straight-up original gangsta 500 clustaz of /dev/hda1.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsclusta \-c 0\-500 /dev/hda1
.sp
.RE
.SH BUGS
The
.I info
mode aint implemented yet.
.B ntfscluster
is like limited yo, but it has no known bugs.  If you find a funky-ass bug please bust an
email describin tha problem ta tha pimpment crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfscluster
was freestyled by Slick Rick Russon, wit contributions from Anton Altaparmakov.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfscluster
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsinfo (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
