.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSUNDELETE 8 "November 2005" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsundelete \- recover a thugged-out deleted file from a NTFS volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsundelete
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsundelete
has three modez of operation:
.IR scan ,
.I undelete
and
.IR copy .
.SS Scan
.PP
Da default mode,
.I scan
simply readz a NTFS Volume n' looks fo' filez dat done been deleted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Then it
will print a list givin tha inode number, name n' size.
.SS Undelete
.PP
The
.I undelete
mode takes tha filez either matchin tha regular expression (option \-m)
or  specified by tha inode\-expressions n' recovers as much of tha data
as possible.   It saves tha result ta another location. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Partly for
safety yo, but mostly cuz NTFS write support aint finished.
.SS Copy
.PP
This be a wizzlez option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It will save a portion of tha MFT ta a gangbangin' file.  This
probably only be useful when debugging
.I ntfsundelete
.SS Notes
.B ntfsundelete
only ever
.B reads
from tha NTFS Volume.
.B ntfsundelete
will never chizzle tha volume.
.SH CAVEATS
.SS Miracles
.B ntfsundelete
cannot big-ass up tha impossible.
.PP
When a gangbangin' file is deleted tha MFT Record is marked as not up in use n' tha bitmap
representin tha disk usage is updated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If tha juice aint turned off
immediately, tha free space, where tha file used ta live, may become
overwritten. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Worse, tha MFT Record may be reused fo' another file.  If this
happens it is impossible ta tell where tha file was on disk.
.PP
Even if all tha clustaz of a gangbangin' file is not up in use, there is no guarantee that
they aint been overwritten by some short\-lived file.
.SS Locale
In NTFS all tha filenames is stored as Unicode.  They is ghon be converted into
the current locale fo' display by
.BR ntfsundelete .
Da utilitizzle has successfully displayed some Chinese pictogram filenames n' then
correctly recovered em.
.SS Extended MFT Records
In rare circumstances, a single MFT Record aint gonna be big-ass enough ta hold the
metadata describin a gangbangin' file (a file would gotta be up in hundredz of fragments
for dis ta happen).  In these cases one MFT record may hold tha filename yo, but
another will hold tha shiznit bout tha data.
.B ntfsundelete
will not try n' piece together such records.  It will simply show unnamed files
with data.
.SS Compressed n' Encrypted Files
.B ntfsundelete
cannot recover compressed or encrypted files.  When scannin fo' them, it will
display as bein 0% recoverable.
.SS Da Recovered Filez Size n' Date
To recover a gangbangin' file
.B ntfsundelete
has ta read tha filez metadata.  Unfortunately, dis aint always intact.
When a gangbangin' file is deleted, tha metadata can be left up in a inconsistent state. e.g.
the file size may be zero; tha datez of tha file may be set ta tha time it was
deleted, or random.
.br
To be safe
.B ntfsundelete
will pick tha phattest file size it findz n' write dat ta disk.  It will also
try n' set tha filez date ta tha last modified date.  This date may be the
correct last modified date, or suttin' unexpected.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfsundelete
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-byte\fR NUM
If any clustaz of tha file cannot be recovered, tha missin parts will be
filled wit dis byte.  Da default is zeros.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-case\fR
When scannin a NTFS volume, any filename matchin (usin the
.B \-\-match
option) is case\-insensitive.  This option make tha matchin case\-sensitive.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-copy\fR RANGE
This wizzlez option will write a funky-ass block of MFT FILE recordz ta a gangbangin' file.  The
default file is
.I mft
which is ghon be pimped up in tha current directory.  This option can be combined
with the
.B \-\-output
and
.B \-\-destination
options.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-destination\fR DIR
This option controls where ta put tha output file of the
.B \-\-undelete
and
.B \-\-copy
options.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not overwritin a existing
file.  Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inodes\fR RANGE
Recover tha filez wit these inode numbers.
.I RANGE
can be a single inode number, nuff muthafuckin numbers separated by commas "," or a
range separated by a thugged-out dash "\-".
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-match\fR PATTERN
Filta tha output by only lookin fo' matchin filenames.  Da pattern can
include tha wildcardz '?', match exactly one characta or '*', match zero or
more characters.  By default tha matchin is case\-insensitive.  To make the
search case sensitive, use the
.B \-\-case
option.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-optimistic\fR
Recover partz of tha file even if they is currently marked as up in use.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR FILE
Use dis option ta set name of output file that
.B \-\-undelete
or
.B \-\-copy
will create.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parent\fR
Display tha parent directory of a thugged-out deleted file.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-percentage\fR NUM
Filta tha output of the
.B \-\-scan
option, by only matchin filez wit a cold-ass lil certain amount of recoverable content.
.B Please read tha caveats section fo' mo' details.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Reduce tha amount of output ta a minimum.  Naturally, it don't make sense to
combine dis option with
.BR \-\-scan .
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-scan\fR
Search all up in a NTFS volume n' print a list of filez dat could be recovered.
This is tha default action of
.BR ntfsundelete .
This list can be filtered by filename, size, cementage recoverable or last
modification time, rockin the
.BR \-\-match ,
.BR \-\-size ,
.B \-\-percent
and
.B \-\-time
options, respectively.
.sp
Da output of scan will be:
.sp
.nf
Inode  Flags  %age     Date    Time    Size  Filename
 6038  FN..    93%  2002\-07\-17 13:42  26629  thesis.doc
.fi
.TS
box;
lB lB
l l.
Flag	Description
F/D	File/Directory
N/R	(Non\-)Resident data stream
C/E	Compressed/Encrypted data stream
!	Missin attributes
.TE
.sp
.sp
Da cementage field shows how tha fuck much of tha file can potentially be recovered.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR RANGE
Filta tha output of the
.B \-\-scan
option, by lookin fo' a particular range of file sizes.  Da range may be
specified as two numbers separated by a '\-'.  Da sizes may be abbreviated
usin tha suffixes k, m, g, t, fo' kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes n' terabytes
respectively.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR SINCE
Filta tha output of the
.B \-\-scan
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Only match filez dat done been altered since dis time.  Da time must
be given as number rockin a suffix of d, w, m, y fo' days, weeks, months or years
ago.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-truncate\fR
If
.B ntfsundelete
is Kool & Tha Gang bout tha size of a thugged-out deleted file, then it will restore tha file to
exactly dat size.  Da default behaviour is ta round up tha size ta tha nearest
clusta (which is ghon be a multiple of 512 bytes).
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-undelete\fR
Select
.B undelete
mode.  Yo ass can specify tha filez ta be recovered rockin by using
.B \-\-match
or
.B \-\-inodes
options.  This option can be combined with
.BR \-\-output ,
.BR \-\-destination ,
and
.BR \-\-byte .
.sp
When tha file is recovered it is ghon be given its original gangsta name, unless the
.B \-\-output
option is used.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase tha amount of output that
.B ntfsundelete
prints.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license for
.BR ntfsundelete .
.SH EXAMPLES
Look fo' deleted filez on /dev/hda1.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1
.sp
.RE
Look fo' deleted documents on /dev/hda1.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1 \-s \-m '*.doc'
.sp
.RE
Look fo' deleted filez between 5000 n' 6000000 bytes, wit at least 90% of the
data recoverable, on /dev/hda1.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1 \-S 5k\-6m \-p 90
.sp
.RE
Look fo' deleted filez altered up in tha last two days
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1 \-t 2d
.sp
.RE
Undelete inodes 2, 5 n' 100 ta 131 of thang /dev/sda1
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/sda1 \-u \-i 2,5,100\-131
.sp
.RE
Undelete inode number 3689, call tha file 'work.doc', set it ta recovered
size n' put it up in tha userz home directory.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1 \-u \-T \-i 3689 \-o work.doc \-d ~
.sp
.RE
Save MFT Recordz 3689 ta 3690 ta a gangbangin' file 'debug'
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsundelete /dev/hda1 \-c 3689\-3690 \-o debug
.sp
.RE
.SH BUGS
There is some lil' small-ass limitations to
.BR ntfsundelete ,
but currently no known bugs.  If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describing
the problem ta tha pimpment crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfsundelete
was freestyled by Slick Rick Russon n' Holger Ohmacht, wit contributions from Anton
Altaparmakov.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson n' Jean-Pierre Andre.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsundelete
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsinfo (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
