.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2004 Anton Altaparmakov.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSINFO 8 "April 2006" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsinfo \- dump a gangbangin' filez attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsinfo
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsinfo
will dump tha attributez of inode
.I inode\-number
or tha file
.I path\-filename
and/or shiznit bout tha mft (
.I \-m
option).
Run ntfsinfo without arguments fo' a gangbangin' full list of options.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfsinfo
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR FILE
Show shiznit bout dis file
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not overwritin a existing
file.  Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR NUM
Show shiznit bout dis inode.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mft\fR
Show shiznit bout tha volume.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Produce less output.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-notime\fR
Do not display timestamps up in tha output.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase tha amount of output that
.B ntfsinfo
prints.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license.
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems with
.BR ntfsinfo .
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfsinfo
was freestyled by Matthew J. Fanto, Anton Altaparmakov, Slick Rick Russon, Szabolcs
Szakacsits, Yuval Fledel, Yura Pakhuchiy n' Cristian Klein.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson n' Jean-Pierre Andre.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsinfo
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
