.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2004 Anton Altaparmakov.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSLABEL 8 "November 2005" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfslabel \- display/change tha label on a ntfs file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfslabel
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice \fR[\fInew\-label\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfslabel
will display or chizzle tha file system label on tha ntfs file system located on
.IR thang .
It can also chizzle tha serial number of the
.IR thang .
.PP
If tha optionizzle argument
.I new\-label
is not present, n' no option is present,
.B ntfslabel
will simply display tha current file system label.
.PP
If tha optionizzle argument
.I new\-label
is present, then
.B ntfslabel
will set tha file system label ta be
.IR new\-label .
NTFS file system labels can be at most 128 Unicode charactas long; if
.I new\-label
is longer than 128 Unicode characters,
.B ntfslabel
will truncate it n' print a warnin message.
.PP
It be also possible ta set tha file system label rockin the
.B \-L
option of
.BR mkntfs (8)
durin creation of tha file system.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfslabel
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not hustlin wit a mounted
volume.  Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-serial\fR[\fI=ssssssssssssssss\fR], or
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-half\-serial\fR[\fI=ssssssss\fR]
Set a freshly smoked up serial number ta tha device, either tha argument value, or a random
one if no argument is given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da serial number be a 64 bit number,
represented as a sixteen-digit hexadecimal number, used ta identify the
device durin tha mountin process fo' realz. As a cold-ass lil consequence, two devices wit the
same serial number cannot be mounted all up in tha same time on tha same computer.
This aint tha volume UUID used by Windows ta locate filez which have been
moved ta another volume.

Da option \-\-new\-half\-serial only chizzlez tha upper part of tha serial
number, keepin tha lower part which is used by Windows unchanged.
In dis case tha optionizzle argument be a eight-digit hexadecimal number.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-action\fR
Don't straight-up write ta disk.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Reduce tha amount of output ta a minimum.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase tha amount of output that
.B ntfslabel
prints, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da label n' tha serial number is displayed.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license for
.BR ntfslabel .
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems with
.BR ntfslabel .
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfslabel
was freestyled by Matthew J. Fanto, wit contributions from Anton Altaparmakov and
Slick Rick Russon.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfslabel
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkntfs (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
