.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Anton Altaparmakov.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSLS 8 "November 2005" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsls \- list directory contents on a NTFS filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsls
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.sp
.B ntfsls
[
.B \-a
|
.B \-\-all
]
[
.B \-F
|
.B \-\-classify
]
[
.B \-f
|
.B \-\-force
]
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help
]
[
.B \-i
|
.B \-\-inode
]
[
.B \-l
|
.B \-\-long
]
[
.B \-p
|
.B \-\-path
.I PATH
]
[
.B \-q
|
.B \-\-quiet
]
[
.B \-s
|
.B \-\-system
]
[
.B \-V
|
.B \-\-version
]
[
.B \-v
|
.B \-\-verbose
]
[
.B \-x
|
.B \-\-dos
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsls
is used ta list shiznit bout tha filez specified by the
.I PATH
option (the root directory by default).
.I DEVICE
is tha special file correspondin ta tha thang (e.g
.IR /dev/hdXX )
or a NTFS image file.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfsls
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display all files.  If dis option aint specified file names up in tha POSIX
namespace aint gonna be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-classify\fR
Append indicator (one of */=@|) ta entries.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force execution. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example necessary ta run on a NTFS partizzle stored in
a aiiight file.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print tha usage shiznit of
.B ntfsls
and exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR
Print inode number of each file.  This is tha MFT reference number up in NTFS
terminology.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Use a long-ass listin format.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-path\fR PATH
Da directory whose contents ta list or tha file (includin tha path) about
which ta display shiznit.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress some debug/warning/error lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
Show tha contentz of all directories beneath tha specified directory.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-system\fR
Unless dis options is specified, all filez beginnin wit a thugged-out dollar sign
characta aint gonna be listed as these filez is probably system files.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display mo' debug/warning/error lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print tha version number of
.B ntfsls
and exit.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-dos\fR
Display short file names, i.e. filez up in tha DOS namespace, instead of long
file names, i.e. filez up in tha WIN32 namespace.
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems with
.BR ntfsls .
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
This version of
.B ntfsls
was freestyled by Lode Leroy, Anton Altaparmakov, Slick Rick Russon, Carmelo Kintana
and Giang Nguyen.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsls
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
