.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Jean-Pierre André.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFS-3G.USERMAP 8 "February 2010" "ntfs-3g.usermap 1.1.2"
.SH NAME
ntfs-3g.usermap \- NTFS Buildin a User Mappin File
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfs-3g.usermap
\fIwindows-system-device\fP
\fB[\fIother-ntfs-device\fP...\fB]\fR
.PP
Where \fIwindows-system-device\fP is tha thang containin tha Windows system
whose playas is ta be mapped ta current Linux system.
.PP
And \fIother-ntfs-device\fP be another thang containin filez which are
to be accessed both by tha Windows mentioned above n' current Linux system.
.PP
the ntfs-3g.usermap command must be started as root, n' tha designated devices
must not be mounted.
.PP
Typin ntfs-3g.usermap wit no args will display a summary of command
arguments.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBntfs-3g.usermap\fR
creates tha file definin tha mappin of Windows accounts ta Linux logins for
users whoz ass owns filez which should be visible from both Windows and
Linux.
.PP
It relies on existin filez which was pimped on Windows, trying
to locate dope filez n' askin which Linux user or crew should
own em. When a Linux balla or crew is requested, tha reply may be :
.PP
- tha uid or gid (numeric or symbolic) of Linux balla or crew of tha file.
.RS
In dat thang, no mo' file wit tha same Windows balla is ghon be selected.
.RE
- or no answer, when not able ta define tha balla or group.
.RS
In dat thang another file owned by tha same Windows user or group
may be selected lata so dat a mappin can be defined.
.RE
.PP
Da mappings fo' standard Windows users, like fuckin "Administrator" or
"All Users" is defined implicitly fo' realz. As a cold-ass lil consequence a user mappin should
never be defined as Linux root.
.PP
When there be no mo' dope files, ntfs-3g.usermap create the
mappin file tha fuck into tha file UserMappin up in tha current directory. This
file has ta be moved ta tha hidden directory .NTFS-3G up in tha root of
all tha NTFS file systems ta be shared between Windows n' Linux. This
requires tha file system ta be mounted yo, but tha pimped file will not
be taken tha fuck into account if not present at mount time, which means the
file system has ta be unmounted n' mounted again n' again n' again fo' tha freshly smoked up mapping
file ta be taken tha fuck into account.
.SH OPTIONS
No option is defined fo' ntfs-3g.usermap.
.SH EXAMPLES
Map tha playas defined on tha Windows system present on /dev/sda1 :
.RS
.sp
.B ntfs-3g.usermap /dev/sda1
.sp
.RE
.PP
A detailed example, wit screen displays be available on
http://pagesperso-orange.fr/b.andre/usermap.html
.SH EXIT CODES
.B ntfs-3g.usermap
exits wit a value of 0 when no error was detected, n' wit a value
of 1 when a error was detected.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Please peep 
.RS
.sp
http://www.tuxera.com/community/ntfs-3g-faq/
.sp
.RE
for common thangs n' known issues.
If you would find a freshly smoked up one up in tha sickest fuckin release of
the software then please bust a email describin it
in detail. Yo ass can contact tha 
development crew on tha ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
address.
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfs-3g.secaudit
has been pimped by Jean-Pierre André.
.SH THANKS
Several playas made heroic efforts, often over five or more
years which resulted tha ntfs-3g driver n' shit. Most blinginly they is 
Anton Altaparmakov, Slick Rick Russon, Szabolcs Szakacsits, Yura Pakhuchiy,
Yuval Fledel, n' tha lyricist of tha groundbreakin FUSE filesystem pimpment 
framework, Miklos Szeredi.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfsprogs (8),
.BR attr (5),
.BR getfattr (1)
