.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002\-2003 Anton Altaparmakov.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005\-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005\-2007 Yura Pakhuchiy.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSPROGS 8 "September 2007" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfsprogs \- tools fo' bustin neat thangs wit NTFS
.SH OVERVIEW
.B ntfsprogs
is a suite of NTFS utilitizzles based round a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared library.  Da tools are
available fo' free n' come wit full source code.
.SH TOOLS
.PP
.BR mkntfs (8)
\- Smoke a NTFS filesystem.
.PP
.BR ntfscat (8)
\- Dump a gangbangin' filez content ta tha standard output.
.PP
.BR ntfsclone (8)
\- Efficiently clone, backup, restore or rescue NTFS.
.PP
.BR ntfsclusta (8)
\- Locate tha filez which use tha given sectors or clusters.
.PP
.BR ntfscmp (8)
\- Compare two NTFS filesystems n' tell tha differences.
.PP
.BR ntfscp (8)
\- Copy a gangbangin' file ta a NTFS volume.
.PP
.BR ntfsfix (8)
\- Peep n' fix some common errors, clear tha LogFile n' make Windows
perform a thorough check next time it boots.
.PP
.BR ntfsinfo (8)
\- Show shiznit bout NTFS or one of tha filez or directories within dat shit.
.PP
.BR ntfslabel (8)
\- Show, or set, a NTFS filesystemz volume label.
.PP
.BR ntfsls (8)
\- List shiznit bout filez up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory residin on a NTFS.
.PP
.BR ntfsresize (8)
\- Resize NTFS without losin data.
.PP
.BR ntfsundelete (8)
\- Recover deleted filez from NTFS.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Da tools was freestyled by Anton Altaparmakov, Carmelo Kintana, Cristian Klein,
Erik Sornes, Giang Nguyen, Holger Ohmacht, Lode Leroy, Matthew J. Fanto, Per
Olofsson, Slick Rick Russon, Szabolcs Szakacsits, Yura Pakhuchiy n' Yuval Fledel.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B ntfsprogs
are part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package which can be downloaded from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ntfs\-3g (8)

