.\" Copyright (c) 2003\-2005 Slick Rick Russon.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH NTFSCAT 8 "September 2007" "ntfs-3g 2014.2.15"
.SH NAME
ntfscat \- print NTFS filez n' streams on tha standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice \fR[\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfscat
will read a gangbangin' file or stream from a NTFS volume n' display tha contents
on tha standard output.
.PP
Da case of tha filename passed to
.B ntfscat
is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
Below be a summary of all tha options that
.B ntfscat
accepts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  Da short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and tha long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letta options, dat don't take a argument, can be combined tha fuck into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated ta any unique prefix of they name.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-attribute\fR TYPE
Display tha contentz of a particular attribute type.  By default, tha unnamed
$DATA attribute is ghon be shown. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da attribute can be specified by a number
in decimal or hexadecimal, or by name.
.TS
box;
lB lB lB
l l l.
Hex	Decimal	Name
0x10	16	"$STANDARD_INFORMATION"
0x20	32	"$ATTRIBUTE_LIST"
0x30	48	"$FILE_NAME"
0x40	64	"$OBJECT_ID"
0x50	80	"$SECURITY_DESCRIPTOR"
0x60	96	"$VOLUME_NAME"
0x70	112	"$VOLUME_INFORMATION"
0x80	128	"$DATA"
0x90	144	"$INDEX_ROOT"
0xA0	160	"$INDEX_ALLOCATION"
0xB0	176	"$BITMAP"
0xC0	192	"$REPARSE_POINT"
0xD0	208	"$EA_INFORMATION"
0xE0	224	"$EA"
0xF0	240	"$PROPERTY_SET"
0x100	256	"$LOGGED_UTILITY_STREAM"
.TE
.sp
.sp
.B Notes
Da attribute names may be given without tha leadin $ symbol.
.br
If you use tha $ symbol, you must quote tha name ta prevent tha shell
interpretin tha name.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-attribute\-name\fR NAME
Display dis named attribute, stream.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR NUM
Specify a gangbangin' file by its inode number instead of its name.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults, like fuckin not rockin a mounted volume.
Use dis option wit caution.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options wit a funky-ass brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress some debug/warning/error lyrics.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show tha version number, copyright n' license
.BR ntfscat .
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display mo' debug/warning/error lyrics.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display tha contentz of a gangbangin' file up in tha root of a NTFS volume.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfscat /dev/hda1 boot.ini
.sp
.RE
Display tha contentz of a gangbangin' file up in a subdirectory of a NTFS volume.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfscat /dev/hda1 /winnt/system32/drivers/etc/hosts
.sp
.RE
Display tha contentz of tha $INDEX_ROOT attribute of tha root directory (inode
5).
.RS
.sp
.B ntfscat /dev/hda1 \-a INDEX_ROOT \-i 5 | hexdump \-C
.sp
.RE
.SH BUGS
There is no known problems with
.BR ntfscat .
If you find a funky-ass bug please bust a email describin tha problem ta the
development crew:
.br
.nh
ntfs\-3g\-devel@lists.sf.net
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B ntfscat
was freestyled by Slick Rick Russon, Anton Altaparmakov n' Szabolcs Szakacsits.
Dat shiznit was ported ta ntfs-3g by Erik Larsson.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfscat
is part of the
.B ntfs-3g
package n' be available from:
.br
.nh
http://www.tuxera.com/community/
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
Read \fBlibntfs\fR(8) fo' details how tha fuck ta access encrypted files.
.sp
.BR libntfs (8),
.BR ntfsls (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)
