.TH ntpd 8
.SH NAME
ntpd - Network Time Protocol (NTP) daemon
.SH \ 

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBntpd [ -46aAbdDgLmnNqx ] [ -c \fIconffile\fB ] [ -f \fIdriftfile\fB ] [ -i \fIjaildir\fB ] [ -I \fIiface\fB ] [ -k \fIkeyfile\fB ] [ -l \fIlogfile\fB ] [ -p \fIpidfile\fB ] [ -P \fIpriority\fB ] [ -r \fIbroadcastdelay\fB ] [ -s \fIstatsdir\fB ] [ -t \fIkey\fB ] [ -u \fIuser\fB[:\fIgroup\fB] ] [ -U \fIinterface_update_interval\fB ] [ -v \fIvariable\fB ] [ -V \fIvariable\fB ]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fBntpd\fR program be a operatin system daemon dat synchronises tha system clock wit remote NTP time servers or local reference clocks. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a cold-ass lil complete implementation of tha Network Time Protocol (NTP) version 4 yo, but also retains compatibilitizzle wit version 3, as defined by RFC-1305, n' version 1 n' 2, as defined by RFC-1059 n' RFC-1119, respectively. Da program can operate up in any of nuff muthafuckin modes, as busted lyrics bout on tha Association Management page, n' wit both symmetric key n' hood key cryptography, as busted lyrics bout on tha Authentication Options page.

Da \fBntpd\fR program ordinarily requires a cold-ass lil configuration file as desccribe on tha Configuration Commandz n' Options collection above yo. However a cold-ass lil client can discover remote servers n' configure dem automatically. This make it possible ta deploy a gangbangin' fleet of workstations without specifyin configuration details specific ta tha local environment. Further details is on tha Automatic Server Discovery page.

Once tha NTP software distribution has been compiled n' installed n' tha configuration file constructed, tha next step is ta verify erect operation n' fix any bugs dat may result. Usually, tha command line dat starts tha daemon is included up in tha system startup file, so it is executed only at system boot time; however, tha daemon can be stopped n' restarted from root at any time. Once started, tha daemon will begin bustin  n' receivin lyrics, as specified up in tha configuration file.

.SH SETTING THE TIME AND FREQUENCY

Da \fBntpd\fR program operates by exchangin lyrics wit one or mo' servers at designated intervals rangin from bout one minute ta bout 17 minutes. When started, tha program requires nuff muthafuckin exchanges while tha algorithms accumulate n' groom tha data before settin tha clock. Da initial delay ta set tha clock can be reduced rockin options on tha Server Options page.

Most comptas todizzle incorporate a time-of-year (TOY) chip ta maintain tha time durin periodz when tha juice is off. When tha machine is booted, tha chip is used ta initialize tha operatin system time. In case there is no TOY chip or tha TOY time is mo' than 1000 s from tha server time, \fBntpd\fR assumes suttin' must be terribly wack n' exits wit a panic message ta tha system operator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. With tha \fB-g\fR option tha clock is ghon be initially set ta tha server time regardless of tha chip time. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat once tha clock has been set, a error pimped outa than 1000 s will cause \fBntpd\fR ta exit anyway.

Under ordinary conditions, \fBntpd\fR slews tha clock so dat tha time is effectively continuous n' never runs backwards. If cuz of off tha hook network congestion a error spike exceedz tha \fIstep threshold\fR, by default 128 ms, tha spike is discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if tha error persists fo' mo' than tha \fIstepout threshold\fR, by default 900 s, tha system clock is stepped ta tha erect value. In practice tha need fo' a step has is mad rare n' almost always tha result of a hardware failure. With tha \fB-x\fR option tha step threshold is increased ta 600 s. Other options is available rockin tha \fBtinker\fR command on tha Miscellaneous Options page.

Da thangs should be carefully considered before rockin these options. Da maximum slew rate possible is limited ta 500 parts-per-mazillion (PPM) by tha Unix kernel fo' realz. As a result, tha clock can take 2000 s fo' each second tha clock is outside tha aaight range. Durin dis interval tha clock aint gonna be consistent wit any other network clock n' tha system cannot be used fo' distributed applications dat require erectly synchronized network time.

Da frequency file, probably called \fBntp.drift\fR, gotz nuff tha sickest fuckin estimate of clock frequency. If dis file do not exist when \fBntpd\fR is started, it entas a special mode designed ta measure tha particular frequency directly. Da measurement takes 15 minutes, afta which tha frequency is set n' \fBntpd\fR resumes aiiight mode where tha time n' frequency is continuously adjusted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da frequency file is updated at intervalz of a minute or mo' dependin on tha measured clock stability.

.SH OPERATING MODES

Da \fBntpd\fR program normally operates continuously while adjustin tha time n' frequency yo, but up in some cases it may not be practical ta run it continuously. With tha \fB-q\fR option \fBntpd\fR operates as up in continous mode yo, but exits just afta settin tha clock fo' tha last time wit tha configured servers. Most applications will probably wanna specify tha \fBiburst\fR option wit tha \fBserver\fR command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With dis option a volley of lyrics is exchanged ta groom tha data n' set tha clock up in bout 10 s. If not a god damn thang is heard afta all dem minutes, tha daemon times up n' exits.

.SH POLL INTERVAL CONTROL

NTP uses a intricate heuristic algorithm ta automatically control tha poll interval fo' maximum accuracy consistent wit minimum network overhead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da algorithm measures tha incidental offset n' jitta ta determine tha dopest poll interval. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. When \fBntpd\fR starts, tha interval is tha default minimum 64 s. Under aiiight conditions when tha clock discipline has stabilized, tha interval increases up in steps ta tha default maximum 1024 s. In addition, should a server become unreachable afta some time, tha interval increases up in steps ta tha maximum up in order ta reduce network overhead.

Da default poll interval range is suitable fo' most conditions yo, but can be chizzled rockin options on tha Server Options n' Miscellaneous Options pages. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat when rockin maximum intervals much larger than tha default, tha residual clock frequency error must be lil' small-ass enough fo' tha discipline loop ta capture n' erect. Da capture range is 500 PPM wit a 64-s interval decreasin by a gangbangin' factor of two fo' each interval doublin fo' realz. At a 36-hr interval, fo' example, tha capture range is only 0.24 PPM.

.SH THE HUFF-N'-PUFF FILTER

In scenarios where a cold-ass lil considerable amount of data is ta be downloaded or uploaded over telephone modems, timekeepin qualitizzle can be seriously degraded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This occurs cuz tha differential delays on tha two directionz of transmission can be like large. In nuff cases tha apparent time errors is so big-ass as ta exceed tha step threshold n' a step erection can occur durin n' afta tha data transfer.

Da huff-n'-puff filta is designed ta erect tha apparent time offset up in these cases. Well shiiiit, it dependz on knowledge of tha propagation delay when no other traffic is present, like fuckin durin other than work hours. Da filta rethugz tha minimum delay over da most thugged-out recent interval measured probably up in hours. Under conditionz of severe delay, tha filta erects tha apparent offset rockin tha sign of tha offset n' tha difference between tha apparent delay n' minimum delay. Da name of tha filta reflects tha wack (huff) n' positizzle (puff) erection, which dependz on tha sign of tha offset. Da filta be activated by tha \fBtinker huffpuff\fR command, as busted lyrics bout up in tha Miscellaneous Options page.

.SH LEAP SECOND PROCESSING

As provided by internationistic agreement, a extra second is sometimes banged up in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) all up in tha end of a selected month, probably June or December n' shit. Da Nationizzle Institutez of Standardz n' Technologizzle (NIST) serves up a phat leapsecondz file at \fBtime.nist.gov\fR fo' retrieval via FTP. When dis file, probably called \fBntp-leapseconds.list\fR, is copied n' installed up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory. Da \fBleapfile\fR configuration command specifies tha path ta dis file fo' realz. At startup, \fBntpd\fR readz it n' initializes three leapsecond joints: tha NTP secondz all up in tha next leap event, tha offset of UTC relatizzle ta Internationistic Atomic Time (TAI) afta tha leap n' tha NTP secondz when tha leapsecondz file expires n' should be retrieved again.

If a host aint gots tha leapsecond joints, they can be obtained over tha net rockin tha Autokey securitizzle protocol. Ordinarily, tha leapsecondz file is installed on tha primary servers n' tha joints flow from dem via secondary servers ta tha clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. When multiple servers is involved, tha joints wit tha sickest fuckin expiration time is used.

If tha sickest fuckin leap is up in tha past, not a god damn thang further is done other than ta install tha TAI offset. If tha leap is up in tha future less than 28 days, tha leap warnin bits is set. If up in tha future less than 23 hours, tha kernel be armed ta bang one second all up in tha end of tha current day. It make me wanna hollar playa! If tha kernel is enabled, tha leap is done automatically at dat time; otherwise, tha clock is effectively stopped fo' one second all up in tha leap fo' realz. Additionizzle details is up in tha Da NTP Timescale n' Leap Secondz white paper

If none of tha above provisions is available, dsependent servers n' clients tally tha leap warnin bitz of survivin servers n' reference clocks. When a majoritizzle of tha survivors show warning, a leap is programmed all up in tha end of tha current month. Durin tha month n' dizzle of insertion, they operate as above. In dis way tha leap is is propagated at all dependent servers n' clients.

.SH ADDITIONAL FEATURES

A freshly smoked up experimenstrual feature called interleaved modes can be used up in NTP symmetric or broadcast modes. Well shiiiit, it is designed ta improve accuracy by avoidin kernel latency n' queuein delay, as busted lyrics bout on tha NTP Interleaved Modes page. Well shiiiit, it be activated by tha \fBxleave\fR option wit tha \fBpeer\fR or \fBbroadcast\fR configuration commands. Da NTP protocol automatically reconfigures up in aiiight or interleaved mode as required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Ordinary broadcast clients can use tha same servers as interleaved clients all up in tha same time. Further details is up in tha white paper NTP Interleaved On-Wire Protocol n' tha briefin Interleaved Synchronization Protocols fo' LANs n' Space Data Links\[char46]

If \fBntpd\fR, is configured wit NetInfo support, it will attempt ta read its configuration from tha NetInfo steez if tha default \fBntp.conf\fR file cannot be read n' no file is specified by tha \fB-c\fR option.

In contexts where a host name is expected, a \fB-4\fR qualifier precedin tha host name forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv4 namespace, while a \fB-6\fR qualifier forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv6 namespace.

Various internal \fBntpd\fR variablez can be displayed n' configuration options altered while tha \fBntpd\fR is hustlin rockin tha \fBntpq\fR n' \fBntpdc\fR utilitizzle programs.

When \fBntpd\fR starts it looks all up in tha value of \fBumask\fR, n' if zero \fBntpd\fR will set tha \fBumask\fR ta \fB022\fR\[char46]

Unless tha \fB-n\fR, \fB-d\fR or \fB-D\fR option is used, \fBntpd\fR chizzlez tha current hustlin directory ta tha root directory, so any options or commandz specifyin paths need ta use a absolute path or a path relatizzle ta tha root.

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fB-4\fR
Force DNS resolution of host names ta tha IPv4 namespace. 
.TP 8
\fB-6\fR
Force DNS resolution of host names ta tha IPv6 namespace. 
.TP 8
\fB-a\fR
Require cryptographic authentication fo' broadcast client, multicast client n' symmetric passive associations. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBenable auth\fR command n' is tha default.
.TP 8
\fB-A\fR
Do not require cryptographic authentication fo' broadcast client, multicast client n' symmetric passive associations. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBdisable auth\fR command n' almost never a phat idea.
.TP 8
\fB-b\fR
Enable tha client ta synchronize ta broadcast servers.
.TP 8
\fB-c \fIconffile\fB\fR
Specify tha name n' path of tha configuration file, default \fB/etc/ntp.conf\fR\[char46]
.TP 8
\fB-d\fR
Specify debuggin mode. This option may occur mo' than once, wit each occurrence indicatin pimped outa detail of display.
.TP 8
\fB-D \fIlevel\fB\fR
Specify debuggin level directly.
.TP 8
\fB-f \fIdriftfile\fB\fR
Specify tha name n' path of tha frequency file. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBdriftfile \fIdriftfile\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-g\fR
Normally, \fBntpd\fR exits wit a message ta tha system log if tha offset exceedz tha panic threshold, which is 1000 s by default. This option allows tha time ta be set ta any value without restriction; however, dis can happen only once. If tha threshold is exceeded afta that, \fBntpd\fR will exit wit a message ta tha system log. This option can be used wit tha \fB-q\fR n' \fB-x\fR options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBtinker\fR command fo' other options.
.TP 8
\fB-i \fIjaildir\fB\fR
Chroot tha server ta tha directory \fI\fBjaildir\fI\fR\[char46] This option also implies dat tha server attempts ta drop root privileges at startup (otherwise, chroot gives straight-up lil additionizzle security), n' it is only available if tha OS supports ta run tha server without full root privileges. Yo ass may need ta also specify a \fB-u\fR option.
.TP 8
\fB-I [\fIaddress\fB | \fIinterface name\fB]\fR
Open tha network address given, or all tha addresses associated wit tha given intercourse name. This option may step tha fuck up multiple times. This option also implies not openin other addresses, except wildcard n' localhost. This option is deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please consider rockin tha configuration file intercourse command, which is mo' versatile.
.TP 8
\fB-k \fIkeyfile\fB\fR
Specify tha name n' path of tha symmetric key file. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBkeys \fIkeyfile\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-l \fIlogfile\fB\fR
Specify tha name n' path of tha log file. Da default is tha system log file. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBlogfile \fIlogfile\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-L\fR
Do not dig virtual intercourses, defined as dem wit names containin a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This option is deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Please consider rockin tha configuration file intercourse command, which is mo' versatile.
.TP 8
\fB-M\fR
Raise schedula precision ta its maximum (1 msec) rockin timeBeginPeriod. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! (Windows only)
.TP 8
\fB-m\fR
Lock memory. 
.TP 8
\fB-n\fR
Don't fork.
.TP 8
\fB-N\fR
To tha extent permitted by tha operatin system, run tha \fBntpd\fR all up in tha highest priority.
.TP 8
\fB-p \fIpidfile\fB\fR
Specify tha name n' path of tha file used ta record tha \fBntpd\fR process ID. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBpidfile \fIpidfile\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-P \fIpriority\fB\fR
To tha extent permitted by tha operatin system, run tha \fBntpd\fR all up in tha specified priority.
.TP 8
\fB-q\fR
Exit tha \fBntpd\fR just afta tha last time tha clock is set. This behavior mimics dat of tha \fBntpdate\fR program, which is ta be retired. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da \fB-g\fR n' \fB-x\fR options can be used wit dis option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Note: Da kernel time discipline is disabled wit dis option.
.TP 8
\fB-r \fIbroadcastdelay\fB\fR
Specify tha default propagation delay from tha broadcast/multicast server ta dis client. This is necessary only if tha delay cannot be computed automatically by tha protocol.
.TP 8
\fB-s \fIstatsdir\fB\fR
Specify tha directory path fo' filez pimped by tha statistics facility. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBstatsdir \fIstatsdir\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-t \fIkey\fB\fR
Add a key number ta tha trusted key list. This option can occur mo' than once. This is tha same ol' dirty operation as tha \fBtrustedkey \fIkey\fB\fR command.
.TP 8
\fB-u \fIuser[:group]\fB \fR
Specify a user, n' optionally a group, ta switch to. This option is only available if tha OS supports hustlin tha server without full root privileges. Currently, dis option is supported under NetBSD (configure wit \fB--enable-clockctl\fR) n' Linux (configure wit --\fBenable-linuxcaps\fR).
.TP 8
\fB-U \fIinterface update interval\fB\fR
Number of secondz ta wait between intercourse list scans ta pick up freshly smoked up n' delete network intercourse. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Set ta 0 ta disable dynamic intercourse list updating. Da default is ta scan every last muthafuckin 5 minutes.
.TP 8
\fB-x\fR
Normally, tha time is slewed if tha offset is less than tha step threshold, which is 128 ms by default, n' stepped if above tha threshold. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This option sets tha threshold ta 600 s, which is well within tha accuracy window ta set tha clock manually. Note: Since tha slew rate of typical Unix kernels is limited ta 0.5 ms/s, each second of adjustment requires a amortization interval of 2000 s. Thus, a adjustment as much as 600 s will take almost 14 minutes ta complete. This option can be used wit tha \fB-g\fR n' \fB-q\fR options. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fBtinker\fR command fo' other options. Note: Da kernel time discipline is disabled wit dis option.
.RE

.SH THE CONFIGURATION FILE

Ordinarily, \fBntpd\fR readz tha \fBntp.conf\fR configuration file at startup up in order ta determine tha synchronization sources n' operatin modes. Well shiiiit, it be also possible ta specify a working, although limited, configuration entirely on tha command line, obviatin tha need fo' a cold-ass lil configuration file. This may be particularly useful when tha local host is ta be configured as a funky-ass broadcast client, wit servers determined by listenin ta broadcasts at run time.

Usually, tha configuration file is installed as\fB/etc/ntp.conf\fR yo, but could be installed elsewhere (see tha \fB-c \fIconffile\fB\fR command line option). Da file format is similar ta other Unix configuration filez - comments begin wit a \fB#\fR characta n' extend ta tha end of tha line; blank lines is ignored.

Configuration commandz consist of a initial command keyword followed by a list of option keywordz separated by whitespace. Commandz may not be continued over multiple lines. Options may be host names, host addresses freestyled up in numeric, dotted-quad form, integers, floatin point numbers (when specifyin times up in seconds) n' text strings. Optionizzle arguments is delimited by \fB[ ]\fR up in tha options pages, while alternatives is separated by \fB|\fR\[char46] Da notation \fB[ ... ]\fR means a optional, indefinite repetizzle of tha last item before tha \fB[ ... ]\fR\[char46]

.SH FILES

.TS
expand allbox tab(%);
l l l l.
File % Default % Option % Command
configuration file % \fB/etc/ntp.conf\fR % \fB-c\fR % none
frequency file % none % \fB-f\fR % \fBdriftfile\fR
leapsecondz file % none %  % \fBleapfile\fR
process ID file % none % \fB-p\fR % \fBpidfile\fR
log file % system log % \fB-l\fR % \fBlogfile\fR
include file % none % none % \fBincludefile\fR
statistics path % \fB/var/log/ntpstats/\fR % \fB-s\fR % \fBstatsdir\fR
keys path % \fB/etc/ntp/crypto\fR % \fBnone\fR % \fBkeysdir\fR
.TE

.SH EXIT CODES

A non-zero exit code indicates a error fo' realz. Any error lyrics is logged ta tha system log by default.

Da exit code is 0 only when \fBntpd\fR is terminated by a signal, or when tha \fB-q\fR option is used n' \fBntpd\fR successfully sets tha system clock.

.SH SEE ALSO

ntp.conf(5), ntpq(8), ntpdc(8)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

