.TH ntpdate 8
.SH NAME
ntpdate - set tha date n' time via NTP
.SH \ 

Disclaimer: Da functionalitizzle of dis program is now available up in tha \fBntpd\fR program. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha \fB-q\fR command line option up in tha \fBntpd\fR - Network Time Protocol (NTP) daemon page fo' realz. Afta a suitable period of mourning, tha \fBntpdate\fR program is ta be retired from dis distribution

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBntpdate [ -46bBdqsuv ] [ -a \fIkey\fB ] [ -e \fIauthdelay\fB ] [ -k \fIkeyfile\fB ] [ -o \fIversion\fB ] [ -p \fIsamples\fB ] [ -t \fItimeout\fB ] [ -U \fIuser_name\fB ] \fIserver\fB [ ... ]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBntpdate\fR sets tha local date n' time by pollin tha Network Time Protocol (NTP) server(s) given as tha \fIserver\fR arguments ta determine tha erect time. Well shiiiit, it must be run as root on tha local host fo' realz. A number of samplez is obtained from each of tha servers specified n' a subset of tha NTP clock filta n' selection algorithms is applied ta select tha dopest of these n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Note dat tha accuracy n' reliabilitizzle of \fBntpdate\fR dependz on tha number of servers, tha number of polls each time it is run n' tha interval between runs.

\fBntpdate\fR can be run manually as necessary ta set tha host clock, or it can be run from tha host startup script ta set tha clock at boot time. This is useful up in some cases ta set tha clock initially before startin tha NTP daemon \fBntpd\fR\[char46] It be also possible ta run \fBntpdate\fR from a \fBcron\fR script. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it is blingin ta note dat \fBntpdate\fR wit contrived \fBcron\fR scripts is no substitute fo' tha NTP daemon, which uses sophisticated algorithms ta maximize accuracy n' reliabilitizzle while minimizin resource use. Finally, since \fBntpdate\fR do not discipline tha host clock frequency as do \fBntpd\fR, tha accuracy rockin \fBntpdate\fR is limited.

Time adjustments is made by \fBntpdate\fR up in one of two ways. If \fBntpdate\fR determines tha clock is up in error mo' than 0.5 second it will simply step tha time by callin tha system \fBsettimeofday()\fR routine. If tha error is less than 0.5 seconds, it will slew tha time by callin tha system \fBadjtime()\fR routine. Da latta technique is less disruptizzle n' mo' accurate when tha error is small, n' works like well when \fBntpdate\fR is run by \fBcron\fR every last muthafuckin minute or two.

\fBntpdate\fR will decline ta set tha date if a NTP server daemon (e.g., \fBntpd\fR) is hustlin on tha same host. When hustlin \fBntpdate\fR on a regular basis from \fBcron\fR as a alternatizzle ta hustlin a thugged-out daemon, bustin so once every last muthafuckin minute or two will result up in precise enough timekeepin ta avoid steppin tha clock.

Note dat up in contexts where a host name is expected, a \fB-4\fR qualifier precedin tha host name forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv4 namespace, while a \fB-6\fR qualifier forces DNS resolution ta tha IPv6 namespace.

If NetInfo support is compiled tha fuck into \fBntpdate\fR, then tha \fBserver\fR argument is optionizzle if \fBntpdate\fR can find a time server up in tha NetInfo configuration fo' \fBntpd\fR\[char46]

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fB-4\fR
Force DNS resolution of followin host names on tha command line ta tha IPv4 namespace. 
.TP 8
\fB-6\fR
Force DNS resolution of followin host names on tha command line ta tha IPv6 namespace. 
.TP 8
\fB-a \fIkey\fB\fR
Enable tha authentication function n' specify tha key identifier ta be used fo' authentication as tha argument \fIkey\fR\[char46] Da keys n' key identifiers must match up in both tha client n' server key files. Da default is ta disable tha authentication function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 8
\fB-B\fR
Force tha time ta always be slewed rockin tha adjtime() system call, even if tha measured offset is pimped outa than +-500 ms. Da default is ta step tha time rockin settimeofday() if tha offset is pimped outa than +-500 ms. Note that, if tha offset is much pimped outa than +-500 ms up in dis case, dat it can take a long-ass time (hours) ta slew tha clock ta tha erect value. Durin dis time. tha host should not be used ta synchronize clients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.TP 8
\fB-b\fR
Force tha time ta be stepped rockin tha settimeofday() system call, rather than slewed (default) rockin tha adjtime() system call. This option should be used when called from a startup file at boot time. 
.TP 8
\fB-d\fR
Enable tha debuggin mode, up in which \fBntpdate\fR will go all up in all tha steps yo, but not adjust tha local clock yo. Hype useful fo' general debuggin will also be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.TP 8
\fB-e \fIauthdelay\fB\fR
Specify tha processin delay ta big-ass up a authentication function as tha value \fIauthdelay\fR, up in secondz n' fraction (see \fBntpd\fR fo' details). This number is probably lil' small-ass enough ta be negligible fo' most purposes, though specifyin a value may improve timekeepin on straight-up slow CPU's. 
.TP 8
\fB-k \fIkeyfile\fB\fR
Specify tha path fo' tha authentication key file as tha strang \fIkeyfile\fR\[char46] Da default is \fB/etc/ntp/keys\fR\[char46] This file should be up in tha format busted lyrics bout up in \fBntpd\fR\[char46] 
.TP 8
\fB-o \fIversion\fB\fR
Specify tha NTP version fo' outgoin packets as tha integer \fIversion\fR, which can be 1 or 2. Da default is 4. This allows \fBntpdate\fR ta be used wit olda NTP versions. 
.TP 8
\fB-p \fIsamples\fB\fR
Specify tha number of samplez ta be acquired from each server as tha integer \fIsamples\fR, wit joints from 1 ta 8 inclusive. Da default is 4. 
.TP 8
\fI\fB-q\fI\fR
Query only - don't set tha clock. 
.TP 8
\fB-s\fR
Divert loggin output from tha standard output (default) ta tha system \fBsyslog\fR facility. This is designed primarily fo' convenience of \fBcron\fR scripts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.TP 8
\fB-t \fItimeout\fB\fR
Specify tha maximum time waitin fo' a server response as tha value \fItimeout\fR, up in secondz n' fraction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da value is is rounded ta a multiple of 0.2 seconds. Da default is 1 second, a value suitable fo' pollin across a LAN. 
.TP 8
\fB-u\fR
Direct \fBntpdate\fR ta use a unprivileged port fo' outgoin packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This is most useful when behind a gangbangin' firewall dat blocks incomin traffic ta privileged ports, n' you wanna synchronize wit hosts beyond tha firewall. Note dat tha \fB-d\fR option always uses unprivileged ports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.TP 8
\fB-\fIv\fB\fR
Be verbose. This option will cause \fBntpdate\fRz version identification strang ta be logged. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 8
\fB-U \fIuser_name\fB\fR
ntpdate process drops root privileges n' chizzlez user ID ta \fIuser_name\fR n' crew ID ta tha primary crew of \fIserver_user\fR\[char46] 
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBntpdate\fRz exit status is zero if it findz a server n' thugged-out shiznit tha clock, n' nonzero otherwise. 

.SH FILES
\fB/etc/ntp/keys\fR - encryption keys used by \fBntpdate\fR\[char46] 

.SH BUGS
Da slew adjustment is straight-up 50% larger than tha measured offset, since dis (it is broke off some disrespec) will tend ta keep a funky-ass badly driftin clock mo' accurate. This is probably not a phat scam n' may cause a troublin hunt fo' some jointz of tha kernel variablez \fBtick\fR n' \fBtickadj\fR\[char46]   
.SH SEE ALSO

ntpd(8)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

