.TH ntptime 8
.SH NAME
ntptime - read n' set kernel time variables
.SH \ 

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBntptime [ -MNchr ] [ -e \fIest_error\fB ] [ -f \fIfrequency\fB ] [ -m \fImax_error\fB ] [ -o \fIoffset\fB ] [ -s \fIstatus\fB ] [ -t \fItime_constant\fB] [ -T \fItai_offset\fB ]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program is useful only wit special kernels busted lyrics bout up in tha A Kernel Model fo' Precision Timekeepin page. Well shiiiit, it readz n' displays time-related kernel variablez rockin tha \fBntp_gettime()\fR system call fo' realz. A similar display can be obtained rockin tha \fBntpdc\fR program n' \fBkerninfo\fR command.

.SH OPTIONS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fB-c\fR
Display tha execution time of \fBntptime\fR itself. 
.TP 8
\fB-e \fIest_error\fB\fR
Specify estimated error, up in microseconds. 
.TP 8
\fB-f \fIfrequency\fB\fR
Specify frequency offset, up in parts per million. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 8
\fB-h\fR
Display help shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TP 8
\fB-m \fImax_error\fB\fR
Specify max possible errors, up in microseconds. 
.TP 8
\fB-o \fIoffset\fB\fR
Specify clock offset, up in microseconds. 
.TP 8
\fB-r\fR
Display Unix n' NTP times up in raw format. 
.TP 8
\fB-s \fIstatus\fB\fR
Specify clock status. Betta know what tha fuck yo ass is bustin. 
.TP 8
\fB-t \fItime_constant\fB\fR
Specify time constant, a integer up in tha range 0-10. 
.TP 8
\fB-M\fR
Switch ta microsecond mode. 
.TP 8
\fB-N\fR
Switch ta nanosecond mode. 
.TP 8
\fB-T \fItai_offset\fB\fR
Set TAI offset. 
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

ntpd(8), ntpdate(8)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

