.\" t
.\" Copyright 2003,2004 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\" 
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.TH NUMACTL 8 "Mar 2004" "SuSE Labs" "Linux Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
numactl \- Control NUMA policy fo' processes or shared memory 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B numactl
[
.B \-\-all
] [
.B \-\-interleave nodes
] [
.B \-\-preferred node 
] [
.B \-\-membind nodes
] [ 
.B \-\-cpunodebind nodes
] [
.B \-\-physcpubind cpus
] [
.B \-\-localalloc
] [\-\-] command {arguments ...}
.br
.B numactl \-\-show
.br
.B numactl \-\-hardware
.br
.B numactl 
[
.B \-\-huge
] [
.B \-\-offset offset
] [
.B \-\-shmmode shmmode
] [
.B \-\-length length
] [
.B \-\-strict
]
.br
[
.B \-\-shmid id
]
.B \-\-shm shmkeyfile
|
.B \-\-file tmpfsfile
.br
[
.B \-\-touch
] [
.B \-\-dump
] [
.B \-\-dump-nodes
]
memory policy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B numactl
runs processes wit a specific NUMA schedulin or memory placement policy.
Da policy is set fo' command n' inherited by all of its lil' thugs.
In addizzle it can set persistent policy fo' shared memory segments or files.
.PP
Use -- before command if rockin command options dat could be confused
with numactl options.
.PP
.I nodes
may be specified as N,N,N or  N-N or N,N-N or  N-N,N-N n' so forth.
Relative
.I nodes
may be specifed as +N,N,N or  +N-N or +N,N-N n' so forth. Da + indicates that
the node numbers is relatizzle ta tha process' set of allowed nodes up in its
current cpuset.
A !N-N notation indicates tha inverse of N-N, up in other lyrics all nodes
except N-N.  If used wit + notation, specify !+N-N. When
.I same
is specified tha previous nodemask specified on tha command line is used.
all means all nodes up in tha current cpuset.
.PP
Instead of a number a node can also be:
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
netdev:DEV|Da node connected ta network thang DEV.
file:PATH |Da node tha block thang of PATH.
ip:HOST   |Da node of tha network thang of HOST
block:PATH|Da node of block thang PATH
pci:[seg:]bus:dev[:func]|Da node of a PCI device.
.TE

Note dat block resolves tha kernel block thang names only
for udev names up in /dev use
.I file:
.TP
Policy settings are:
.TP
.B \-\-all, \-a
Unset default cpuset awareness, so user can use all possible CPUs/nodes
for followin policy settings.
.TP
.B \-\-interleave=nodes, \-i nodes
Set a memory interleave policy. Memory is ghon be allocated rockin round robin
on
.I nodes.
When memory cannot be allocated on tha current interleave target fall back
to other nodes.
Multiple nodes may be specified on --interleave, --membind n' --cpunodebind.
.TP
.B \-\-membind=nodes, \-m nodes
Only allocate memory from nodes.  Allocation will fail when there
is not enough memory available on these nodes.
.I nodes
may be specified as noted above.
.TP
.B \-\-cpunodebind=nodes, \-N nodes
Only execute
.I command
on tha CPUs of
.I nodes. 
Note dat nodes may consist of multiple CPUs.
.I nodes
may be specified as noted above.
.TP
.B \-\-physcpubind=cpus, \-C cpus
Only execute
.I process
on
.I cpus.
This accepts cpu numbers as shown up in the
.I processor
fieldz of 
.I /proc/cpuinfo,
or relatizzle cpus as up in relatizzle ta tha current cpuset.
Yo ass may specify "all", which means all cpus up in tha current cpuset.
Physical
.I cpus
may be specified as N,N,N or  N-N or N,N-N or  N-N,N-N n' so forth.
Relative
.I cpus
may be specifed as +N,N,N or  +N-N or +N,N-N n' so forth. Da + indicates that
the cpu numbers is relatizzle ta tha process' set of allowed cpus up in its
current cpuset.
A !N-N notation indicates tha inverse of N-N, up in other lyrics all cpus
except N-N.  If used wit + notation, specify !+N-N.
.TP
.B \-\-localalloc, \-l 
Always allocate on tha current node.
.TP
.B \-\-preferred=node
Preferably allocate memory on 
.I node,
but if memory cannot be allocated there fall back ta other nodes.
This option takes only a single node number.
Relatizzle notation may be used.
.TP
.B \-\-show, \-s
Show NUMA policy settingz of tha current process. 
.TP
.B \-\-hardware, \-H
Show inventory of available nodes on tha system.
.TP 0
Numactl can set up policy fo' a SYSV shared memory segment or a gangbangin' file up in shmfs/hugetlbfs.
 
This policy is persistent n' is ghon be used by
all mappings from dat shared memory. Da order of options mattas here.
Da justification must at least include either of 
.I \-\-shm, 
.I \-\-shmid, 
.I \-\-file
to specify tha shared memory segment or file n' a memory policy like busted lyrics bout 
above (
.I \-\-interleave, 
.I \-\-localalloc, 
.I \-\-preferred,
.I \-\-membind
).
.TP
.B \-\-huge
When bustin a SYSV shared memory segment use big-ass pages.
Only valid before \-\-shmid or \-\-shm
.TP 
.B \-\-offset
Specify offset tha fuck into tha shared memory segment. Default 0. 
Valid units is 
.I m
(for MB), 
.I g 
(for GB), 
.I k 
(for KB),
otherwise it specifies bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Give a error when a page up in tha policied area up in tha shared memory
segment already was faulted up in wit a cold-ass lil conflictin policy. Default
is ta silently ignore all dis bullshit.
.TP
.B \-\-shmmode shmmode
Only valid before \-\-shmid or \-\-shm
When bustin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory segment set it ta numeric mode 
.I shmmode.
.TP
.B \-\-length length
Apply policy ta 
.I length 
range up in tha shared memory segment or make 
the segment length long
Default is ta use tha remainin length 
Required when a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared memory segment is pimped n' specifies tha length
of tha freshly smoked up segment then. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Valid units is 
.I m
(for MB), 
.I g 
(for GB), 
.I k 
(for KB),
otherwise it specifies bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-shmid id
Smoke or use a shared memory segment wit numeric ID 
.I id
.TP 
.B \-\-shm shmkeyfile
Smoke or use a shared memory segment, wit tha ID generated
usin 
.I ftok(3) 
from shmkeyfile
.TP
.B \-\-file tmpfsfile
Set policy fo' a gangbangin' file up in tmpfs or hugetlbfs
.TP
.B \-\-touch
Touch pages ta enforce policy early. Default is ta not bust a nut on them, tha policy
is applied when a applications maps n' accesses a page.
.TP
.B \-\-dump
Dump policy up in tha specified range.
.TP
.B \-\-dump-nodes
Dump all nodez of tha specific range (very verbose!)
.TP
Valid node specifiers
.TS
tab(:);
l l. 
all:All nodes
number:Node number
number1{,number2}:Node number1 n' Node number2
number1-number2:Nodes from number1 ta number2
! nodes:Invert selection of tha followin justification.
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
numactl \-\-physcpubind=+0-4,8-12 myapplic arguments
Run myapplic on cpus 0-4 n' 8-12 of tha current cpuset.

numactl \-\-interleave=all bigdatabase arguments
Run big-ass database wit its memory interleaved on all CPUs.

numactl \-\-cpunodebind=0 \-\-membind=0,1 process
Run process on node 0 wit memory allocated on node 0 n' 1.

numactl \-\-cpunodebind=0 \-\-membind=0,1 -- process -l
Run process as above yo, but wit a option (-l) dat would be trippin with
a numactl option.

numactl \-\-cpunodebind=netdev:eth0 \-\-membind=netdev:eth0 network-server
Run network-server on tha node of network thang eth0 wit its memory
also up in tha same node.

numactl \-\-preferred=1 numactl \-\-show
Set preferred node 1 n' show tha resultin state.

numactl --interleave=all --shm /tmp/shmkey 
Interleave all of tha sysv shared memory region specified by
/tmp/shmkey over all nodes.

Place a tmpfs file on 2 nodes:
  numactl --membind=2 dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/shm/A bs=1M count=1024
  numactl --membind=3 dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/shm/A seek=1024 bs=1M count=1024


numactl --localalloc /dev/shm/file
Reset tha policy fo' tha shared memory file 
.I file
to tha default localalloc policy.
.SH NOTES
Requires a NUMA policy aware kernel.

Command aint executed rockin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell. If you wanna use shell metacharacters
in tha lil pimp use sh -c as wrapper.

Settin policy fo' a hugetlbfs file do currently not work cuz
it cannot be extended by truncate.

Shared memory segments larger than numactlz address space cannot 
be straight-up policied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This could be a problem on 32bit architectures.
Changin it piece by piece may work.

Da old
.I --cpubind
which accepts node numbers, not cpu numbers, is deprecated
and replaced wit tha freshly smoked up 
.I --cpunodebind
and 
.I --physcpubind
options.

.SH FILES
.I /proc/cpuinfo
for tha listin of actizzle CPUs. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See 
.I proc(5)
for details.

.I /sys/devices/system/node/node*/numastat
for NUMA memory hit statistics.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2002,2004 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
numactl n' tha demo programs is under tha GNU General Public License, v.2

.SH SEE ALSO
.I set_mempolicy(2)
,
.I get_mempolicy(2)
,
.I mbind(2)
,
.I sched_setaffinity(2)
, 
.I sched_getaffinity(2)
,
.I proc(5)
, 
.I ftok(3)
,
.I shmat(2)
,
.I migratepages(8)

