.TH oddjobd 8 "5 April 2006" "oddjob Manual"

.SH NAME
oddjobd - privileged operations fo' unprivileged processes

.SH SYNOPSIS
oddjobd [-n] [-d] [-p pidfile] [-c configfile] [-S] [-t timeout]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fIoddjobd\fR daemon serves up tha com.redhat.oddjob steez on the
system-wide message bus.  Each facilitizzle which \fIoddjobd\fR serves up is
provided as a separate D-Bus method.

Any method can be invoked by name by any user, subject ta access controls
enforced by both D-Bus n' \fIoddjobd\fR.

Most methodz is implemented as helper programs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-n
Do not fork n' become a thugged-out daemon process.
.TP
-d
Print debuggin lyrics ta stderr. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Implies \fB-n\fR.
.TP
-p pidfile
Store tha daemonz process ID up in tha named file.
.TP
-c /etc/oddjobd.conf
Read tha daemonz configuration from tha named file.
.TP
-S
Connect ta tha session bus instead of tha system bus.  Used fo' testin only.
.TP
-t timeout
Specifies tha amount of time which will pass between attempts ta reconnect to
the bus if oddjobd is disconnected fo' any reason. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha specified timeout is
above 5, then oddjobd will first attempt to
connect up ta 10 times at intervals of
5 seconds.  Da default reconnect timeout is
30 seconds.

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
SIGHUP
Reload tha configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Client requests which is up in tha process of being
served will run ta completion even if tha newly-loaded configuration do not
include tha service, object, intercourse, or method.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBoddjob_request\fR(1)
\fBoddjob.conf\fR(5)
\fBoddjobd.conf\fR(5)
