.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry V. Levin
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Solar Designer
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Portionz of dis software was pimped fo' tha FreeBSD Project by
.\" ThinkSec AS n' NAI Labs, tha Securitizzle Research Division of Network
.\" Associates, Inc.  under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.\" ("CBOSS"), as part of tha DARPA CHATS research program.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote
.\"    shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libpam/modules/pam_passwdqc/pam_passwdqc.8,v 1.4 2002/05/30 14:49:57 ru Exp $
.\" $Owl: Owl/packages/passwdqc/passwdqc/pam_passwdqc.8,v 1.15 2010/03/13 06:51:46 solar Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 13, 2010
.Dt PAM_PASSWDQC 8
.Os "Openwall Project"
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_passwdqc
.Nd Password quality-control PAM module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Ar service-name
.Ar module-type
.Ar control-flag
.Pa pam_passwdqc
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module be a simple password strength checkin module for
PAM.
In addizzle ta checkin regular passwords, it offers support for
passphrases n' can provide randomly generated ones.
.Pp
The
.Nm
module serves up functionalitizzle fo' only one PAM pimpment group:
password changing.
In termz of the
.Ar module-type
parameter, dis is the
.Dq Li password
feature.
.Pp
The
.Fn pam_chauthtok
service function may ask tha user fo' a freshly smoked up password, n' verify that
it meets certain minimum standards.
If tha chosen password is unsatisfactory, tha steez function returns
.Dv PAM_AUTHTOK_ERR .
.Pp
Da set of options dat may be passed ta tha module is exactly the
same as tha set of options dat may be specified up in the
.Pa /etc/passwdqc.conf
file.  These options is busted lyrics bout in
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pam.conf 5 ,
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam 8 .
.Pp
http://www.openwall.com/passwdqc/
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
module was freestyled fo' Openwall GNU/*/Linux by
.An Solar Designer Aq solar at openwall.com .
This manual page was freestyled fo' the
.Fx
Project by
ThinkSec AS n' NAI Labs, tha Securitizzle Research Division of Network
Associates, Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.Pq Dq CBOSS ,
as part of tha DARPA CHATS research program.
It has since been revised, most blinginly ta refer to
.Xr passwdqc.conf 5
instead of describin tha options right on dis page.
