.\" .
.TH "pam_pkcs11" "8" "15-Feb-2005" "Mario Strasser" "System Administration tools"
.SH "NAME"
pam_pkcs11 \- PAM Authentication Module fo' PKCS#11 token libraries
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pam_pkcs11.so
.RB [ debug ]
.RB [ configfile= \fI<configfile> "" ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This Linux\-PAM login module allows a X.509 certificate based user
login. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da certificate n' its dedicated private key is thereby
accessed by meanz of a appropriate PKCS #11 module. For the
verification of tha users' certificates, locally stored CA
certificates as well as either online or locally accessible CRLs are
used.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Da program dat needz a PAM steez should be configured up in 
.I /etc/pam.conf
or
.IR /etc/pam.d/<servicename> .
.P
.B pam_pkcs11
can be used up in tha <auth> PAM chain.
.P
For details on how tha fuck ta configure PAM skillz, peep tha PAM
documentation fo' yo' system. This manual do not cover PAM
configuration details. Da existin PAM steez definitions for
other applications on yo' system be also a phat source fo' examples
on how tha fuck ta configure a PAM service.
.SH "FILES"
\fI/etc/pam_pkcs11/pam_pkcs11.conf\fP
.br 
\fI/usr/lib/pam_pkcs11/*_mapper.so\fP
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original Gangsta PAM\-pkcs11 was freestyled by Mario Strasser <mast@gmx.net>.
Newer versions is from Juan Antonio Martinez
<jonsito@teleline.es>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs ideas, comments, bug\-fixes n' so to:
.I Juan Antonio Martinez <jonsito@teleline.es>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (8),
.BR pam_pkcs11.conf (5),
PAM Systems Administrator Guide,
.I README.mappers
file, PAM\-PKCS#11 User Manual.
