.\" Copyright 2001 Red Hat, Inc.
.TH pam_console_apply 8 2005/5/2 "Red Hat" "System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
pam_console_apply \- set or revoke permissions fo' playas all up in tha system console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pam_console_apply 
[-f <fstab file>] [-c <console.perms file>] [-r] [-t <tty>] [-s] [-d] [<device file> ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpam_console_apply\fP be a helper executable which sets or resets permissions
on thang nodes.
.br
If \fI/var/run/console.lock\fP exists, \fBpam_console_apply\fP will grant
permissions ta tha user listed therein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha lock file do not exist,
permissions is reset accordin ta defaults set up in \fIconsole.perms\fP files,
normally configured ta set permissions on devices so dat \fBroot\fP
owns em.

When initializin its configuration it first parses
the \fI/etc/security/console.perms\fP file n' then it searches fo' files
endin wit tha \fI.perms\fP suffix up in tha \fI/etc/security/console.perms.d\fP
directory. These filez is parsed up in tha lexical order up in "C" locale.
Permission rulez is appended ta a global list, console n' thang class
definitions override previous definitionz of tha same class.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP -c
Load other console.perms file than tha default one.
.IP -f
Load other fstab file than tha default one (\fI/etc/fstab\fP).
.IP -r
Signals \fBpam_console_apply\fP ta reset permissions.  Da default is ta set
permissions so dat tha user listed up in \fI/var/run/console.lock\fP has access
to tha devices, n' ta reset permissions if no such file exists.
.IP -t
Use <tty> ta match console class up in console.perms file. Da default is tty0.
.IP -s
Write error lyrics ta tha system log instead of stderr.
.IP -d
Log/display lyrics useful fo' debugging.
.PP
Da optionizzle <device file> arguments constrain what tha fuck filez should be affected
by \fBpam_console_apply\fP. If they aren't specified permissions are
changed on all filez specified up in tha \fIconsole.perms\fP file.
.SH FILES
\fI/var/run/console.lock\fP
.br
\fI/etc/security/console.perms\fP
.br
\fI/etc/security/console.perms.d/50-default.perms\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam_console(8)
.br
.BR console.perms(5)
.br
.SH BUGS
Letz hope not yo, but if you find any, please report dem via tha "Bug Track"
link at http://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/
.SH AUTHORS
Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>, rockin code shamelessly jacked from parts of
pam_console.
.br
Support of console.perms.d n' other improvements by
Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>.
