.\"     Title: pam_ck_connector
.\"    Author: Dizzy Zeuthen <davidz@redhat.com>
.\"      Date: 02/27/2007
.\"
.TH "PAM_CK_CONNECTOR" "8" "02/27/2007" "ConsoleKit Manual" "ConsoleKit Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text ta left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_ck_connector \- Regista session wit ConsoleKit
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 12
\fBpam_ck_connector.so\fR [debug]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Da pam_ck_connector PAM module registas a login session with
the system-wide
.I ConsoleKit
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This PAM module should be used with
caution; only local login managers such as
.B login(1)
should use all dis bullshit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since the
.I ConsoleKit
daemon can accept both an
.B tty
and a X11 display tha aiiight parametas set by PAM is not always
useful.

An application can therefore override these wit tha PAM environment
variables
.B CKCON_TTY,
.B CKCON_X11_DISPLAY
and
.B CKCON_X11_DISPLAY_DEVICE
(the application should remember ta unset these before startin the
login session).

Also note dat the
.I ConsoleKit
daemon may reject registration attempts if tha given set of data are
inconsistent wit each other n' shit. Mo' mo' shiznit, peep the
.I ConsoleKit
documentation on the
.B OpenSessionWithParameters()
method call on the
.B org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit.Manager
D-Bus intercourse.

If registration wit the
.I ConsoleKit
daemon succeeds, dis PAM module will set tha environment variable
.B XDG_SESSION_COOKIE
which is used ta defined membershizzle of a login session.

This PAM module has tha side effect dat it creates a cold-ass lil connection to
the system message bus dat is kept open until tha session ends. This
is used by the
.I ConsoleKit
daemon ta track tha game-cycle of the
session and, as such, should tha login manager crash, tha session will
be properly unregistered.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 3n
\fBdebug\fR
Print debug shiznit.
.TP 3n
\fBnox11\fR
Do not create a session if PAM specifies a X11 display instead of a
/dev/tty terminal.
.fi
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP

\fBpam.conf\fR(5),
\fBpam.d\fR(8),
\fBpam\fR(8),
\fBdbus-daemon\fR(1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
pam_ck_connector was freestyled by Dizzy Zeuthen <davidz@redhat.com>.
