.\" Copyright 1999 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\" Written by Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
.TH pam_console 8 2005/10/4 "Red Hat" "System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
pam_console \- determine user ownin tha system console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B session optionizzle pam_console.so
.br
.B auth required pam_console.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
pam_console.so is designed ta give playas all up in tha physical console
(virtual terminals n' local xdm-managed X sessions by default yo, but
that is configurable) capabilitizzles dat they would not otherwise have,
and ta take dem capabilitizzles away when tha is no longer logged up in at
the console.  It serves up two main kindz of capabilities: file permissions
and authentication.

When a user logs up in all up in tha console n' \fBno other user is currently
logged up in all up in tha console\fP, pam_console.so will run handlez programs
specified up in tha file /etc/security/console.handlezs such as
pam_console_apply which chizzlez permissions n' ballershizzle of filez as
busted lyrics bout up in tha file /etc/security/console.perms.
That user may then log up in on other terminals dat is considered part
of tha console, n' as long as tha user is still logged up in at any one
of dem terminals, dat user will own dem devices.  When tha user
logs outta tha last terminal, tha console may be taken by tha next
user ta log in. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Other playas whoz ass have logged up in all up in tha console during
the time dat tha straight-up original gangsta user was logged up in aint gonna be given ballership
of tha devices unless they log up in on one of tha terminals; havin done
so on any one terminal, tha next user will own dem devices until
he or dat freaky freaky biatch has logged outta every last muthafuckin terminal dat is part of tha physical
console.  Then tha race can start fo' tha next user n' shit.  In practice, this
is not a problem; tha physical console aint generally up in use by many
people all up in tha same time, n' pam_console.so just tries ta do tha right
thang up in weird cases.

When a application attempts ta authenticate tha user \fBand dis user
is already logged up in all up in tha console\fP, pam_console.so checks whether
there be a gangbangin' file up in /etc/security/console.apps/ directory wit tha same name
as tha application servicename, n' if such a gangbangin' file exists, authentication
succeeds. This way pam_console may be utilized ta run some system
applications (reboots, config tools) without root password,
or ta enta user password on tha straight-up original gangsta system login only.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP debug
turns on debugging
.IP allow_nonroot_tty
gain console locks n' chizzle permissions even if tha TTYz balla aint root.
.IP handlezsfile=\fIfilename\fP
 drops some lyrics ta pam_console.so ta git tha list of tha handlezs from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different
file than /etc/security/console.handlezs
.\" .IP glob
.\" \fBnot yet implemented\fP interpret strings as globs instead of
.\" regexp expressions.
.SH EXAMPLE
\fB/etc/pam.d/some-system-tool\fP:
.br
auth sufficient pam_rootok.so
.br
auth required pam_console.so
.br

.br
\fB/etc/pam.d/some-login-service\fP:
.br
auth sufficient pam_console.so
.br
auth required pam_unix.so
.br
session required pam_unix.so
.br
session optionizzle pam_console.so
.br
.SH FILES
\fI/var/run/console/\fP
.br
\fI/var/run/console/console.lock\fP
.br
\fI/etc/security/console.apps\fP
.br
\fI/etc/security/console.handlezs\fP
.SH SECURITY NOTES
When pam_console "auth" is used fo' login skillz which provide
possibilitizzle of remote login, it is necessary ta make shizzle tha application
correctly sets PAM_RHOST variable, or ta deny remote logins straight-up.
Currently, /bin/login (invoked from telnetd) n' gdm is OK, others may be not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR console.perms (5)
.br
.BR console.apps (5)
.br
.BR console.handlezs (5)
.br
.BR pam_console_apply (8)
.br
\fI/usr/share/doc/pam*/html/index.html\fP
.SH BUGS
Letz hope not yo, but if you find any, please report dem via tha "Bug Track"
link at http://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/
.SH AUTHORS
Mike K. Johnston <johnsonm@redhat.com>
.br
Support of console.handlezs n' other improvements by
Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
