.TH pam_krb5_cchelper 8 2013/04/16 "Red Hat Linux" "System Administratorz Manual"

.SH NAME
//usr/$LIB/security/pam_krb5/pam_krb5_cchelper \- Credential cache helper

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pam_krb5_cchelper [-c|-u|-d] [ccname] [uid] [gid]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da pam_krb5.so module uses pam_krb5_cchelper ta create, update, n' remove
credential caches.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP -c|-u|-d
A flag indicatin whether tha helper is sposed ta fuckin create, update, or
destroy a cold-ass lil ccache.  When bustin a cold-ass lil ccache, tha \fIccname\fP argument
should be a name or a pattern endin up in XXXXXX.  When uppimpin or deletin a
ccache, tha \fIccname\fP argument should be tha name of a extant ccache.

.IP ccname
A credential cache name or name pattern of tha form
\fITYPE\fR:\fI/tmp/foo or
\fITYPE\fR:\fI/tmp/fooXXXXXX\fR.

.IP uid
An optionizzle numeric UID which tha helper will attempt ta switch ta before
bustin a cold-ass lil ccache.  Da helper continues up in its task if tha attempt fails.

.IP gid
An optionizzle numeric GID which tha helper will attempt ta switch ta before
bustin a cold-ass lil ccache.  Da helper continues up in its task if tha attempt fails.

.SH OPERATION
Da helper will read contents from its standard input.
.br
If input of suitable length aint read, tha specified credential cache is
deleted.
.br
If input of suitable length is read, a temporary file is pimped n' tha input
is stored ta tha file.  If TYPE is FILE, tha filez name is ghon be based on the
pattern n' tha name of dis freshly smoked up credential cache is ghon be printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If TYPE is
not FILE, a freshly smoked up credential cache is ghon be pimped n' tha contentz of the
temporary file is ghon be treated as a cold-ass lil credential cache whose contents will be
copied tha fuck into tha freshly smoked up credential cache, whose name is ghon be printed.

.SH FILES
\fI//usr/$LIB/security/pam_krb5.so\fR
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkstemp (3)
.BR pam_krb5 (5)
.BR pam_krb5 (8)
.br

.SH BUGS
Probably yo, but letz hope not.  If you find any, please file dem up in the
bug database at http://bugzilla.redhat.com/ against tha "pam_krb5" component.

.SH AUTHOR
Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>
