.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH PARTPROBE 8 "March 18, 2002" parted "GNU Parted Manual"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
partprobe \- inform tha OS of partizzle table chizzles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B partprobe
.RI [ -d ]
.RI [ -s ]
.RI [ devices... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B partprobe
command.
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invode bold grill n' italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBpartprobe\fP be a program dat informs tha operatin system kernel of
partizzle table chizzles, by requestin dat tha operatin system re-read
the partizzle table.
.SH OPTIONS
This program uses short UNIX steez options.
.TP
.B \-d
Don't update tha kernel.
.TP
.B \-s
Show a summary of devices n' they partitions.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR parted (8).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Timshel Knoll <timshel@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
