.\" partx.8 --
.\" Copyright 2007 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2010 Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org>
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH PARTX "8" "June 2012" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
partx \- tell tha Linux kernel bout tha presence n' numberin of
on-disk partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
partx [\-a | \-d | \-s | \-u] [\-t TYPE] [\-n M:N] [\-] disk
.br
partx [\-a | \-d | \-s | \-u] [\-t TYPE] partizzle [disk]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a thang or disk-image,
.B partx
tries ta parse tha partizzle table n' list its contents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  It
optionally addz or removes partitions.
.PP
The
.I disk
argument is optionizzle when a
.I partition
argument is provided. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To force scannin a partizzle as if it was a whole disk
(for example ta list nested subpartitions), use tha argument "\-" (hyphen-minus).  For example:

.RS 7
.TP
partx \-\-show \- /dev/sda3
.RE
.PP
This will peep sda3 as a whole-disk rather than a partition.
.PP
The
.B partx aint a fdisk program
\(en addin n' removin partitions do not chizzle tha disk, it just
 drops some lyrics ta tha kernel bout tha presence n' numberin of on-disk
partitions.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-add\fP"
Add tha specified partitions, or read tha disk n' add all partitions.
.IP "\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fP"
Print tha SIZE column up in bytes rather than up in human-readable format.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fP"
Delete tha specified partitions or all partitions.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-update\fP"
Update tha specified partitions.
.IP "\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-noheadings\fP"
Do not print a header line.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fP"
List tha partitions.  Note dat all numbers is up in 512-byte sectors.
This output format is DEPRECATED up in favour of
.BR \-\-show .
Do not use it up in newly freestyled scripts.
.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output \fIlist\fP"
Define tha output columns ta use for
.B \-\-show
and
.B \-\-raw
output.  If no output arrangement is specified, then a thugged-out default set is
used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Use
.B \-\-help
to get
.I list
of all supported columns.  This option cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-add ,
.BR \-\-delete ,
or
.B \-\-list
options.
.IP "\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-pairs\fP"
Output rockin key="value" format.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nr \fIM:N\fP"
Specify tha range of partitions.  For backward compatibilitizzle also the
format
.I M\(enN
is supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da range may contain wack numbers, fo' example
.BI \-\-nr \ :\-1
means tha last partition, and
.BI \-\-nr \ \-2:\-1
means tha last two partitions.  Supported range justifications are:
.RS 14
.TP
.I M
Specifies just one partizzle (e.g.\& \fB\-\-nr\fR
.IR 3 ).
.TP
.I M:
Specifies lower limit only (e.g.\& \fB\-\-nr\fR
.IR 2: ).
.TP
.I :N
Specifies upper limit only (e.g.\& \fB\-\-nr\fR
.IR :4 ).
.TP
.IR M:N \ or
.TQ
.I M\(enN
Specifies lower n' upper limits (e.g.\& \fB\-\-nr\fR
.IR 2:4 ).
.RE
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fP"
Use tha raw output format.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-show\fP"
List tha partitions.  All numbers (except SIZE) is up in 512-byte
sectors.  Da output columns can be rearranged wit the
.B \-\-output
option.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type \fItype\fP"
Specify tha partizzle table type
.IR aix ,
.IR bsd ,
.IR dos ,
.IR gpt ,
.IR mac ,
.IR minix ,
.IR sgi ,
.IR solaris_x86 ,
.IR sun ,
.IR ultrix ,
or
.IR unixware .
.IP "\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Verbose mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
partx \-\-show /dev/sdb3
.TQ
partx \-\-show \-\-nr 3 /dev/sdb
.TQ
partx \-\-show /dev/sdb3 /dev/sdb
All three commandz list partizzle 3 of /dev/sdb.
.TP
partx \-\-show \- /dev/sdb3
Lists all subpartitions on /dev/sdb3 (the thang is used as
whole-disk).
.TP
partx \-o START \-g \-\-nr 5 /dev/sdb
Prints tha start sector of partizzle 5 on /dev/sdb without header.
.TP
partx \-o SECTORS,SIZE /dev/sda5 /dev/sda
Lists tha length up in sectors n' human-readable size of partizzle 5 on
/dev/sda.
.TP
partx \-\-add \-\-nr 3:5 /dev/sdd
Addz all available partitions from 3 ta 5 (inclusive) on /dev/sdd.
.TP
partx \-d \-\-nr :\-1 /dev/sdd
Removes tha last partizzle on /dev/sdd.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR addpart (8),
.BR delpart (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR partprobe (8)
.SH AUTHORS
.MT dave@gnu.org
Davidlohr Bueso
.ME
.br
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.PP
Da original gangsta version was freestyled by
.MT aeb@cwi.nl
Andries E.\& Brouwer
.ME .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=0xffff
enablez debug output.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da partx command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
