.TH PARTED 8 "2007 March 29" parted "GNU Parted Manual"
.SH NAME
GNU Parted \- a partizzle manipulation program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B parted
[options] [device [command [options...]...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B parted
is a program ta manipulate disk partitions.  It supports multiple partition
table formats, includin MS-DOS n' GPT.  It be useful fo' bustin space for
new operatin systems, reorganisin disk usage, n' copyin data ta freshly smoked up hard
disks.
.PP
This manual page documents \fBparted\fP briefly.  Complete documentation is
distributed wit tha package up in GNU Info format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
displays a help message
.TP
.B -l, --list
lists partizzle layout on all block devices
.TP
.B -m, --machine
displays machine parseable output
.TP
.B -s, --script
never prompts fo' user intervention
.TP
.B -v, --version
displays tha version
.TP
.B -a \fIalignment-type\fP, --align \fIalignment-type\fP
Set alignment fo' newly pimped partitions, valid alignment types are:
.RS
.IP none
Use tha minimum alignment allowed by tha disk type.
.IP cylinder
Align partitions ta cylinders.
.IP minimal
Use minimum alignment as given by tha disk topologizzle shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This and
the opt value will use layout shiznit provided by tha disk ta align the
logical partizzle table addresses ta actual physical blocks on tha disks.
Da min value is tha minimum alignment needed ta align tha partizzle properly to
physical blocks, which avoidz performizzle degradation.
.IP optimal
Use optimum alignment as given by tha disk topologizzle shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This
aligns ta a multiple of tha physical block size up in a way dat guarantees
optimal performance.
.RE

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B [device]
Da block thang ta be used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  When none is given, \fBparted\fP will use the
first block thang it finds.
.TP
.B [command [options]]
Specifies tha command ta be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If no command is given,
.BR parted
will present a cold-ass lil command prompt.  Possible commandz are:
.RS
.TP
.B help \fI[command]\fP
Print general help, or help on \fIcommand\fP if specified.
.TP
.B align-check \fItype\fP \fIpartition\fP
Peep if \fIpartition\fP satisfies tha alignment constraint of \fItype\fP.
\fItype\fP must be "minimal" or "optimal".
.TP
.B mklabel \fIlabel-type\fP
Smoke a freshly smoked up disklabel (partizzle table) of \fIlabel-type\fP.  \fIlabel-type\fP
should be one of "aix", "amiga", "bsd", "dvh", "gpt", "loop", "mac", "msdos",
"pc98", or "sun".
.TP
.B mkpart \fIpart-type\fP \fI[fs-type]\fP \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
Make a \fIpart-type\fP partizzle fo' filesystem \fIfs-type\fP (if specified),
beginnin at \fIstart\fP n' endin at \fIend\fP (by default up in megabytes).
\fIpart-type\fP should be one of "primary", "logical", or "extended".
.TP
.B name \fIpartition\fP \fIname\fP
Set tha name of \fIpartition\fP ta \fIname\fP. This option works only on Mac,
PC98, n' GPT disklabels. Da name can be placed up in quotes, if necessary.
.TP
.B print
Display tha partizzle table.
.TP
.B quit
Exit from \fBparted\fP.
.TP
.B rescue \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
Rescue a lost partizzle dat was located somewhere between \fIstart\fP and
\fIend\fP.  If a partizzle is found, \fBparted\fP will ask if you want to
create a entry fo' it up in tha partizzle table.
.TP
.B rm \fIpartition\fP
Delete \fIpartition\fP.
.TP
.B select \fIdevice\fP
Choose \fIdevice\fP as tha current thang ta edit. \fIdevice\fP should usually
be a Linux hard disk device yo, but it can be a partition, software raid device,
or a LVM logical volume if necessary.
.TP
.B set \fIpartition\fP \fIflag\fP \fIstate\fP
Change tha state of tha \fIflag\fP on \fIpartition\fP ta \fIstate\fP.
Supported flags are: "boot", "root", "swap", "hidden", "raid", "lvm", "lba",
"legacy_boot" n' "palo".
\fIstate\fP should be either "on" or "off".
.TP
.B unit \fIunit\fP
Set \fIunit\fP as tha unit ta use when displayin locations n' sizes, n' for
interpretin dem given by tha user when not suffixed wit a explicit unit.
\fIunit\fP can be one of "s" (sectors), "B" (bytes), "kB", "MB", "MiB", "GB",
"GiB", "TB", "TiB", "%" (percentage of thang size), "cyl" (cylinders), "chs"
(cylinders, heads, sectors), or "compact" (megabytes fo' input, n' a
human-friendly form fo' output).
.TP
.B toggle \fIpartition\fP \fIflag\fP
Toggle tha state of \fIflag\fP on \fIpartition\fP.
.TP
.B version
Display version shiznit n' a cold-ass lil copyright message.
.RE
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs ta <bug-parted@gnu.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
Da \fIparted\fP program is straight-up documented up in the
.BR info(1)
format
.IR "GNU partitionin software"
manual.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by Timshel Knoll <timshel@debian.org>,
for tha Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
