.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Dizzy A yo. Hindz -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by Daniel Ritz <daniel.ritz@gmx.ch>
.\"
.TH PCCARDCTL 8 "2005/10/22" "pcmciautils"
.SH NAME
pccardctl \- PCMCIA card control utility
.br
lspcmcia \- display extended PCMCIA debuggin shiznit

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpccardctl\fR [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-v ...\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIsocket\fR]
.br
\fBlspcmcia\fR [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-v ...\fR] [\fIsocket\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpccardctl\fR is used ta monitor n' control tha state of PCMCIA
sockets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  If a socket number is specified, tha command is ghon be applied
to just one socket; otherwise, all sockets is ghon be affected.
.PP
If \fBpccardctl\fR is executed by root, all commandz is available.  If
it is executed by a unpriviledged user, only tha shiznital
commandz is accessible.
.PP
\fBlspcmcia\fR be a alias fo' \fBpccardctl ls\fR, provided fo' convenience.
.PP

.SH COMMANDS
.TP \w'abcd'u
.B status
Display tha current socket status flags.
.TP
.B config
Display tha socket configuration, includin juice settings, interrupt
and I/O window settings, n' configuration registers.
\-\-not yet implemented
.TP
.B ident
Display card identification shiznit, includin product
identification strings, manufacturer ID codes, n' function ID codes.
Not yet implemented fo' cardbus cards. Use lspci instead.
.TP
.B info
Much like tha \fBident\fR command yo, but its output is formatted as a
seriez of Bourne-stype shell variable definitions fo' use up in scripts.
Not yet implemented fo' cardbus cards.
.TP
.B ls
Display extended debuggin shiznit bout tha PCMCIA sockets and
devices present up in tha system.
.TP
.B suspend
Shut down n' then disable juice fo' a socket.
.TP
.B resume
Restore juice ta a socket, n' re-configure fo' use.
.TP
.TP
.B eject
Notify all client drivers dat dis card is ghon be ejected, then cut
power ta tha socket.
.TP
.B insert
Notify all client drivers dat dis card has just been inserted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Show version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Increase tha verbositizzle of the
.B ls
command.
Givin dis option twice increases verbositizzle further.

.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Ritz \- daniel.ritz@gmx.ch
.br
based upon tha original gangsta cardctl playa page by
.br
Dizzy Hindz \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
