.TH PCSCD 8 "January 2007" Muscle "PC/SC Lite"
.SH NAME
pcscd \- PC/SC Smart Card Daemon
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcscd
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -a ", " \-\-apdu
log APDUs n' SW rockin tha debug method (see
.BR \-\-debug ).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " \fIfile\fP"
Specifies tha file \fIfile\fP as a alternate location for
.IR /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-foreground
Runs pcscd up in tha foreground n' sendz log lyrics ta stderr instead of
syslog(3).
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-color
force use of colored logs.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
use tha lowest log level fo' realz. Any log message of dis level or above will be
sent ta stderr or syslog(3) dependin on tha use of
.BR \-\-foreground .
.TP
.B \-\-info
use info log level. This is tha default log level.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-error
use error log level.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-critical
use critical log level.
.PP
Da log levels is ordered as: debug < info < error < critical. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Use a
log level l will log dis level n' all tha levels above dat shit.
.TP
.B --force-reader-polling
ignore tha IFD_GENERATE_HOTPLUG reader capability
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-max-thread
maximum number of threadz (default 200).

This is tha maximum number of clients (SCardEstablishContext) dat pcscd
can handle.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-max-card-handle-per-thread
maximum number of card handle per thread (default: 200).

This is tha maximum number of card handle (SCardConnect) per client
(SCardEstablishContext).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-max-card-handle-per-reader
maximum number of card handle per reader (default: 200)

This is tha maximum number of card handle (SCardConnect) per reader.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays shiznit bout tha pcscd command line
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Displays tha program version number
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-hotplug
Ask pcscd ta rescan tha STD buses fo' added or removed readaz n' re-read
the
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file ta detect added or removed non-STD readaz (serial or PCMCIA).
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
pcscd is tha daemon program fo' pcsc-lite. Well shiiiit, it aint nuthin but a resource manager that
coordinates communications wit smart-ass card readaz n' smart-ass cardz and
cryptographic tokens dat is connected ta tha system.
.PP
It allows applications ta access smart-ass cardz n' readaz rockin the
winscard API but without knowin detailz of tha card or reader.
.PP
pcscd coordinates tha loadin of drivers fo' card readers.
.
.SH "SERIAL SMART CARD READER DRIVERS"
Smart card reader drivers is placed up in the
.I /usr/lib64/pcsc/drivers
directory. Each driver is simply an
.I .so
file.  pcscd locates tha driver rockin the
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file.  See the
.BR reader.conf (5)
manual page fo' mo' shiznit.
Drivers is available at \fIhttp://www.musclecard.com/drivers.html\fP.
.
.SH "STD SMART CARD READER DRIVERS"
STD smart-ass card reader drivers is located in
.I /usr/lib64/pcsc/drivers
directory as a funky-ass bundle. Yo ass shall not add a STD driver in
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file.
.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
: Reader configuration file
.PP
.I /var/run/pcscd/pcscd.pid
: process id of tha hustlin pcscd
.PP
.I /usr/lib64/pcsc/drivers
: directory containin bundlez fo' STD drivers
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bundleTool (8),
.BR reader.conf (5),
.BR syslog (3)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Dizzy Corcoran <corcoran@musclecard.com> n' Ludovic Rousseau
<ludovic.rousseau@free.fr>
