.TH PICKUP 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
pickup
\-
Postfix local mail pickup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpickup\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon waits fo' hints dat freshly smoked up mail has been
dropped tha fuck into tha \fBmaildrop\fR directory, n' feedz it tha fuck into the
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon.
Ill-formatted filez is deleted without notifyin tha originator.
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
None. Da \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon do not interact with
the outside ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon is moderately securitizzle sensitive. Well shiiiit, it runs
with fixed low privilege n' can run up in a cold-ass lil chrooted environment.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat tha program readz filez from potentially straight-up shitty users.
Da \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon opens no filez fo' writing, is careful about
what filez it opens fo' reading, n' do not straight-up bust a nut on any data
that is busted ta its hood steez endpoint.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon copies mail from file ta tha \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It could avoid message copyin overhead by bustin  a gangbangin' file
descriptor instead of file data yo, but then tha already complex
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon would gotta deal wit unfiltered user data.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
As tha \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon be a relatively long-runnin process, up
to a minute may pass before a \fBmain.cf\fR chizzle takes effect.
Use tha command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBcontent_filta (empty)\fR"
Afta tha message is queued, bust tha entire message ta the
specified \fItransport:destination\fR.
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBline_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Upon input, long lines is chopped up tha fuck into piecez of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines is reconstructed.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
cleanup(8), message canonicalization
sendmail(1), Sendmail-compatible intercourse
postdrop(1), mail postin agent
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
