'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH PIDOF 8 "01 Sep 1998" "" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
pidof -- find tha process ID of a hustlin program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pidof
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR omitpid[,omitpid..] ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR omitpid[,omitpid..].. ]
.B program
.RB [ program.. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pidof
findz tha process idz (pids) of tha named programs. Well shiiiit, it prints them
idz on tha standard output. This program is on some systems used in
run-level chizzle scripts, especially when tha system has a
\fISystem-V\fP like \fIrc\fP structure. In dat case these scripts are
located up in /etc/rc?.d, where ? is tha runlevel. If tha system has
a
.B start-stop-daemon
(8) program dat should be used instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-s
Single blasted - dis instructs tha program ta only return one \fIpid\fP.
.IP \-c
Only return process idz dat is hustlin wit tha same root directory.
This option is ignored fo' non-root users, as they is ghon be unable ta check
the current root directory of processes they do not own.
.IP \-n
Avoid
.BR stat (2)
system function call on all binaries which is located on network
based file systems like
.BR NFS .
Instead of rockin dis option tha the variable
.B PIDOF_NETFS
may be set n' exported.
.IP \-x
Scripts too - dis causes tha program ta also return process idz of
shells hustlin tha named scripts.
.IP "-o \fIomitpid\fP"
Tells \fIpidof\fP ta omit processes wit dat process id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da special
pid \fB%PPID\fP can be used ta name tha parent process of tha \fIpidof\fP
program, up in other lyrics tha callin shell or shell script.
.IP -m
When used wit -o, will also omit any processes dat have tha same
argv[0] n' argv[1] as any explicitly omitted process ids. This can be
used ta avoid multiple shell scripts concurrently callin pidof returning
each otherz pids.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
At least one program was found wit tha axed name.
.TP
.B 1
No program was found wit tha axed name.
.SH NOTES
\fIpidof\fP is straight-up tha same program as \fIkillall5\fP;
the program behaves accordin ta tha name under which it is called.
.PP
When \fIpidof\fP is invoked wit a gangbangin' full pathname ta tha program it
should find tha pid of, it is reasonably safe. Otherwise it is possible
that it returns pidz of hustlin programs dat happen ta have tha same name
as tha program you afta but is straight-up other programs. Note that
that tha executable name of hustlin processes is calculated with
.BR readlink (2),
so symbolic links ta executablez will also match.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR killall5 (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
