.TH PIPE 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
pipe
\-
Postfix delivery ta external command
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpipe\fR [generic Postfix daemon options] command_attributes...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBpipe\fR(8) daemon processes requests from tha Postfix queue
manager ta serve up lyrics ta external commands.
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Message attributes like fuckin sender address, recipient address and
next-hop host name can be specified as command-line macros dat are
expanded before tha external command is executed.

Da \fBpipe\fR(8) daemon thugged-out shiznit queue filez n' marks recipients
as finished, or it informs tha queue manager dat delivery should
be tried again n' again n' again at a lata time. Delivery status reports is sent
to tha \fBbounce\fR(8), \fBdefer\fR(8) or \fBtrace\fR(8) daemon as
appropriate.
.SH "SINGLE-RECIPIENT DELIVERY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Some destinations cannot handle mo' than one recipient per
delivery request. Examplez is pagers or fax machines.
In addition, multi-recipient delivery is undesirable when
prependin a \fBDelivered-to:\fR or \fBX-Original-To:\fR
message header.

To prevent Postfix from bustin  multiple recipients per delivery
request, specify
.sp
.nf
    \fItransport\fB_destination_recipient_limit = 1\fR
.fi

in tha Postfix \fBmain.cf\fR file, where \fItransport\fR
is tha name up in tha straight-up original gangsta column of tha Postfix \fBmaster.cf\fR
entry fo' tha pipe-based delivery transport.
.SH "COMMAND ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da external command attributes is given up in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR
file all up in tha end of a steez definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da syntax be as bigs up:
.IP "\fBchroot=\fIpathname\fR (optional)"
Change tha process root directory n' hustlin directory to
the named directory. This happens before switchin ta the
privileges specified wit tha \fBuser\fR attribute, and
before executin tha optionizzle \fBdirectory=\fIpathname\fR
directive. Delivery is deferred up in case of failure.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.3.
.IP "\fBdirectory=\fIpathname\fR (optional)"
Change ta tha named directory before executin tha external command.
Da directory must be accessible fo' tha user specified wit the
\fBuser\fR attribute (see below).
Da default hustlin directory is \fB$queue_directory\fR.
Delivery is deferred up in case of failure.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP "\fBeol=\fIstring\fR (optional, default: \fB\en\fR)"
Da output record delimiter n' shit. Typically one would use either
\fB\er\en\fR or \fB\en\fR. Da usual C-style backslash escape
sequences is recognized: \fB\ea \eb \ef \en \er \et \ev
\e\fIddd\fR (up ta three octal digits) n' \fB\e\e\fR.
.IP "\fBflags=BDFORXhqu.>\fR (optional)"
Optionizzle message processin flags. By default, a message is
copied unchanged.
.RS
.IP \fBB\fR
Append a funky-ass blank line all up in tha end of each message. This is required
by some mail user agents dat recognize "\fBFrom \fR" lines only
when preceded by a funky-ass blank line.
.IP \fBD\fR
Prepend a "\fBDelivered-To: \fIrecipient\fR" message header wit the
envelope recipient address. Note: fo' dis ta work, the
\fItransport\fB_destination_recipient_limit\fR must be 1
(see SINGLE-RECIPIENT DELIVERY above fo' details).
.sp
Da \fBD\fR flag also enforces loop detection (Postfix 2.5 n' later):
if a message already gotz nuff a \fBDelivered-To:\fR header
with tha same recipient address, then tha message is
returned as undeliverable. Da address comparison is case
insensitive.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.0.
.IP \fBF\fR
Prepend a "\fBFrom \fIsender time_stamp\fR" envelope header to
the message content.
This is expected by, fo' example, \fBUUCP\fR software.
.IP \fBO\fR
Prepend a "\fBX-Original-To: \fIrecipient\fR" message header
with tha recipient address as given ta Postfix. Note: fo' dis to
work, tha \fItransport\fB_destination_recipient_limit\fR must be 1
(see SINGLE-RECIPIENT DELIVERY above fo' details).
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.0.
.IP \fBR\fR
Prepend a \fBReturn-Path:\fR message header wit tha envelope sender
address.
.IP \fBX\fR
Indicate dat tha external command performs final delivery.
This flag affects tha status reported up in "success" DSN
(delivery status notification) lyrics, n' chizzlez it
from "relayed" tha fuck into "delivered".
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.5.
.IP \fBh\fR
Fold tha command-line \fB$original_recipient\fR and
\fB$recipient\fR address domain part
(text ta tha right of tha right-most \fB@\fR character) to
lower case; fold tha entire command-line \fB$domain\fR and
\fB$nexthop\fR host or domain shiznit ta lower case.
This is recommended fo' delivery via \fBUUCP\fR.
.IP \fBq\fR
Quote white space n' other special charactas up in tha command-line
\fB$sender\fR, \fB$original_recipient\fR n' \fB$recipient\fR
address localparts (text ta the
left of tha right-most \fB@\fR character), accordin ta a 8-bit
transparent version of RFC 822.
This is recommended fo' delivery via \fBUUCP\fR or \fBBSMTP\fR.
.sp
Da result is compatible wit tha address parsin of command-line
recipients by tha Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) mail submission command.
.sp
Da \fBq\fR flag affects only entire addresses, not tha partial
address shiznit from tha \fB$user\fR, \fB$extension\fR or
\fB$mailbox\fR command-line macros.
.IP \fBu\fR
Fold tha command-line \fB$original_recipient\fR and
\fB$recipient\fR address localpart (text to
the left of tha right-most \fB@\fR character) ta lower case.
This is recommended fo' delivery via \fBUUCP\fR.
.IP \fB.\fR
Prepend "\fB.\fR" ta lines startin wit "\fB.\fR". This is needed
by, fo' example, \fBBSMTP\fR software.
.IP \fB>\fR
Prepend "\fB>\fR" ta lines startin wit "\fBFrom \fR". This is expected
by, fo' example, \fBUUCP\fR software.
.RE
.IP "\fBnull_sender\fR=\fIreplacement\fR (default: MAILER-DAEMON)"
Replace tha null sender address (typically used fo' delivery
status notifications) wit tha specified text
when expandin tha \fB$sender\fR command-line macro, and
when generatin a From_ or Return-Path: message header.

If tha null sender replacement text be a non-empty string
then it be affected by tha \fBq\fR flag fo' address quoting
in command-line arguments.

Da null sender replacement text may be empty; dis form
is recommended fo' content filtas dat feed mail back into
Postfix. Da empty sender address aint affected by the
\fBq\fR flag fo' address quotin up in command-line arguments.
.sp
Caution: a null sender address is easily mis-parsed by
naive software. For example, when tha \fBpipe\fR(8) daemon
executes a cold-ass lil command such as:
.sp
.nf
    \fIWrong\fR: command -f$sender -- $recipient
.fi
.IP
the command will mis-parse tha -f option value when the
sender address be a null string.  For erect parsing,
specify \fB$sender\fR as a argument by itself:
.sp
.nf
    \fIRight\fR: command -f $sender -- $recipient
.fi
.IP
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.3.
.IP "\fBsize\fR=\fIsize_limit\fR (optional)"
Don't serve up lyrics dat exceed dis size limit (in
bytes); return dem ta tha sender instead.
.IP "\fBuser\fR=\fIusername\fR (required)"
.IP "\fBuser\fR=\fIusername\fR:\fIgroupname\fR"
Execute tha external command wit tha user ID n' crew ID of the
specified \fIusername\fR.  Da software refuses ta execute
commandz wit root privileges, or wit tha privilegez of the
mail system balla n' shit. If \fIgroupname\fR is specified, the
correspondin crew ID is used instead of tha crew ID of
\fIusername\fR.
.IP "\fBargv\fR=\fIcommand\fR... (required)"
Da command ta be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This must be specified as the
last command attribute.
Da command is executed directly, i.e. without interpretation of
shell meta charactas by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command interpreter.
.sp
In tha command argument vector, tha followin macros is recognized
and replaced wit correspondin shiznit from tha Postfix queue
manager delivery request.
.sp
In addizzle ta tha form ${\fIname\fR}, tha forms $\fIname\fR and
$(\fIname\fR) is also recognized. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Specify \fB$$\fR where a single
\fB$\fR is wanted.
.RS
.IP \fB${\fBclient_address\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha remote client network address.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBclient_helo\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha remote client HELO command parameter.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBclient_hostname\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha remote client hostname.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBclient_port\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha remote client TCP port number.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.5.
.IP \fB${\fBclient_protocol\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha remote client protocol.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBdomain\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha domain portion of tha recipient
address.  For example, wit a address \fIuser+foo@domain\fR
the domain is \fIdomain\fR.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBh\fR flag fo' case folding.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.5.
.IP \fB${\fBextension\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha extension part of a recipient address.
For example, wit a address \fIuser+foo@domain\fR tha extension is
\fIfoo\fR.
.sp
A command-line argument dat gotz nuff \fB${\fBextension\fR}\fR expands
into as nuff command-line arguments as there be recipients.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBu\fR flag fo' case folding.
.IP \fB${\fBmailbox\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha complete local part of a recipient address.
For example, wit a address \fIuser+foo@domain\fR tha mailbox is
\fIuser+foo\fR.
.sp
A command-line argument dat gotz nuff \fB${\fBmailbox\fR}\fR
expandz ta as nuff command-line arguments as there be recipients.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBu\fR flag fo' case folding.
.IP \fB${\fBnexthop\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha next-hop hostname.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBh\fR flag fo' case folding.
.IP \fB${\fBoriginal_recipient\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha complete recipient address before any
address rewritin or aliasing.
.sp
A command-line argument dat gotz nuff
\fB${\fBoriginal_recipient\fR}\fR expandz ta as many
command-line arguments as there be recipients.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBhqu\fR flags fo' quoting
and case folding.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.5.
.IP \fB${\fBrecipient\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha complete recipient address.
.sp
A command-line argument dat gotz nuff \fB${\fBrecipient\fR}\fR
expandz ta as nuff command-line arguments as there be recipients.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBhqu\fR flags fo' quoting
and case folding.
.IP \fB${\fBsasl_method\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha name of tha SASL authentication
mechanizzle up in tha AUTH command when tha Postfix SMTP server
received tha message.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBsasl_sender\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha SASL sender name (i.e. tha original
submitta as per RFC 4954) up in tha MAIL FROM command when
the Postfix SMTP server received tha message.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBsasl_username\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha SASL user name up in tha AUTH command
when tha Postfix SMTP server received tha message.
.sp
This feature be available az of Postfix 2.2.
.IP \fB${\fBsender\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha envelope sender address. By default,
the null sender address expandz ta MAILER-DAEMON; dis can
be chizzled wit tha \fBnull_sender\fR attribute, as busted lyrics about
above.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBq\fR flag fo' quoting.
.IP \fB${\fBsize\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta Postfixz scam of tha message size, which
is a approximation of tha size of tha message as delivered.
.IP \fB${\fBuser\fR}\fR
This macro expandz ta tha username part of a recipient address.
For example, wit a address \fIuser+foo@domain\fR tha username
part is \fIuser\fR.
.sp
A command-line argument dat gotz nuff \fB${\fBuser\fR}\fR expands
into as nuff command-line arguments as there be recipients.
.sp
This shiznit is modified by tha \fBu\fR flag fo' case folding.
.RE
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 3463 (Enhanced status codes)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Command exit status codes is sposed ta fuckin
follow tha conventions defined up in <\fBsysexits.h\fR>.
Exit status 0 means aiiight successful completion.

In tha case of a non-zero exit status, a limited amount of
command output is reported up in a delivery status notification.
When tha output begins wit a 4.X.X or 5.X.X enhanced status
code, tha status code takes precedence over tha non-zero
exit status (Postfix version 2.3 n' later).

Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
Corrupted message filez is marked so dat tha queue manager
can move dem ta tha \fBcorrupt\fR queue fo' further inspection.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
This program needz a thugged-out dual personalitizzle 1) ta access tha private
Postfix queue n' IPC mechanisms, n' 2) ta execute external
commandz as tha specified user n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is therefore securitizzle sensitive.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBpipe\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
In tha text below, \fItransport\fR is tha straight-up original gangsta field up in a
\fBmaster.cf\fR entry.
.IP "\fItransport\fB_destination_concurrency_limit ($default_destination_concurrency_limit)\fR"
Limit tha number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination,
for delivery via tha named \fItransport\fR.
Da limit is enforced by tha Postfix queue manager.
.IP "\fItransport\fB_destination_recipient_limit ($default_destination_recipient_limit)\fR"
Limit tha number of recipients per message delivery, fo' delivery
via tha named \fItransport\fR.
Da limit is enforced by tha Postfix queue manager.
.IP "\fItransport\fB_time_limit ($command_time_limit)\fR"
Limit tha time fo' delivery ta external command, fo' delivery via
the named \fItransport\fR.
Da limit is enforced by tha pipe delivery agent.

Postfix 2.4 n' lata support a suffix dat specifies the
time unit: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days),
w (weeks). Da default time unit is seconds.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBexport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment variablez dat a Postfix process will export
to non-Postfix processes.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBrecipient_delimita (empty)\fR"
Da separator between user names n' address extensions (user+foo).
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
