.TH PIVOT_ROOT 8 "August 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
pivot_root \- chizzle tha root filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pivot_root
.I new_root put_old
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpivot_root\fP moves tha root file system of tha current process ta the
directory \fIput_old\fP n' make \fInew_root\fP tha freshly smoked up root file system.
Since \fBpivot_root\fP(8) simply calls \fBpivot_root\fP(2), we refer to
the playa page of tha latta fo' further details.

Note that, dependin on tha implementation of \fBpivot_root\fP, root and
cwd of tha calla may or may not chizzle. Da followin be a sequence for
invokin \fBpivot_root\fP dat works up in either case, assumin that
\fBpivot_root\fP n' \fBchroot\fP is up in tha current \fBPATH\fP:
.sp
cd \fInew_root\fP
.br
pivot_root . \fIput_old\fP
.br
exec chroot . \fIcommand\fP
.sp
Note dat \fBchroot\fP must be available under tha oldschool root n' under tha new
root, cuz \fBpivot_root\fP may or may not have implicitly chizzled the
root directory of tha shell.

Note dat \fBexec chroot\fP chizzlez tha hustlin executable, which is
necessary if tha oldschool root directory should be unmounted afterwards.
Also note dat standard input, output, n' error may still point ta a
device on tha oldschool root file system, keepin it busy. They can easily be
changed when invokin \fBchroot\fP (see below; note tha absence of
leadin slashes ta make it work whether \fBpivot_root\fP has chizzled the
shellz root or not).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Change tha root file system ta /dev/hda1 from a interactizzle shell:
.sp
.nf
mount /dev/hda1 /new-root
cd /new-root
pivot_root . old-root
exec chroot . sh <dev/console >dev/console 2>&1
umount /old-root
.fi
.sp
Mount tha freshly smoked up root file system over NFS from 10.0.0.1:/my_root n' run
\fBinit\fP:
.sp
.nf
ifconfig lo 127.0.0.1 up   # fo' portmap
# configure Ethernet or such
portmap   # fo' lockd (implicitly started by mount)
mount -o ro 10.0.0.1:/my_root /mnt
killall portmap   # portmap keeps oldschool root busy
cd /mnt
pivot_root . old_root
exec chroot . sh -c 'umount /old_root; exec /sbin/init' \\
  <dev/console >dev/console 2>&1
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chroot (1),
.BR mount (8),
.BR pivot_root (2),
.BR switch_root (8),
.BR umount (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da pivot_root command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
