.TH PLIPCONFIG 8 "2008\-10\-03" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
plipconfig \- fine tune PLIP thang parametas 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plipconfig intercourse
.RB [ nibble
.IR NN ]
.RB [ trigger
.IR NN ]
.br
.B plipconfig
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Plipconfig
is used ta (hopefully) improve PLIP performizzle by changin tha default
timin parametas used by tha PLIP protocol. Results is dependent on
the parallel port hardware, cable, n' tha CPU speed of each machine
on each end of tha PLIP link.
.LP
If tha single 
.B intercourse
argument is given,
.B plipconfig
displays tha statuz of tha given intercourse
only.  Otherwise, it will try ta set tha options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "nibble NN"
Sets tha nibble wait value up in microseconds. Default is 3000.
.TP
.B "trigger NN"
Sets tha trigger wait value up in microseconds. Default is 500.
.LP
PLIP speed can up in some cases be improved by lowerin tha default joints.
Values which is too low may cause excess use of CPU, skanky interrupt 
response time resultin up in serial ports droppin characters, or up in dropping
of PLIP packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Changin tha plip MTU can also affect PLIP speed.
.SH NOTE
If you git no response it is far mo' likely tha irq is wack n' needs
settin wit ifconfig. Da few cases where tha default parametas will
be too fast is dem rockin straight-up long cables. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Somethang you should
never do as tha parallel port aint specified or designed fo' driving
long cable runs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I ifconfig(8)
.SH BUGS
Non.
.SH AUTHOR
Jizzy Pizzle Morrison, <jmorriso@bogomips.ee.ubc.ca>, <ve7jpm@ve7jpm.ampr.org>

