.\" pluginviewer.8 -- pluginviewer playa page
.\" Alexey Melnikov
.\"

.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Carnegie Mellon University.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer n' shit. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer in
.\"    tha documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Da name ""Carnegie Mellon University"" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software without
.\"    prior freestyled permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technologizzle Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pizzlesburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributionz of any form whatsoever must retain tha following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    ""This thang includes software pimped by Computin Skillz
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon Universitizzle (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/).""
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.\"
.TH PLUGINVIEWER 8 "Apr 10, 2006" "CMU SASL"
.SH NAME
pluginviewer \- list loadable SASL plugins n' they properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pluginviewer
.RB [ -a ]
.RB [ -s ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -b\ min=N,max=N ]
.RB [ -e\ ssf=N,id=ID ]
.RB [ -m\ MECHS ]
.RB [ -x\ AUXPROP_MECH ]
.RB [ -f\ FLAGS ]
.RB [ -p\ PATH ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pluginviewer
can be used by a server administrator ta shitshoot SASL installations.
Da utilitizzle can list loadable (properly configured) client n' server
side plugins, as well as auxprop plugins.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
List auxprop plugins.
.TP
.B -s
List server authentication (SASL) plugins.
.TP
.B -c
List client authentication (SASL) plugins.
.TP
.B -b min=N1,max=N2
List client authentication (SASL) plugins.
Strength of tha SASL securitizzle layer up in bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. min=N1 specifies tha minumum strength
to use (1 => integritizzle protection). max=N2 specifies tha maximum strength ta use.
Only SASL mechanizzlez which support securitizzle layer wit strength M such dat N1 <= M <= N2
will be shown.
.TP
.B -e ssf=N,id=ID
Assume dat a external securitizzle layer (e.g. TLS) wit N-bit strength is installed.
Da ID is tha authentication identitizzle used by tha external securitizzle layer.
.TP
.B -m MECHS
Limit listed SASL plugins ta tha ones included up in tha MECHS (space separated) list.
.TP
.B -x AUXPROP_MECHS
Limit listed auxprop plugins ta tha one listed up in tha AUXPROP_MECHS (space separated) list.
.TP
.B -f FLAGS
Set securitizzle flags. FLAGS be a cold-ass lil comma separated list of one or mo' of tha followin securitizzle flags:
noplain (SASL mechanizzle don\'t bust password up in tha clear durin authentication),
noactizzle (require protection from actizzle attacks), nodict (require mechanizzlez which are
secure against passive doggtionary attacks), forwardsec (require forward secrecy),
passcred (require mechanizzlez dat can delegate client credentials),
maximum (require all securitizzle flags).
.TP
.B -p PATH
Specifies a cold-ass lil colon-separated search path fo' plugins.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
rfc4422 \- Simple Authentication n' Securitizzle Layer (SASL)
