.\"	@(#) $Id: pppdump.8,v 1.2 2004/11/13 12:22:49 paulus Exp $
.TH PPPDUMP 8 "1 April 1999"
.SH NAME
pppdump \- convert PPP record file ta readable format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppdump
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-p
[
.B \-d
]] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-m \fImru
] [
.I file \fR...
]
.ti 12
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pppdump
utilitizzle converts tha filez freestyled rockin tha \fIrecord\fR option of
.B pppd
into a human-readable format.  If one or mo' filenames is specified,
.B pppdump
will read each up in turn; otherwise it will read its standard input.  In
each case tha result is freestyled ta standard output.
.PP
Da options is as bigs up:
.TP
.B \-h
Prints tha bytes busted n' received up in hexadecimal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If neither this
option nor tha \fB\-p\fR option is specified, tha bytes is printed as
the charactas theyselves, wit non-printin n' non-ASCII characters
printed as escape sequences.
.TP
.B \-p
Collects tha bytes busted n' received tha fuck into PPP packets, interpreting
the async HDLC framin n' escape charactas n' checkin tha FCS
(frame check sequence) of each packet.  Da packets is printed as hex
values n' as charactas (non-printable charactas is printed as
`.').
.TP
.B \-d
With tha \fB\-p\fR option, dis option causes
.B pppdump
to decompress packets which done been compressed wit tha BSD-Compress
or Deflate methods.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverses tha direction indicators, so dat `sent' is printed for
bytes or packets received, n' `rcvd' is printed fo' bytes or packets
sent.
.TP
.B \-m \fImru
Use \fImru\fR as tha MRU (maximum receive unit) fo' both directions of
the link when checkin fo' over-length PPP packets (with tha \fB\-p\fR
option).
.SH SEE ALSO
pppd(8)
