.\" LIC: GPL
.TH PPPOE-RELAY 8 "26 January 2001"
.\""
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pppoe-relay \- user-space PPPoE relay agent.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppoe-relay \fR[\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpppoe-relay\fR be a user-space relay agent fo' PPPoE
(Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet) fo' Linux.  \fBpppoe-relay\fR
works up in gangbang wit tha \fBpppoe\fR client n' \fBpppoe-server\fR
server n' shit.  See tha OPERATION section lata up in dis manual for
details on how tha fuck \fBpppoe-relay\fR works.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-S \fIinterface\fR
Addz tha Ethernet intercourse \fIinterface\fR ta tha list of intercourses
managed by \fBpppoe-relay\fR.  Only PPPoE servers may be connected to
this intercourse.

.TP
.B \-C \fIinterface\fR
Addz tha Ethernet intercourse \fIinterface\fR ta tha list of intercourses
managed by \fBpppoe-relay\fR.  Only PPPoE clients may be connected to
this intercourse.

.TP
.B \-B \fIinterface\fR
Addz tha Ethernet intercourse \fIinterface\fR ta tha list of intercourses
managed by \fBpppoe-relay\fR.  Both PPPoE clients n' servers may be
connected ta dis intercourse.

.TP
.B \-n \fInum\fR
Allows at most \fInum\fR concurrent PPPoE sessions.  If not specified,
the default is 5000.  \fInum\fR can range from 1 ta 65534.

.TP
.B \-i \fItimeout\fR
Specifies tha session idle timeout.  If both peers up in a session is idle
for mo' than \fItimeout\fR seconds, tha session is terminated.
If \fItimeout\fR is specified as zero, sessions aint NEVER gonna be terminated
because of idleness.

Note dat tha idle-session expiry routine is never run mo' frequently than
every 30 seconds, so tha timeout be approximate.  Da default value for
\fItimeout\fR is 600 secondz (10 minutes.)

.TP
.B \-F
Da \fB\-F\fR option causes \fBpppoe-relay\fR \fInot\fR ta fork tha fuck into the
background; instead, it remains up in tha foreground.

.TP
.B \-h
Da \fB\-h\fR option prints a funky-ass brief usage message n' exits.

.SH OPERATION

\fBpppoe-relay\fR listens fo' incomin PPPoE PADI frames on all intercourses
specified wit \fB-B\fR or \fB-C\fR options.  When a PADI frame appears,
\fBpppoe-relay\fR addz a Relay-Session-ID tag n' broadcasts tha PADI
on all intercourses specified wit \fB-B\fR or \fB-S\fR options (except the
interface on which tha frame arrived.)

Any PADO frames received is relayed back ta tha client which busted the
PADI (assumin they contain valid Relay-Session-ID tags.)  Likewise,
PADR frames from clients is relayed back ta tha matchin access
concentrator.

When a PADS frame is received, \fBpppoe-relay\fR entas tha two peers'
MAC addresses n' session-IDz tha fuck into a hash table.  (Da session-ID seen
by tha access concentrator may be different from dat peeped by tha client;
\fBpppoe-relay\fR must renumber sessions ta avoid tha possibilitizzle of duplicate
session-ID's.)  Whenever either peer sendz a session frame, \fBpppoe-relay\fR
looks up tha session entry up in tha hash table n' relays tha frame to
the erect peer.

When a PADT frame is received, \fBpppoe-relay\fR relays it ta tha peer
and deletes tha session entry from its hash table.

If a cold-ass lil client n' server crash (or frames is lost), PADT frames may never
be sent, n' \fBpppoe-relay\fRz hash table can fill up wit stale sessions.
Therefore, a session-cleanin routine runs periodically, n' removes old
sessions from tha hash table.  A session is considered "old" if no traffic
has been peeped within \fItimeout\fR seconds.  When a session is deleted cuz
of a timeout, a PADT frame is busted ta each peer ta make certain dat they
are aware tha session has been capped.

.SH EXAMPLE INVOCATIONS

.nf
pppoe-relay -C eth0 -S eth1
.fi

Da example above relays frames between PPPoE clients on tha eth0 network
and PPPoE servers on tha eth1 network.

.nf
pppoe-relay -B eth0 -B eth1
.fi

This example be a transparent relay -- frames is relayed between any mix
of clients n' servers on tha eth0 n' eth1 networks.

.nf
pppoe-relay -S eth0 -C eth1 -C eth2 -C eth3
.fi

This example relays frames between servers on tha eth0 network and
clients on tha eth1, eth2 n' eth3 networks.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBpppoe-relay\fR was freestyled by Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

Da \fBpppoe\fR home page is \fIhttp://www.roaringpenguin.com/pppoe/\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8), pppoe-connect(8), pppd(8), pppoe.conf(5),
pppoe(8), pppoe-setup(8), pppoe-status(8), pppoe-sniff(8), pppoe-server(8)

