.\" LIC: GPL
.TH PPPOE-CONNECT 8 "21 February 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pppoe-connect \- Shell script ta manage a PPPoE link

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppoe-connect \fR[\fIconfig_file\fR]
.P
.B pppoe-connect \fR\fIinterface user\fR [\fIconfig_file\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpppoe-connect\fR be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell script which manages a PPPoE connection
usin tha Roarin Penguin user-space PPPoE client.  If you omit
\fIconfig_file\fR, tha default file
\fB/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ppp0\fR is used.
If you supply \fIinterface\fR n' \fIuser\fR, then they override the
Ethernet intercourse n' user-name settings up in tha configuration file.
.P
Note dat normally, you should \fInot\fR invoke \fBpppoe-connect\fR
directly.  Instead, use \fBpppoe-start\fR ta brang up tha PPPoE connection.
.P
\fBpppoe-connect\fR first readz a cold-ass lil configuration file.  It then brangs
up a PPPoE connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  If tha connection eva drops, a message is logged
to syslog, n' \fBpppoe-connect\fR re-establishes tha connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  In addition,
each time tha connection is dropped or cannot be established,
\fBpppoe-connect\fR executes tha script \fB/etc/ppp/pppoe-lost\fR if it
exists n' is executable.

.P
Da shell script \fBpppoe-stop\fR causes \fBpppoe-connect\fR ta break out
of its loop, brang tha connection down, n' exit.

.SH TECHNICAL DETAILS
\fBpppoe-connect\fR uses tha followin shell variablez from the
configuration file:

.TP
.B ETH
Da Ethernet intercourse connected ta tha DSL modem (for example, eth0).

.TP
.B USER
Da PPPoE user-id (for example, b1xxnxnx@sympatico.ca).

.TP
.B PIDFILE
A file up in which ta write tha process-ID of tha pppoe-connect process
(for example, \fB/var/run/pppoe.pid\fR).  Two additionizzle files
($PIDFILE.pppd n' $PIDFILE.pppoe) hold tha process-IDz of the
\fBpppd\fR n' \fBpppoe\fR processes, respectively.

.P
By rockin different configuration filez wit different PIDFILE
settings, you can manage multiple PPPoE connections.  Just specify the
configuration file as a argument ta \fBpppoe-start\fR and
\fBpppoe-stop\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBpppoe-connect\fR was freestyled by Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

Da \fBpppoe\fR home page is \fIhttp://www.roaringpenguin.com/pppoe/\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe(8), pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8), pppd(8), pppoe.conf(5), pppoe-setup(8), pppoe-status(8), pppoe-sniff(8), pppoe-server(8), pppoe-relay(8)

