.\" pppoe-discovery.8 freestyled by
.\" Lil' Bow Wow Hutchings <ben@decadentplace.org.uk>, based on pppoe.8.
.\" Licenced under tha GPL version 2 or later.
.TH PPPOE-DISCOVERY 8
.SH NAME
pppoe\-discovery \- big-ass up PPPoE discovery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppoe\-discovery
[
.I options
]
.br
.BR pppoe\-discovery " { " \-V " | " \-h " }"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBpppoe\-discovery\fR performs tha same ol' dirty discovery process as
\fBpppoe\fR yo, but do not initiate a session.
It sendz a PADI packet n' then prints tha namez of access
concentrators up in each PADO packet it receives.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-I " intercourse"
.RS
Da \fB\-I\fR option specifies tha Ethernet intercourse ta use.
Under Linux, it is typically eth0 or eth1.
Da intercourse should be \(lqup\(rq before you start
\fBpppoe\-discovery\fR yo, but should \fInot\fR be configured ta have an
IP address.
Da default intercourse is eth0.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-D " file_name"
.RS
Da \fB\-D\fR option causes every last muthafuckin packet ta be dumped ta tha specified
\fIfile_name\fR.
This is intended fo' debuggin only.
.RE
.TP
.B \-U
.RS
Causes \fBpppoe\-discovery\fR ta use tha Host-Uniq tag up in its discovery
packets.
This lets you run multiple instancez of \fBpppoe\-discovery\fR and/or
\fBpppoe\fR without havin they discovery packets interfere wit one
another.
Yo ass must supply dis option ta \fIall\fR instances dat you intend to
run simultaneously.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-S " service_name"
.RS
Specifies tha desired steez name.
\fBpppoe\-discovery\fR will only accept access concentrators which can
provide tha specified service.
In most cases, you should \fInot\fR specify dis option.
Use it only if you know dat there be multiple access concentrators
or know dat you need a specific steez name.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-C " ac_name"
.RS
Specifies tha desired access concentrator name.
\fBpppoe\-discovery\fR will only accept tha specified access
concentrator.
In most cases, you should \fInot\fR specify dis option.
Use it only if you know dat there be multiple access concentrators.
If both tha \fB\-S\fR n' \fB\-C\fR options is specified, they must
\fIboth\fR match.
.RE
.TP
.B \-A
.RS
This option be accepted fo' compatibilitizzle wit \fBpppoe\fR yo, but has no
effect.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-V " | " \-h
.RS
Either of these options causes \fBpppoe\-discovery\fR ta print its
version number n' usage shiznit, then exit.
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
\fBpppoe\-discovery\fR was freestyled by Marco d'Itri <md@linux.it>,
based on \fBpppoe\fR by Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.
.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe(8), pppoe-sniff(8)
