.\" LIC: GPL
.TH PPPOE-SNIFF 8 "3 July 2000"
.\""
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pppoe-sniff \- examine network fo' non-standard PPPoE frames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppoe-sniff \fR[\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpppoe-sniff\fR listens fo' likely-lookin PPPoE PADR n' session frames
and deduces extra options required fo' \fBpppoe(8)\fR ta work.

Some DSL providaz seem ta use non-standard frame types fo' PPPoE frames,
and/or require a cold-ass lil certain value up in tha Service-Name field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  It be often
easier ta sniff dem joints from a machine which can successfully connect
rather than try ta pry dem outta tha DSL provider.

To use \fBpppoe-sniff\fR, you need two computers, a DSL modem and
an Ethernet hub (\fInot\fR a Ethernet switch.)

If tha DSL modem normally connects directly ta yo' computer's
Ethernet card, connect it ta tha "uplink" port on tha Ethernet hub.
Plug two computas tha fuck into aiiight ports on tha hub.  On one computer, run
whatever software tha DSL provider gave you on whatever operating
system tha DSL provider supports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  On tha other computer, run Linux and
log up in as root.

On tha Linux machine, put tha Ethernet intercourse tha fuck into promiscuous mode
and start \fBpppoe-sniff\fR.  If tha ethernet intercourse is \fIeth0\fR,
for example, type these commands:

.nf
	ifconfig eth0 promisc
	pppoe-sniff -I eth0
.fi

On tha other machine, start yo' DSL connection as usual. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Afta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short
time, \fBpppoe-sniff\fR should print recommendations fo' tha value
of \fBPPPOE_EXTRA\fR.  Set dis value up in \fB/etc/ppp/pppoe.conf\fR.
If \fBpppoe-sniff\fR indicates dat suttin' special is required in
\fBPPPOE_EXTRA\fR, please e-mail dis ta \fBpppoe@roaringpenguin.com\fR
along wit tha name of yo' ISP n' tha manufacturer n' model number of
your DSL modem.  This shiznit is ghon be collated n' provided on the
PPPoE wizzy page fo' playas whoz ass aint gots two computers.

Afta \fBpppoe-sniff\fR finishes (or you stop it if it seems hung),
remember ta turn off promiscuous mode:

.nf
	ifconfig eth0 -promisc
.fi

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-I \fIinterface\fR
Da \fB\-I\fR option specifies tha Ethernet intercourse ta use.  Under Linux,
it is typically \fIeth0\fR or \fIeth1\fR.  Da intercourse should be "up"
and up in promiscuous mode before you start \fBpppoe-sniff\fR.

.TP
.B \-V
Da \fB\-V\fR option causes \fBpppoe-sniff\fR ta print its version number and
exit.

.SH BUGS
\fBpppoe-sniff\fR only works on Linux.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBpppoe-sniff\fR was freestyled by Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

Da \fBpppoe\fR home page is \fIhttp://www.roaringpenguin.com/pppoe/\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8), pppoe-connect(8), pppd(8), pppoe.conf(5),
pppoe(8), pppoe-setup(8), pppoe-status(8), pppoe-server(8), pppoe-relay(8)

