.\" LIC: GPL
.TH PPPOE-SERVER 8 "21 June 2008"
.\""
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pppoe-server \- user-space PPPoE server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppoe-server \fR[\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpppoe-server\fR be a user-space server fo' PPPoE (Point-to-Point Protocol
over Ethernet) fo' Linux n' other UNIX systems.  \fBpppoe-server\fR works in
concert wit tha \fBpppoe\fR client ta respond ta PPPoE discovery packets
and set up PPPoE sessions.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-F
Da \fB\-F\fR option causes \fBpppoe-server\fR not ta fork n' become a
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default is ta fork n' become a thugged-out daemon.

.TP
.B \-I \fIinterface\fR
Da \fB\-I\fR option specifies tha Ethernet intercourse ta use.  Under
Linux, it is typically \fIeth0\fR or \fIeth1\fR.  Da intercourse should
be "up" before you start \fBpppoe-server\fR yo, but need not have a IP
address.  Yo ass can supply multiple \fB\-I\fR options if you want the
server ta respond on mo' than one intercourse.

.TP
.B \-X \fIpidfile\fR
This option causes \fBpppoe-server\fR ta write its process ID to
\fIpidfile\fR.  Additionally, it keeps tha file locked so dat only
a single process may be started fo' a given \fIpidfile\fR.

.TP
.B \-q \fI/path/to/pppd\fR
Specifies tha full path ta tha \fBpppd\fR program.  Da default is determined
at compile time.  One use of dis option is ta supply a wrapper program that
modifies tha arguments passed ta pppd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This lets you do thangs not directly
supported by tha server (for example, specify IPv6 addresses.)

.TP
.B \-Q \fI/path/to/pppoe\fR
Specifies tha full path ta tha \fBpppoe\fR program.  Da default is determined
at compile time.  This option is only relevant if yo ass is \fInot\fR
usin kernel-mode PPPoE.

.TP
.B \-T \fItimeout\fR
This option is passed directly ta \fBpppoe\fR; peep \fBpppoe\fR(8) for
details.  If yo ass is rockin kernel-mode PPPoE, dis option has \fIno effect\fR.

.TP
.B \-C \fIac_name\fR
Specifies which name ta report as tha access concentrator name.  If not
supplied, tha host name is used.

.TP
.B \-S \fIname\fR
Offer a steez named \fIname\fR.  Multiple \fB\-S\fR options may
be specified; each one causes tha named steez ta be advertised
in a Service-Name tag up in tha PADO frame.  Da first \fB\-S\fR option
specifies tha default service, n' is used if tha PPPoE client
requests a Service-Name of length zero.

.TP
.B \-m \fIMSS\fR
This option is passed directly ta \fBpppoe\fR; peep \fBpppoe\fR(8) for
details.  If yo ass is rockin kernel-mode PPPoE, dis option has \fIno effect\fR.

.TP
.B \-x \fIn\fR
Limit tha number of sessions per peer MAC address ta \fIn\fR.  If a given
MAC address attempts ta create mo' than \fIn\fR sessions, then its
PADI n' PADR packets is ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you set \fIn\fR ta 0 (the default),
then no limit is imposed on tha number of sessions per peer MAC address.

.TP
.B \-s
This option is passed directly ta \fBpppoe\fR; peep \fBpppoe\fR(8) for
details.  In addition, it causes \fBpppd\fR ta be invoked wit the
\fIsync\fR option.

.TP
.B \-L \fIip\fR
Sets tha local IP address.  This is passed ta spawned \fBpppd\fR processes.
If not specified, tha default is 10.0.0.1.

.TP
.B \-R \fIip\fR
Sets tha startin remote IP address.  As sessions is established,
IP addresses is assigned startin from \fIip\fR.   \fBpppoe-server\fR
automatically keeps track of tha pool of addresses n' passes a
valid remote IP address ta \fBpppd\fR.  If not specified, a startin address
of 10.67.15.1 is used.

.TP
.B \-D
Delegate tha allocation of IP addresses ta \fBpppd\fR.  If specified, no
local n' remote addresses passed ta pppd.

.TP
.B \-N \fInum\fR
Allows at most \fInum\fR concurrent PPPoE sessions.  If not specified,
the default is 64.

.TP
.B \-O \fIfname\fR
This option causes \fBpppoe-server\fR ta tell \fBpppd\fR ta use tha option
file \fIfname\fR instead of tha default \fI/etc/ppp/pppoe-server-options\fR.

.TP
.B \-p \fIfname\fR
Readz tha specified file \fIfname\fR which be a text file consistin of
one IP address per line.  These IP addresses is ghon be assigned ta clients.
Da number of sessions allowed will equal tha number of addresses found
in tha file.  Da \fB\-p\fR option overrides both \fB\-R\fR n' \fB\-N\fR.

In addizzle ta containin IP addresses, tha pool file can contain lines
of tha form:

.nf
	a.b.c.d-e
.fi

which includes all IP addresses from a.b.c.d ta a.b.c.e.  For example,
the line:

.nf
	1.2.3.4-7
.fi

is equivalent to:

.nf
	1.2.3.4
	1.2.3.5
	1.2.3.6
	1.2.3.7
.fi

.TP
.B \-r
Tells tha PPPoE server ta randomly permute session numbers.  Instead of
handin up sessions up in order, tha session numbers is assigned up in an
unpredictable order.

.TP
.B \-u
Tells tha server ta invoke \fBpppd\fR wit tha \fIunit\fR option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Note
that dis option only works fo' \fBpppd\fR version 2.4.0 or newer.

.TP
.B \-o \fIoffset\fR
Instead of numberin PPPoE sessions startin at 1, they is ghon be numbered
startin at \fIoffset\fR+1.  This allows you ta run multiple servers on
a given machine; just make shizzle dat they session numbers do not
overlap.

.TP
.B \-f disc:sess
Da \fB\-f\fR option sets tha Ethernet frame types fo' PPPoE discovery
and session frames.  Da types is specified as hexadecimal numbers
separated by a cold-ass lil colon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Standard PPPoE uses frame types 8863:8864.
\fIYo ass should not use dis option\fR unless yo ass is straight-up sure
the peer yo ass is dealin wit uses non-standard frame types.

.TP
.B \-k
Da \fB\-k\fR option  drops some lyrics ta tha server ta use kernel-mode PPPoE on Linux.
This option be available only on Linux kernels 2.4.0 n' later, and
only if tha server was built wit kernel-mode support.

.TP
.B \-i
Da \fB\-i\fR option  drops some lyrics ta tha server ta straight-up ignore PADI frames
if there be no free session slots.

.TP
.B \-h
Da \fB\-h\fR option prints a funky-ass brief usage message n' exits.

.SH OPERATION

\fBpppoe-server\fR listens fo' incomin PPPoE discovery packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  When
a session is established, it spawns a \fBpppd\fR process.  Da following
options is passed ta \fBpppd\fR:

.nf
nodetach noaccomp nobsdcom nodeflate nopcomp novj novjccomp
default-asyncmap
.fi

In addition, tha local n' remote IP address is set based on the
\fB\-L\fR n' \fB\-R\fR options.  Da \fBpty\fR option is supplied along
with a \fBpppoe\fR command ta initiate tha PPPoE session. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Finally,
additionizzle \fBpppd\fR options can be placed up in tha file
\fB/etc/ppp/pppoe-server-options\fR (which must exist, even if it is just
empty!)

Note dat \fBpppoe-server\fR is meant mainly fo' testin PPPoE clients.
It be \fInot\fR a high-performizzle server meant fo' thang use.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBpppoe-server\fR was freestyled by Dizzy F. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

Da \fBpppoe\fR home page is \fIhttp://www.roaringpenguin.com/pppoe/\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8), pppoe-connect(8), pppd(8), pppoe.conf(5),
pppoe(8), pppoe-setup(8), pppoe-status(8), pppoe-sniff(8), pppoe-relay(8)

