.\"	@(#) $Id: pppstats.8,v 1.4 2004/11/13 12:22:49 paulus Exp $
.TH PPPSTATS 8 "26 June 1995"
.SH NAME
pppstats \- print PPP statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppstats
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-z
] [
.B \-c
.I <count>
] [
.B \-w
.I <secs>
] [
.I intercourse
]
.ti 12
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pppstats
utilitizzle reports PPP\-related statistics at regular intervals fo' the
specified PPP intercourse.  If tha intercourse is unspecified, it will
default ta ppp0.
Da display is split horizontally
into input n' output sections containin columnz of statistics
describin tha propertizzles n' volume of packets received and
transmitted by tha intercourse.
.PP
Da options is as bigs up:
.TP
.B \-a
Display absolute joints rather than deltas.  With dis option, all
reports show statistics fo' tha time since tha link was initiated.
Without dis option, tha second n' subsequent reports show statistics
for tha time since tha last report.
.TP
.B \-c \fIcount
Repeat tha display
.I count
times.  If dis option aint specified, tha default repeat count is 1
if the
.B \-w
option aint specified, otherwise infinity.
.TP
.B \-r
Display additionizzle statistics summarizin tha compression ratio
 bigged up  by tha packet compression algorithm up in use.
.TP
.B \-v
Display additionizzle statistics relatin ta tha performizzle of tha Van
Jacobson TCP header compression algorithm.
.TP
.B \-w \fIwait
Pause
.I wait
secondz between each display.  If dis option aint specified, the
default interval is 5 seconds.
.TP
.B \-z
Instead of tha standard display, show statistics indicatin the
performizzle of tha packet compression algorithm up in use.
.PP
Da followin fieldz is printed on tha input side when the
.B \-z
option aint used:
.TP
.B IN
Da total number of bytes received by dis intercourse.
.TP
.B PACK
Da total number of packets received by dis intercourse.
.TP
.B VJCOMP
Da number of header-compressed TCP packets received by dis intercourse.
.TP
.B VJUNC
Da number of header-uncompressed TCP packets received by this
interface.  Not reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B VJERR
Da number of corrupted or bogus header-compressed TCP packets
received by dis intercourse.  Not reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B VJTOSS
Da number of VJ header-compressed TCP packets dropped on reception by
this intercourse cuz of precedin errors.  Only reported when the
.B \-v
option is specified.
.TP
.B NON-VJ
Da total number of non-TCP packets received by dis intercourse. Only
reported when the
.B \-v
option is specified.
.TP
.B RATIO
Da compression ratio  bigged up  fo' received packets by the
packet compression scheme up in use, defined as tha uncompressed size
divided by tha compressed size.
Only reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B UBYTE
Da total number of bytes received, afta decompression of compressed
packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Only reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.PP
Da followin fieldz is printed on tha output side:
.TP
.B OUT
Da total number of bytes transmitted from dis intercourse.
.TP
.B PACK
Da total number of packets transmitted from dis intercourse.
.TP
.B VJCOMP
Da number of TCP packets transmitted from dis intercourse with
VJ-compressed TCP headers.
.TP
.B VJUNC
Da number of TCP packets transmitted from dis intercourse with
VJ-uncompressed TCP headers.
Not reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B NON-VJ
Da total number of non-TCP packets transmitted from dis intercourse.
Not reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B VJSRCH
Da number of searches fo' tha cached header entry fo' a VJ header
compressed TCP packet.  Only reported when the
.B \-v
option is specified.
.TP
.B VJMISS
Da number of failed searches fo' tha cached header entry fo' a
VJ header compressed TCP packet.  Only reported when the
.B \-v
option is specified.
.TP
.B RATIO
Da compression ratio  bigged up  fo' transmitted packets by the
packet compression scheme up in use, defined as tha size
before compression divided by tha compressed size.
Only reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.TP
.B UBYTE
Da total number of bytes ta be transmitted, before packet compression
is applied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Only reported when the
.B \-r
option is specified.
.PP
When the
.B \-z
option is specified,
.Nm pppstats
instead displays tha followin fields, relatin ta tha packet
compression algorithm currently up in use.  If packet compression is not
in use, these fieldz will all display zeroes.  Da fieldz displayed on
the input side are:
.TP
.B COMPRESSED BYTE
Da number of bytez of compressed packets received.
.TP
.B COMPRESSED PACK
Da number of compressed packets received.
.TP
.B INCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE
Da number of bytez of incompressible packets (that is, dem which
were transmitted up in uncompressed form) received.
.TP
.B INCOMPRESSIBLE PACK
Da number of incompressible packets received.
.TP
.B COMP RATIO
Da recent compression ratio fo' incomin packets, defined as the
uncompressed size divided by tha compressed size (includin both
compressible n' incompressible packets).
.PP
Da fieldz displayed on tha output side are:
.TP
.B COMPRESSED BYTE
Da number of bytez of compressed packets transmitted.
.TP
.B COMPRESSED PACK
Da number of compressed packets transmitted.
.TP
.B INCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE
Da number of bytez of incompressible packets transmitted (that is,
those which was transmitted up in uncompressed form).
.TP
.B INCOMPRESSIBLE PACK
Da number of incompressible packets transmitted.
.TP
.B COMP RATIO
Da recent compression ratio fo' outgoin packets.
.SH SEE ALSO
pppd(8)
