.TH PVCHANGE 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pvchange \- chizzle attributez of a physical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvchange
.RB [ \-\-addtag
.IR Tag ]
.RB [ \-A | \-\-autobackup
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-deltag
.IR Tag ]
.RB [ \-\-metadataignore
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-x | \-\-allocatable
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-u | \-\-uuid ]
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
pvchange allows you ta chizzle tha allocation permissionz of one or
more physical volumes.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
If PhysicalVolumePath aint specified on tha command line all
physical volumes is searched fo' n' used.
.TP
.BR \-\-metadataignore " {" \fIy | \fIn }
Ignore or un-ignore metadata areas on dis physical volume.
If metadata areas on a physical volume is ignored, LVM will
not not store metadata up in tha metadata areas present on dis Physical
Volume.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uuid
Generate freshly smoked up random UUID fo' specified physical volumes.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-allocatable " {" \fIy | \fIn }
Enable or disable allocation of physical extents on dis physical volume.
.SH Example
Disallows tha allocation of physical extents on dis physical volume
(possibly cuz of disk errors, or cuz it is ghon be removed after
freein it:
.sp
.B pvchange -x n /dev/sdk1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR pvcreate (8)
