.TH PVDISPLAY 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pvdisplay \- display attributez of a physical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvdisplay
.RB [ \-c | \-\-colon ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-maps ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-short ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hsbkmgtHKMGT ]
.RB [ \-v [ v ]| \-\-verbose
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath ...]]
.br

.br
.B pvdisplay
.BR \-C | \-\-columns
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o | \-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field [ ,Field ...]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | \- ] Key1 [ , [ + | \- ] Key2 ...
.RI ]]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-v [ v ]| \-\-verbose
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
pvdisplay allows you ta peep tha attributez of one or mo' physical volumes
like size, physical extent size, space used fo' tha volume crew descriptor
area n' so on.
.P
\fBpvs\fP(8) be a alternatizzle dat serves up tha same shiznit 
in tha steez of \fBps\fP(1).
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-columns
Display output up in columns, tha equivalent of \fBpvs\fP(8).  See
\fBpvs\fP(8) fo' a thugged-out description of other options wit dis form of
\fBpvdisplay\fP.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-colon
Generate colon separated output fo' easier parsin up in scripts or programs.
N.B. \fBpvs\fP(8) serves up considerably mo' control over tha output.
.nf

Da joints are:

* physical volume thang name
* volume crew name
* physical volume size up in sectors
* internal physical volume number (obsolete)
* physical volume status
* physical volume (not) allocatable
* current number of logical volumes on dis physical volume
* physical extent size up in kilobytes
* total number of physical extents
* free number of physical extents
* allocated number of physical extents

.fi
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-short
Only display tha size of tha given physical volumes.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-maps
Display tha mappin of physical extents ta logical volumes and
logical extents.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR pvs (8),
.BR pvcreate (8),
.BR lvcreate (8),
.BR vgcreate (8)
