.TH PVS 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pvs \- report shiznit bout physical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvs
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-nameprefixes ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o | \-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field [ ,Field ...]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | \- ] Key1 [ , [ + | \- ] Key2 ...]]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-rows ]
.RB [ \-\-segments ]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-\-unquoted ]
.RB [ \-v|\-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version]
.RI [ PhysicalVolume
.RI [ PhysicalVolume ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
pvs produces formatted output bout physical volumes.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Include shiznit up in tha output bout devices dat aint been
initialized wit \fBpvcreate\fP(8).
.TP
.B \-\-aligned
Use wit \fB\-\-separator\fP ta align tha output columns.
.TP
.B \-\-nameprefixes
Add a "LVM2_" prefix plus tha field name ta tha output.  Useful
with \fB\-\-noheadings\fP ta produce a list of field=value pairs dat can
be used ta set environment variablez (for example, up in \fBudev\fP(7) rules).
.TP
.B \-\-noheadings
Suppress tha headings line dat is normally tha straight-up original gangsta line of output.
Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-nosuffix
Suppress tha suffix on output sizes.  Use wit \fB\-\-units\fP
(except h n' H) if processin tha output.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-options
Comma-separated ordered list of columns.  Precede tha list wit '\fI+\fP'
to append ta tha default selection of columns.
.IP
Use \fB-o pv_all\fP ta select all physical volume columns,
and \fB-o pvseg_all\fP ta select all Physical Volume segment columns.
.IP
Use \fB-o help\fP ta view tha full list of columns available.
.IP
Column names include: pv_fmt, pv_uuid, dev_size, pv_name, pv_mda_free,
pv_mda_size, pv_ba_start, pv_ba_size, pe_start, pv_size, pv_free, pv_used,
pv_attr, pv_pe_count, pv_pe_alloc_count, pv_tags, pv_mda_count,
pv_mda_used_count, pvseg_start, n' pvseg_size
.IP
With \fB\-\-segments\fP, any "pvseg_" prefixes is optional; otherwise any
"pv_" prefixes is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Columns mentioned up in \fBvgs\fP(8) can also
be chosen. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da pv_attr bits are: (a)llocatable, e(x)ported n' (m)issing.
.TP
.B \-\-segments
Produces one line of output fo' each contiguous allocation of space on each
Physical Volume, showin tha start (pvseg_start) n' length (pvseg_size) in
unitz of physical extents.
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-sort
Comma-separated ordered list of columns ta sort by.  Replaces tha default
selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Precede any column wit '\fI\-\fP' fo' a reverse sort on that
column.
.TP
.B \-\-rows
Output columns as rows.
.TP
.B \-\-separator \fISeparator
Strin ta use ta separate each column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-unbuffered
Produce output immediately without sortin or alignin tha columns properly.
.TP
.B \-\-units \fIhHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE
All sizes is output up in these units: (h)uman-readable, (b)ytes, (s)ectors,
(k)ilobytes, (m)egabytes, (g)igabytes, (t)erabytes, (p)etabytes, (e)xabytes.
Capitalise ta use multiplez of 1000 (S.I.) instead of 1024.  Can also specify
custom units e.g. \-\-units 3M
.TP
.B \-\-unquoted
When used wit \fB\-\-nameprefixes\fP, output joints up in tha field=value
pairs is not quoted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR pvdisplay (8),
.BR lvs (8),
.BR vgs (8)
