.TH PVSCAN 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pvscan \- scan all disks fo' physical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvscan
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-exported ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-novolumegroup ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-short ]
.RB [ \-u | \-\-uuid ]
.BR

.B pvscan
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.B \-\-cache
.RB [ \-a | \-\-activate " " \fIay ]
.RB [ \-b | \-\-background ]
.RB [ \-\-major
.I major
.B \-\-minor
.I minor
|
.IR DevicePath
|
.IR major:minor ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
pvscan scans all supported LVM block devices up in tha system for
physical volumes.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exported
Only show physical volumes belongin ta exported volume groups.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-novolumegroup
Only show physical volumes not belongin ta any volume group.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-short
Short listin format.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uuid
Show UUIDs (Uniform Unique Identifiers) up in addizzle ta thang special names.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-activate " " \fIay
Together wit tha shiznit already cached up in lvmetad, automatically activate
any logical volumes dat become activatable afta tha scan done on one or mo' devices.
Da logical volume ta autoactivate is matched against the
activation/auto_activation_volume_list set up in lvm.conf. If dis list aint set, then
all volumes is considered fo' autoactivation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da autoactivation aint yet
supported fo' logical volumes dat is part of partial or clustered volume groups.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-background
Run tha command up in tha background.
.TP
.BR \-\-cache " [" \-\-major " " \fImajor " " \-\-minor " " \fIminor " | " \fIDevicePath " | " \fImajor:minor " ]..."
Scan one or mo' devices n' instruct tha lvmetad daemon ta update its cached
state accordingly.  Called internally by udev rules.
All devices listed explicitly is processed \fBregardless\fP of any device
filtas set rockin \fBdevices/filter\fP configuration setting. To filter
devices even up in dis case, tha \fBdevices/global_filter\fP must be used.
If lvmetad has not yet cached any metadata or tha filtas have recently been
changed, then all devices may be scanned, effectively ignorin tha rest of
the command line.  Otherwise, if all tha devices referenced on tha command line
contain metadata up in tha default lvm2 format, other devices is not accessed.
If metadata freestyled rockin tha obsolete GFS pool format is encountered, dis is
ignored n' so lvmetad should not be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR lvmetad (8),
.BR pvcreate (8),
.BR pvdisplay (8)
