.TH QMQPD 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
qmqpd
\-
Postfix QMQP server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBqmqpd\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix QMQP server receives one message per connection.
Each message is piped all up in tha \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon, n' is placed tha fuck into tha \fBincoming\fR queue as one
single queue file.  Da program expects ta be run from the
\fBmaster\fR(8) process manager.

Da QMQP server implements one access policy: only explicitly
authorized client hosts is allowed ta use tha service.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da QMQP server is moderately security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it talks ta QMQP
clients n' ta DNS servers on tha network. Da QMQP server can be
run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da QMQP protocol serves up only one server reply per message
delivery. Well shiiiit, it is therefore not possible ta reject individual
recipients.

Da QMQP protocol requires tha server ta receive tha entire
message before replying. If a message is malformed, or if any
netstrin component is longer than acceptable, Postfix replies
immediately n' closes tha connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well shiiiit, it is left up ta the
client ta handle tha thang.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as \fBqmqpd\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBcontent_filta (empty)\fR"
Afta tha message is queued, bust tha entire message ta the
specified \fItransport:destination\fR.
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBline_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Upon input, long lines is chopped up tha fuck into piecez of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines is reconstructed.
.IP "\fBhopcount_limit (50)\fR"
Da maximal number of Received:  message headaz dat be allowed
in tha primary message headers.
.IP "\fBmessage_size_limit (10240000)\fR"
Da maximal size up in bytez of a message, includin envelope shiznit.
.IP "\fBqmqpd_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over tha network.
.SH "TROUBLE SHOOTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_level (2)\fR"
Da increment up in verbose loggin level when a remote client or
server matches a pattern up in tha debug_peer_list parameter.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_list (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of remote client or server hostname or network
address patterns dat cause tha verbose loggin level ta increase
by tha amount specified up in $debug_peer_level.
.IP "\fBsoft_bounce (no)\fR"
Safety net ta keep mail queued dat would otherwise be returned to
the sender.
.SH "TARPIT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBqmqpd_error_delay (1s)\fR"
How tha fuck long tha Postfix QMQP server will pause before bustin  a negative
reply ta tha remote QMQP client.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqmqpd_authorized_clients (empty)\fR"
What remote QMQP clients is allowed ta connect ta tha Postfix QMQP
server port.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.IP "\fBverp_delimiter_filta (-=+)\fR"
Da charactas Postfix accepts as VERP delimita charactas on the
Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command line n' up in SMTP commands.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBqmqpd_client_port_loggin (no)\fR"
Enable loggin of tha remote QMQP client port up in addizzle to
the hostname n' IP address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
http://cr.yp.to/proto/qmqp.html, QMQP protocol
cleanup(8), message canonicalization
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
QMQP_README, Postfix ezmlm-idx howto.
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da qmqpd steez was introduced wit Postfix version 1.1.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
