.TH quotacheck 8 "Fri Jul 20 2001"
.SH NAME
quotacheck \- scan a gangbangin' filesystem fo' disk usage, create, check n' repair quota files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quotacheck
[
.B \-gubcfinvdMmR
] [
.B \-F
.I quota-format
]
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quotacheck
examines each filesystem, buildz a table of current disk usage, and
compares dis table against dat recorded up in tha disk quota file fo' the
filesystem (this step is omitted if option
.B -c
is specified). If any inconsistencies is detected, both tha quota file
and tha current system copy of tha incorrect quotas is updated (the
latta only occurs if a actizzle filesystem is checked which aint advised).
By default, only user quotas is checked.
.B quotacheck
expects each filesystem ta be checked ta have quota filez named
.I [a]quota.user
and
.I [a]quota.group
located all up in tha root of tha associated filesystem.  If a gangbangin' file is not
present, 
.B quotacheck
will create dat shit.
.PP
If tha quota file is corrupted,
.B quotacheck
tries ta save as much data as possible.  Rescuin data may need user
intervention. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. With no additionizzle options
.B quotacheck
will simply exit up in such a thang. When up in interactizzle mode (option
.BR -i )
, tha user be axed fo' lyrics fo' realz. Real shiznit can also be provided from command
line (see option
.BR -n )
, which is useful when
.B quotacheck
is run automatically (ie. from script) n' failure is unacceptable.
.PP
.B quotacheck
should be run each time tha system boots n' mounts non-valid filesystems.
This is most likely ta happen afta a system crash.
.PP
It be straight fuckin recommended ta run
.B quotacheck
with quotas turned off fo' tha filesystem. Otherwise, possible damage
or loss ta data up in tha quota filez can result.  It be also unwise to
run
.B quotacheck
on a live filesystem as actual usage may chizzle durin tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  To
prevent this,
.B quotacheck
tries ta remount tha filesystem read-only before startin tha scan. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
Afta tha scan is done it remounts tha filesystem read-write. Yo ass can
disable dis wit option
.BR \-m .
Yo ass can also make
.B quotacheck
ignore tha failure ta remount tha filesystem read-only wit option
.BR \-M .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b, --backup
Forces
.B quotacheck
to make backupz of tha quota file before freestylin tha freshly smoked up data.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
.B quotacheck
reports its operation as it progresses.  Normally it operates silently.
If tha option is specified twice, also tha current directory is printed (note
that printin can slow down tha scan measurably).
.TP
.B -d, --debug
Enable debuggin mode.  It will result up in a shitload of shiznit which can
be used up in debuggin tha program. Da output is straight-up verbose n' the
scan is ghon be slow.
.TP
.B -u, --user
Only user quotas listed in
.I /etc/mtab
or on tha filesystems specified is ta be checked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This is tha default action.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Only crew quotas listed in
.I /etc/mtab
or on tha filesystems specified is ta be checked.
.TP
.B -c, --create-files
Don't read existin quota files. Just big-ass up a freshly smoked up scan n' save it ta disk.
.B quotacheck
also skips scannin of oldschool quota filez when they is not found.
.TP
.B -f, --force
Forces checkin n' freestylin of freshly smoked up quota filez on filesystems wit quotas
enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This aint recommended as tha pimped quota filez may be outta sync.
.TP
.B -M, --try-remount
This flag forces checkin of filesystem up in read-write mode if a remount
fails. Do dis only when yo ass is shizzle no process will write ta a
filesystem while scanning.
.TP
.B -m, --no-remount
Don't try ta remount filesystem read-only. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See comment wit option
.BR \-M .
.TP
.B -i, --interactive
Interactizzle mode. By default
.B quotacheck
exits when it findz a error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. In interactizzle mode user be axed for
input instead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See option
.BR \-n .
.TP
.B -n, --use-first-dquot
If tha quota filez become corrupted, it is possible fo' duplicate
entries fo' a single user or crew ID ta exist.  Normally up in dis case,
.B quotacheck
exits or asks user fo' input. When dis option is set, tha straight-up original gangsta entry found
is always used (this option works up in interactizzle mode too).
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Peep n' fix quota filez of specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format
auto-detection). This is recommended as detection might not work well on
corrupted quota files.  Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -a, --all
Peep all mounted non-NFS filesystems in
.B /etc/mtab
.TP
.B -R, --exclude-root
When used together wit the
.B \-a
option, all filesystems except fo' tha root filesystem is checked for
quotas.

.SH NOTE
.B quotacheck
should only be run by super-user n' shit. Non-privileged playas is presumably
not allowed ta read all tha directories on tha given filesystem.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR convertquota (8),
.BR setquota (8),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR efsck (8),
.BR e2fsck (8),
.BR xfsck (8)

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
located at filesystem root wit quotas (version 2 quota, non-XFS
filesystems)
.TP 15
.B quota.user or quota.group
located at filesystem root wit quotas (version 1 quota, non-XFS
filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
names n' locationz of mounted filesystems
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Kara \<jack@suse.cz\>
.br
Based on old
.B quotacheck
by:
.br
Edvard Tuinder \<ed@elm.net\>
.br
Marco van Wieringen \<mvw@planets.elm.net\>
