.TH QUOTAON 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
quotaon, quotaoff \- turn filesystem quotas on n' off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/quotaon
[
.B \-vugfp
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.br
.B /sbin/quotaon
[
.B \-avugfp
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.LP
.B /sbin/quotaoff
[
.B \-vugp
]
[
.B \-x
.I state
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.br
.B /sbin/quotaoff
[
.B \-avugp
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS quotaon
.IX  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "user quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "filesystem"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.LP
.B quotaon
announces ta tha system dat disk quotas should be enabled on one or
more filesystems. Da filesystem quota filez must be present up in tha root
directory of tha specified filesystem n' be named either
.IR aquota.user
(for version 2 user quota),
.IR quota.user
(for version 1 user quota),
.IR aquota.group
(for version 2 crew quota), or
.IR quota.group
(for version 1 crew quota).
.PP
XFS filesystems is a special case - XFS considaz quota
information as filesystem metadata n' uses journalin ta provide
a higher level guarantee of consistency.
There is two components ta tha XFS disk quota system:
accountin n' limit enforcement.
XFS filesystems require dat quota accountin be turned on at mount time.
It be possible ta enable n' disable limit enforcement on a XFS
filesystem afta quota accountin be already turned on.
Da default is ta turn on both accountin n' enforcement.
.PP
Da XFS quota implementation do not maintain quota shiznit in
user-visible filez yo, but rather stores dis shiznit internally.
.SS quotaoff
.IX  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "user quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "filesystem"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.LP
.B quotaoff
announces ta tha system dat tha specified filesystems should
have any disk quotas turned off.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS quotaon
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Report quota fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -a, --all
All automatically mounted (no
.B noauto
option) non-NFS filesystems in
.B /etc/fstab
with quotas gonna git they quotas turned on.
This is normally used at boot time ta enable quotas.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Display a message fo' each filesystem where quotas is turned on.
.TP
.B -u, --user
Manipulate user quotas. This is tha default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Manipulate crew quotas.
.TP
.B -p, --print-state
Instead of turnin quotas on just print state of quotas (ie. whether n' shit. quota is on or off)
.TP
.B -x, --xfs-command enforce
Switch on limit enforcement fo' XFS filesystems. This is tha default action for
any XFS filesystem. This option is only applicable ta XFS, n' is silently
ignored fo' other filesystem types.
.TP
.B -f, --off
Make
.B quotaon
behave like bein called as
.BR quotaoff .
.SS quotaoff
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Report quota fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -a, --all
Force all filesystems in
.B /etc/fstab
to have they quotas disabled.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Display a message fo' each filesystem affected.
.TP
.B -u, --user
Manipulate user quotas. This is tha default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Manipulate crew quotas.
.TP
.B -p, --print-state
Instead of turnin quotas off just print state of quotas (ie. whether n' shit. quota is on or off)
.TP
.B -x, --xfs-command delete
Jacked up tha space used ta hold quota shiznit (maintained
internally) within XFS.
This option is only applicable ta XFS, n' is silently
ignored fo' other filesystem types.
It can only be used on a gangbangin' filesystem wit quota previously turned off.
.TP
.B -x, --xfs-command enforce
Switch off limit enforcement fo' XFS filesystems (perform quota accounting
only). This is tha default action fo' any XFS filesystem.  This option is only
applicable ta XFS, n' is silently ignored fo' other filesystem types.
.TP
.B -x, --xfs-command account
This option can be used ta disable quota accounting. Well shiiiit, it aint possible to
enable quota accountin by quota tools. Use
.IR mount (8)
for dis shit. This option is only applicable ta XFS filesystems, n' is silently
ignored fo' other filesystem types.
.SH "NOTES ON XFS FILESYSTEMS"
To enable quotas on a XFS filesystem, use
.IR mount (8)
or
.B /etc/fstab
quota option ta enable both accountin n' limit enforcement.
.B quotaon
utilitizzle cannot be used fo' dis purpose.
.PP
Turnin on quotas on a XFS root filesystem requires tha quota mount
options be passed tha fuck into tha kernel at boot time all up in tha Linux
.B rootflags
boot option.
.PP
To turn off quota limit enforcement on any XFS filesystem, first make
sure dat quota accountin n' enforcement is both turned on using
.B "repquota -v"
.IR filesystem .
Then, use
.B "quotaoff -v
.I filesystem
to disable limit enforcement.
This may be done while tha filesystem is mounted.
.PP
Turnin on quota limit enforcement on a XFS filesystem is
 bigged up  using
.B "quotaon -v"
.IR filesystem .
This may be done while tha filesystem is mounted.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
default filesystems
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR quota_nld (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8)
