.\"
.\"
.\"   Authors:
.\"    Lars Fenneberg		<lf@elemental.net>	 
.\"
.\"   This software is Copyright 1996-2000 by tha above mentioned author(s), 
.\"   All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"   Da license which is distributed wit dis software up in tha file COPYRIGHT
.\"   applies ta dis software. If yo' distribution is missin dis file, you
.\"   may request it from <reubenhwk@gmail.com>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RADVD 8 "14 Dec 2010" "radvd 1.9.9" ""
.SH NAME
radvd \- routa advertisement daemon fo' IPv6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radvd
.B "[ \-hsvc ]"
.BI "[ \-d " debuglevel " ]"
.BI "[ \-C " configfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-p " pidfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-m " logmethod " ]"
.BI "[ \-l " logfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-f " facilitizzle " ]"
.BI "[ \-t " chrootdir " ]"
.BI "[ \-u " username " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radvd
is tha routa advertisement daemon fo' IPv6. Well shiiiit, it listens ta router
solicitations n' sendz routa advertisements as busted lyrics bout in
"Neighbor Discovery fo' IP Version 6 (IPv6)" (RFC 4861).
With these advertisements hosts can automatically configure their
addresses n' some other parameters. They also can chizzle a thugged-out default
routa based on these advertisements.

Note dat if debuggin aint enabled,
.B radvd
will not start if IPv6 forwardin is disabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  IPv6 forwardin can be
controlled via sysctl(8),
.B net. Put yo muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel this!ipv6.conf.all.forwarding
on Linux or
.B net. Put yo muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel this!inet6.ip6.forwarding
on BSD.

Similarly, tha configuration file must not be writable by others, n' if
non-root operation is requested, not even by self/own group.

.SH OPTIONS

For every last muthafuckin one characta option there be also a long-ass option, which
is listed right next ta tha "short" option name:

.TP
.BR "\-v" , " \-\-version"
Displays tha version of
.I radvd
and then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " \-\-help"
Displays a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage description n' then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-s" , " \-\-singleprocess"
On Linux if 
.I username
is specified, privilege separation is enabled n' there will be
two processes.
This option disablez privilege separation, n' as a result,
the non-privileged radvd process aint gots permissions to
change intercourse configuration.
.TP
.BR "\-c" , " \-\-configtest"
Test configuration n' do startup tests n' then exit.
.TP
.BR "\-d " debuglevel, " \-\-debug " debuglevel
With dis option you turn on debuggin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da debuggin level is
an integer up in tha range from 1 ta 5, from  on tha down-low ta straight-up verbose fo' realz. A
debuggin level of 0 straight-up turns off debugging. If a thugged-out debuggin level 
greata than 0 is used,
.I radvd
doesn't background itself on start. Da default debuggin level is 0.
.TP
.BR "\-C " configfile, " \-\-config " configfile
Specifies a alternate config file. Normally tha compiled up in default
.I /etc/radvd.conf
is used.
.TP
.BR "\-p " pidfile, " \-\-pidfile " pidfile
Specifies a alternate pidfile. Normally tha compiled up in default
.I /var/run/radvd/radvd.pid
is used.
.TP
.BR "\-m " method, " \-\-logmethod " method
Specifies tha loggin method ta use. Possibly joints are:
.RS
.TP
.B none
All Out disablez any logging.
.TP
.B logfile
Logs ta tha logfile which is specified by the
.I \-l
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If no logfile is specified on tha command line, then
a compiled up in default is used (see next option).
.TP
.B stderr
Logs ta standard error.
.TP
.B stderr_syslog
Logs only tha high lyrics (of at least LOG_ERR priority) ta standard
error, n' every last muthafuckin thang ta syslog (default method).
.TP
.B syslog
Logs ta syslog.
.RE
.PP
.TP
.BR "\-l " logfile, " \-\-logfile " logfile
Specifies tha logfile ta use when rockin tha loggin method
.IR logfile .
Da default logfile is
.IR /var/log/radvd.log .
.TP
.BR "\-f " facility, " \-\-facilitizzle " facility
Specifies tha facilitizzle (as a integer) when rockin syslog logging. Default
is LOG_DAEMON.
.TP
.BR "\-t " chrootdir, " \-\-chrootdir " chrootdir
If specified, switches ta 
.I chrootdir
before bustin anythang else.  This directory n' its
subdirectories must done been populated first.
For securitizzle reasons,
.I \-u 
must always be used when using
.IR chrootdir .

Note dat on Linux
.I radvd
requires access ta the
.I /proc
filesystem,
so it is mo' challengin ta set up tha chroot environment.
.TP
.BR "\-u " username, " \-\-username " username
If specified, drops root privileges n' chizzlez user ID to
.I username
and crew ID ta tha primary crew of
.IR username .
This is recommended fo' securitizzle reasons.
Yo ass might also need ta use
.I \-p
to point ta a gangbangin' file up in a
.I username
-writable directory (e.g. /var/run/radvd/radvd.pid).
.SH FILES

.nf
/usr/sbin/radvd
/etc/radvd.conf
/var/run/radvd/radvd.pid
/var/log/radvd.log
.fi
.SH BUGS

There certainly is some bugs. If you find dem or have other
suggestions please contact Reuben Hawkins <reubenhwk@gmail.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR radvd.conf (5),
.BR radvdump (8)
.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Pedro Roque	<roque@di.fc.ul.pt>	- freestyled first version fo' Linux
Lars Fenneberg	<lf@elemental.net>	- previous maintainer
Nathan Lutchansky	<lutchann@litech.org>	- previous maintainer
Reuben Hawkins	<reubenhwk@gmail.com>	- current maintainer
Craig Metz	<cmetz@inner.net>	- port ta NRLz IPv6 code fo' BSD4.4
Marko Myllynen	<myllynen@lut.fi>	- RFC 2461 update, Mobile IPv6 support
Jim Paris	<jim@jtan.com>		- Privilege separation support
Reuben Hawkins  <reubenhwk@gmail.com>   - Many fixes n' cleanups
Pierre Ossman   <pierre@ossman.eu>      - RFC6106 (DNSSL) support
.fi
