.\"
.\"
.\"   Authors:
.\"    Lars Fenneberg		<lf@elemental.net>	 
.\"    Marko Myllynen		<myllynen@lut.fi>	
.\"
.\"   This software is Copyright 1996 by tha above mentioned author(s), 
.\"   All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"   Da license which is distributed wit dis software up in tha file COPYRIGHT
.\"   applies ta dis software. If yo' distribution is missin dis file, you
.\"   may request it from <reubenhwk@gmail.com>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RADVDUMP 8 "31 Mar 2008" "radvd 1.9.9" ""
.SH NAME
radvdump \- dump routa advertisements
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radvdump
.B "[ \-vhfe ]"
.BI "[ \-d " debuglevel " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radvdump
prints up tha contentz of incomin routa advertisements busted by
.B radvd
or some other software implementin (parts of)
"Neighbor Discovery fo' IP Version 6 (IPv6)" (RFC 4861).

.SH OPTIONS

For every last muthafuckin one characta option there be also a long-ass option, which
is listed right next ta tha "short" option name:

.TP
.BR "\-v" , " \-\-version"
Displays tha version of
.I radvdump
and then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " \-\-help"
Displays a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short usage description n' then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-f" , " \-\-file\-format"
Output received routa advertisements up in tha format of the
.B radvd
configuration file.
Since radvd 0.9, dis is tha default n' tha switch is provided
for backward compatibilitizzle only.
.TP
.BR "\-e" , " \-\-exclude-defaults"
Exclude default valued options from configuration file format.
This option is ignored if option
.B "\-f"
is not set.
.TP
.BR "\-d " debuglevel, " \-\-debug " debuglevel
With dis option you turn on debuggin shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da debuggin level is
an integer up in tha range from 1 ta 4, from on tha down-low ta straight-up verbose fo' realz. A
debuggin level of 0 straight-up turns off debugging.

Da default debuggin level is 0.

.SH FILES

.nf
/usr/sbin/radvdump
.fi
.SH BUGS

There certainly is some bugs. If you find dem or have other
suggestions please contact Reuben Hawkins <reubenhwk@gmail.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR radvd (8),
.BR radvd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Lars Fenneberg	<lf@elemental.net>	- previous maintainer
Nathan Lutchansky <lutchann@litech.org> - previous maintainer
Reuben Hawkins	<reubenhwk@gmail.com>	- current maintainer
Marko Myllynen	<myllynen@lut.fi>	- Mobile IPv6 support
.fi
