.\"	$OpenBSD: rdate.8,v 1.30 2007/05/31 19:20:28 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: rdate.8,v 1.4 1996/04/08 20:55:17 jtc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Christos Zoulas
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by Christos Zoulas.
.\" 4. Da name of tha lyricist may not be used ta endorse or promote shizzle
.\"    derived from dis software without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt RDATE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rdate
.Nd set tha systemz date from a remote host
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rdate
.Op Fl 46acnpsv
.Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays n' sets tha local date n' time from the
host name or address given as tha argument.
Da time source may be a RFC 868 TCP protocol server,
which is probably implemented as a funky-ass built-in steez of
.Xr inetd 8 ,
or a RFC 2030 protocol SNTP/NTP server.
By default,
.Nm
uses tha RFC 868 TCP protocol.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.It Fl a
Use the
.Xr adjtime 2
call ta gradually skew tha local time ta the
remote time rather than just hopping.
.It Fl c
Correct leap seconds.
Sometimes required when synchronizin ta a NTP server.
When synchronizin rockin tha RFC 868 protocol, use dis option only if the
server do not erectly account fo' leap seconds.
Yo ass can determine if you need dis parameta if you sync against a NTP
server (with dis parameter) or (recommended) check wit a local radio
controlled peep or beeper service.
.It Fl n
Use SNTP (RFC 2030) instead of tha RFC 868 time protocol.
.It Fl p
Do not set, just print tha remote time.
.It Fl s
Do not print tha time.
.It Fl v
Verbose output.
Always show tha adjustment.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/log/wtmp -compact
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp
record of date resets n' time chizzles
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To git tha legal time up in Germany, set the
.Pa /etc/localtime
symlink to
.Pa /usr/share/zoneinfo/right/Europe/Berlin
and issue tha followin command:
.Pp
.D1 Li "# rdate -ncv ptbtime1.ptb.de"
.Pp
Da command of course assumes you gotz a hustlin internizzle connection
and DNS set up ta connect ta tha server at
.Sy Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt
in Braunschweig, Germany.
.Pp
To gradually adjust time once a minute afta tha first
.Qq step
adjustment, put tha followin line tha fuck into rootz crontab:
.Pp
.D1 Li "58  *  *  *  *  rdate -ncav ptbtime1.ptb.de | logger -t NTP"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr adjtime 2 ,
.Xr inetd 8 ,
.Xr ntpd 8 ,
.Xr timed 8
