.TH READPROFILE "8" "October 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
readprofile - read kernel profilin shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readprofile
.RI [ options ]
.SH VERSION
This manpage documents version 2.0 of tha program.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B readprofile
command uses the
.B /proc/profile
information ta print ascii data on standard output.  Da output is
organized up in three columns: tha straight-up original gangsta is tha number of clock ticks,
the second is tha name of tha C function up in tha kernel where them
many ticks occurred, n' tha third is tha normalized `load' of the
procedure, calculated as a ratio between tha number of ticks n' the
length of tha procedure.  Da output is filled wit blanks ta ease
readability.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Print all symbols up in tha mapfile.  By default tha procedures with
reported ticks is not printed.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-histbin\fR
Print individual histogram-bin counts.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
Info.  This makes
.B readprofile
only print tha profilin step used by tha kernel.  Da profilin step
is tha resolution of tha profilin buffer, n' is chosen during
kernel configuration (all up in `make config'), or up in tha kernel's
command line.  If the
.B \-t
(terse) switch is used together with
.B \-i
only tha decimal number is printed.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mapfile\fR \fImapfile\fR
Specify a mapfile, which by default is
.BR /usr/src/linux/System.map .
Yo ass should specify tha map file on cmdline if yo' current kernel
aint tha last one you compiled, or if you keep System.map elsewhere.
If tha name of tha map file endz wit `.gz' it is decompressed on the
fly.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-multiplier\fR \fImultiplier\fR
On some architectures it is possible ta alta tha frequency at which
the kernel delivers profilin interrupts ta each CPU.  This option
allows you ta set tha frequency, as a multiplier of tha system clock
frequency, HZ.  This is supported on i386-SMP (2.2 n' 2.4 kernel)
and also on sparc-SMP n' sparc64-SMP (2.4 kernel).  This option also
resets tha profilin buffer, n' requires superuser privileges.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-profile\fR \fIpro-file\fR
Specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different profilin buffer, which by default is
.B /proc/profile.
Usin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different pro-file is useful if you wanna `freeze' the
kernel profilin at some time n' read it later n' shit.  The
.B /proc/profile
file can be copied rockin `cat' or `cp'.  There is no mo' support for
compressed flava buffers, like in
.B readprofile-1.1,
because tha program need ta know tha size of tha buffer up in advance.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR
Reset tha profilin buffer n' shit.  This can only be invoked by root,
because
.B /proc/profile
is readable by dem hoes but writable only by tha superuser.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat you can make
.B readprofile
setuid 0, up in order ta reset tha buffer without bustin privileges.
.TP
\fB\-s, \fB\-\-counters\fR
Print individual countas within functions.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose.  Da output is organized up in four columns n' filled with
blanks.  Da first column is tha RAM address of a kernel function,
the second is tha name of tha function, tha third is tha number of
clock ticks n' tha last is tha normalized load.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Browse tha profilin buffer orderin by clock ticks:
.nf
   readprofile | sort -nr | less

.fi
Print tha 20 most loaded procedures:
.nf
   readprofile | sort -nr +2 | head -20

.fi
Print only filesystem profile:
.nf
   readprofile | grep _ext2

.fi
Look at all tha kernel shiznit, wit ram addresses:
.nf
   readprofile -av | less

.fi
Browse a `freezed' flava buffer fo' a non current kernel:
.nf
   readprofile -p ~/profile.freeze -m /zImage.map.gz

.fi
Request profilin at 2kHz per CPU, n' reset tha profilin buffer:
.nf
   sudo readprofile -M 20
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B readprofile
only works wit a 1.3.x or newer kernel, cuz
.B /proc/profile
changed up in tha step from 1.2 ta 1.3
.LP
This program only works wit ELF kernels.  Da chizzle fo' a.out
kernels is trivial, n' left as a exercise ta tha a.out user.
.LP
To enable profiling, tha kernel must be rebooted, cuz no
profilin module be available, n' it wouldn't be easy as fuck  ta build. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  To
enable profiling, you can specify "profile=2" (or another number) on
the kernel commandline.  Da number you specify is tha two-exponent
used as profilin step.
.LP
Profilin is disabled when interrupts is inhibited. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This means that
many profilin ticks happen when interrupts is re-enabled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Watch
out fo' misleadin shiznit.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc/profile              A binary snapshot of tha profilin buffer.
/usr/src/linux/System.map  Da symbol table fo' tha kernel.
/usr/src/linux/*           Da program bein profiled :-)
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da readprofile command is part of tha util-linux package n' is
available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
