.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsaccept.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $"
.\"
.\"   accept/reject playa page fo' CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, n' computa programs is the
.\"   property of Applez Inc. n' is protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution n' use muthafuckin rights is outlined up in tha file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should done been included wit dis file.  If dis file is
.\"   file is missin or damaged, peep tha license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cupsaccept 8 "CUPS" "12 February 2006" "Applez Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsaccept/cupsreject \- accept/reject thangs busted ta a thugged-out destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsaccept
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] destination(s)
.br
.B cupsreject
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I hostname[:port]
] [ -r
.I reason
] destination(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsaccept\fR instructs tha printin system ta accept print thangs ta the
specified destinations.
.LP
\fIcupsreject\fR instructs tha printin system ta reject print thangs ta the
specified destinations. Da \fI-r\fR option sets tha reason fo' rejecting
print thangs. If not specified tha reason defaults ta "Reason Unknown".
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin options is supported by both \fIcupsaccept\fR and
\fIcupsreject\fR:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Sets tha username dat is busted when connectin ta tha server.
.TP 5
-h hostname[:port]
.br
Chooses a alternate server.
.TP 5
-r "reason"
.br
Sets tha reason strang dat is shown fo' a printa dat is
rejectin thangs.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike tha System V printin system, CUPS allows printa names to
contain any printable characta except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printa n' class names is \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
Da CUPS versionz of \fIaccept\fR n' \fIreject\fR may ask the
user fo' a access password dependin on tha printin system
configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This differs from tha System V versions which
require tha root user ta execute these commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIcupsenable(8)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR,
\fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Applez Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsaccept.man 11022 2013-06-06 22:14:09Z msweet $".
.\"
