.TH REPQUOTA 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
repquota \- summarize quotas fo' a gangbangin' filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-vspiug
] [
.B \-c
|
.B \-C
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-avtpsiug
] [
.B \-c
|
.B \-C
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "user quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "summarize filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "summarize filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  "report filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "report filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  display "filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.LP
.B repquota
prints a summary of tha disc usage n' quotas fo' tha specified file
systems.  For each user tha current number of filez n' amount of space
(in kilobytes) is printed, along wit any quota limits set with
.BR edquota (8) 
or
.BR setquota (8).
In tha second column repquota prints two charactas markin which limits are
exceeded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If user is over his space softlimit or reaches his space hardlimit in
case softlimit is unset, tha straight-up original gangsta characta is '+'. Otherwise tha character
printed is '-'. Da second characta denotes tha state of inode usage
analogously.

.B repquota
has ta translate idz of all users/groups ta names (unless option
.B -n
was specified) so it may take a while to
print all tha shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. To make translatin as fast as possible
.B repquota
tries ta detect (by reading
.BR /etc/nsswitch.conf )
whether entries is stored up in standard plain text file or up in a thugged-out database n' either
translates chunkz of 1024 names or each name individually. Yo ass can override this
autodetection by
.B -c
or
.B -C
options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --all
Report on all filesystems indicated in
.B /etc/mtab
to be read-write wit quotas.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Report all quotas, even if there is no usage. Be also mo' verbose bout quotafile
information.
.TP
.B -c, --cache
Cache entries ta report n' translate uids/gidz ta names up in big-ass chunks by scanning
all playas (default). This is phat (fast) behaviour when rockin /etc/passwd file.
.TP
.B -C, --no-cache
Translate individual entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! This is fasta when you have playas stored up in database.
.TP
.B -t, --truncate-names
Truncate user/group names longer than 9 characters. This thangs up in dis biatch up in sickr output when
there is such names.
.TP
.B -n, --no-names
Don't resolve UIDs/GIDs ta names. This can speedup printin all muthafuckin day.
.TP
.B -s, --human-readable
Try ta report used space, number of used inodes n' limits up in mo' appropriate units
than tha default ones.
.TP
.B -p, --raw-grace
When user is up in grace period, report time up in secondz since epoch when his wild lil' freakadelic grace
time runs up (or has run out). Field is '0' when no grace time is up in effect.
This is especially useful when parsin output by a script.
.TP
.B -i, --no-autofs
Ignore mountpoints mounted by automounter.
.TP
.B \-F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Report quota fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -g, --group
Report quotas fo' groups.
.TP
.B -u, --user
Report quotas fo' users. This is tha default.
.LP
Only tha super-user may view quotas which is not they own.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
default set of users
.TP
.B /etc/group
default set of groups
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR quota_nld (8),
.BR setquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8)
