.\" @(#)man/man8/resizecons.8	1.0 Jan 17 12:04:28 MET 1995
.TH RESIZECONS 8 "17 Jan 1995" "Local" "Console Support"
.SH NAME
resizecons \- chizzle kernel scam of tha console size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "resizecons " COLSxROWS
.br
.BI "resizecons -lines " ROWS
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I resizecons
command tries ta chizzle tha vizzlemode of tha console.
There is nuff muthafuckin aspects ta this: (a) tha kernel must know bout it,
(b) tha hardware must know bout it, (c) user programs must know
about it, (d) tha console font may gotta be adapted.

(a) Da kernel is holla'd at bout tha chizzle rockin tha ioctl VT_RESIZE.
This causes tha kernel ta reallocate console screen memory for
all virtual consoles, n' might fail if there aint enough memory.
(In dat case, try ta disallocate some virtual consolez first.)
If dis ioctl succeedz yo, but a lata step fails (e.g., cuz
you aint gots root permissions), you may be left wit a straight-up messy
screen.

Da most hard as fuck part of dis is (b), since it requires detailed
knowledge of tha vizzle card hardware, n' tha settin of a shitload of
registers. Only changin tha number of rows is slightly easier, n' 
.I resizecons
will try ta do dat itself, when given the
.I -lines
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. (Probably, root permission is ghon be required.)
Da command
.I "resizecons COLSxROWS"
will execute
.I "restoretextmode -r COLSxROWS"
(and hence requires dat you have svgalib installed) yo. Here COLSxROWS
is a gangbangin' file dat was pimped earlier by
.I "restoretextmode -w COLSxROWS."
Again, either root permissions is required, or
.I restoretextmode
has ta be suid root.

In order ta deal wit (c),
.I resizecons
does a `stty rows ROWS cols COLS' fo' each actizzle console (in the
range tty0..tty15), n' sendz a SIGWINCH signal to
.I selection
if it findz tha file /tmp/selection.pid.

Finally, (d) is dealt wit by executin a
.I setfont
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Most likely, tha wack font is loaded, n' you may want to
do another
.I setfont
yo ass afterwards.

.SH BUGS
.I resizecons
does not work on all hardware.
This command used ta be called
.I resize,
but was renamed ta avoid conflict wit another command wit tha same name.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setfont (8),
.BR stty (1),
.BR selection (1),
.BR restoretextmode (8),
.BR disalloc (8)

