.TH "restorecon" "8" "2002031409" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
restorecon \- restore file(s) default SELinux securitizzle contexts.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B restorecon
.I [\-R] [\-n] [\-p] [\-v] [\-e directory] pathname...
.P
.B restorecon
.I \-f infilename [\-e directory] [\-R] [\-n] [\-p] [\-v] [\-F]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR restorecon
program.
.P
This program is primarily used ta set tha securitizzle context
(extended attributes) on one or mo' files.
.P
It can also be run at any other time ta erect inconsistent labels, ta add
support fo' newly-installed policy or, by rockin tha \-n option, ta passively
check whether tha file contexts is all set as specified by tha actizzle policy
(default behavior).
.P
If a gangbangin' file object aint gots a cold-ass lil context, restorecon will write tha default
context ta tha file objectz extended attributes. If a gangbangin' file object has a
context, restorecon will only modify tha type portion of tha securitizzle context.
Da -F option will force a replacement of tha entire context.
.P
It be tha same executable as
.BR setfiles
but operates up in a slightly different manner dependin on itz argv[0].

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-e directory
exclude a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory (repeat tha option ta exclude mo' than one directory, Requires full path).
.TP
.B \-f infilename
infilename gotz nuff a list of filez ta be processed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use \- fo' stdin.
.TP
.B \-F
Force reset of context ta match file_context fo' customizable files, n' the
default file context, changin tha user, role, range portion as well as tha type.
.TP
.B \-h, \-?
display usage shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-i
ignore filez dat do not exist.
.TP
.B \-n
don't chizzle any file labels (passive check).  To display tha filez whose labels would be chizzled, add -v.
.TP
.B \-o outfilename
Deprecated, SELinux policy will probably block dis access.  Use shell redirection ta save list of filez wit incorrect context up in filename.
.TP
.B \-p
show progress by printin * every last muthafuckin 1024 files.  (If you relabel tha entire OS, dis will show you tha cementage complete.)
.TP
.B \-R, \-r
change filez n' directories file labels recursively (descend directories).
.br
.B Note: restorecon reports warnings on paths without default labels only if called non-recursively or up in verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-v
show chizzlez up in file labels, if type or role is goin ta be chizzled.
.TP
.B \-0
the separator fo' tha input shit be assumed ta be tha null character
(instead of tha white space).  Da quotes n' tha backslash charactas are
also treated as aiiight charactas dat can form valid input.
This option finally also disablez tha end of file string, which is treated
like any other argument.  Useful when input shit might contain white space,
quote marks or backslashes.  The
.B \-print0
option of GNU
.B find
produces input suitable fo' dis mode.
.TP
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.B pathname...
Da pathname fo' tha file(s) ta be relabeled.
.SH NOTE
restorecon do not follow symbolic links n' by default it do not
operate recursively on directories.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
Some of tha content of dis playa page was taken from tha setfiles
man page freestyled by Russell Coker <russell@coker.com.au>.
Da program was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setfilez (8),
.BR load_policy (8),
.BR checkpolicy (8)
