.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991, 1993
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: restore.8.in,v 1.35 2009/06/18 09:42:12 stelian Exp $
.\"
.TH RESTORE 8 "version 0.4b44 of June 10, 2011" BSD "System pimpment commands"
.SH NAME
restore \- restore filez or file systems from backups made wit dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restore \-C 
[\fB\-cdHklMvVy\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-D \fIfilesystem\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-L \fIlimit\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
.PP
.B restore \-i
[\fB\-acdhHklmMNouvVy\fR]
[\fB\-A \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-Q \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
.PP
.B restore \-P 
.I file
[\fB\-acdhHklmMNuvVy\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
[\fB\-X \fIfilelist\fR]
[ \fIfile ... \fR]
.PP
.B restore \-R
[\fB\-cdHklMNuvVy\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
.PP
.B restore \-r 
[\fB\-cdHklMNuvVy\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
.PP
.B restore \-t
[\fB\-cdhHklMNuvVy\fR]
[\fB\-A \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-Q \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
[\fB\-X \fIfilelist\fR]
[ \fIfile ... \fR]
.PP
.B restore \-x 
[\fB\-adchHklmMNouvVy\fR]
[\fB\-A \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-b \fIblocksize\fR]
[\fB\-f \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-F \fIscript\fR]
[\fB\-Q \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-s \fIfileno\fR]
[\fB\-T \fIdirectory\fR]
[\fB\-X \fIfilelist\fR]
[ \fIfile ... \fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B restore
command performs tha inverse function of
.BR dump (8).
A full backup of a gangbangin' file system may be restored n' subsequent incremental
backups layered on top of dat shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Single filez n' directory subtrees may be 
restored from full or partial backups.
.B Restore
works across a network; ta do dis peep the
.B \-f
flag busted lyrics bout below. Other arguments ta tha command is file or directory
names specifyin tha filez dat is ta be restored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Unless the
.B \-h
flag is specified (see below), tha appearizzle of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory name refers to
the filez n' (recursively) subdirectoriez of dat directory.
.PP
Exactly one of tha followin flags is required:
.TP
.B \-C
This mode allows comparison of filez from a thugged-out dump.
.B Restore
readz tha backup n' compares its contents wit filez present on tha disk. It
first chizzlez its hustlin directory ta tha root of tha filesystem dat was 
dumped n' compares tha tape wit tha filez up in its freshly smoked up current directory. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
also the
.B \-L
flag busted lyrics bout below.
.TP
.B \-i
This mode allows interactizzle restoration of filez from a thugged-out dump fo' realz. Afta readin in
the directory shiznit from tha dump,
.B restore
provides a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell like intercourse dat allows tha user ta move round tha 
directory tree selectin filez ta be extracted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da available commandz is 
given below; fo' dem commandz dat require a argument, tha default is the
current directory.
.RS
.TP
.B add \fR[\fIarg\fR]
Da current directory or specified argument be added ta tha list of filez ta be
extracted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is specified, then it n' all its descendants are
added ta tha extraction list (unless the
.B \-h
flag is specified on tha command line). Filez dat is on tha extraction list
are prepended wit a \*(lq*\*(rq when they is listed by 
.BR ls .
.TP
.BI cd " arg"
Change tha current hustlin directory ta tha specified argument.
.TP
.B delete \fR[\fIarg\fR]
Da current directory or specified argument is deleted from tha list of filez 
to be extracted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. If a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is specified, then it n' all its descendants
are deleted from tha extraction list (unless the
.B \-h
flag is specified on tha command line). Da most expedient way ta extract most 
of tha filez from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory is ta add tha directory ta tha extraction list
and then delete dem filez dat is not needed.
.TP
.B extract
All filez on tha extraction list is extracted from tha dump.
.B Restore
will ask which volume tha user wishes ta mount. Da fastest way ta extract a gangbangin' few
filez is ta start wit tha last volume n' work towardz tha straight-up original gangsta volume.
.TP
.B help
List a summary of tha available commands.
.TP
.B ls \fR[\fIarg\fR]
List tha current or specified directory. Entries dat is directories is 
appended wit a \*(lq/\*(rq. Entries dat done been marked fo' extraction is 
prepended wit a \*(lq*\*(rq. If tha verbose flag is set, tha inode number of 
each entry be also listed.
.TP
.B pwd
Print tha full pathname of tha current hustlin directory.
.TP
.B quit
.B Restore
immediately exits, even if tha extraction list aint empty.
.TP
.B setmodes
All directories dat done been added ta tha extraction list have they baller, 
modes, n' times set; not a god damn thang is extracted from tha dump. This is useful fo' 
cleanin up afta a 
.B restore 
has been prematurely aborted.
.TP
.B verbose
Da sense of tha 
.B \-v
flag is toggled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When set, tha verbose flag causes tha 
.B ls
command ta list tha inode numberz of all entries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Well shiiiit, it also causes
.B restore
to print up shiznit bout each file as it is extracted.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-P " file"
.B Restore
creates a freshly smoked up Quick File Access file 
.I file
from a existin dump file without restorin its contents.
.TP
.B \-R
.B Restore
requests a particular tape of a multi-volume set on which ta restart a gangbangin' full 
restore (see the
.B \-r
flag below). This is useful if tha restore has been interrupted.
.TP
.B \-r
Restore (rebuild) a gangbangin' file system. Da target file system should be made pristine
with
.BR mke2fs (8),
mounted, n' tha user
.BR cd 'd
into tha pristine file system before startin tha restoration of tha initial
level 0 backup. If tha level 0 restores successfully, the
.B \-r
flag may be used ta restore any necessary incremenstrual backups on top of the
level 0. The
.B \-r
flag precludes a interactizzle file extraction n' can be detrimenstrual ta onez 
game (not ta mention tha disk) if not used carefully fo' realz. An example:
.IP
.RS 14
.B mke2fs /dev/sda1
.TP
.B mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
.TP
.B cd /mnt
.TP
.B restore rf /dev/st0
.RE
.IP
Note dat 
.B restore
leaves a gangbangin' file 
.I restoresymtable
in tha root directory ta pass shiznit between incremenstrual restore passes.
This file should be removed when tha last incremenstrual has been restored.
.IP
.BR Restore ,
in conjunction with
.BR mke2fs (8)
and
.BR dump (8),
may be used ta modify file system parametas like fuckin size or block size.
.TP
.B \-t
Da namez of tha specified filez is listed if they occur on tha backup. If no 
file argument is given, tha root directory is listed, which thangs up in dis biatch up in the
entire content of tha backup bein listed, unless the
.B \-h
flag has been specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Note dat the
.B \-t
flag replaces tha function of tha old
.BR dumpdir (8)
program.  See also the
.B \-X
option below.
.TP
.B \-x
Da named filez is read from tha given media. If a named file matches a 
directory whose contents is on tha backup n' the
.B \-h
flag aint specified, tha directory is recursively extracted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da baller, 
modification time, n' mode is restored (if possible). If no file argument is
given, tha root directory is extracted, which thangs up in dis biatch up in tha entire content of
the backup bein extracted, unless the
.B \-h
flag has been specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See also the
.B \-X
option below.
.SH OPTIONS
Da followin additionizzle options may be specified:
.TP
.B \-a
In 
.B \-i
or
.B \-x
mode, 
.B restore 
does ask tha user fo' tha volume number on which tha filez ta be extracted is 
supposed ta be (in order ta minimise tha time by readin only tha bangin-ass 
volumes). Da 
.B \-a
option disablez dis behaviour n' readz all tha volumes startin wit 1. This 
option is useful when tha operator do not know on which volume tha filez ta 
be extracted is and/or when he prefers tha longer unattended mode rather than
the shorta interactizzle mode.
.TP
.BI \-A " archive_file"
Read tha table of contents from
.I archive_file
instead of tha media. This option can be used up in combination wit tha 
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-i ,
or 
.B \-x 
options, makin it possible ta check whether filez is on tha media without 
havin ta mount tha media.
.TP
.BI \-b " blocksize"
Da number of kilobytes per dump record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If the
.B \-b
option aint specified,
.B restore
tries ta determine tha media block size dynamically.
.TP
.B \-c
Normally,
.B restore
will try ta determine dynamically whether tha dump was made from a oldschool 
(pre-4.4) or freshly smoked up format file system. The
.B \-c
flag disablez dis check, n' only allows readin a thugged-out dump up in tha oldschool format.
.TP
.B \-d
The
.B \-d
(debug) flag causes
.B restore
to print debug shiznit.
.TP
.BI \-D " filesystem"
The
.B \-D
flag allows tha user ta specify tha filesystem name when using
.B restore
with the
.B \-C
option ta check tha backup.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Read tha backup from
.IR file ;
.I file
may be a special thang file like
.I /dev/st0
(a tape drive),
.I /dev/sda1
(a disk drive), a ordinary file, or
.I \-
(the standard input). If tha name of tha file iz of tha form
.I host:file 
or
.IR user@host:file ,
.B restore
readz from tha named file on tha remote host using
.BR rmt (8).
.TP
.BI \-F " script"
Run script all up in tha beginnin of each tape. Da thang name n' tha current 
volume number is passed on tha command line. Da script must return 0 if 
.B restore
should continue without askin tha user ta chizzle tha tape, 1 if 
.B restore
should continue but ask tha user ta chizzle tha tape fo' realz. Any other exit code will 
cause
.B restore
to abort. For securitizzle reasons,
.B restore
reverts back ta tha real user ID n' tha real crew ID before hustlin tha 
script.
.TP
.B \-h
Extract tha actual directory, rather than tha filez dat it references. This 
prevents hierarchical restoration of complete subtrees from tha dump.
.TP
.BI \-H " hash_size"
Use a hashtable havin tha specified number of entries fo' storin the
directories entries instead of a linked list. This hashtable will
considerably speed up inode lookups (visible especially up in interactive
mode when adding/removin filez from tha restore list) yo, but at the
price of much mo' memory usage. Da default value is 1, meanin no
hashtable is used.
.TP
.B \-k
Use Kerberos authentication when contactin tha remote tape server n' shit. (Only 
available if dis options was enabled when
.B restore
was compiled.)
.TP
.B \-l
When bustin remote restores, assume tha remote file be a regular file (instead
of a tape device). If you restorin a remote compressed file, yo big-ass booty is ghon need
to specify dis option or 
.B restore
will fail ta access it erectly.
.TP
.BI \-L " limit"
The
.B \-L
flag allows tha user ta specify a maximal number of miscompares when using
.B restore
with the
.B \-C
option ta check tha backup. If dis limit is reached, 
.B restore
will abort wit a error message fo' realz. A value of 0 (the default value) disablez 
the check.
.TP
.B \-m
Extract by inode numbers rather than by file name. This is useful if only a gangbangin' few
filez is bein extracted, n' one wants ta avoid regeneratin tha complete 
pathname ta tha file.
.TP
.B \-M
Enablez tha multi-volume feature (for readin dumps made rockin tha 
.B \-M
option of dump). Da name specified with
.B \-f
is treated as a prefix and
.B restore
tries ta read up in sequence from 
.I <prefix>001, <prefix>002 
etc. 
.TP
.B \-N
The
.B \-N
flag causes
.B restore
to big-ass up a gangbangin' full execution as axed by one of
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-R ,
.BR \-r ,
.B t
or
.B x
command without straight-up freestylin any file on disk.
.TP
.B \-o
The
.B \-o
flag causes
.B restore
to automatically restore tha current directory permissions without askin tha 
operator whether ta do so up in one of
.B \-i
or
.B \-x
modes.
.TP
.BI \-Q " file"
Use tha file
.I file
in order ta read tape posizzle as stored rockin tha dump Quick File Access mode,
in one of 
.BR \-i ,
.B \-x
or
.B \-t
mode.
.IP
It be recommended ta set up tha st driver ta return logical tape positions 
rather than physical before callin 
.B dump/restore
with parameta 
.BR \-Q .
Since not all tape devices support physical tape positions dem tape devices 
return a error during
.B dump/restore
when tha st driver is set ta tha default physical setting. Please peep the
.BR st (4)
man page, option 
.B MTSETDRVBUFFER
, or the
.BR mt(1)
man page, on how tha fuck ta set tha driver ta return logical tape positions.
.IP
Before callin 
.B restore
with parameta 
.BR \-Q ,
always make shizzle tha st driver is set ta return tha same type of tape position
used durin tha call to
.BR dump .
Otherwise
.B restore
may be confused.
.IP
This option can be used when restorin from local or remote tapes (see above) 
or from local or remote files.
.TP
.BI \-s " fileno"
Read from tha specified
.I fileno
on a multi-file tape. File numberin starts at 1.
.TP
.BI \-T " directory"
The
.B \-T
flag allows tha user ta specify a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory ta use fo' tha storage of temporary
files. Da default value is 
.IR /tmp .
This flag is most useful when restorin filez afta havin booted from a 
floppy. There might be lil or no space on tha floppy filesystem yo, but another
source of space might exist.
.TP
.B \-u
When bustin certain typez of files, 
.B restore
may generate a warnin diagnostic if they already exist up in tha target 
directory. To prevent this, the
.B \-u
(unlink) flag causes
.B restore
to remove oldschool entries before attemptin ta create freshly smoked up ones.
.TP
.B \-v
Normally
.B restore
does its work silently. The
.B \-v
(verbose) flag causes it ta type tha name of each file it treats preceded by 
its file type.
.TP
.B \-V
Enablez readin multi-volume non-tape mediums like CDROMs.
.TP
.BI \-X " filelist"
Read list of filez ta be listed or extracted from tha text file
.I filelist
in addizzle ta dem specified on tha command line. This can be used up in 
conjunction wit the
.B \-t
or
.B \-x
commands. Da file
.I filelist
should contain file names separated by newlines.
.I filelist
may be a ordinary file or
.I -
(the standard input).
.TP
.B \-y
Do not ask tha user whether ta abort tha restore up in tha event of a error.
Always try ta skip over tha wack block(s) n' continue.
.PP
(Da 4.3BSD option syntax is implemented fo' backward compatibilitizzle but aint 
documented here.)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains if it gets a read error. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. If 
.B y
has been specified, or tha user responds
.BR y ,
.B restore
will attempt ta continue tha restore.
.PP
If a funky-ass backup was made rockin mo' than one tape volume,
.B restore
will notify tha user when it is time ta mount tha next volume. If the
.B \-x
or
.B \-i
flag has been specified,
.B restore
will also ask which volume tha user wishes ta mount. Da fastest way ta extract
a few filez is ta start wit tha last volume, n' work towardz tha straight-up original gangsta volume.
.PP
There is a shitload of consistency checks dat can be listed by
.BR restore .
Most checks is self-explanatory or can \*(lqnever happen\*(rq. Common errors
are given below:
.TP
.I Convertin ta freshly smoked up file system format
A dump tape pimped from tha oldschool file system has been loaded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it is
automatically converted ta tha freshly smoked up file system format.
.TP
.I <filename>: not found on tape
Da specified file name was listed up in tha tape directory yo, but was not found on
the tape. This is caused by tape read errors while lookin fo' tha file, and
from rockin a thugged-out dump tape pimped on a actizzle file system.
.TP
.I expected next file <inumber>, gots <inumber>
A file dat was not listed up in tha directory flossed up. This can occur when
usin a thugged-out dump pimped on a actizzle file system.
.TP
.I Incremenstrual dump too low
When bustin a incremenstrual restore, a thugged-out dump dat was freestyled before tha previous 
incremenstrual dump, or dat has too low a incremenstrual level has been loaded.
.TP
.I Incremenstrual dump too high
When bustin a incremenstrual restore, a thugged-out dump dat do not begin its coverage
where tha previous incremenstrual dump left off, or dat has too high a 
incremenstrual level has been loaded.
.TP
.I Tape read error while restorin <filename>
.TP
.I Tape read error while skippin over inode <inumber>
.TP
.I Tape read error while tryin ta resynchronize
A tape (or other media) read error has occurred. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If a gangbangin' file name is specified,
its contents is probably partially wrong. If a inode is bein skipped or the
tape is tryin ta resynchronize, no extracted filez done been corrupted, though
filez may not be found on tha tape.
.TP
.I resync restore, skipped <num> blocks
Afta a thugged-out dump read error, 
.B restore
may gotta resynchronize itself. This message lists tha number of blocks that
were skipped over.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B Restore
exits wit zero status on success. Tape errors is indicated wit a exit code
of 1.
.PP
When bustin a cold-ass lil comparison of filez from a thugged-out dump, a exit code of 2 indicates that
some filez was modified or deleted since tha dump was made.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If tha followin environment variable exists it is ghon be utilized by
.BR restore :
.TP
.B TAPE
If no
.B \-f
option was specified,
.B restore
will use tha thang specified via
.B TAPE
as tha dump device.
.B TAPE
may be of tha form
.IR tapename ,
.I host:tapename
or
.IR user@host:tapename .
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Da directory given in
.B TMPDIR
will be used instead of
.I /tmp
to store temporary files.
.TP
.B RMT
Da environment variable
.B RMT
will be used ta determine tha pathname of tha remote
.BR rmt (8)
program.
.TP
.B RSH
.B Restore
uses tha contentz of dis variable ta determine tha name of tha remote shell 
command ta use when bustin a network restore (rsh, ssh etc.). If dis variable
is not set,
.BR rcmd (3)
will be used yo, but only root is ghon be able ta do a network restore.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /dev/st0
the default tape drive
.TP
.I /tmp/rstdir*
file containin directories on tha tape
.TP
.I /tmp/rstmode*
baller, mode, n' time stamps fo' directories
.TP
.I ./restoresymtable
information passed between incremenstrual restores
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dump (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR rmt (8)
.SH BUGS
.B Restore
can git trippin when bustin incremenstrual restores from dumps dat was made on
actizzle file systems.
.PP
A level 0 dump must be done afta a gangbangin' full restore. Because 
.B restore
runs up in user code, it has no control over inode allocation; thus a gangbangin' full dump
must be done ta git a freshly smoked up set of directories reflectin tha freshly smoked up inode 
numbering, even though tha content of tha filez is unchanged.
.PP
Da temporary files
.I /tmp/rstdir*
and
.I /tmp/rstmode*
are generated wit a unique name based on tha date of tha dump n' tha process
ID (see
.BR mktemp (3) ),
except when
.B \-r
or
.B \-R
is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Because
.B \-R
allows you ta restart a
.B \-r
operation dat may done been interrupted, tha temporary filez should be tha 
same across different processes. In all other cases, tha filez is unique 
because it is possible ta have two different dumps started all up in tha same time, 
and separate operations shouldn't conflict wit each other.
.PP
To do a network restore, you gotta run 
.B restore
as root or bust a remote shell replacement (see 
.B RSH
variable).  This is cuz of tha previous securitizzle history of 
.B dump 
and
.BR restore .
(
.B restore
is freestyled ta be setuid root yo, but we is not certain all bugs is gone from the
code - run setuid at yo' own risk.)
.PP
At tha end of restores in
.B \-i
or
.B \-x
modes (unless
.B \-o
option is up in use),
.B restore
will ask tha operator whether ta set tha permissions on tha current
directory. If tha operator confirms dis action, tha permissions 
on tha directory from where 
.B restore
was launched is ghon be replaced by tha permissions on tha dumped root
inode fo' realz. Although dis behaviour aint straight-up a funky-ass bug, it has proven itself
to be confusin fo' nuff users, so it is recommended ta answer 'no', 
unless you struttin a gangbangin' full restore n' you do wanna restore the
permissions on '/'.
.PP
It should be underlined dat cuz it runs up in user code,
.B restore
, when run wit the
.B \-C
option, sees tha filez as tha kernel presents them, whereas
.B dump
sees all tha filez on a given filesystem. In particular, dis 
can cause some mad drama when comparin a thugged-out dumped filesystem a part
of which is hidden by a gangbangin' filesystem mounted on top of dat shit.
.SH AUTHOR
The
.B dump/restore
backup suite was ported ta Linuxz Second Extended File System by Remy Card 
<card@Linux.EU.Org> yo. Dude maintained tha initial versionz of 
.B dump
(up n' includin 0.4b4, busted out up in January 1997).
.PP
Startin wit 0.4b5, tha freshly smoked up maintainer is Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B dump/restore
backup suite be available from <http://dump.sourceforge.net>
.SH HISTORY
The
.B restore
command rocked up in 4.2BSD.
