.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Jeff Garzik -- jgarzik@pobox.com
.\"
.TH RNGD 8 "March 2001" "rng-tools 5"

.SH NAME
rngd \- Peep n' feed random data from hardware thang ta kernel random device

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rngd
[\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-background\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-random-device=\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid-file=\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rng-device=\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-random-step=\fInnn\fR]
[\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-fill-watermark=\fInnn\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-no-drng=\fI1|0\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no-tpm=\fI1|0\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR]
.RI

.SH DESCRIPTION
This daemon feedz data from a random number generator ta tha kernel's
random number entropy pool, afta first checkin tha data ta ensure that
it is properly random.
.PP
Da \fB\-f\fR or \fB\-\-foreground\fR options can be used ta tell
\fBrngd\fR ta avoid forkin on startup.  This is typically used for
debugging.  Da \fB\-b\fR or \fB\-\-background\fR options, which fork n' put
\fBrngd\fR tha fuck into tha background automatically, is tha default.
.PP
Da \fB\-r\fR or \fB\-\-rng-device\fR options can be used ta select an
alternate source of input, besides tha default /dev/hwrandom.
Da \fB\-o\fR or \fB\-\-random-device\fR options can be used ta select
an alternate entropy output device, besides tha default /dev/random.
Note dat dis thang must support tha Linux kernel /dev/random 
ioctl API.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-background\fR
Become a thugged-out daemon (default)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR
Do not fork n' become a thugged-out daemon
.TP
\fB\-p\fI file\fR, \fB\-\-pid-file=\fIfile\fR
File used fo' recordin daemon PID, n' multiple exclusion
(default: /var/run/rngd.pid)
.TP
\fB\-o\fI file\fR, \fB\-\-random-device=\fIfile\fR
Kernel thang used fo' random number output
(default: /dev/random)
.TP
\fB\-r\fI file\fR, \fB\-\-rng-device=\fIfile\fR
Kernel thang used fo' random number input
(default: /dev/hwrandom)
.TP
\fB\-s\fI nnn\fR, \fB\-\-random-step=\fInnn\fR
Number of bytes freestyled ta random-device at a time (default: 64)
.TP
\fB\-W\fI n\fR, \fB\-\-fill\-watermark=\fInnn\fR
Once we start bustin it, feed entropy ta \fIrandom-device\fR until at least
\fIfill-watermark\fR bitz of entropy is available up in its entropy pool (default: 2048).
Settin dis too high will cause \fIrngd\fR ta dominizzle tha contentz of the
entropy pool.  Low joints will hurt system performizzle durin entropy 
starves.  Do not set \fIfill-watermark\fR above tha size of the
entropy pool (usually 4096 bits).
.TP
\fB\-d\fI 1|0\fR, \fB\-\-no-drng=\fI1|0\fR
Do not use drng as a source of random number input (default:0)
.TP
\fB\-n\fI 1|0\fR, \fB\-\-no-tpm=\fI1|0\fR
Do not use tpm as a source of random number input (default:0)
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress error lyrics
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report available entropy sources
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short summary of all program options.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version

.SH AUTHORS
Philipp Rumpf
.br
Jeff Garzik \- jgarzik@pobox.com
.br
Mack Sottek
.br
Brad Hill
