.TH ROUTE 8 "2013\-06\-15" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
route \- show / manipulate tha IP routin table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B route
.RB [ \-CFvnNee ]
.RB [ \-A
family
.RB | \-4 | \-6 ] 
.TP
.B route 
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-A
family 
.RB | \-4 | \-6 ] 
.B add 
.RB [ \-net | \-host ] 
target 
.RB [ netmask 
Nm] 
.RB [ gw 
Gw] 
.RB [ metric 
N] 
.RB [ mss 
M] 
.RB [ window 
W] 
.RB [ irtt 
I]
.RB [ reject ]
.RB [ mod ]
.RB [ dyn ] 
.RB [ reinstate ] 
.RB [[ dev ] 
If]
.TP
.B route 
.RB [ \-v ] 
.RB [ \-A
family
.RB | \-4 | \-6 ]
.B del 
.RB [ \-net | \-host ] 
target 
.RB [ gw 
Gw] 
.RB [ netmask 
Nm] 
.RB [ metric 
N] 
.RB [[ dev ]
If]
.TP
.B route 
.RB [ \-V ] 
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]

.SH NOTE
.P 
This program is obsolete. For replacement check \fBip route\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Route
manipulates tha kernelz IP routin tables.  Its primary use is ta set
up static routes ta specific hosts or networks via a intercourse after
it has been configured wit the
.BR ifconfig (8)
program.

When the
.B add
or
.B del
options is used,
.B route
modifies tha routin tables.  Without these options,
.B route
displays tha current contentz of tha routin tables.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A crew
use tha specified address crew (eg `inet'). Use 
.B route \-\-help
for a gangbangin' full list. Yo ass can use 
.B \-6 
as a alias fo' 
.B \-\-inet6 
and 
.B \-4 
as a alias fo' 
.B -A inet
.

.TP 
.B \-F
operate on tha kernelz FIB (Forwardin Hype Base) routing
table. 
This is tha default.
.TP 
.B \-C
operate on tha kernelz routin cache.

.TP
.B \-v
select verbose operation.
.TP
.B \-n
show numerical addresses instead of tryin ta determine symbolic host
names. This is useful if yo ass is tryin ta determine why tha route ta your
nameserver has vanished.
.TP
.B \-e
use
.BR netstat (8)\-format
for displayin tha routin table.
.B \-ee 
will generate a straight-up long line wit all parametas from tha routin table.

.TP
.B del
delete a route.
.TP 
.B add 
add a freshly smoked up route.
.TP
.B target
the destination network or host. Yo ass can provide IP addresses up in dotted
decimal or host/network names.
.TP
.B \-net
the
.B target
is a network.
.TP
.B \-host
the
.B target 
is a host.
.TP
.B netmask NM
when addin a network route, tha netmask ta be used.
.TP
.B gw GW
route packets via a gateway.
.B NOTE:
Da specified gateway must be reachable first. This probably means that
you gotta set up a static route ta tha gateway beforehand. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If you specify
the address of one of yo' local intercourses, it is ghon be used ta decizzle about
the intercourse ta which tha packets should be routed to. This be a BSDism
compatibilitizzle hack.
.TP
.B metric M
set tha metric field up in tha routin table (used by routin daemons) ta M.
.TP 
.B mss M
sets MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) of tha route ta M bytes.
Note dat tha current implementation of tha route command do not allow
the option ta set tha Maximum Segment Size (MSS).
.TP 
.B window W 
set tha TCP window size fo' connections over dis route ta W
bytes. This is typically only used on AX.25 networks n' wit drivers
unable ta handle back ta back frames.
.TP
.B irtt I
set tha initial round trip time (irtt) fo' TCP connections over this
route ta I millisecondz (1-12000). This is typically only used on
AX.25 networks. If omitted tha RFC 1122 default of 300ms is used.
.TP
.B reject
install a funky-ass blockin route, which will force a route lookup ta fail.
This is fo' example used ta mask up networks before rockin tha default
route.  This is NOT fo' firewalling.
.TP
.B mod, dyn, reinstate
install a thugged-out dynamic or modified route. These flags is fo' diagnostic
purposes, n' is generally only set by routin daemons.
.TP
.B dev If
force tha route ta be associated wit tha specified device, as the
kernel will otherwise try ta determine tha thang on its own (by
checkin already existin routes n' thang justifications, n' where
the route be added to). In most aiiight networks you won't need all dis bullshit.

If 
.B dev If
is tha last option on tha command line, tha word 
.B dev
may be omitted, as itz tha default. Otherwise tha order of tha route
modifiers (metric - netmask - gw - dev) don't matter.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B route add \-net 127.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0 dev lo
addz tha aiiight loopback entry, rockin netmask 255.0.0.0 n' associated wit tha 
"lo" thang (assumin dis thang was previously set up erectly with
.BR ifconfig (8)). 

.TP 
.B route add \-net 192.56.76.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 dev eth0
addz a route ta tha local network 192.56.76.x via 
"eth0".  Da word "dev" can be omitted here, so peek-a-boo, clear tha way, I be comin' thru fo'sho. 

.TP
.B route del default
deletes tha current default route, which is labeled "default" or 0.0.0.0
in tha destination field of tha current routin table.

.TP
.B route add default gw mango\-gw
addz a thugged-out default route (which is ghon be used if no other route matches).
All packets rockin dis route is ghon be gatewayed all up in "mango\-gw". The
device which will straight-up be used fo' dat route dependz on how tha fuck we
can reach "mango\-gw" - tha static route ta "mango\-gw" will gotta be
set up before. 

.TP
.B route add ipx4 sl0
Addz tha route ta tha "ipx4" host via tha SLIP intercourse (assumin that
"ipx4" is tha SLIP host).

.TP
.B route add \-net 192.57.66.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 gw ipx4
This command addz tha net "192.57.66.x" ta be gatewayed all up in tha former
route ta tha SLIP intercourse.

.TP
.B route add \-net 224.0.0.0 netmask 240.0.0.0 dev eth0
This be a obscure one documented so playas know how tha fuck ta do dat shit. This sets
all of tha class D (multicast) IP routes ta go via "eth0". This is the
correct aiiight configuration line wit a multicastin kernel. 

.TP
.B route add \-net 10.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0 reject
This installs a rejectin route fo' tha private network "10.x.x.x."

.LP
.SH OUTPUT
Da output of tha kernel routin table is organized up in tha followin columns
.TP
.B Destination     
Da destination network or destination host.
.TP
.B Gateway
Da gateway address or '*' if none set.
.TP
.B Genmask         
Da netmask fo' tha destination net; '255.255.255.255' fo' a host destination
and '0.0.0.0' fo' tha 
.B default
route.
.TP
.B Flags 
Possible flags include
.br
.B U
(route is
.BR up )
.br
.B H
(target be a
.BR host )
.br
.B G
(use
.BR gateway )
.br
.B R
.RB ( reinstate
route fo' dynamic routing)
.br
.B D
.RB ( dynamically
installed by daemon or redirect)
.br
.B M
.RB ( modified
from routin daemon or redirect)
.br
.B A
(installed by
.BR addrconf )
.br
.B C
.RB ( cache
entry)
.br
.B !
.RB ( reject
route)
.TP
.B Metric 
Da 'distance' ta tha target (usually counted up in hops). Well shiiiit, it aint used by
recent kernels yo, but may be needed by routin daemons.
.TP
.B Ref    
Number of references ta dis route. (Not used up in tha Linux kernel.)
.TP
.B Use
Count of lookups fo' tha route.  Dependin on tha use of \-F n' \-C dis will
be either route cache misses (\-F) or hits (\-C).
.TP
.B Iface
Interface ta which packets fo' dis route is ghon be sent.
.TP
.B MSS 
Default maximum segment size fo' TCP connections over dis route.
.TP
.B Window  
Default window size fo' TCP connections over dis route.
.TP
.B irtt
Initial RTT (Round Trip Time). Da kernel uses dis ta guess bout tha best
TCP protocol parametas without waitin on (possibly slow) lyrics.
.TP
.B HH (cached only)
Da number of ARP entries n' cached routes dat refer ta tha hardware
header cache fo' tha cached route. This is ghon be \-1 if a hardware
address aint needed fo' tha intercourse of tha cached route (e.g. lo).
.TP
.B Arp (cached only)
Whether or not tha hardware address fo' tha cached route is up ta date.
.LP
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/ipv6_route
.br
.I /proc/net/route
.br
.I /proc/net/rt_cache
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip(8)
.LP
.SH HISTORY
.B Route
for Linux was originally freestyled by Fred N.  van Kempen,
<waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org> n' then modified by Johannes Stille and
Linus Torvaldz fo' pl15 fo' realz. Alan Cox added tha mss n' window options for
Linux 1.1.22. irtt support n' merged wit netstat from Bernd Eckenfels.
.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Phil Blundell <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com> n' Bernd Eckenfels <net-tools@lina.inka.de>.
