.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.6 2001/02/03 08:22:44 niklas Exp $
.\"
.\" Da followin requests is required fo' all playa pages.
.Dd February 3, 2003
.Dt RPC.IDMAPD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpc.idmapd
.Nd NFSv4 ID <-> Name Mapper
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" For a program:  program [-abc] file ...
.Nm rpc.idmapd
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl p Ar path
.Op Fl c Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is tha NFSv4 ID <-> name mappin daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  It serves up functionalitizzle to
the NFSv4 kernel client n' server, ta which it communicates via
upcalls, by translatin user n' crew IDs ta names, n' vice versa.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Ds_imagedir
.It Fl v
Increases tha verbositizzle level (can be specified multiple times).
.It Fl f
Runs
.Nm
in tha foreground n' prints all output ta tha terminal.
.It Fl p Ar path
Specifies tha location of tha RPC pipefs ta be
.Ar path .
Da default value is \&"/var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs\&".
.It Fl c Ar path
Use configuration file
.Ar path .
.It Fl C
Client-only: big-ass up no idmappin fo' any NFS server, even if one is detected.
.It Fl S
Server-only: big-ass up no idmappin fo' any NFS client, even if one is detected.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Cm rpc.idmapd -f -vvv
.Pp
Runs
.Nm
printin all
lyrics ta console, n' wit a verbositizzle level of 3.
.\" This next request is fo' sections 2 n' 3 function return joints only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" Da next request is fo' sections 2 n' 3 error n' signal handlin only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" This next request is fo' section 4 only.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" This next request is fo' sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/idmapd.conf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr idmapd.conf 5
.\".Sh SEE ALSO
.\".Xr nylon.conf 4
.\" .Sh COMPATIBILITY
.\".Sh STANDARDS
.\".Sh ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
software has been pimped by Marius Aamodt Eriksen
.Aq marius@citi.umich.edu .
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh BUGS
.\"Please report any bugs ta Marius Aamodt Eriksen
.\".Aq marius@monkey.org .
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
