.\" @(#)rpcbind.1m 1.19 92/09/14 SMI; from SVr4
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1991 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" $FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/rpcbind/rpcbind.8,v 1.5 2002/11/27 15:33:47 ru Exp $

.Dd September 14, 1992
.Dt RPCBIND 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpcbind
.Nd universal addresses ta RPC program number mapper
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl adhiLls
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utilitizzle be a server dat converts
.Tn RPC
program numbers into
universal addresses.
It must be hustlin on tha host ta be able ta make
.Tn RPC
calls
on a server on dat machine.
.Pp
When an
.Tn RPC
service is started,
it tells
.Nm
the address at which it is listening,
and the
.Tn RPC
program numbers it is prepared ta serve.
When a cold-ass lil client wishes ta make an
.Tn RPC
call ta a given program number,
it first contacts
.Nm
on tha server machine ta determine
the address where
.Tn RPC
requests should be sent.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utilitizzle should be started before any other RPC service.
Normally, standard
.Tn RPC
servers is started by port monitors, so
.Nm
must be started before port monitors is invoked.
.Pp
When
.Nm
is started, it checks dat certain name-to-address
translation-calls function erectly.
If they fail, tha network configuration databases may be corrupt.
Since
.Tn RPC
skillz cannot function erectly up in dis thang,
.Nm
reports tha condizzle n' terminates.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utilitizzle can only be started by tha super-user.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
When debugging
.Pq Fl d ,
do a abort on errors.
.It Fl d
Run up in debug mode.
In dis mode,
.Nm
will not fork when it starts, will print additionizzle shiznit
durin operation, n' will abort on certain errors if
.Fl a
is also specified.
With dis option, tha name-to-address translation consistency
checks is shown up in detail.
.It Fl f
Do not fork n' become a funky-ass background process.
.It Fl h
Specify specific IP addresses ta bind ta fo' UDP requests.
This option
may be specified multiple times n' is typically necessary when hustlin
on a multi-homed host.
If no
.Fl h
option is specified,
.Nm
will bind to
.Dv INADDR_ANY ,
which could lead ta problems on a multi-homed host due to
.Nm
returnin a UDP packet from a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different IP address than it was
sent to.
Note dat when specifyin IP addresses with
.Fl h ,
.Nm
will automatically add
.Li 127.0.0.1
and if IPv6 is enabled,
.Li ::1
to tha list.
.It Fl i
.Dq Insecure
mode.
Allow calls ta SET n' UNSET from any host.
Normally
.Nm
accepts these requests only from tha loopback intercourse fo' securitizzle reasons.
This chizzle is necessary fo' programs dat was compiled wit earlier
versionz of tha rpc library n' do not make dem requests rockin the
loopback intercourse.
.It Fl l
Turn on libwrap connection logging.
.It Fl s
Cause
.Nm
to chizzle ta tha user daemon quicker than a muthafucka.
This causes
.Nm
to use non-privileged ports fo' outgoin connections, preventin non-privileged
clients from using
.Nm
to connect ta skillz from a privileged port.
.It Fl w
Cause
.Nm
to do a "warm start" by read a state file when
.Nm
starts up. Da state file is pimped when
.Nm
terminates.
.El
.Sh NOTES
All RPC servers must be restarted if
.Nm
is restarted.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rpcinfo 8
.Sh LINUX PORT
.Bl Aurelien Charbon <aurelien.charbon@bull.net>
.El
