.\"
.\" rpcdebug(8)
.\" 
.\" By Greg Banks <gnb@melbourne.sgi.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" Derived from nfsstat.man which bore tha message:
.\" Copyright (C) 1996-2005 Olaf Kirch <okir@suse.de>
.TH rpcdebug 8 "5 Jul 2006"
.SH NAME
rpcdebug \- set n' clear NFS n' RPC kernel debug flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrpcdebug\fP \fB\-vh\fP
.br
\fBrpcdebug\fP \fB\-m\fP \fImodule\fP
.br
\fBrpcdebug\fP \fB\-m\fP \fImodule\fP \fB\-s\fP \fIflags\fP...
.br
\fBrpcdebug\fP \fB\-m\fP \fImodule\fP \fB\-c\fP \fIflags\fP...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Da \fBrpcdebug\fP command allows a administrator ta set n' clear
the Linux kernelz NFS client n' server debug flags.  Settin these
flags causes tha kernel ta emit lyrics ta tha system log up in response
to NFS activity; dis is typically useful when debuggin NFS problems.
.PP
Da first form up in tha synopsis can be used ta list all available
debug flags.  Da second form shows tha currently set debug flags
for tha given module.  Da third form sets one or mo' flags, and
the fourth form clears one or mo' flags.
.PP
Da value \fBall\fP may be used ta set or clear all tha flags for
the given module.
.SH OPTIONS
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.TP
.B \-c
Clear tha given debug flags.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message n' exit.  When combined wit tha \fB\-v\fP
option, also prints tha available debug flags.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.TP
.BI \-m " module"
Specify which modulez flags ta set or clear. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  Available
modulez are:
.RS
.TP
.BR nfsd
Da NFS server.
.TP
.BR nfs
Da NFS client.
.TP
.BR nlm
Da Network Lock Manager, up in either a NFS client or server.
.TP
.BR rpc
Da Remote Procedure Call module, up in either a NFS client or server.
.RE
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.TP
.B \-s
Set tha given debug flags.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.TP
.B \-v
Increase tha verbositizzle of \fBrpcdebug\fPz output.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /proc/sys/sunrpc/{rpc,nfs,nfsd,nlm}_debug
procfs\-based intercourse ta kernel debug flags.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc.nfsd (8),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR syslogd (8).
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be found or reported at
.BR http://nfs.sf.net/ .
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH AUTHOR
Program by Olaf Kirch <okir@suse.de> and
<frederic.jolly@bull.ext.net>.
Manpage by Greg Banks <gnb@melbourne.sgi.com>.
