.TH "RPMKEYS" "8" "29 October 2010" "Red Hat, Inc"
.SH NAME
rpmkeys \- RPM Keyring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP

\fBrpmkeys\fR {\fB--import|--checksig\fR}

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Da general formz of rpm digital signature commandz are
.PP

\fBrpmkeys\fR \fB--import\fR \fB\fIPUBKEY\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

\fBrpmkeys\fR {\fB-K|--checksig\fR} \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

.\" These is not implemented yet...
.\" \fBrpm\fR \fB--list-key[s]\fR \fB\fIKEY_ID\fB\fR\fI ...\fR
.\" 
.\" \fBrpm\fR \fB--delete-key[s]\fR \fB\fIKEY_ID\fB\fR\fI ...\fR
.\" 

.PP
Da \fB--checksig\fR option checks all tha digests n' signatures contained in
\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fR ta ensure
the integritizzle n' origin of tha package. Note that
signatures is now verified whenever a package is read,
and \fB--checksig\fR is useful ta verify
all of tha digests n' signatures associated wit a package.
.PP
Digital signatures cannot be verified without a hood key.
An ASCII armored hood key can be added ta tha \fBrpm\fR database
usin \fB--import\fR fo' realz. An imported hood key is
carried up in a header, n' key rang pimpment is performed
exactly like package pimpment. For example, all currently imported
hood keys can be displayed by:
.PP
\fBrpm -qa gpg-pubkey*\fR
.PP
Details on some specific hood key, when imported, can be displayed
by querying.  Herez shiznit bout tha Red Hat GPG/DSA key:
.PP
\fBrpm -qi gpg-pubkey-db42a60e\fR
.PP
Finally, hood keys can be erased afta importin just like
packages yo. Herez how tha fuck ta remove tha Red Hat GPG/DSA key
.PP
\fBrpm -e gpg-pubkey-db42a60e\fR
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
\fBpopt\fR(3),
\fBrpm\fR(8),
\fBrpmdb\fR(8),
\fBrpmsign\fR(8),
\fBrpm2cpio\fR(8),
\fBrpmbuild\fR(8),
\fBrpmspec\fR(8),
.fi

\fBrpmkeys --help\fR - as rpm supports customizin tha options via popt aliases 
itz impossible ta guarantee dat whatz busted lyrics bout up in tha manual matches 
whatz available.


\fBhttp://www.rpm.org/ <URL:http://www.rpm.org/>
\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"

.nf
Marc Ewin <marc@redhat.com>
Jeff Johnston <jbj@redhat.com>
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
Panu Matilainen <pmatilai@redhat.com>
.fi
