.TH RQUOTAD 8
.SH NAME
rquotad, rpc.rquotad \- remote quota server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rpc.rquotad
[
.B \-sSFI
] [
.B \-p \f2port\f1
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  daemons  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "user quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "quotas"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "filesystem"  "rquotad daemon"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.IX  "remote procedure call skillz"  "rquotad"  ""  "\fLrquotad\fP \(em remote quota server"
.B rquotad
is an
.BR rpc (3)
server which returns quotas fo' a user of a local filesystem
which is mounted by a remote machine over the
.SM NFS\s0.
It also allows settin of quotas on
.SM NFS
mounted filesystem (if configured durin compilation n' allowed by a cold-ass lil command line option
.BR \-S ).
Da thangs up in dis biatch is used by
.BR quota (1)
to display user quotas fo' remote filesystems n' by
.BR edquota (8)
to set quotas on remote filesystems.
.B rquotad
daemon uses tcp-wrappers library (under steez name
.IR rquotad )
which allows you ta specify hosts allowed/disallowed ta use
the daemon (see
.BR hosts.allow (5)
manpage fo' mo' shiznit). The
.B rquotad
daemon is normally started at boot time from the
system startup scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Shows version of quota tools.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-no-setquota
Don't allow settin of quotas (default). This option be available only
if utilitizzles was compiled wit the
.I rpcsetquota
option.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-setquota
Allow settin of quotas. This option be available only
if utilitizzles was compiled wit the
.I rpcsetquota
option.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-foreground
Run daemon up in foreground (may be useful fo' debuggin purposes).
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-autofs
Do not ignore autofs mountpoints.
.TP
.B \-p \f2port\f3, \-\-port \f2port\f1
Listen on alternate port
.IR port.
.TP
.B \-x \f2path\f3, \-\-xtab \f2path\f1
Set a alternatizzle file wit NFSD export table. This file is used to
determine pseudoroot of NFSv4 exports, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da pseudoroot is then prepended
to each relatizzle path (i.e. a path not beginnin by '/') received up in a
quota RPC request.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quota (1),
.BR rpc (3),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR skillz (5),
.BR inetd (8)
