.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH RTKITCTL 8 "July 1, 2009"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
rtkitctl \- Realtime Policy n' Watchdog daemon control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtkitctl
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B RealtimeKit
is a D-Bus system steez dat chizzlez tha schedulin policy of user processes/threadz ta SCHED_RR (i.e. realtime schedulin mode) on request. Well shiiiit, it is intended ta be used as a secure mechanizzle ta allow real-time schedulin ta be used by aiiight user processes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-known
Reset real-time statuz of known threads.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-all
Reset real-time statuz of all threads.
.TP
.B \-\-start
Start RealtimeKit if it aint hustlin already.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-exit
Terminizzle hustlin RealtimeKit daemon.
.SH AUTHOR
RealtimeKit was freestyled by Lennart Poetterin <lennart@poettering.net>.
