.TH RTMON 8
.SH NAME
rtmon \- listens ta n' monitors RTnetlink
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtmon
.RI "[ options ] file FILE [ all | LISTofOBJECTS ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B rtmon
command.
.PP
.B rtmon
listens on 
.I netlink 
socket n' monitors routin table chizzles.

.I rtmon 
can be started before tha straight-up original gangsta network configuration command is issued.
For example if you insert:

.B rtmon file /var/log/rtmon.log

in a startup script, yo big-ass booty is ghon be able ta view tha full history later.
Certainly, it is possible ta start rtmon at any time. Well shiiiit, it prependz tha history wit tha state snapshot dumped all up in tha moment of starting.

.SH OPTIONS
.I rtmon supports tha followin options:
.TP
.B \-Version
Print version n' exit.
.TP
.B help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B file FILE [ all | LISTofOBJECTS ]
Log output ta FILE. LISTofOBJECTS is tha list of object types dat we
wanna monitor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke.  It may contain 'link', 'address', 'route'
and 'all'. 'link' specifies tha network device, 'address' tha protocol
(IP or IPv6) address on a thugged-out device, 'route' tha routin table entry
and 'all' do what tha fuck tha name say.
.TP
.B \-family [ inet | inet6 | link | help ]
Specify protocol crew. 'inet' is IPv4, 'inet6' is IPv6, 'link'
means dat no networkin protocol is involved n' 'help' prints usage shiznit.
.TP
.B \-4
Use IPv4. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shortcut fo' -family inet.
.TP
.B \-6
Use IPv6. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shortcut fo' -family inet6.
.TP
.B \-0
Use a special crew identifier meanin dat no networkin protocol is involved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Shortcut fo' -family link.
.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.TP
.B # rtmon file /var/log/rtmon.log
Log ta file /var/log/rtmon.log, then run:
.TP
.B # ip monitor file /var/log/rtmon.log
to display logged output from file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.B rtmon 
was freestyled by Alexey Kuznetsov <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Mike Prokop <mika@grml.org>,
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
