.TH SA 8 "1997 August 19"
.SH NAME
sa \-  summarizes accountin shiznit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B sa
[
.B \-a
|
.B \-\-list-all-names
]
.br
[
.B \-b
|
.B \-\-sort-sys-user-div-calls 
]
.br
[
.B \-c
|
.B \-\-percentages
]
[
.B \-d
|
.B \-\-sort-avio
]
.br
[
.B \-D
|
.B \-\-sort-tio
]
[
.B \-f
|
.B \-\-not-interactive
]
.br
[
.B \-i
|
.B \-\-dont-read-summary-files
]
.br
[
.B \-j
|
.B \-\-print-seconds
]
[
.B \-k
|
.B \-\-sort-cpu-avmem
]
.br
[
.B \-K
|
.B \-\-sort-ksec
]
[
.B \-l
|
.B \-\-separate-times
]
.br
[
.B \-m
|
.B \-\-user-summary
]
[
.B \-n
|
.B \-\-sort-num-calls
]
.br
[
.B \-p
|
.B \-\-show-paging
]
[
.B \-P
|
.B \-\-show-paging-avg
]
.br
[
.B \-r
|
.B \-\-reverse-sort
]
[
.B \-s
|
.B \-\-merge
]
.br
[
.B \-t
|
.B \-\-print-ratio
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-\-print-users
]
.br
[
.BI \-v " num"
|
.BI \-\-threshold " num"
]
[
.B \-\-sort-real-time
]
.br
[
.B \-\-debug
]
[
.B \-V
|
.B \-\-version
]
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help 
]
.br
[
.BI "\-\-other-usracct-file " filename
]
[
.BI \-\-ahz " hz"
]
.br
[
.BI "\-\-other-savacct-file " filename
]
.br
[
[
.B "\-\-other-acct-file " 
]
.I filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sa
summarizes shiznit bout previously executed commandz as
recorded up in tha 
.I acct
file.  In addition, it condenses dis data tha fuck into a summary file named
.I savacct
which gotz nuff tha number of times tha command was called n' tha system 
resources used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da shiznit can also be summarized on a per-user 
basis; 
.B sa
will save dis shiznit tha fuck into a gangbangin' file named
.I usracct.
.LP
If no arguments is specified, 
.B sa 
will print shiznit bout all of tha commandz up in tha 
.I acct
file.  
.LP
If called wit a gangbangin' file name as tha last argument, 
.B sa 
will use dat file instead of tha systemz default
.I acct
file.
.LP
By default, 
.B sa 
will sort tha output by sum of user n' system time.  
If command names have unprintable characters, or is only called once, 
.B sa 
will sort dem tha fuck into a crew called `***other'.
If mo' than one sortin option is specified, tha list will
be sorted by tha one specified last on tha command line.
.LP
Da output fieldz is labeled as bigs up:
.TP
.I cpu
 sum of system n' user time up in cpu minutes
.TP
.I re
 "elapsed time" up in minutes
.TP
.I k
 cpu-time averaged core usage, up in 1k units
.TP
.I avio
 average number of I/O operations per execution
.TP
.I tio
 total number of I/O operations
.TP
.I k*sec
 cpu storage integral (kilo-core seconds)
.TP
.I u
 user cpu time up in cpu seconds
.TP
.I s
 system time up in cpu seconds
.LP
Note dat these column titlez do not step tha fuck up in tha straight-up original gangsta row of the
table yo, but afta each numeric entry (as unitz of measurement) up in every
row.  For example, you might peep `79.29re', meanin 79.29 cpu seconds
of "real time".
.LP
An asterisk will step tha fuck up afta tha name of commandz dat forked but didn't call 
.B exec.
.LP
GNU 
.B sa
takes care ta implement a fuckin shitload of features not found up in other versions.
For example, most versionz of 
.B sa 
don't pay attention ta flags like `\-\-print-seconds' n' 
`\-\-sort-num-calls' when printin up commandz when combined wit 
the `\-\-user-summary' or `\-\-print-users' flags.  GNU 
.B sa 
pays attention ta these flags if they is applicable.
Also, MIPS'
.B sa
stores tha average memory use as a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short rather than a thugged-out double, resulting
in some round-off errors.  GNU 
.B sa 
uses double tha whole way through.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Da availabilitizzle of these program options dependz on yo' operating
system.  In specific, tha thugz dat step tha fuck up in the
.B struct acct
of yo' systemz process accountin header file (usually 
.I acct.h
) determine which flags is ghon be present.  For example, if yo' system's
.B struct acct
doesn't have tha `ac_mem' field, tha installed
version of
.B sa
will not support tha `\-\-sort-cpu-avmem', `\-\-sort-ksec', `\-k', or
`\-K' options.
.LP
In short, all of these flags may not be available on yo' machine.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-a, \-\-list-all-names
Force 
.B sa 
not ta sort dem command names wit unprintable charactas n' dem 
used only once tha fuck into tha 
.I ***other
group.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-sort-sys-user-div-calls
Sort tha output by tha sum of user n' system time divided by the
number of calls.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-percentages
Print cementagez of total time fo' tha commandz user, system,
and real time joints.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-sort-avio
Sort tha output by tha average number of disk I/O operations.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-sort-tio
Print n' sort tha output by tha total number of disk I/O operations.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-not-interactive
When rockin tha `\-\-threshold' option, assume dat all lyrics to
interactizzle queries is ghon be affirmative.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-dont-read-summary-files
Don't read tha shiznit up in tha systemz default
.I savacct
file.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-print-seconds
Instead of printin total minutes fo' each category, print secondz per call.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-sort-cpu-avmem
Sort tha output by cpu time average memory usage.
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-sort-ksec
Print n' sort tha output by tha cpu-storage integral.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-separate-times
Print separate columns fo' system n' user time; probably tha two
are added together n' listed as `cpu'.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-user-summary
Print tha number of processes n' number of CPU minutes on a
per-user basis.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-sort-num-calls
Sort tha output by tha number of calls.  This is tha default sortin method.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-show-paging
Print tha number of minor n' major pagefaults n' swaps.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-show-paging-avg
Print tha number of minor n' major pagefaults n' swaps divided by
the number of calls.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reverse-sort
Sort output shit up in reverse order.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-merge
Merge tha summarized accountin data tha fuck into tha summary files
.I savacct
and
.I usracct.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-print-ratio
For each entry, print tha ratio of real time ta tha sum of system
and user times.  If tha sum of system n' user times is too small
to report--the sum is zero--`*ignore*' will step tha fuck up in dis field.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-print-users
For each command up in tha accountin file, print tha userid and
command name.  Afta printin all entries, quit.  *Note*: dis flag
supersedes all others.
.TP
.BI \-v " num " \-\-threshold " num"
Print commandz which was executed 
.I num 
times or fewer n' await a
reply from tha terminal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  If tha response begins wit `y', add the
command ta tha `**junk**' group.
.TP 
.B \-\-separate-forks
It straight-up don't make any sense ta me dat tha stock version of
.B sa 
separates statistics fo' a particular executable dependin on
whether or not dat command forked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Therefore, GNU 
.B sa 
lumps dis shiznit together unless dis option is specified.
.TP
.BI \-\-ahz " hz"
Use dis flag ta tell tha program what
.B AHZ
should be (in hertz).  This option is useful if yo ass is tryin ta view
an
.I acct
file pimped on another machine which has tha same ol' dirty byte order n' file
format as yo' current machine yo, but has a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different value for
.B AHZ.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print verbose internal shiznit.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print tha version number of
.B sa.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints tha usage strang n' default locationz of system filez to
standard output n' exits.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort-real-time
Sort tha output by tha "real time" field.
.TP
.BI \-\-other-usracct-file " filename"
Write summaries by user ID ta 
.I filename
rather than tha systemz default
.I usracct
file.
.TP
.BI \-\-other-savacct-file " filename"
Write summaries by command name ta 
.I filename
rather than tha systemz default
.I SAVACCT
file.
.TP
.BI \-\-other-acct-file " filename"
Read from tha file 
.I filename 
instead of tha systemz default
.I ACCT
file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I acct
Da raw system wide process accountin file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR acct (5)
for further details.
.TP
.I savacct
A summary of system process accountin sorted by command.
.TP
.I usracct
A summary of system process accountin sorted by user ID.
.RE
.LP

.SH BUGS
There aint yet a wide experience base fo' comparin tha output of GNU
.B sa 
with versions of
.B sa
in nuff other systems.  Da problem is dat tha data filez grow big-ass up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short
time n' therefore require a shitload of disk space.
.LP

.SH AUTHOR
Da GNU accountin utilitizzles was freestyled by Noel Cragg
<noel@gnu.ai.mit.edu>. Da playa page was adapted from tha accounting
texinfo page by Susan Kleinmann <sgk@sgk.tiac.net>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR acct (5),
.BR ac (1)
