.TH SANDBOX "8" "May 2010" "sandbox" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sandbox \- Run cmd under a SELinux sandbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sandbox
[\-C] [\-c] [\-s] [ \-d DPI ] [\-l level ] [[\-M | \-X]  \-H homedir \-T tempdir ] [\-I includefile ] [ \-W windowmanager ] [ \-w windowsize ] [[\-i file ]...] [ \-t type ] cmd

.br
.B sandbox
[\-C] [\-c] [\-s] [ \-d DPI ] [\-l level ] [[\-M | \-X]  \-H homedir \-T tempdir ] [\-I includefile ] [ \-W windowmanager ] [ \-w windowsize ] [[\-i file ]...] [ \-t type ] \-S
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run tha 
.I cmd 
application within a tightly confined SELinux domain. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da default sandbox domain only allows applications tha mobilitizzle ta read n' write stdin, stdout n' any other file descriptors handed ta dat shit. Well shiiiit, it aint allowed ta open any other files.  Da \-M option will mount a alternate homedir n' tmpdir ta be used by tha sandbox.

If you have tha 
.I policycoreutils-sandbox 
package installed, you can use tha \-X option n' tha \-M option.
.B sandbox \-X
allows you ta run X applications within a sandbox.  These applications will start up they own X Server n' create a temporary home directory n' /tmp.  Da default SELinux policy do not allow any capabilitizzles or network access.  It also prevents all access ta tha playas other processes n' files.  Filez specified on tha command dat is up in tha home directory or /tmp is ghon be copied tha fuck into tha sandbox directories.

If directories is specified wit \-H or \-T tha directory gonna git its context modified wit chcon(1) unless a level is specified wit \-l.  If tha MLS/MCS securitizzle level is specified, tha user is responsible ta set tha erect labels.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-h\ \fB\\-\-help\fR
display usage message
.TP
\fB\-H\ \fB\\-\-homedir\fR
Use alternate homedir ta mount over yo' home directory.  Defaults ta temporary. Requires \-X or \-M.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fB\-\-include\fR
Copy dis file tha fuck into tha appropriate temporary sandbox directory. Command can be repeated.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fB\-\-includefile\fR
Copy all filez listed up in inputfile tha fuck into the
appropriate temporary sandbox directories.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fB\-\-level\fR
Specify tha MLS/MCS Securitizzle Level ta run tha sandbox with.  Defaults ta random.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR \fB\-\-mount\fR
Smoke a Sandbox wit temporary filez fo' $HOME n' /tmp.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fB\-\-shred\fR
Shred temporary filez pimped up in $HOME n' /tmp, before deleting.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fB\-\-type\fR
Use alternate sandbox type, defaults ta sandbox_t or sandbox_x_t fo' \-X.

\fBExamples:\fR
.br
sandbox_t	\-	No X, No Network Access, No Open, read/write on passed up in file descriptors.
.br
sandbox_min_t	\-	No Network Access
.br
sandbox_x_t	\-	Printa Ports
.br
sandbox_web_t	\-	Ports required fo' wizzy browsing
.br
sandbox_net_t	\-	All network ports

.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fB\-\-tmpdir\fR
Use alternate temporary directory ta mount on /tmp.  Defaults ta tmpfs. Requires \-X or \-M.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fB\-\-session\fR
Run a gangbangin' full desktop session, Requires level, n' home n' tmpdir.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fB\-\-windowsize\fR

Specifies tha windowsize when bustin a X based Sandbox. Da default windowsize is 1000x700.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR \fB\-\-windowmanager\fR
Select alternatizzle window manager ta run within 
.B sandbox \-X.
Default ta /usr/bin/openbox.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR 
Smoke a X based Sandbox fo' gui apps, temporary filez for
$HOME n' /tmp, secondary Xserver, defaults ta sandbox_x_t
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-dpi\fR
Set tha DPI value fo' tha sandbox X Server n' shit. Defaults ta tha current X Sever DPI.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fB\-\-cgroups\fR
Use control crews ta control dis copy of sandbox.  Specify parametas up in /etc/sysconfig/sandbox. Max memory usage n' cpu usage is ta be specified up in cement. Yo ass can specify which CPUs ta use by numberin dem 0,1,2... etc.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fB\-\-capabilities\fR Use capabilitizzles within the
sandbox. By default applications executed within tha sandbox will not
be allowed ta use capabilitizzles (setuid apps), wit tha \-C flag, you
can use programs requirin capabilities.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
runcon(1), seunshare(8), selinux(8)
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was freestyled by
.I Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>
and
.I Thomas Liu <tliu@fedoraproject.org>
