.TH saned 8 "20 Apr 2009" "" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX saned
.SH NAME
saned \- SANE network daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B saned
.B [ \-a 
.I [ username ]
.B | \-d 
.I [ n ]
.B | \-s
.I [ n ]
.B | \-h
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B saned
is tha SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) daemon dat allows remote clients
to access image acquisizzle devices available on tha local host.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B \-a
flag requests that
.B saned
run up in standalone daemon mode. In dis mode, 
.B saned
will detach from tha console n' run up in tha background, listenin fo' incoming
client connections; 
.B inetd
is not required for
.B saned
operations up in dis mode. If tha optional
.B username
is given after
.B \-a
,
.B saned
will drop root privileges n' run as dis user (and group).
.PP
The
.B \-d
and
.B \-s
flags request that
.B saned
run up in debug mode (as opposed to
.BR inetd (8)
daemon mode).  In dis mode,
.B saned
explicitly waits fo' a cold-ass lil connection request.  When compiled with
debuggin enabled, these flags may be followed by a number ta request
debug info. Da larger tha number, tha mo' verbose tha debug output.
E.g.,
.B \-d128
will request printin of all debug info. Debug level 0 means no debug output
at all. Da default value is 2. If flag
.B \-d
is used, tha debug lyrics is ghon be printed ta stderr while
.B \-s
requests rockin syslog.
.PP
If 
.B saned
is run from inetd, xinetd or systemd, no option can be given.
.PP
The
.B \-h
flag displays a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message.
.SH CONFIGURATION
First n' foremost: 
.B saned
is not intended ta be exposed ta tha internizzle or other non-trusted
networks. Make shizzle dat access is limited by tcpwrappers and/or a gangbangin' firewall
setup. Don't depend only on 
.BR saned 's
own authentication. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Don't run
.B saned
as root if it aint necessary fo' realz. And do
.B not
install
.B saned
as setuid root.
.PP
Da 
.I saned.conf
configuration file gotz nuff both options fo' tha daemon n' tha access
list.
.TP
\fBdata_portrange\fP = \fImin_port\fP - \fImax_port\fP
Specify tha port range ta use fo' tha data connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Pick a port
range between 1024 n' 65535; don't pick a too big-ass port range, as it
may have performizzle issues. Use dis option if yo' \fBsaned\fP
server is chillin behind a gangbangin' firewall. If dat firewall be a Linux
machine, we straight fuckin recommend rockin tha Netfilter
\fInf_conntrack_sane\fP module instead.
.PP
Da access list be a list of host names, IP addresses or IP subnets
(CIDR notation) dat is permitted ta use local SANE devices. IPv6
addresses must be enclosed up in brackets, n' should always be specified
in they compressed form. Connections from localhost is always
permitted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Empty lines n' lines startin wit a hash mark (#) are
ignored. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A line containin tha single characta ``+'' is interpreted
to match any hostname. This allows any remote machine ta use your
scanner n' may present a securitizzle risk, so dis shouldn't be used
unless you know what tha fuck you bustin.
.PP
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
# Daemon options
.br
data_portrange = 10000 - 10100
.br
# Access list
.br
scan\-client.somedomain.firm
.br
# dis be a cold-ass lil comment
.br
192.168.0.1
.br
192.168.2.12/29
.br
[::1]
.br
[2001:db8:185e::42:12]/64
.RE
.PP
Da case of tha host names do not matter, so AHost.COM is considered
identical ta ahost.com.
.SH SERVER DAEMON CONFIGURATION
For
.B saned
to work properly up in its default mode of operation, it be also necessary ta 
add tha appropriate configuration fo' 
.I (x)inetd or systemd.
(see below).
Note dat yo' inetd must support IPv6 if you
wanna connect ta saned over IPv6 ; xinetd, openbsd-inetd n' systemd 
are known ta support IPv6, check tha documentation fo' yo' inetd daemon.
.PP
In tha sections below tha configuration fo' 
.I inetd, xinetd
and
.I systemd
are busted lyrics bout up in mo' detail.
.PP
For tha configurations below it is necessary ta add a line of tha followin 
form to
.IR /etc/skillz :
.PP
.RS
sane\-port 6566/tcp # SANE network scanner daemon
.RE
.PP
Da straight-up legit IANA short name fo' port 6566 is "sane\-port". Da olda name 
"sane" is now deprecated.
.SH INETD CONFIGURATION
It be required ta add a single line ta tha inetd configuration file
.IR (/etc/inetd.conf)
.
.PP
Da configuration line normally be lookin like this:
.PP
.RS
sane\-port stream tcp nowait saned.saned /usr/sbin/saned saned
.E
.PP
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if yo' system uses
.BR tcpd (8)
for additionizzle securitizzle screening, you may wanna disable saned
access control by puttin ``+'' in
.IR saned.conf
and bust a line of tha followin form in
.IR /etc/inetd.conf
instead:
.PP
.RS
sane\-port stream tcp nowait saned.saned /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/sbin/saned
.RE
.PP
Note dat both examplez assume dat there be a
.B saned
group n' a
.B saned
user n' shit.  If you follow dis example, please make shizzle dat tha 
access permissions on tha special thang is set such that
.B saned
can access tha scanner (the program generally needz read and
write access ta scanner devices).
.SH XINETD CONFIGURATION
If xinetd is installed on yo' system instead of inetd tha followin example
for 
.I /etc/xinetd.conf 
may be helpful:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
# default: off
# description: Da sane server accepts requests 
# fo' network access ta a local scanner via the
# network.
service sane\-port
{
   port        = 6566
   socket_type = stream
   wait        = no
   user        = saned
   crew       = saned
   server      = /usr/sbin/saned
}
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH SYSTEMD CONFIGURATION
for systemd we need ta add 2 configuation filez up in 
.I /etc/systemd/system.
.PP
Da first file we need ta add here is called 
.I saned.socket. 
It shall have
the followin contents:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
[Unit]
Description=saned incomin socket

[Socket]
ListenStream=6566
Accept=yes
MaxConnections=1

[Install]
WantedBy=sockets.target
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Da second file ta be added is 
.I saned@.service 
with tha followin contents:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
[Unit]
Description=Scanner Service
Requires=saned.socket

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/saned
User=saned
Group=saned
StandardInput=null
StandardOutput=syslog
StandardError=syslog
# Environment=SANE_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/sane.d SANE_DEBUG_DLL=255
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Is you need ta set a environment variable fo' saned like
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
you will gotta remove tha # on tha last line n' set tha variable 
appropriately.  Multiple variablez can be set by separatin tha assignments 
by spaces as shown up in tha example above.
.PP
Unlike 
.I (x)inetd
systemd allows debuggin output from backendz set using
.B SANE_DEBUG_<backend_name> 
to be captured. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! With tha steez unit as busted lyrics bout above, tha debuggin output is 
forwarded ta tha system log.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
Da hosts listed up in dis file is permitted ta access all local SANE
devices.  Caveat: dis file imposes straight-up securitizzle risks n' its use
is not recommended.
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/saned.conf
Gotz Nuff a list of hosts permitted ta access local SANE devices (see
also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/saned.users
If dis file gotz nuff linez of tha form

user:password:backend

access ta tha listed backendz is restricted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time fo' realz. A backend may be listed multiple
times fo' different user/password combinations. Da server uses MD5 hashing
if supported by tha client.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies tha list of directories dat may
contain tha configuration file.  Under UNIX, tha directories are
separated by a cold-ass lil colon (`:'), under OS/2, they is separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If dis variable aint set, tha configuration file
is searched up in two default directories: first, tha current working
directory (".") n' then up in /etc/sane.d. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If tha value of the
environment variable endz wit tha directory separator character, then
the default directories is searched afta tha explicitly specified
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result up in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" bein searched (in dis order).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR scanimage (1),
.BR xscanimage (1),
.BR xcam (1),
.BR sane\-dll (5),
.BR sane\-net (5),
.BR sane\-"backendname" (5)
.br
.I http://www.penguin-breeder.org/?page=sane\-net
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Mosberger
