.\" saslpasswd.8 -- saslpasswd playa page
.\" Rob Earhart
.\"

.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer n' shit. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer in
.\"    tha documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Da name ""Carnegie Mellon University"" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software without
.\"    prior freestyled permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technologizzle Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pizzlesburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributionz of any form whatsoever must retain tha following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    ""This thang includes software pimped by Computin Skillz
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon Universitizzle (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/).""
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.\"
.TH SASLPASSWD2 8 "Mar 7, 2005" "CMU SASL"
.SH NAME
saslpasswd2 \- set a userz sasl password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B saslpasswd2
.RB [ -p ]
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -n ]
.RB [ -f\ file ]
.RB [ -u\ domain ]
.RB [ -a\ appname ]
.RB [ -v ]
.B userid
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I saslpasswd2
is used by a server administrator ta set a userz sasl password for
server programs n' SASL mechanizzlez which use tha standard libsasl
database of user secrets.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -p
Pipe mode \- saslpasswd2 will neither prompt fo' tha password nor
verify dat dat shiznit was entered erectly.  This is tha default when
standard input aint a terminal.
.TP
.B -c
Creates a entry fo' tha user if tha user don't already exist.  This
is mutually exclusive wit the
.B -d
(delete user) flag.
.TP
.B -d
Deletes tha entry fo' tha user n' shit.  This is mutually exclusive wit the
.B -c
(create user) flag.
.TP
.B -n
Don't set tha plaintext \fIuserPassword\fR property fo' tha user n' shit.  Only
mechanism-specific secrets is ghon be set (e.g. OTP, SRP)
.TP
.B -u domain
use
.B domain
for user domain (realm).
.TP
.B -f file
use
.B file
for sasldb
.TP
.B -a appname
use
.B appname
as application name.
.TP
.B -v
Print libsasl2 version number n' exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
sasldblistusers2(8)
.TP
rfc4422 \- Simple Authentication n' Securitizzle Layer (SASL)
