.\" $Id: saslauthd.mdoc,v 1.19 2009/04/11 20:08:48 mel Exp $
.\" Copyright 1997-2001 Messagin Direct Ltd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This manpage uses tha BSD mdoc manpage macros. Please don't
.\" downgrade it ta -man. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da -mdoc macros is included with
.\" GNU roff, and, of course, wit tha BSD distributions.
.\"
.\" To make game easier fo' cribs dat don't support -mdoc,
.\" please generate (and commit!) a updated pre-formatted
.\" manpage up in saslauthd.8 whenever you chizzle dis source
.\" version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Only tha pre-formatted manpage is installed.
.\"
.Dd 12 12 2005
.Dt SASLAUTHD 8
.Os "CMU-SASL"
.Sh NAME
.Nm saslauthd
.Nd sasl authentication server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl a
.Ar authmech
.Op Fl \&Tvdchlr
.Op Fl O Ar option
.Op Fl m Ar mux_path
.Op Fl n Ar threads
.Op Fl s Ar size
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a thugged-out daemon process dat handlez plaintext authentication requests
on behalf of tha SASL library.
.Pp
Da server fulfills two roles: it isolates all code requirin superuser
privileges tha fuck into a single process, n' it can be used ta provide
.Em proxy
authentication skillz ta clients dat do not understand
SASL based authentication.
.Pp
.Nm
should be
started from tha system boot scripts when goin to
multi-user mode. When hustlin against a protected authentication
database (e.g. the
.Li shadow
mechanism),
it must be run as tha superuser.
.Ss Options
Options named by lower\-case lettas configure tha server itself.
Upper\-case options control tha behavior of specific authentication
mechanisms; they applicabilitizzle ta a particular authentication
mechanizzle is busted lyrics bout up in the
.Sx AUTHENTICATION MECHANISMS
section.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a Ar authmech
Use
.Ar authmech
as tha authentication mechanism. (See the
.Sx AUTHENTICATION MECHANISMS
section below.) This parameta is mandatory.
.It Fl O Ar option
A mechanizzle specific option (e.g. rimap hostname or config file path)
.It Fl H Ar hostname
Da remote host ta be contacted by the
.Li rimap
authentication mechanism. (Deprecated, use -O instead)
.It Fl m Ar path
Use
.Ar path
as tha pathname ta tha named socket ta listen on for
connection requests, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This must be a absolute pathname, n' MUST NOT
include tha trailin "/mux".  Note dat tha default fo' dis value
is "/var/state/saslauthd" (or what tha fuck was specified at compile time)
and dat dis directory must exist fo' saslauthd ta function.
.It Fl n Ar threads
Use
.Ar threads
processes fo' respondin ta authentication queries. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! (default: 5)  A
value of zero will indicate dat saslauthd should fork a individual
process fo' each connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This can solve leaks dat occur up in some
deployments.
.It Fl s Ar size
Use
.Ar size
as tha table size of tha hash table (in kilobytes)
.It Fl t Ar timeout
Use
.Ar timeout
as tha expiration time of tha authentication cache (in seconds)
.It Fl T
Honour time-of-dizzle login restrictions.
.It Fl h
Show usage shiznit
.It Fl c
Enable cachin of authentication credentials
.It Fl l
Disable tha use of a lock file fo' controllin access ta accept().
.It Fl r
Combine tha realm wit tha login (with a '@' sign up in between).  e.g.
login: "foo" realm: "bar" will git passed as login: "foo@bar".  Note
that tha realm will still be passed, which may lead ta unexpected
behavior fo' authentication mechanizzlez dat make use of tha realm,
however fo' mechanizzlez which don't, such as
.Ar getpwent ,
this is tha only way ta authenticate domain-specific playas pluggin the
same userid.
.It Fl v
Print tha version number n' available authentication
mechanizzlez on standard error, then exit.
.It Fl d
Debuggin mode.
.El
.Ss Logging
.Nm
logs its activitizzles via
.Nm syslogd
usin the
.Dv LOG_AUTH
facility.
.Sh AUTHENTICATION MECHANISMS
.Nm
supports one or more
.Qq authentication mechanizzlez ,
dependent upon tha facilitizzles provided by tha underlyin operatin system.
Da mechanizzle is selected by the
.Fl a
flag from tha followin list of chizzles:
.Bl -tag -width "kerberos4"
.It Li dce
.Em (AIX)
.Pp
Authenticate rockin tha DCE authentication environment.
.It Li getpwent
.Em (All platforms)
.Pp
Authenticate rockin the
.Fn getpwent
library function. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Typically dis authenticates against the
local password file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See yo' system's
.Xr getpwent 3
man page fo' details.
.It Li kerberos4
.Em (All platforms)
.Pp
Authenticate against tha local Kerberos 4 realm. (See the
.Sx NOTES
section fo' caveats bout dis driver.)
.It Li kerberos5
.Em (All platforms)
.Pp
Authenticate against tha local Kerberos 5 realm.
.It Li pam
.Em (Linux, Solaris)
.Pp
Authenticate rockin Pluggable Authentication Modulez (PAM).
.It Li rimap
.Em (All platforms)
.Pp
Forward authentication requests ta a remote IMAP server n' shit. This driver
connects ta a remote IMAP server, specified rockin tha -O flag,
and attempts ta login (via a IMAP
.Ql LOGIN
command) rockin tha credentials 
supplied ta tha local
server n' shit. If tha remote authentication succeedz tha local connection
is also considered ta be authenticated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Da remote connection is closed
as soon as tha tagged response from the
.Ql LOGIN
command is received from tha remote
server.
.Pp
The
.Ar option
parameta ta the
.Fl O
flag raps bout tha remote server ta forward
authentication requests to.
.Ar hostname
can be a hostname (imap.example.com) or a thugged-out dotted\-quad IP address
(192.168.0.1). Da latta is useful if tha remote server is
multi\-homed n' has network intercourses dat is unreachable from
the local IMAP server n' shit. Da remote host is contacted on the
.Ql imap
service port fo' realz. A non\-default port can be specified by appending
a slash n' tha port name or number
to the
.Ar hostname
argument.
.Pp
The
.Fl O
flag n' argument is mandatory when rockin the
.Li rimap
mechanism.
.It Li shadow
.Em (AIX, Irix, Linux, Solaris)
.Pp
Authenticate against tha local
.Qq shadow password file .
Da exact mechanizzle is system dependent.
.Nm
currently understandz the
.Fn getspnam
and
.Fn getuserpw
library routines. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some systems
honour the
.Fl T
flag.
.It Li sasldb
.Em (All platforms)
.Pp
Authenticate against the
SASL authentication database.  Note dat dis is probably not what tha fuck you
wanna use, n' is even disabled at compile-time by default.
If you wanna use sasldb wit tha SASL library, you probably want to
use tha pwcheck_method of "auxprop" along wit tha sasldb auxprop plugin
instead.
.It Li ldap
.Em (All platforms dat support OpenLDAP 2.0 or higher)
.Pp
Authenticate against a ldap server n' shit.  Da ldap configuration parametas are
read from /etc/saslauthd.conf.  Da location of dis file can be
changed wit tha -O parameter n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha LDAP_SASLAUTHD file included wit the
distribution fo' tha list of available parameters.
.It Li sia
.Em (Digital UNIX)
.Pp
Authenticate rockin tha Digital
.Ux
Securitizzle Integration Architecture
(a.k.a.
.Qq enhanced securitizzle ) .
.El
.Sh NOTES
The
.Li kerberos4
authentication driver consumes considerable resources. To big-ass up an
authentication it must obtain a ticket grantin ticket
from tha TGT server
.Sy on every last muthafuckin authentication request.
Da Kerberos library routines dat obtain tha TGT also create a
local ticket file, on tha reasonable assumption dat yo big-ass booty is ghon want
to save tha TGT fo' use by other Kerberos applications. These ticket
filez is unusable by
.Nm No ,
however there is no way not ta create em. Da overhead of bustin
and removing
these ticket filez can cause straight-up performizzle degradation on busy
servers. (Kerberos
was never intended ta be used up in dis manner, anyway.)
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/run/saslauthd/mux"
.It Pa /run/saslauthd/mux
Da default communications socket.
.It Pa /etc/saslauthd.conf
Da default configuration file fo' ldap support.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr getpwent 3 ,
.Xr getspnam 3 ,
.Xr getuserpw 3 ,
.Xr sasl_checkpass 3
.Xr sia_authenticate_user 3 ,
