.\" sasldblistusers - List playas up in sasldb file
.\" Slim Tim Martin 3/8/00
.\"

.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer n' shit. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer in
.\"    tha documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Da name ""Carnegie Mellon University"" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software without
.\"    prior freestyled permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technologizzle Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pizzlesburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributionz of any form whatsoever must retain tha following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    ""This thang includes software pimped by Computin Skillz
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon Universitizzle (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/).""
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.\"
.TH SASLDBLISTUSERS2 8 "March 7, 2005" "CMU SASL"
.SH NAME
sasldblistusers2 \- list playas up in sasldb
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sasldblistusers2
.RB [ -f\ file ]
.RB [ -v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sasldblistusers2
is used ta list tha playas up in tha SASL password database (usually
/etc/sasldb2). This will NOT list all tha playas up in /etc/passwd, shadow,
PAM, etc. only dem pimped by SASL (via \fIsaslpasswd2\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f file
use
.B file
for sasldb
.TP
.B -v
Print libsasl2 version number n' exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
saslpasswd2(8)
.TP
rfc4422 \- Simple Authentication n' Securitizzle Layer (SASL)
