.TH SCACHE 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
scache
\-
Postfix shared connection cache server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBscache\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBscache\fR(8) server maintains a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shared multi-connection
cache. This shiznit can be used by, fo' example, Postfix
SMTP clients or other Postfix delivery agents.

Da connection cache is organized tha fuck into logical destination
names, physical endpoint names, n' connections.

As a specific example, logical SMTP destinations specify
(transport, domain, port), n' physical SMTP endpoints
specify (transport, IP address, port).  An SMTP connection
may be saved afta a successful mail transaction.

In tha general case, one logical destination may refer to
zero or mo' physical endpoints, one physical endpoint may
be referenced by zero or mo' logical destinations, and
one endpoint may refer ta zero or mo' connections.

Da exact syntax of a logical destination or endpoint name
is application dependent; tha \fBscache\fR(8) server do
not care.  A connection is stored as a gangbangin' file descriptor together
with application-dependent shiznit dat is needed to
re-activate a cold-ass lil connection object fo' realz. Again, tha \fBscache\fR(8)
server is straight-up unaware of tha detailz of that
information.

All shiznit is stored wit a gangbangin' finite time ta live (ttl).
Da connection cache daemon terminates when no client is
connected fo' \fBmax_idle\fR time units.

This server implements tha followin requests:
.IP "\fBsave_endp\fI ttl endpoint endpoint_propertizzles file_descriptor\fR"
Save tha specified file descriptor n' connection property data
under tha specified endpoint name. Da endpoint properties
are used by tha client ta re-activate a passivated connection
object.
.IP "\fBfind_endp\fI endpoint\fR"
Look up cached propertizzles n' a cold-ass lil cached file descriptor fo' the
specified endpoint.
.IP "\fBsave_dest\fI ttl destination destination_propertizzles endpoint\fR"
Save tha bindin between a logical destination n' an
endpoint under tha destination name, together wit destination
specific connection properties. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Da destination properties
are used by tha client ta re-activate a passivated connection
object.
.IP "\fBfind_dest\fI destination\fR"
Look up cached destination properties, cached endpoint properties,
and a cold-ass lil cached file descriptor fo' tha specified logical destination.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBscache\fR(8) server aint security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it do not
talk ta tha network, n' it do not rap ta local users.
Da \fBscache\fR(8) server can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.

Da \fBscache\fR(8) server aint a trusted process. Well shiiiit, it must
not be used ta store shiznit dat is securitizzle sensitive.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Da session cache cannot be shared among multiple machines.

When a cold-ass lil connection expires from tha cache, it is closed without
the appropriate protocol specific handshake.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBscache\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "RESOURCE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconnection_cache_ttl_limit (2s)\fR"
Da maximal time-to-live value dat tha \fBscache\fR(8) connection
cache server
allows.
.IP "\fBconnection_cache_status_update_time (600s)\fR"
How tha fuck frequently tha \fBscache\fR(8) server logs usage statistics with
connection cache hit n' miss rates fo' logical destinations n' for
physical endpoints.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtp(8), SMTP client
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
CONNECTION_CACHE_README, Postfix connection cache
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
This steez was introduced wit Postfix version 2.2.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
