.TH  "selinux"  "8"  "29 Apr 2005" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux Command Line documentation"
.SH "NAME"
SELinux \- NSA Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux)
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
NSA Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) be a implementation of a
flexible mandatory access control architecture up in tha Linux operating
system.  Da SELinux architecture serves up general support fo' the
enforcement of nuff kindz of mandatory access control policies,
includin dem based on tha conceptz of Type Enforcement®, Role-
Based Access Control, n' Multi-Level Security.  Background
information n' technical documentation bout SELinux can be found at
http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux.

The
.I /etc/selinux/config
configuration file controls whether SELinux is
enabled or disabled, n' if enabled, whether SELinux operates in
permissive mode or enforcin mode.  The
.B SELINUX
variable may be set to
any one of disabled, permissive, or enforcin ta select one of these
options.  Da disabled option straight-up disablez tha SELinux kernel
and application code, leavin tha system hustlin without any SELinux
protection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da permissive option enablez tha SELinux code yo, but
causes it ta operate up in a mode where accesses dat would be denied by
policy is permitted but audited. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da enforcin option enablez the
SELinux code n' causes it ta enforce access denials as well as
auditin em.  Permissive mode may yield a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different set of denials
than enforcin mode, both cuz enforcin mode will prevent an
operation from proceedin past tha straight-up original gangsta denial n' cuz some
application code will fall back ta a less privileged mode of operation
if denied access.

The
.I /etc/selinux/config
configuration file also controls what tha fuck policy
is actizzle on tha system.  SELinux allows fo' multiple policies ta be
installed on tha system yo, but only one policy may be actizzle at any
given time.  At present, multiple kindz of SELinux policy exist: targeted,
mls fo' example.  Da targeted policy is designed as a policy where most
user processes operate without restrictions, n' only specific skillz are
placed tha fuck into distinct securitizzle domains dat is confined by tha policy.
For example, tha user would run up in a cold-ass lil straight-up unconfined domain
while tha named daemon or apache daemon would run up in a specific domain
tailored ta its operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da MLS (Multi-Level Security) policy is designed
as a policy where all processes is partitioned tha fuck into fine-grained security
domains n' confined by policy.  MLS also supports tha Bell And LaPadula model, where processes is not only confined by tha type but also tha level of tha data.

Yo ass can
define which policy yo big-ass booty is ghon run by settin the
.B SELINUXTYPE
environment variable within
.IR /etc/selinux/config .
Yo ass must reboot n' possibly relabel if you chizzle tha policy type ta have it take effect on tha system.
Da corresponding
policy configuration fo' each such policy must be installed up in the
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/
directories.

A given SELinux policy can be customized further based on a set of
compile-time tunable options n' a set of runtime policy booleans.
.B \%system\-config\-selinux
allows customization of these booleans n' tunables.

Many domains dat is protected by SELinux also include SELinux playa pages explainin how tha fuck ta customize they policy.  
.
.SH "FILE LABELING"
All files, directories, devices ... gotz a securitizzle context/label associated wit em.  These context is stored up in tha extended attributez of tha file system.
Problems wit SELinux often arise from tha file system bein mislabeled. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can be caused by bootin tha machine wit a non SELinux kernel.  If you peep a error message containin file_t, dat is probably a phat indicator dat you gotz a straight-up problem wit file system labeling.  

Da dopest way ta relabel tha file system is ta create tha flag file
.I /.autorelabel
and reboot.
.BR system\-config\-selinux ,
also has dis capability.  The
.BR restorcon / fixfiles
commandz is also available fo' relabelin files.
.
.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/selinux/config
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR booleans (8),
.BR setsebool (8),
.BR sepolicy (8),
.BR system-config-selinux (8),
.BR togglesebool (8),
.BR restorecon (8),
.BR fixfilez (8),
.BR setfilez (8),
.BR semanage (8),
.BR sepolicy(8)

Every confined steez on tha system has a playa page up in tha followin format:
.br

.B <servicename>_selinux(8)

For example, httpd has tha 
.B httpd_selinux(8) 
man page.

.B playa -k selinux 

Will list all SELinux playa pages.
