.TH "semanage-user" "8" "20130617" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.B semanage user\- SELinux Policy Management SELinux User mappin tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B  semanage user [\-h] [\-n] [\-N] [\-s STORE] [ \-\-add ( \-L LEVEL \-R ROLES \-r RANGE \-s SEUSER selinux_name) | \-\-delete selinux_name | \-\-deleteall  | \-\-extract  | \-\-list [\-C] | \-\-modify ( \-L LEVEL \-R ROLES \-r RANGE \-s SEUSER selinux_name ) ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
semanage is used ta configure certain elements of
SELinux policy without requirin modification ta or recompilation
from policy sources.  semanage user controls tha mappin between a SELinux User n' tha rolez n' MLS/MCS levels.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.I   \-h, \-\-help
show dis help message n' exit
.TP
.I   \-n, \-\-noheading
Do not print headin when listin tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-N, \-\-noreload
Do not reload policy afta commit
.TP
.I   \-S STORE, \-\-store STORE
Select a alternate SELinux Policy Store ta manage
.TP
.I   \-C, \-\-locallist
List local customizations
.TP
.I   \-a, \-\-add
Add a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-d, \-\-delete
Delete a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-m, \-\-modify
Modify a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-l, \-\-list
List recordz of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-E, \-\-extract
Extract customizable commands, fo' use within a transaction
.TP
.I   \-D, \-\-deleteall
Remove all local customizations
.TP
.I   \-L LEVEL, \-\-level LEVEL
Default SELinux Level fo' SELinux user, s0 Default. (MLS/MCS Systems only)
.TP
.I   \-r RANGE, \-\-range RANGE
MLS/MCS Securitizzle Range (MLS/MCS Systems only) SELinux Range fo' SELinux login mappin defaults ta tha SELinux user record range. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux Range fo' SELinux user defaults ta s0.
.TP
.I   \-R [ROLES], \-\-rolez [ROLES]
SELinux Roles. Yo ass must enclose multiple rolez within quotes, separate by spaces. Or specify \-R multiple times.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
List SELinux users
# semanage user \-l
Modify crews fo' staff_u user
# semanage user \-m \-R "system_r unconfined_r staff_r" staff_u
Add level fo' TopSecret Users
# semanage user \-a \-R "staff_r" -rs0-TopSecret topsecret_u

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B selinux (8),
.B semanage (8)
.B semanage\-login (8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Daniel Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>
