.TH "semanage-login" "8" "20130617" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.B semanage login\- SELinux Policy Management linux user ta SELinux User mappin tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B semanage login [\-h] [\-n] [\-N] [\-s STORE] [ \-\-add \-s SEUSER \-r RANGE LOGIN | \-\-delete LOGIN | \-\-deleteall  | \-\-extract  | \-\-list [\-C] | \-\-modify \-s SEUSER \-r RANGE LOGIN ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
semanage is used ta configure certain elements of
SELinux policy without requirin modification ta or recompilation
from policy sources.  semanage login controls tha mappin between a Linux User n' tha SELinux User n' shit.  It can be used ta turn  on confined users.  For example you could define dat a particular user or crew of playas will login ta a system as tha user_u user n' shit.  Prefix tha crew name wit a '%' sign ta indicate a crew name.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.I  \-h, \-\-help
show dis help message n' exit
.TP
.I  \-n, \-\-noheading
Do not print headin when listin tha specified object type
.TP
.I  \-N, \-\-noreload
Do not reload policy afta commit
.TP
.I  \-C, \-\-locallist
List local customizations
.TP
.I  \-S STORE, \-\-store STORE
Select a alternate SELinux Policy Store ta manage
.TP
.I  \-a, \-\-add
Add a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I  \-d, \-\-delete
Delete a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I \-m, \-\-modify
Modify a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I  \-l, \-\-list
List recordz of tha specified object type
.TP
.I  \-E, \-\-extract
Extract customizable commands, fo' use within a transaction
.TP
.I  \-D, \-\-deleteall
Remove all local customizations
.TP
.I  \-s SEUSER, \-\-seuser SEUSER
SELinux user name
.TP
.I  \-r RANGE, \-\-range RANGE
MLS/MCS Securitizzle Range (MLS/MCS Systems only) SELinux Range fo' SELinux login mappin defaults ta tha SELinux user record range. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux Range fo' SELinux user defaults ta s0.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
Modify tha default user on tha system ta tha guest_u user
# semanage login -m -s guest_u __default__
Assign gijoe user on a MLS machine  a range n' ta tha staff_u user
# semanage login -a -s staff_u -rSystemLow-Secret gijoe
Assign all playas up in tha engineerin crew ta tha staff_u user
# semanage login -a -s staff_u %engineering

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B selinux (8),
.B semanage (8),
.B semanage-user (8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Daniel Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>
