.TH "semanage-fcontext" "8" "20130617" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
semanage fcontext\- SELinux Policy Management file context tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B semanage fcontext [\-h] [\-n] [\-N] [\-s STORE] [ \-\-add ( \-t TYPE \-f FTYPE \-r RANGE \-s SEUSER | \-e EQUAL ) FILE_SPEC ) | \-\-delete ( \-t TYPE \-f FTYPE | \-e EQUAL ) FILE_SPEC ) | \-\-deleteall  | \-\-extract  | \-\-list [\-C] | \-\-modify ( \-t TYPE \-f FTYPE \-r RANGE \-s SEUSER | \-e EQUAL ) FILE_SPEC ) ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
semanage is used ta configure certain elements of
SELinux policy without requirin modification ta or recompilation
from policy sources.  semanage fcontext is used ta  manage tha default
file system labelin on a SELinux system.  This command maps file paths rockin regular expressions ta SELinux labels.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.I  \-h, \-\-help
show dis help message n' exit
.TP
.I   \-n, \-\-noheading
Do not print headin when listin tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-N, \-\-noreload
Do not reload policy afta commit
.TP
.I   \-C, \-\-locallist
List local customizations
.TP
.I   \-S STORE, \-\-store STORE
Select a alternate SELinux Policy Store ta manage
.TP
.I   \-a, \-\-add
Add a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-d, \-\-delete
Delete a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-m, \-\-modify
Modify a record of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-l, \-\-list
List recordz of tha specified object type
.TP
.I   \-E, \-\-extract
Extract customizable commands, fo' use within a transaction
.TP
.I   \-D, \-\-deleteall
Remove all local customizations
.TP
.I   \-e EQUAL, \-\-equal EQUAL
Substitute target path wit sourcepath when generatin default label. This is used wit fcontext. Requires source n' target path arguments, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Da context labelin fo' tha target subtree is made equivalent ta dat defined fo' tha source.
.TP
.I   \-f [{a,f,d,c,b,s,l,p}], \-\-ftype [{a,f,d,c,b,s,l,p}]
File Type. This is used wit fcontext. Requires a gangbangin' file type as shown up in tha mode field by ls, e.g. use 'd' ta match only directories or 'f' ta match only regular files. Da followin file type options can be passed: f (regular file),d (directory),c (characta device), b (block device),s (socket),l (symbolic link),p (named pipe).  If you do not specify a gangbangin' file type, tha file type will default ta "all files".

.TP
.I   \-s SEUSER, \-\-seuser SEUSER
SELinux user name
.TP
.I   \-t TYPE, \-\-type TYPE
SELinux Type fo' tha object
.TP
.I   \-r RANGE, \-\-range RANGE
MLS/MCS Securitizzle Range (MLS/MCS Systems only) SELinux Range fo' SELinux login mappin defaults ta tha SELinux user record range. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux Range fo' SELinux user defaults ta s0.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.I remember ta run restorecon afta you set tha file context
Add file-context fo' every last muthafuckin thang under /web
# semanage fcontext \-a \-t httpd_sys_content_t "/web(/.*)?"
# restorecon \-R \-v /web

Substitute /home1 wit /home when settin file context
# semanage fcontext \-a \-e /home /home1
# restorecon \-R \-v /home1

For home directories under top level directory, fo' example /disk6/home,
execute tha followin commands.
# semanage fcontext \-a \-t home_root_t "/disk6"
# semanage fcontext \-a \-e /home /disk6/home
# restorecon \-R \-v /disk6

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B selinux (8),
.B semanage (8)

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Daniel Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>
