.TH SEMODULE_DEPS "8" "June 2006" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" NSA
.SH NAME 
semodule_deps \- show tha dependencies between SELinux policy packages.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B semodule_deps [\-v \-g \-b] basemodpkg modpkg1 [modpkg2 ... ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
semodule_deps be a thugged-out pimper tool fo' showin tha dependencies
between policy packages. For each module it prints a list of
modulez dat must be present fo' a modulez requirements to
be satisfied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Well shiiiit, it only deals wit requirements, not optional
dependencies.

In order fo' semodule_deps ta give useful shiznit tha list
of packages passed up in cannot have unsatisfied dependencies. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! In
general dis means dat tha list of modulez will probably be
quite long.

By default options ta tha base module is excluded as almost every
module has dis dependency. Da \-b option will include these
dependencies.

In addizzle ta human readable output, semodule_deps can output the
dependencies up in tha Graphviz dot format (http://www.graphviz.org/)
usin tha \-g option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is useful fo' producin a picture of the
dependencies.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-v
verbose mode
.TP
.B \-g
output dependency shiznit up in Graphviz dot format
.TP
.B \-b
include dependencies ta tha base module - by default these is excluded

.SH SEE ALSO
.B checkmodule(8), semodule_package(8), semodule(8), semodule_link(8)
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
This manual page was freestyled by Karl MacMillan <kmacmillan@mentalrootkit.com>.
Da program was freestyled by Karl MacMillan <kmacmillan@mentalrootkit.com>.
