.TH SEMODULE "8" "Nov 2005" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" NSA
.SH NAME 
semodule \- Manage SELinux policy modules.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B semodule [options]... MODE [MODES]...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
semodule is tha tool used ta manage SELinux policy modules,
includin installing, upgrading, listin n' removin modules.  
semodule may also be used ta force a rebuild of policy from the
module store and/or ta force a reload of policy without struttin
any other transaction. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  semodule acts on module packages pimped
by semodule_package.  Conventionally, these filez gotz a .pp suffix
(policy package), although dis aint mandated up in any way.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-reload
force a reload of policy
.TP
.B \-B, \-\-build		
force a rebuild of policy (also reloadz unless \-n is used)
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-disable_dontaudit
Temporarily remove dontaudits from policy.  Reverts whenever policy is rebuilt
.TP
.B \-i,\-\-install=MODULE_PKG
install/replace a module package
.TP
.B  \-u,\-\-upgrade=MODULE_PKG
upgrade a existin module package, or install if tha module do not exist
.TP
.B  \-b,\-\-base=MODULE_PKG   
install/replace base module package
.TP
.B  \-d,\-\-disable=MODULE_NAME
disable existin module
.TP
.B  \-e,\-\-enable=MODULE_NAME
enable existin module
.TP
.B \-p,\-\-path=ROOTPATH
use a alternate root path
.TP
.B  \-r,\-\-remove=MODULE_NAME
remove existin module
.TP
.B  \-l,\-\-list-modulez      
display list of installed modulez (other than base)
.TP
.B  \-s,\-\-store	   
name of tha store ta operate on
.TP
.B  \-n,\-\-noreload,\-N
do not reload policy afta commit
.TP
.B  \-h,\-\-help        
prints help message n' quit
.TP
.B \-P,\-\-preserve_tunables
Preserve tunablez up in policy
.TP
.B  \-v,\-\-verbose     
be verbose

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# Install or replace a funky-ass base policy package.
$ semodule \-b base.pp
# Install or replace a non-base policy package.
$ semodule \-i httpd.pp
# List non-base modules.
$ semodule \-l
# Turn on all AVC Lyrics fo' which SELinux currently is "dontaudit"ing.
$ semodule \-DB
# Turn "dontaudit" rulez back on.
$ semodule \-B
# Install or replace all non-base modulez up in tha current directory.
$ semodule \-i *.pp
# Install or replace all modulez up in tha current directory.
$ ls *.pp | grep \-Ev "base.pp|enableaudit.pp" | xargs /usr/sbin/semodule \-b base.pp \-i
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.B checkmodule(8), semodule_package(8)
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
This manual page was freestyled by Don Juan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
Da program was freestyled by Karl MacMillan <kmacmillan@tresys.com>, Joshua Brindle <jbrindle@tresys.com>, Jizzo Tang <jtang@tresys.com>
