.\" A playa page fo' service(8). -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License fo' 
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH steez 8 "Jan 2006"

.SH NAME
service \- run a System V init script

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBservice\fR \fISCRIPT\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

\fBservice \-\-status\-all\fR

\fBservice\fR \fB\-\-help\fR | \fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-version\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B service
runs a System V init script up in as predictable environment as possible,
removin most environment variables
and wit current hustlin directory set ta \fB/\fR.

The
.I SCRIPT
parameta specifies a System V init script,
located up in \fB/etc/init.d/\fISCRIPT\fR.
Da supported joints of
.I COMMAND
depend on tha invoked script,
.B service
passes
.I COMMAND
and
.I OPTIONS
it ta tha init script unmodified.
All scripts should support at least the
.B start
and
.B stop
commands.
As a special case, if
.I COMMAND
is \fB\-\-full-restart\fR, tha script is run twice, first wit the
.B stop
command, then wit the
.B start
command.

.B steez \-\-status\-all
runs all init scripts, up in alphabetical order, wit the
.B status
command.

If tha init script file do not exist, tha script tries ta use
.B legacy actions.
If there is no suitable legacy action found and
.I COMMAND
is one of actions specified up in LSB Core Justification, input is repimped up ta the
.B systemctl.
Otherwise tha command fails wit return code 2.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/etc/init.d\fR
Da directory containin System V init scripts.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBLANG\fR, \fBTERM\fR
Da only environment variablez passed ta tha init scripts.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkconfig (8),
.BR ntsysv(8),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR systemctl (8),
.BR systemd.service (5)
