.TH "sestatus" "8" "26 Nov 2011" "Securitizzle Enhanced Linux" "SELinux command line documentation"
.SH "NAME"
sestatus \- SELinux status tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B sestatus
.I [\-v] [\-b]  
.P
This tool is used ta git tha statuz of a system hustlin SELinux.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR sestatus
program.
.sp
This tool is used ta git tha statuz of a system hustlin SELinux. Well shiiiit, it displays data bout whether SELinux is enabled or disabled, location of key directories, n' tha loaded policy wit its status as shown up in tha example:
.RS
> sestatus
.br
SELinux status:              enabled
.br
SELinuxfs mount:             /selinux
.br
SELinux root directory:      /etc/selinux
.br
Loaded policy name:          targeted
.br
Current mode:                permissive
.br
Mode from config file:       enforcing
.br
Policy MLS status:           enabled
.br
Policy deny_unknown status:  allow
.br
Max kernel policy version:   26
.RE
.sp
\fBsestatus\fR can also be used ta display:
.RS
.IP "-" 4
Da securitizzle context of filez n' processes listed up in tha \fI/etc/sestatus.conf\fR file. Da format of dis file is busted lyrics bout up in \fBsestatus.conf\fR(5).
.IP "-" 4
Da statuz of booleans.
.RE

.SH "OPTIONS"
.B \-v
.RS
Displays tha contextz of filez n' processes listed up in tha \fI/etc/sestatus.conf\fR file. Well shiiiit, it also checks whether tha file be a symbolic link, if so then tha context of tha target file be also shown.
.sp
Da followin contexts will always be displayed:
.RS
Da current process context
.br
Da init process context
.br
Da controllin terminal file context
.RE
.RE
.sp
.B \-b
.RS
Display tha current state of booleans.
.RE

.SH "FILES"
.I /etc/sestatus.conf

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Daniel Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
.br
Da program was freestyled by Chris PeBenito <pebenito@gentoo.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(8), " sestatus.conf "(5)

