.TH SETARCH 8 "September 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
setarch \- chizzle reported architecture up in freshly smoked up program environment n' set personalitizzle flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setarch
.I <arch>
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ program
.RI [ arguments ]]
.br
.B arch
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ program
.RI [ arguments ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B setarch
This utilitizzle currently only affects tha output of uname -m. For example, on a AMD64 system, hustlin 'setarch i386 program' will cause 'program' ta see
.IR i686
(or other relevant arch) instead of
.IR x86_64
as machine type. Well shiiiit, it also allows ta set various personalitizzle options. Da default
.B program
is /bin/sh.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
(Da help text be also displayed when \fBsetarch\fR receives no arguments.)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-uname\-2.6\fR
Causes tha program ta peep a kernel version number beginnin wit 2.6.
.TP
\fB\-3\fR, \fB\-\-3gb\fR
Specifies dat processes should bust a maximum of 3GB of address space on systems where it is supported (ADDR_LIMIT_3GB).
.TP
\fB\-\-4gb\fR
Ignored (for backward compatibilitizzle only).
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR
List architectures dat can be set.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-32bit\fR
Turns on ADDR_LIMIT_32BIT.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fdpic\-funcptrs\fR
Userspace function pointas point ta descriptors (turns on FDPIC_FUNCPTRS).
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-short\-inode\fR
Turns on SHORT_INODE.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-addr\-compat\-layout\fR
Changes tha way virtual memory be allocated (turns on tha ADDR_COMPAT_LAYOUT).
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-addr\-no\-randomize\fR
Disablez randomization of tha virtual address space (turns on ADDR_NO_RANDOMIZE).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-whole\-seconds\fR
Turns on WHOLE_SECONDS.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-sticky\-timeouts\fR
Turns on STICKY_TIMEOUTS.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-read\-implies\-exec\fR
Turns on READ_IMPLIES_EXEC.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR, \fB\-\-mmap\-page\-zero\fR
Turns on MMAP_PAGE_ZERO.
.SH EXAMPLES
setarch ppc32 rpmbuild --target=ppc --rebuild foo.src.rpm
.br
setarch ppc32 -v -vL3 rpmbuild --target=ppc --rebuild bar.src.rpm
.br
setarch ppc32 --32bit rpmbuild --target=ppc --rebuild foo.src.rpm
.SH AUTHOR
.MT sopwith@redhat.com
Elliot Lee
.ME
.br
.MT jnovy@redhat.com
Jindrich Novy
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da setarch command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
