.TH "setfiles" "8" "2002031409" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
setfilez \- set SELinux file securitizzle contexts.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B setfiles
.I [\-c policy] [\-d] [\-l] [\-n] [\-e directory] [\-o filename] [\-p] [\-q] [\-s] [\-v] [\-W] [\-F] spec_file pathname...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page raps bout the
.BR setfiles
program.
.P
This program is primarily used ta initialize tha securitizzle context
fieldz (extended attributes) on one or mo' filesystems (or parts of
them).  Usually it is initially run as part of tha SELinux installation
process (a step commonly known as labeling).
.P
It can also be run at any other time ta erect inconsistent labels, ta add
support fo' newly-installed policy or, by rockin tha \-n option, ta passively
check whether tha file contexts is all set as specified by tha actizzle policy
(default behavior) or by some other policy (see tha \-c option).
.P
If a gangbangin' file object aint gots a cold-ass lil context, setfilez will write tha default
context ta tha file objectz extended attributes. If a gangbangin' file object has a
context, setfilez will only modify tha type portion of tha securitizzle context.
Da \-F option will force a replacement of tha entire context.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-c
check tha validitizzle of tha contexts against tha specified binary policy.
.TP
.B \-d
show what tha fuck justification matched each file (do not abort validation
afta 10 errors).
.TP
.B \-e directory
directory ta exclude (repeat option fo' mo' than one directory).
.TP
.B \-f
take a list of filez ta be processed from a input file.
.TP
.B \-F
Force reset of context ta match file_context fo' customizable files, n' the
default file context, changin tha user, role, range portion as well as the
type.
.TP
.B \-h, \-?
display usage shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-i
ignore filez dat do not exist.
.TP
.B \-l
log chizzlez up in file labels ta syslog.
.TP
.B \-n
don't chizzle any file labels (passive check).
.TP
.B \-o filename
Deprecated, SELinux policy will probably block dis access.  Use shell redirection ta save list of filez wit incorrect context up in filename.
.TP
.B \-p
show progress by printin * every last muthafuckin 1024 files.  (If you relabel tha entire OS, dis will show you tha cementage complete.)
.TP 
.B \-q
suppress non-error output.
.TP 
.B \-r rootpath
use a alternate root path.
.TP 
.B \-s
take a list of filez from standard input instead of rockin a pathname from the
command line (equivalent ta \-f \-).
.TP
.B \-v
show chizzlez up in file labels.
.TP 
.B \-W
display warnings bout entries dat had no matchin files.
.TP 
.B \-0
the separator fo' tha input shit be assumed ta be tha null character
(instead of tha white space).  Da quotes n' tha backslash charactas are
also treated as aiiight charactas dat can form valid input.
This option finally also disablez tha end of file string, which is treated
like any other argument.  Useful when input shit might contain white space,
quote marks or backslashes.  The
.B -print0
option of GNU
.B find
produces input suitable fo' dis mode.

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.B spec_file
Da justification file which gotz nuff linez of tha followin form
.br
.B regexp [ \-type ] ( context | <<none>> )
.br
Da regular expression be anchored at both ends.  Da optionizzle type field 
specifies tha file type as shown up in tha mode field by the
.B ls(1)
program, e.g. \-\- ta match only regular filez or \-d ta match only
directories. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis!  Da context can be a ordinary securitizzle context or the
strin <<none>> ta specify dat tha file aint ta have its context
changed.
.br
Da last matchin justification is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If there be multiple hard
links ta a gangbangin' file dat match different justifications n' them
specifications indicate different securitizzle contexts, then a warnin is
displayed but tha file is still labeled based on tha last matching
specification other than <<none>>.
.TP 
.B pathname...
Da pathname fo' tha root directory of each file system ta be relabeled
or a specific directory within a gangbangin' filesystem dat should be recursively
descended n' relabeled or tha pathname of a gangbangin' file dat should be
relabeled.
Not used if the
.B \-f
or the
.B \-s
option is used.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This playa page was freestyled by Russell Coker <russell@coker.com.au>.
Da program was freestyled by Stephen Smalley <sds@epoch.ncsc.mil>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR restorecon (8),
.BR load_policy (8),
.BR checkpolicy (8)
