.\" @(#)man/man8/setkeycodes.8	1.0 Nov  8 22:30:48 MET 1994
.TH SETKEYCODES 8 "8 Nov 1994" "Local" "Keyboard Support"
.SH NAME
setkeycodes \- load kernel scancode-to-keycode mappin table entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setkeycodes
.I "scancode keycode ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I setkeycodes
command readz its arguments two at a time, each pair of arguments
consistin of a scancode (given up in hexadecimal) n' a keycode (given
in decimal). For each such pair, it  drops some lyrics ta tha kernel keyboard driver
to map tha specified scancode ta tha specified keycode.

This command is useful only fo' playas wit slightly unusual keyboards,
that have all dem keys which produce scancodes dat tha kernel do not
recognize.

.SH THEORY
Da usual PC keyboard produces a seriez of scancodes fo' each
key press n' key release. (Scancodes is shown by
\fBshowkey \-s\fP, peep showkey(1).)
Da kernel parses dis stream of scancodes, n' converts it to
a stream of keycodes (key press/release events).
(Keycodes is shown by \fBshowkey\fP.)
Apart from all dem scancodes wit special meaning, n' apart from
the sequence produced by tha Pause key, n' apart from shiftstate
related scancodes, n' apart from tha key up/down bit,
the stream of scancodes consistz of unescaped
scancodes xx (7 bits) n' escaped scancodes e0 xx (8+7 bits).
To these scancodes or scancode pairs, a cold-ass lil correspondin keycode can be
assigned (in tha range 1-127).
For example, if you gotz a Macro key dat produces e0 6f according
to showkey(1), tha command
.RS
.B "setkeycodes e06f 112"
.RE
will assign tha keycode 112 ta it, n' then loadkeys(1) can be used
to define tha function of dis key.

STD keyboardz have standardized keycodes and
.B setkeycodes
doesn't affect dem at all.
.LP
Some olda kernels might hardwire a low scancode range ta the
equivalent keycodes; setkeycodes will fail when you try ta remap
these.

.SH "2.6 KERNELS"
In 2.6 kernels key codes lie up in tha range 1-255, instead of 1-127.
(It might be dopest ta confine oneself ta tha range 1-239.)
.LP
In 2.6 kernels raw mode, or scancode mode, aint straight-up raw at all.
Da code returned by showkey \-s will chizzle afta use of setkeycodes.
A kernel bug. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also
.BR showkey (1).
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH BUGS
Da keycodez of X have not a god damn thang ta do wit dem of Linux.
Unusual keys can be made visible under Linux yo, but not under X.

.B setkeycodes
affects only tha "first" input device
that has modifiable scancode-to-keycode mapping.
If there is mo' than one such device,
.B setkeycodes
cannot chizzle tha mappin of other devices than tha "first" one.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "dumpkeys (1), loadkeys (1), showkey (1), getkeycodes (8)"


