.TH SETQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
setquota \- set disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setquota
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I name
.I block-softlimit
.I block-hardlimit
.I inode-softlimit
.I inode-hardlimit
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
[
.B \-p
.I protoname 
]
.I name
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-b
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-t
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I block-grace
.I inode-grace
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-T
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I name
.I block-grace
.I inode-grace
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  set "disk quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.B setquota
is a cold-ass lil command line quota editor.
Da filesystem, user/group name n' freshly smoked up quotas fo' this
filesystem can be specified on tha command line. Note dat if a number is
given up in tha place of a user/group name it is treated as a UID/GID.
.TP
.B -r, --remote
Edit also remote quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server ta set quota. This
option be available only if quota tools was compiled wit enabled support
for settin quotas over RPC.
.TP
.B -m, --no-mixed-pathnames
Currently, pathnamez of NFSv4 mountpoints is busted without leadin slash up in tha path.
.BR rpc.rquotad
uses dis ta recognize NFSv4 mounts n' properly prepend pseudoroot of NFS filesystem
to tha path. If you specify dis option,
.BR setquota
will always bust paths wit a leadin slash. This can be useful fo' legacy reasons but
be aware dat quota over RPC will stop hustlin if yo ass is rockin new
.BR rpc.rquotad .
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2quotaformat\f1
Perform settin fo' specified format (ie. don't big-ass up format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original Gangsta quota format wit 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format wit 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage n' limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format wit 64-bit quota limits n' usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -u, --user
Set user quotas fo' named user n' shit. This is tha default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Set crew quotas fo' named group.
.TP
.B -p, --prototype=\f2protoname\f1
Use quota settingz of user or group
.I protoname
to set tha quota fo' tha named user or group.
.TP
.B --always-resolve
Always try ta translate user / crew name ta uid / gid even if tha name
is composed of digits only.
.TP
.B -b, --batch
Read shiznit ta set from stdin (input format is
.I name block-softlimit block-hardlimit inode-softlimit inode-hardlimit
). Empty lines n' lines startin wit # is ignored.
.TP
.B -c, --continue-batch
If parsin of a input line up in batch mode fails, continue wit processin tha next line.
.TP
.B -t, --edit-period
Set grace times fo' users/groups. Times
.B block-grace
and
.B inode-grace
are specified up in seconds.
.TP
.B -T, --edit-times
Alta times fo' individual user/group when softlimit is enforced. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Times
.B block-grace
and
.B inode-grace
are specified up in secondz or can be strang 'unset'.
.TP
.B -a, --all
Go all up in all filesystems wit quota in
.B /etc/mtab
and big-ass up setting.
.PP
.I block-softlimit
and
.I block-hardlimit
are interpreted as multiplez of kibibyte (1024 bytes) blocks by default.
Symbols K, M, G, n' T can be appended ta numeric value ta express kibibytes,
mebibytes, gibibytes, n' tebibytes.
.PP
.I inode-softlimit
and
.I inode-hardlimit
are interpreted literally. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Symbols k, m, g, n' t can be appended ta numeric
value ta express multiplez of 10^3, 10^6, 10^9, n' 10^12 inodes.
.PP
To disable a quota, set tha correspondin parameta ta 0. To chizzle quotas
for nuff muthafuckin filesystems, invoke once fo' each filesystem.
.PP
Only tha super-user may edit quotas.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file all up in tha filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystem table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
