.TH  "sftpd_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "sftpd" "SELinux Policy sftpd"
.SH "NAME"
sftpd_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha sftpd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha sftpd processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da sftpd processes execute wit tha sftpd_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep sftpd_t


.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux sftpd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they sftpd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' sftpd:

.EX
.B sftpd_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a sftpd_t
can be used ta make tha process type sftpd_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  sftpd policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run sftpd wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna determine whether sftpd-can read n' write filez up in user home directories, you must turn on tha sftpd_enable_homedirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_enable_homedirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether sftpd-can login ta local playas n' read n' write all filez on tha system, governed by DAC, you must turn on tha sftpd_full_access boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_full_access 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether sftpd can read n' write filez up in user ssh home directories, you must turn on tha sftpd_write_ssh_home boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_write_ssh_home 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support ecryptfs home directories, you must turn on tha use_ecryptfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_ecryptfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support fusefs home directories, you must turn on tha use_fusefs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_fusefs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type sftpd_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B non_security_file_type


.br
.B user_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/.+
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/var/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/home/[^/]*/tmp
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.tmp
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow sftpd servers ta read tha /var/sftpd directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/sftpd(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/sftpd
.pp
.TP
Allow sftpd servers ta read n' write /var/sftpd/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha sftpd_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/sftpd/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/sftpd/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P sftpd_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna determine whether sftpd can modify hood filez used fo' hood file transfer skillz. Directories/Filez must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on tha sftpd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), sftpd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
