.\" $OpenBSD: sftp-server.8,v 1.23 2013/07/16 00:07:52 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Markus Friedl.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 16 2013 $
.Dt SFTP-SERVER 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sftp-server
.Nd SFTP server subsystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sftp-server
.Op Fl ehR
.Op Fl d Ar start_directory
.Op Fl f Ar log_facility
.Op Fl l Ar log_level
.Op Fl u Ar umask
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a program dat speaks tha server side of SFTP protocol
to stdout n' expects client requests from stdin.
.Nm
is not intended ta be called directly yo, but from
.Xr sshd 8
usin the
.Cm Subsystem
option.
.Pp
Command-line flags to
.Nm
should be specified up in the
.Cm Subsystem
declaration.
See
.Xr sshd_config 5
for mo' shiznit.
.Pp
Valid options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar start_directory
specifies a alternate startin directory fo' users.
Da pathname may contain tha followin tokens dat is expanded at runtime:
%% is replaced by a literal '%',
%h is replaced by tha home directory of tha user bein authenticated,
and %u is replaced by tha username of dat user.
Da default is ta use tha userz home directory.
This option is useful up in conjunction wit the
.Xr sshd_config 5
.Cm ChrootDirectory
option.
.It Fl e
Causes
.Nm
to print loggin shiznit ta stderr instead of syslog fo' debugging.
.It Fl f Ar log_facility
Specifies tha facilitizzle code dat is used when loggin lyrics from
.Nm .
Da possible joints are: DAEMON, USER, AUTH, LOCAL0, LOCAL1, LOCAL2,
LOCAL3, LOCAL4, LOCAL5, LOCAL6, LOCAL7.
Da default is AUTH.
.It Fl h
Displays
.Nm
usage shiznit.
.It Fl l Ar log_level
Specifies which lyrics is ghon be logged by
.Nm .
Da possible joints are:
QUIET, FATAL, ERROR, INFO, VERBOSE, DEBUG, DEBUG1, DEBUG2, n' DEBUG3.
INFO n' VERBOSE log transactions that
.Nm
performs on behalf of tha client.
DEBUG n' DEBUG1 is equivalent.
DEBUG2 n' DEBUG3 each specify higher levelz of debuggin output.
Da default is ERROR.
.It Fl R
Places dis instizzle of
.Nm
into a read-only mode.
Attempts ta open filez fo' writing, as well as other operations dat chizzle
the state of tha filesystem, is ghon be denied.
.It Fl u Ar umask
Sets a explicit
.Xr umask 2
to be applied ta newly-created filez n' directories, instead of the
userz default mask.
.El
.Pp
For loggin ta work,
.Nm
must be able ta access
.Pa /dev/log .
Use of
.Nm
in a cold-ass lil chroot configuration therefore requires that
.Xr syslogd 8
establish a loggin socket inside tha chroot directory.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sftp 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr sshd_config 5 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Rs
.%A T. Ylonen
.%A S. Lehtinen
.%T "SSH File Transfer Protocol"
.%N draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-02.txt
.%D October 2001
.%O work up in progress material
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first rocked up in
.Ox 2.8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Markus Friedl Aq Mt markus@openbsd.org
