.TH SHEEPDOG 2010-08-24
.SH NAME
sheep \- Distributed Block Storage System fo' KVM
.SH SNYNOPSIS
.B "sheep [options] [PATH]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sheep
Sheepdog be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distributed storage system fo' KVM/QEMU. Well shiiiit, it provides
highly available block level storage volumes ta virtual machines.
Sheepdog supports advanced volume pimpment features like fuckin snapshot,
cloning, n' thin provisioning. Da architecture of Sheepdog is fully
symmetric; there is no central node like fuckin a meta-data server.

Da server daemon is called sheep(8).  A command line utilitizzle be available
via collie(8).  KVM/QEMU virtual machines use tha sheep daemon via a funky-ass block
driver available up in qemu(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p "\fR, \fP" \--port " port"
This option specifies tha IP port over which \fBsheep\fP looks fo' other
sheepdog clusta nodes.
.TP
.BI \-f "\fR, \fP" \--foreground
This option forces tha sheepdog daemon ta run up in tha foreground.
.TP
.BI \-l "\fR, \fP" \--loglevel " loglevel"
This option specifies tha message level printed.
.TP
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \--debug
This option displays debug lyrics.
.TP
.BI \-h "\fR, \fP" \--help
Display help n' exit.
.SH PATH
Proper LSB systems will store sheepdog filez up in /var/lib/sheepdog.  Da init
script uses dis directory by default.  Da directory must be on a gangbangin' filesystem
with xattr support.  In tha case of ext3, user_xattr should be added ta the
mount options.

mount \-o remount,user_xattr /var/lib/shepdog

.SH DEPENDENCIES
\fBsheepdog\fP requires QEMU 0.13.z or lata n' Corosync 1.y.z.

.SH FILES
.B /var/lib/sheepdog - Directory containin block storage shiznit

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR collie(8),qemu(1),corosync_overview(8)

.SH AUTHORS
This software is pimped by tha sheepdog hood which may be reached
via mailin list at <sheepdog@lists.wpkg.org>.
.PP
