
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH SHOWMOUNT 8 "6 October 1993"
.SH NAME
showmount \- show mount shiznit fo' a NFS server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showmount
.B "[\ \-adehv\ ]"
.B "[\ \-\-all\ ]"
.B "[\ \-\-directories\ ]"
.B "[\ \-\-exports\ ]"
.B "[\ \-\-help\ ]"
.B "[\ \-\-version\ ]"
.B "[\ host\ ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B showmount
queries tha mount daemon on a remote host fo' shiznit about
the state of tha NFS server on dat machine.  With no options
.B showmount
lists tha set of clients whoz ass is mountin from dat host.
Da output from
.B showmount
is designed to
appear as though it was processed all up in ``sort \-u''.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a " or " \-\-all
List both tha client hostname or IP address n' mounted directory in
host:dir format. This info should not be considered reliable. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha notes
on rmtab up in 
.BR rpc.mountd (8).
.TP
.BR \-d " or " \-\-directories
List only tha directories mounted by some client.
.TP
.BR \-e " or " \-\-exports
Show tha NFS serverz export list.
.TP
.BR \-h " or " \-\-help
Provide a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help summary.
.TP
.BR \-v " or " \-\-version
Report tha current version number of tha program.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-headers
Suppress tha descriptizzle headings from tha output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rpc.mountd (8),
.BR rpc.nfsd (8)
.SH BUGS
Da completenizz n' accuracy of tha shiznit that
.B showmount
displays varies accordin ta tha NFS serverz implementation.
.P
Because
.B showmount
sorts n' uniqs tha output, it is impossible ta determine from
the output whether a cold-ass lil client is mountin tha same directory mo' than once.
.SH AUTHOR
Rick Sladkey <jrs@world.std.com>
