.TH SHOWQ 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
showq
\-
list tha Postfix mail queue
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBshowq\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon reports tha Postfix mail queue status.
It be tha program dat emulates tha sendmail `mailq' command.

Da \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon can also be run up in stand-alone mode
by tha superuser n' shit. This mode of operation is used ta emulate
the `mailq' command while tha Postfix mail system is down.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon can run up in a cold-ass lil chroot jail at fixed low
privilege, n' takes no input from tha client. Its steez port
is accessible ta local untrusted users, so tha steez can be
susceptible ta denial of steez attacks.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
None. Da \fBshowq\fR(8) daemon do not interact wit the
outside ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBshowq\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBduplicate_filter_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal number of addresses remembered by tha address
duplicate filta fo' \fBaliases\fR(5) or \fBvirtual\fR(5) alias expansion, or
for \fBshowq\fR(8) queue displays.
.IP "\fBempty_address_recipient (MAILER-DAEMON)\fR"
Da recipient of mail addressed ta tha null address.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBenable_long_queue_idz (no)\fR"
Enable long, non-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, queue directories
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
pickup(8), local mail pickup service
cleanup(8), canonicalize n' enqueue mail
qmgr(8), queue manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
