.TH SLATTACH 8 "2011\-12\-31" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administratorz Manual"
.SH NAME
slattach \- attach a network intercourse ta a serial line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "slattach [\-dehlLmnqv] [\-c command] [\-p proto] [\-s speed] [tty]"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Slattach
is a tiny lil program dat can be used ta put a aiiight terminal
("serial") line tha fuck into one of nuff muthafuckin "network" modes, thus allowing
you ta use it fo' point-to-point links ta other computers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B tty
Path ta a serial thang like
.IR /dev/ttyS* ", " /dev/cua* " or " /dev/ptmx
to spawn a freshly smoked up pseudo tty.
.TP
.B "[\-c command]"
Execute
.B command
when tha line is hung up. This can be used ta run scripts or re-establish
connections when a link goes down.
.TP
.B "[\-d]"
Enable debuggin output.  Useful when determinin why a given
setup don't work.
.TP
.B "[\-h]"
Exit when tha carrier is lost. This works on both /dev/tty n' /dev/cua
devices by directly monitorin tha carrier status every last muthafuckin 15 seconds.
.TP
.B "[\-v]"
Enable verbose output.  Useful up in shell scripts.
.TP
.B "[\-q]"
Operate up in on tha down-low mode - no lyrics at all.
.TP
.B "[\-l]"
Smoke a UUCP-style lockfile fo' tha thang up in /var/lock.
.TP
.B "[\-n]"
Equivalent ta tha "mesg n" command.
.TP
.B "[\-m]"
Do \fBnot\fP initialize tha line tha fuck into 8 bits raw mode.
.TP
.B "[\-e]"
Exit right afta initializin device, instead of waitin fo' the
line ta hang up.
.TP
.B "[\-L]"
Enable 3 wire operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da terminal is moved tha fuck into CLOCAL mode, 
carrier watchin is disabled.
.TP
.B "[\-p proto]"
Set a specific kind of protocol ta use on tha line.  Da default
is set to
.BR "cslip" ,
i.e. compressed SLIP.  Other possible joints are
.B "slip"
(normal SLIP), 
.B "adaptive"
(adaptizzle CSLIP/SLIP),
.B "ppp"
(Point-to-Point Protocol)
and
.B "kiss"
(a protocol used fo' communicatin wit AX.25 packet radio terminal node controllers).
Da special argument
.B "tty"
can be used ta put tha thang back tha fuck into aiiight serial operation.
Usin 'ppp' mode aint normally useful as ppp requires a additionizzle ppp daemon
.B pppd
to be actizzle on tha line. For lick connections tha 
.B axattach
program should be used.
.TP
.B "[\-s speed]"
Set a specific line speed, other than tha default.
.PP
If no arguments is given, tha current terminal line (usually: the
login device) is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Otherwise, a attempt is made ta claim the
indicated terminal port, lock it, n' open dat shit.
.SH FILES
.I /dev/cua* /var/lock/LCK.* /dev/ttyS* /dev/ptmx
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
axattach(8), dip(8) pppd(8), sliplogin(8).
.SH AUTHORS
Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
.br
Alan Cox, <Alan.Cox@linux.org>
.br
Miquel van Smoorenburg, <miquels@drinkel.ow.org>
.br
George Shearer, <gshearer@one.net>
.br
Yossi Gottlieb, <yogo@math.tau.ac.il>
.br
