
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted ta make n' distribute verbatim copiez of this
.\" manual provided tha copyright notice n' dis permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted ta copy n' distribute modified versionz of this
.\" manual under tha conditions fo' verbatim copying, provided dat the
.\" entire resultin derived work is distributed under tha termz of a
.\" permission notice identical ta dis one.
.\"
.\" Since tha Linux kernel n' libraries is constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  Da author(s) assume no
.\" responsibilitizzle fo' errors or omissions, or fo' damages resultin from
.\" tha use of tha shiznit contained herein. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da author(s) may not
.\" have taken tha same level of care up in tha thang of dis manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versionz of dis manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" tha source, must acknowledge tha copyright n' authorz of dis work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SLN 8 2013-02-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sln \- create symbolic links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI sln " source dest"
.br
.BI sln " filelist"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sln
program creates symbolic links.
Unlike the
.BR ln (1)
program, it is statically linked.
This means dat if fo' some reason tha dynamic linker aint working,
.BR sln
can be used ta make symbolic links ta dynamic libraries.

Da command line has two forms.
In tha straight-up original gangsta form, it creates
.I dest
as a freshly smoked up symbolic link to
.IR source .

In tha second form,
.I filelist
is a list of space-separated pathname pairs,
and tha effect be as if
.BR sln
was executed once fo' each line of tha file,
with tha two pathnames as tha arguments.

The
.B sln
program supports no command-line options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ln (1),
.BR ldconfig (8),
.BR ld.so (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
