.TH  "smbd_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "smbd" "SELinux Policy smbd"
.SH "NAME"
smbd_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha smbd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha smbd processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da smbd processes execute wit tha smbd_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep smbd_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da smbd_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBsmbd_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha smbd_t domain is tha following:

/usr/sbin/smbd
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux smbd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they smbd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' smbd:

.EX
.B smbd_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a smbd_t
can be used ta make tha process type smbd_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  smbd policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run smbd wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta write corefilez ta /, you must turn on tha daemons_dump_core boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_dump_core 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable clusta mode fo' daemons, you must turn on tha daemons_enable_cluster_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_enable_cluster_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons ta use tcp wrappers, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tcp_wrapper boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tcp_wrapper 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons tha mobilitizzle ta read/write terminals, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tty boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta create freshly smoked up home directories (e.g. via PAM), you must turn on tha samba_create_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_create_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta act as tha domain controller, add users, crews n' chizzle passwords, you must turn on tha samba_domain_controlla boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_domain_controlla 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta share playas home directories, you must turn on tha samba_enable_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_enable_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta share any file/directory read only, you must turn on tha samba_export_all_ro boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_export_all_ro 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta share any file/directory read/write, you must turn on tha samba_export_all_rw boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_export_all_rw 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta act as a portmapper, you must turn on tha samba_portmapper boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_portmapper 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta run unconfined scripts, you must turn on tha samba_run_unconfined boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_run_unconfined 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta export ntfs/fusefs volumes, you must turn on tha samba_share_fusefs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_share_fusefs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta export NFS volumes, you must turn on tha samba_share_nfs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_share_nfs 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha smbd_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha smbd_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types ta represent TCP n' UDP ports.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha types associated wit a port by rockin tha followin command:

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these ports.
SELinux smbd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they smbd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin port types is defined fo' smbd:

.EX
.TP 5
.B smbd_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 137-139,445
.EE
.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type smbd_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cluster_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pcsd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cluster(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openais(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pengine(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/corosync(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pacemaker(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_run_t

	/var/run/crm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cman_.*
.br
	/var/run/rsctmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/aisexec.*
.br
	/var/run/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cpglockd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/corosync\.pid
.br
	/var/run/rgmanager\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cluster/rgmanager\.sk
.br

.br
.B non_security_file_type


.br
.B noxattrfs

	all filez on file systems which do not support extended attributes
.br

.br
.B user_home_type

	all user home files
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux smbd policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they smbd processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
smbd policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/run/samba directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/samba /srv/samba
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/samba
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha smbd, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t smbd_exec_t '/srv/smbd/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mysmbd_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' smbd:


.EX
.PP
.B smbd_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha smbd_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha smbd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B smbd_keytab_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha smbd_keytab_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.PP
.B smbd_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha smbd_tmp_t type, if you wanna store smbd temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B smbd_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha smbd_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store smbd filez on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B smbd_var_run_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha smbd_var_run_t type, if you wanna store tha smbd filez under tha /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/samba(/.*)?, /var/run/samba/smbd\.pid, /var/run/samba/brlock\.tdb, /var/run/samba/locking\.tdb, /var/run/samba/gencache\.tdb, /var/run/samba/sessionid\.tdb, /var/run/samba/share_info\.tdb, /var/run/samba/connections\.tdb

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH SHARING FILES
If you wanna share filez wit multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a gangbangin' file context of public_content_t n' public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of tha above domains ta read tha content.  If you want a particular domain ta write ta tha public_content_rw_t domain, you must set tha appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow smbd servers ta read tha /var/smbd directory by addin tha public_content_t file type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/smbd(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/smbd
.pp
.TP
Allow smbd servers ta read n' write /var/smbd/incomin by addin tha public_content_rw_t type ta tha directory n' by restorin tha file type.  Yo ass also need ta turn on tha smbd_anon_write boolean.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/smbd/incoming(/.*)?"
.br
.B restorecon -F -R -v /var/smbd/incoming
.br
.B setsebool -P smbd_anon_write 1

.PP
If you wanna allow samba ta modify hood filez used fo' hood file transfer skillz.  Files/Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on tha smbd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P smbd_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used ta manipulate tha port definitions

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), smbd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
