.TH SMTP 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
smtp
\-
Postfix SMTP+LMTP client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBsmtp\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da Postfix SMTP+LMTP client implements tha SMTP n' LMTP mail
delivery protocols. Well shiiiit, it processes message delivery requests from
the queue manager n' shit. Each request specifies a queue file, a sender
address, a thugged-out domain or host ta serve up to, n' recipient shiznit.
This program expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Da SMTP+LMTP client thugged-out shiznit tha queue file n' marks recipients
as finished, or it informs tha queue manager dat delivery should
be tried again n' again n' again at a lata time. Delivery status reports is sent
to tha \fBbounce\fR(8), \fBdefer\fR(8) or \fBtrace\fR(8) daemon as
appropriate.

Da SMTP+LMTP client looks up a list of mail exchanger addresses for
the destination host, sorts tha list by preference, n' connects
to each listed address until it findz a server dat responds.

When a server aint reachable, or when mail delivery fails due
to a recoverable error condition, tha SMTP+LMTP client will try to
deliver tha mail ta a alternate host.

Afta a successful mail transaction, a cold-ass lil connection may be saved
to tha \fBscache\fR(8) connection cache server, so dat it
may be used by any SMTP+LMTP client fo' a subsequent transaction.

By default, connection cachin is enabled temporarily for
destinations dat gotz a high volume of mail up in tha active
queue. Connection cachin can be enabled permanently for
specific destinations.
.SH "SMTP DESTINATION SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
SMTP destinations have tha followin form:
.IP \fIdomainname\fR
.IP \fIdomainname\fR:\fIport\fR
Look up tha mail exchangers fo' tha specified domain, and
connect ta tha specified port (default: \fBsmtp\fR).
.IP [\fIhostname\fR]
.IP [\fIhostname\fR]:\fIport\fR
Look up tha address(es) of tha specified host, n' connect to
the specified port (default: \fBsmtp\fR).
.IP [\fIaddress\fR]
.IP [\fIaddress\fR]:\fIport\fR
Connect ta tha host all up in tha specified address, n' connect
to tha specified port (default: \fBsmtp\fR) fo' realz. An IPv6 address
must be formatted as [\fBipv6\fR:\fIaddress\fR].
.SH "LMTP DESTINATION SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
LMTP destinations have tha followin form:
.IP \fBunix\fR:\fIpathname\fR
Connect ta tha local UNIX-domain server dat is bound ta tha specified
\fIpathname\fR. If tha process runs chrooted, a absolute pathname
is interpreted relatizzle ta tha Postfix queue directory.
.IP \fBinet\fR:\fIhostname\fR
.IP \fBinet\fB:\fIhostname\fR:\fIport\fR
.IP \fBinet\fR:[\fIaddress\fR]
.IP \fBinet\fR:[\fIaddress\fR]:\fIport\fR
Connect ta tha specified TCP port on tha specified local or
remote host. If no port is specified, connect ta tha port defined as
\fBlmtp\fR up in \fBskillz\fR(4).
If no such steez is found, tha \fBlmtp_tcp_port\fR configuration
parameta (default value of 24) is ghon be used.
An IPv6 address must be formatted as [\fBipv6\fR:\fIaddress\fR].
.PP
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da SMTP+LMTP client is moderately security-sensitive. It
talks ta SMTP or LMTP servers n' ta DNS servers on the
network. Da SMTP+LMTP client can be run chrooted at fixed
low privilege.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 821 (SMTP protocol)
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
RFC 1651 (SMTP steez extensions)
RFC 1652 (8bit-MIME transport)
RFC 1870 (Message Size Declaration)
RFC 2033 (LMTP protocol)
RFC 2034 (SMTP Enhanced Error Codes)
RFC 2045 (MIME: Format of Internizzle Message Bodies)
RFC 2046 (MIME: Media Types)
RFC 2554 (AUTH command)
RFC 2821 (SMTP protocol)
RFC 2920 (SMTP Pipelining)
RFC 3207 (STARTTLS command)
RFC 3461 (SMTP DSN Extension)
RFC 3463 (Enhanced Status Codes)
RFC 4954 (AUTH command)
RFC 5321 (SMTP protocol)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
Corrupted message filez is marked so dat tha queue manager can
move dem ta tha \fBcorrupt\fR queue fo' further inspection.

Dependin on tha settin of tha \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmasta is notified of bounces, protocol problems, n' of
other shit.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
SMTP n' LMTP connection cachin do not work wit TLS. Da necessary
support fo' TLS object passivation n' re-activation do not
exist without closin tha session, which defeats tha purpose.

SMTP n' LMTP connection cachin assumes dat SASL credentials
are valid fo' all destinations dat map onto tha same IP
address n' TCP port.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Before Postfix version 2.3, tha LMTP client be a separate
program dat implements only a subset of tha functionality
available wit SMTP: there is no support fo' TLS, and
connections is cached in-process, makin it ineffective
when tha client is used fo' multiple domains.

Most smtp_\fIxxx\fR configuration parametas have an
lmtp_\fIxxx\fR "mirror" parameta fo' tha equivalent LMTP
feature. This document raps bout only dem LMTP-related
parametas dat aren't simply "mirror" parameters.

Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as \fBsmtp\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBignore_mx_lookup_error (no)\fR"
Ignore DNS MX lookups dat produce no response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_always_send_ehlo (yes)\fR"
Always bust EHLO all up in tha start of a SMTP session.
.IP "\fBsmtp_never_send_ehlo (no)\fR"
Never bust EHLO all up in tha start of a SMTP session.
.IP "\fBsmtp_defer_if_no_mx_address_found (no)\fR"
Defer mail delivery when no MX record resolves ta a IP address.
.IP "\fBsmtp_line_length_limit (998)\fR"
Da maximal length of message header n' body lines dat Postfix
will bust via SMTP.
.IP "\fBsmtp_pix_workaround_delay_time (10s)\fR"
How tha fuck long tha Postfix SMTP client pauses before sending
".<CR><LF>" up in order ta work round tha PIX firewall
"<CR><LF>.<CR><LF>" bug.
.IP "\fBsmtp_pix_workaround_threshold_time (500s)\fR"
How tha fuck long a message must be queued before tha Postfix SMTP client
turns on tha PIX firewall "<CR><LF>.<CR><LF>"
bug workaround fo' delivery all up in firewalls wit "smtp fixup"
mode turned on.
.IP "\fBsmtp_pix_workaroundz (disable_esmtp, delay_dotcrlf)\fR"
A list dat specifies zero or mo' workaroundz fo' CISCO PIX
firewall bugs.
.IP "\fBsmtp_pix_workaround_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP server address, with
per-destination workaroundz fo' CISCO PIX firewall bugs.
.IP "\fBsmtp_quote_rfc821_envelope (yes)\fR"
Quote addresses up in Postfix SMTP client MAIL FROM n' RCPT TO commands
as required
by RFC 5321.
.IP "\fBsmtp_reply_filta (empty)\fR"
A mechanizzle ta transform replies from remote SMTP servers one
line at a time.
.IP "\fBsmtp_skip_5xx_greetin (yes)\fR"
Skip remote SMTP servers dat greet wit a 5XX status code (go away,
do
not try again n' again n' again later).
.IP "\fBsmtp_skip_quit_response (yes)\fR"
Do not wait fo' tha response ta tha SMTP QUIT command.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' earlier:
.IP "\fBsmtp_skip_4xx_greetin (yes)\fR"
Skip SMTP servers dat greet wit a 4XX status code (go away, try
again later).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP server address, with
case insensitizzle listz of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls, auth,
etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP client will ignore up in tha EHLO response from a
remote SMTP server.
.IP "\fBsmtp_discard_ehlo_keywordz (empty)\fR"
A case insensitizzle list of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP client will ignore up in tha EHLO
response from a remote SMTP server.
.IP "\fBsmtp_generic_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez dat big-ass up address rewritin up in the
Postfix SMTP client, typically ta transform a locally valid address into
a globally valid address when bustin  mail across tha Internet.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_cname_overrides_servername (version dependent)\fR"
Allow DNS CNAME recordz ta override tha servername dat the
Postfix SMTP client uses fo' logging, SASL password lookup, TLS
policy decisions, or TLS certificate verification.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBlmtp_discard_lhlo_keyword_address_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote LMTP server address, with
case insensitizzle listz of LHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix LMTP client will ignore up in tha LHLO
response
from a remote LMTP server.
.IP "\fBlmtp_discard_lhlo_keywordz (empty)\fR"
A case insensitizzle list of LHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix LMTP client will ignore up in tha LHLO
response
from a remote LMTP server.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.4.4 n' later:
.IP "\fBsend_cyrus_sasl_authzid (no)\fR"
When authenticatin ta a remote SMTP or LMTP server wit the
default settin "no", bust no SASL authoriZation ID (authzid); send
only tha SASL authentiCation ID (authcid) plus tha authcidz password.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_header_checks (empty)\fR"
Restricted \fBheader_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.
.IP "\fBsmtp_mime_header_checks (empty)\fR"
Restricted \fBmime_header_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP
client.
.IP "\fBsmtp_nested_header_checks (empty)\fR"
Restricted \fBnested_header_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP
client.
.IP "\fBsmtp_body_checks (empty)\fR"
Restricted \fBbody_checks\fR(5) tablez fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBtcp_windowsize (0)\fR"
An optionizzle workaround fo' routas dat break TCP window scaling.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.8 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_dns_resolver_options (empty)\fR"
DNS Resolver options fo' tha Postfix SMTP client.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_per_record_deadline (no)\fR"
Change tha behavior of tha smtp_*_timeout time limits, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).
.IP "\fBsmtp_send_dummy_mail_auth (no)\fR"
Whether or not ta append tha "AUTH=<>" option ta tha MAIL
FROM command up in SASL-authenticated SMTP sessions.
.SH "MIME PROCESSING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBdisable_mime_output_conversion (no)\fR"
Disable tha conversion of 8BITMIME format ta 7BIT format.
.IP "\fBmime_boundary_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Da maximal length of MIME multipart boundary strings.
.IP "\fBmime_nesting_limit (100)\fR"
Da maximal recursion level dat tha MIME processor will handle.
.SH "EXTERNAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_send_xforward_command (no)\fR"
Send tha non-standard XFORWARD command when tha Postfix SMTP server
EHLO response announces XFORWARD support.
.SH "SASL AUTHENTICATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_auth_enable (no)\fR"
Enable SASL authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP client.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_password_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle Postfix SMTP client lookup tablez wit one username:password
entry
per remote hostname or domain, or sender address when sender-dependent
authentication is enabled.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_security_options (noplaintext, noanonymous)\fR"
Postfix SMTP client SASL securitizzle options; az of Postfix 2.3
the list of available
features dependz on tha SASL client implementation dat is selected
with \fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_mechanism_filta (empty)\fR"
If non-empty, a Postfix SMTP client filta fo' tha remote SMTP
serverz list of offered SASL mechanisms.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_sender_dependent_authentication (no)\fR"
Enable sender-dependent authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP client; dis is
available only wit SASL authentication, n' disablez SMTP connection
cachin ta ensure dat mail from different sendaz will use the
appropriate credentials.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_path (empty)\fR"
Implementation-specific shiznit dat tha Postfix SMTP client
passes all up in to
the SASL plug-in implementation dat is selected with
\fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_type (cyrus)\fR"
Da SASL plug-in type dat tha Postfix SMTP client should use
for authentication.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_auth_cache_name (empty)\fR"
An optionizzle table ta prevent repeated SASL authentication
failures wit tha same remote SMTP server hostname, username and
password.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_auth_cache_time (90d)\fR"
Da maximal age of a smtp_sasl_auth_cache_name entry before it
is removed.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_auth_soft_bounce (yes)\fR"
When a remote SMTP server rejects a SASL authentication request
with a 535 reply code, defer mail delivery instead of returning
mail as undeliverable.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_send_dummy_mail_auth (no)\fR"
Whether or not ta append tha "AUTH=<>" option ta tha MAIL
FROM command up in SASL-authenticated SMTP sessions.
.SH "STARTTLS SUPPORT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Detailed shiznit bout STARTTLS configuration may be found
in tha TLS_README document.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_security_level (empty)\fR"
Da default SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha Postfix SMTP client;
when a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete
parametas smtp_use_tls, smtp_enforce_tls, n' smtp_tls_enforce_peername.
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_tls_security_options ($smtp_sasl_security_options)\fR"
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
client uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions.
.IP "\fBsmtp_starttls_timeout (300s)\fR"
Time limit fo' Postfix SMTP client write n' read operations
durin TLS startup n' shutdown handshake procedures.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_CAfile (empty)\fR"
A file containin CA certificatez of root CAs trusted ta sign
either remote SMTP server certificates or intermediate CA certificates.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_CApath (empty)\fR"
Directory wit PEM format certificate authoritizzle certificates
that tha Postfix SMTP client uses ta verify a remote SMTP server
certificate.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_cert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client RSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_mandatory_ciphers (medium)\fR"
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP client will
use with
mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_exclude_ciphers (empty)\fR"
List of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from tha Postfix
SMTP client cipher
list at all TLS securitizzle levels.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (empty)\fR"
Additionizzle list of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from the
Postfix SMTP client cipher list at mandatory TLS securitizzle levels.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_dcert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client DSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_dkey_file ($smtp_tls_dcert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client DSA private key up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_key_file ($smtp_tls_cert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client RSA private key up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_loglevel (0)\fR"
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP client loggin of TLS activity.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_note_starttls_offer (no)\fR"
Log tha hostname of a remote SMTP server dat offers STARTTLS,
when TLS aint already enabled fo' dat server.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_policy_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit tha Postfix SMTP client TLS security
policy by next-hop destination; when a non-empty value is specified,
this overrides tha obsolete smtp_tls_per_site parameter.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_mandatory_protocols (!SSLv2)\fR"
List of SSL/TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP client will use with
mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_scert_verifydepth (9)\fR"
Da verification depth fo' remote SMTP server certificates.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_secure_cert_match (nexthop, dot-nexthop)\fR"
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP client verifies tha server certificate
peername fo' the
"secure" TLS securitizzle level.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_session_cache_database (empty)\fR"
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP client
TLS session cache.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_session_cache_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP client TLS session cache
information.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_verify_cert_match (hostname)\fR"
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP client verifies tha server certificate
peername fo' the
"verify" TLS securitizzle level.
.IP "\fBtls_daemon_random_bytes (32)\fR"
Da number of pseudo-random bytes dat a \fBsmtp\fR(8) or \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
process requests from tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) server up in order ta seed its
internal pseudo random number generator (PRNG).
.IP "\fBtls_high_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:!MEDIUM:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "HIGH" grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_medium_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "MEDIUM" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_low_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "LOW" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_export_cipherlist (ALL:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "EXPORT" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_null_cipherlist (eNULL:!aNULL)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "NULL" grade ciphers dat provide
authentication without encryption.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.4 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_sasl_tls_verified_security_options ($smtp_sasl_tls_security_options)\fR"
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
client uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions wit a verified server
certificate.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_cert_match (empty)\fR"
List of aaight remote SMTP server certificate fingerprints for
the "fingerprint" TLS securitizzle level (\fBsmtp_tls_security_level\fR =
fingerprint).
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_fingerprint_digest (md5)\fR"
Da message digest algorithm used ta construct remote SMTP server
certificate fingerprints.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_protocols (!SSLv2)\fR"
List of TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP client will exclude or
include wit opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_ciphers (export)\fR"
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP client
will use wit opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_eccert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_eckey_file ($smtp_tls_eccert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP client ECDSA private key up in PEM format.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_block_early_mail_reply (no)\fR"
Try ta detect a mail hijackin battle based on a TLS protocol
vulnerabilitizzle (CVE-2009-3555), where a attacker prependz malicious
HELO, MAIL, RCPT, DATA commandz ta a Postfix SMTP client TLS session.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.8 n' later:
.IP "\fBtls_disable_workaroundz (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
List or bit-mask of OpenSSL bug work-aroundz ta disable.
.SH "OBSOLETE STARTTLS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin configuration parametas exist fo' compatibility
with Postfix versions before 2.3. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' these will
be removed up in a gangbangin' future release.
.IP "\fBsmtp_use_tls (no)\fR"
Opportunistic mode: use TLS when a remote SMTP server announces
STARTTLS support, otherwise bust tha mail up in tha clear.
.IP "\fBsmtp_enforce_tls (no)\fR"
Enforcement mode: require dat remote SMTP servers use TLS
encryption, n' never bust mail up in tha clear.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_enforce_peername (yes)\fR"
With mandatory TLS encryption, require dat tha remote SMTP
server hostname matches tha shiznit up in tha remote SMTP server
certificate.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_per_site (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit tha Postfix SMTP client TLS usage
policy by next-hop destination n' by remote SMTP server hostname.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_cipherlist (empty)\fR"
Obsolete Postfix < 2.3 control fo' tha Postfix SMTP client TLS
cipher list.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBsmtp_destination_concurrency_limit ($default_destination_concurrency_limit)\fR"
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha smtp message delivery transport.
.IP "\fBsmtp_destination_recipient_limit ($default_destination_recipient_limit)\fR"
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha smtp
message delivery transport.
.IP "\fBsmtp_connect_timeout (30s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' completin a TCP connection, or
zero (use tha operatin system built-in time limit).
.IP "\fBsmtp_helo_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha HELO or EHLO command,
and fo' receivin tha initial remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBlmtp_lhlo_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix LMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha LHLO command,
and fo' receivin tha initial remote LMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_xforward_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha XFORWARD command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_mail_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha MAIL FROM command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_rcpt_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP RCPT TO
command, n' fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_data_init_timeout (120s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP DATA command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_data_xfer_timeout (180s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP message content.
.IP "\fBsmtp_data_done_timeout (600s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha SMTP ".", and
for receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.IP "\fBsmtp_quit_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha QUIT command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_mx_address_limit (5)\fR"
Da maximal number of MX (mail exchanger) IP addresses dat can
result from Postfix SMTP client mail exchanger lookups, or zero (no
limit).
.IP "\fBsmtp_mx_session_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of SMTP sessions per delivery request before
the Postfix SMTP client
gives up or delivers ta a gangbangin' fall-back relay host, or zero (no
limit).
.IP "\fBsmtp_rset_timeout (20s)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP client time limit fo' bustin  tha RSET command,
and fo' receivin tha remote SMTP server response.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' earlier:
.IP "\fBlmtp_cache_connection (yes)\fR"
Keep Postfix LMTP client connections open fo' up ta $max_idle
seconds.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_connection_cache_destinations (empty)\fR"
Permanently enable SMTP connection cachin fo' tha specified
destinations.
.IP "\fBsmtp_connection_cache_on_demand (yes)\fR"
Temporarily enable SMTP connection cachin while a thugged-out destination
has a high volume of mail up in tha actizzle queue.
.IP "\fBsmtp_connection_reuse_time_limit (300s)\fR"
Da amount of time durin which Postfix will use a SMTP
connection repeatedly.
.IP "\fBsmtp_connection_cache_time_limit (2s)\fR"
When SMTP connection cachin is enabled, tha amount of time that
an unused SMTP client socket is kept open before it is closed.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBconnection_cache_protocol_timeout (5s)\fR"
Time limit fo' connection cache connect, bust or receive
operations.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_per_record_deadline (no)\fR"
Change tha behavior of tha smtp_*_timeout time limits, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).
.SH "TROUBLE SHOOTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_level (2)\fR"
Da increment up in verbose loggin level when a remote client or
server matches a pattern up in tha debug_peer_list parameter.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_list (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of remote client or server hostname or network
address patterns dat cause tha verbose loggin level ta increase
by tha amount specified up in $debug_peer_level.
.IP "\fBerror_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of postmasta notifications bout mail delivery
problems dat is caused by policy, resource, software or protocol
errors.
.IP "\fBinternal_mail_filter_classes (empty)\fR"
What categoriez of Postfix-generated mail is subject to
before-queue content inspection by non_smtpd_milters, header_checks
and body_checks.
.IP "\fBnotify_classes (resource, software)\fR"
Da list of error classes dat is reported ta tha postmaster.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBbest_mx_transhiznit (empty)\fR"
Where tha Postfix SMTP client should serve up mail when it detects
a "mail loops back ta mah dirty ass" error condition.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBdisable_dns_lookups (no)\fR"
Disable DNS lookups up in tha Postfix SMTP n' LMTP clients.
.IP "\fBinet_interfaces (all)\fR"
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives
mail on.
.IP "\fBinet_protocols (all)\fR"
Da Internizzle protocols Postfix will attempt ta use when making
or acceptin connections.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBlmtp_assume_final (no)\fR"
When a remote LMTP server announces no DSN support, assume that
the
server performs final delivery, n' bust "delivered" delivery status
notifications instead of "relayed".
.IP "\fBlmtp_tcp_port (24)\fR"
Da default TCP port dat tha Postfix LMTP client connects to.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBproxy_interfaces (empty)\fR"
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives mail
on by way of a proxy or network address translation unit.
.IP "\fBsmtp_address_preference (any)\fR"
Da address type ("ipv6", "ipv4" or "any") dat tha Postfix
SMTP client will try first, when a thugged-out destination has IPv6 n' IPv4
addresses wit equal MX preference.
.IP "\fBsmtp_bind_address (empty)\fR"
An optionizzle numerical network address dat tha Postfix SMTP client
should bind ta when bustin a IPv4 connection.
.IP "\fBsmtp_bind_address6 (empty)\fR"
An optionizzle numerical network address dat tha Postfix SMTP client
should bind ta when bustin a IPv6 connection.
.IP "\fBsmtp_helo_name ($myhostname)\fR"
Da hostname ta bust up in tha SMTP EHLO or HELO command.
.IP "\fBlmtp_lhlo_name ($myhostname)\fR"
Da hostname ta bust up in tha LMTP LHLO command.
.IP "\fBsmtp_host_lookup (dns)\fR"
What mechanizzlez tha Postfix SMTP client uses ta look up a hostz IP
address.
.IP "\fBsmtp_randomize_addresses (yes)\fR"
Randomize tha order of equal-preference MX host addresses.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available wit Postfix 2.2 n' earlier:
.IP "\fBfallback_relay (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of relay hosts fo' SMTP destinations dat can't be
found or dat is unreachable.
.PP
Available wit Postfix 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtp_fallback_relay ($fallback_relay)\fR"
Optionizzle list of relay hosts fo' SMTP destinations dat can't be
found or dat is unreachable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
generic(5), output address rewriting
header_checks(5), message header content inspection
body_checks(5), body parts content inspection
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
scache(8), connection cache server
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
tlsmgr(8), TLS session n' PRNG pimpment
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
SASL_README, Postfix SASL howto
TLS_README, Postfix STARTTLS howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Command pipelinin up in cooperation with:
Jizzle Ribbens
Oaktree Internizzle Solutions Ltd.,
Internizzle House,
Canal Basin,
Coventry,
CV1 4LY, United Mackdaddydom.

SASL support originally by:
Till Franke
SuSE Rhein/Main AG
65760 Eschborn, Germany

TLS support originally by:
Lutz Jaenicke
BTU Cottbus
Allgemeine Elektrotechnik
Universitaetsplatz 3-4
D-03044 Cottbus, Germany

Revised TLS n' SMTP connection cache support by:
Victor Duchovni
Morgan Stanley
