.TH SMTPD 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
smtpd
\-
Postfix SMTP server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBsmtpd\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]

\fBsendmail -bs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da SMTP server accepts network connection requests
and performs zero or mo' SMTP transactions per connection.
Each received message is piped all up in tha \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon, n' is placed tha fuck into tha \fBincoming\fR queue as one
single queue file.  For dis mode of operation, tha program
expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process manager.

Alternatively, tha SMTP server be can run up in stand-alone
mode; dis is traditionally obtained wit "\fBsendmail
-bs\fR".  When tha SMTP server runs stand-alone wit non
$\fBmail_baller\fR privileges, it receives mail even while
the mail system aint hustlin, deposits lyrics directly
into tha \fBmaildrop\fR queue, n' disablez tha SMTP server's
access policies fo' realz. Az of Postfix version 2.3, tha SMTP server
refuses ta receive mail from tha network when it runs with
non $\fBmail_baller\fR privileges.

Da SMTP server implements a variety of policies fo' connection
requests, n' fo' parametas given ta \fBHELO, ETRN, MAIL FROM, VRFY\fR
and \fBRCPT TO\fR commands. They is detailed below n' up in the
\fBmain.cf\fR configuration file.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da SMTP server is moderately security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it talks ta SMTP
clients n' ta DNS servers on tha network. Da SMTP server can be
run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 821 (SMTP protocol)
RFC 1123 (Host requirements)
RFC 1652 (8bit-MIME transport)
RFC 1869 (SMTP steez extensions)
RFC 1870 (Message size declaration)
RFC 1985 (ETRN command)
RFC 2034 (SMTP enhanced status codes)
RFC 2554 (AUTH command)
RFC 2821 (SMTP protocol)
RFC 2920 (SMTP pipelining)
RFC 3207 (STARTTLS command)
RFC 3461 (SMTP DSN extension)
RFC 3463 (Enhanced status codes)
RFC 3848 (ESMTP transmission types)
RFC 4409 (Message submission)
RFC 4954 (AUTH command)
RFC 5321 (SMTP protocol)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).

Dependin on tha settin of tha \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmasta is notified of bounces, protocol problems,
policy violations, n' of other shit.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin parametas work round implementation errors up in other
software, and/or allow you ta override standardz up in order ta prevent
undesirable use.
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBbroken_sasl_auth_clients (no)\fR"
Enable inter-operabilitizzle wit remote SMTP clients dat implement a obsolete
version of tha AUTH command (RFC 4954).
.IP "\fBdisable_vrfy_command (no)\fR"
Disable tha SMTP VRFY command.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_noop_commandz (empty)\fR"
List of commandz dat tha Postfix SMTP server replies ta wit "250
Ok", without bustin any syntax checks n' without changin state.
.IP "\fBstrict_rfc821_envelopes (no)\fR"
Require dat addresses received up in SMTP MAIL FROM n' RCPT TO
commandz is enclosed wit <>, n' dat dem addresses do
not contain RFC 822 steez comments or phrases.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBresolve_null_domain (no)\fR"
Resolve a address dat endz up in tha "@" null domain as if the
local hostname was specified, instead of rejectin tha address as
invalid.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_reject_unlisted_sender (no)\fR"
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail from unknown
sender addresses, even when no explicit reject_unlisted_sender
access restriction is specified.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_exceptions_networks (empty)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna offer
AUTH support to.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_discard_ehlo_keyword_address_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tables, indexed by tha remote SMTP client address, with
case insensitizzle listz of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls, auth,
etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO response
to a
remote SMTP client.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_discard_ehlo_keywordz (empty)\fR"
A case insensitizzle list of EHLO keywordz (pipelining, starttls,
auth, etc.) dat tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna bust up in tha EHLO
response
to a remote SMTP client.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_delay_open_until_valid_rcpt (yes)\fR"
Postpone tha start of a SMTP mail transaction until a valid
RCPT TO command is received.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_always_issue_session_idz (yes)\fR"
Force tha Postfix SMTP server ta issue a TLS session id, even
when TLS session cachin is turned off (smtpd_tls_session_cache_database
is empty).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBtcp_windowsize (0)\fR"
An optionizzle workaround fo' routas dat break TCP window scaling.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_command_filta (empty)\fR"
A mechanizzle ta transform commandz from remote SMTP clients.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_per_record_deadline (normal: no, overload: yes)\fR"
Change tha behavior of tha smtpd_timeout time limit, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).
.SH "ADDRESS REWRITING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
See tha ADDRESS_REWRITING_README document fo' a thugged-out detailed
rap of Postfix address rewriting.
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBlocal_header_rewrite_clients (permit_inet_interfaces)\fR"
Rewrite message header addresses up in mail from these clients and
update incomplete addresses wit tha domain name up in $myorigin or
$mydomain; either don't rewrite message headaz from other clients
at all, or rewrite message headaz n' update incomplete addresses
with tha domain specified up in tha remote_header_rewrite_domain
parameter.
.SH "BEFORE-SMTPD PROXY AGENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Available up in Postfix version 2.10 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_upstream_proxy_protocol (empty)\fR"
Da name of tha proxy protocol used by a optionizzle before-smtpd
proxy agent.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_upstream_proxy_timeout (5s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' tha proxy protocol specified wit the
smtpd_upstream_proxy_protocol parameter.
.SH "AFTER QUEUE EXTERNAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of version 1.0, Postfix can be configured ta bust freshly smoked up mail to
an external content filta AFTER tha mail is queued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This content
filta is sposed ta fuckin inject mail back tha fuck into a (Postfix or other)
MTA fo' further delivery. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha FILTER_README document fo' details.
.IP "\fBcontent_filta (empty)\fR"
Afta tha message is queued, bust tha entire message ta the
specified \fItransport:destination\fR.
.SH "BEFORE QUEUE EXTERNAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of version 2.1, tha Postfix SMTP server can be configured
to bust incomin mail ta a real-time SMTP-based content filter
BEFORE mail is queued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This content filta is sposed ta fuckin inject
mail back tha fuck into Postfix.  See tha SMTPD_PROXY_README document for
details on how tha fuck ta configure n' operate dis feature.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_proxy_filta (empty)\fR"
Da hostname n' TCP port of tha mail filterin proxy server.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_proxy_ehlo ($myhostname)\fR"
How tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP server announces itself ta tha proxy filter.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_proxy_options (empty)\fR"
List of options dat control how tha fuck tha Postfix SMTP server
communicates wit a funky-ass before-queue content filter.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_proxy_timeout (100s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' connectin ta a proxy filta n' fo' bustin  or
receivin shiznit.
.SH "BEFORE QUEUE MILTER CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of version 2.3, Postfix supports tha Sendmail version 8
Milta (mail filter) protocol. These content filtas run
outside Postfix. They can inspect tha SMTP command stream
and tha message content, n' can request modifications before
mail is queued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For details peep tha MILTER_README document.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_miltas (empty)\fR"
A list of Milta (mail filter) applications fo' freshly smoked up mail that
arrives via tha Postfix \fBsmtpd\fR(8) server.
.IP "\fBmilter_protocol (6)\fR"
Da mail filta protocol version n' optionizzle protocol extensions
for communication wit a Milta application; prior ta Postfix 2.6
the default protocol is 2.
.IP "\fBmilter_default_action (tempfail)\fR"
Da default action when a Milta (mail filter) application is
unavailable or mis-configured.
.IP "\fBmilter_macro_daemon_name ($myhostname)\fR"
Da {daemon_name} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
.IP "\fBmilter_macro_v ($mail_name $mail_version)\fR"
Da {v} macro value fo' Milta (mail filter) applications.
.IP "\fBmilter_connect_timeout (30s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' connectin ta a Milta (mail filter)
application, n' fo' negotiatin protocol options.
.IP "\fBmilter_command_timeout (30s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  a SMTP command ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.IP "\fBmilter_content_timeout (300s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  message content ta a Milta (mail
filter) application, n' fo' receivin tha response.
.IP "\fBmilter_connect_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta completion of a SMTP connection.
.IP "\fBmilter_helo_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP HELO or EHLO command.
.IP "\fBmilter_mail_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP MAIL FROM command.
.IP "\fBmilter_rcpt_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha SMTP RCPT TO command.
.IP "\fBmilter_data_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta version 4 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta tha SMTP DATA command.
.IP "\fBmilter_unknown_command_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta version 3 or higher Milta (mail
filter) applications afta a unknown SMTP command.
.IP "\fBmilter_end_of_header_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha end of tha message header.
.IP "\fBmilter_end_of_data_macros (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da macros dat is busted ta Milta (mail filter) applications
afta tha message end-of-data.
.SH "GENERAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin parametas is applicable fo' both built-in
and external content filters.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping.
.SH "EXTERNAL CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin parametas is applicable fo' both before-queue
and after-queue content filtering.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_authorized_xforward_hosts (empty)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta use tha XFORWARD feature.
.SH "SASL AUTHENTICATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Postfix SASL support (RFC 4954) can be used ta authenticate remote
SMTP clients ta tha Postfix SMTP server, n' ta authenticate the
Postfix SMTP client ta a remote SMTP server.
See tha SASL_README document fo' details.
.IP "\fBbroken_sasl_auth_clients (no)\fR"
Enable inter-operabilitizzle wit remote SMTP clients dat implement a obsolete
version of tha AUTH command (RFC 4954).
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_auth_enable (no)\fR"
Enable SASL authentication up in tha Postfix SMTP server.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_local_domain (empty)\fR"
Da name of tha Postfix SMTP serverz local SASL authentication
realm.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_security_options (noanonymous)\fR"
Postfix SMTP server SASL securitizzle options; az of Postfix 2.3
the list of available
features dependz on tha SASL server implementation dat is selected
with \fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sender_login_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup table wit tha SASL login names dat own sender
(MAIL FROM) addresses.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_exceptions_networks (empty)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients tha Postfix SMTP server aint gonna offer
AUTH support to.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' 2.2:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_application_name (smtpd)\fR"
Da application name dat tha Postfix SMTP server uses fo' SASL
server initialization.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_authenticated_header (no)\fR"
Report tha SASL authenticated user name up in tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8) Received
message header.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_path (smtpd)\fR"
Implementation-specific shiznit dat tha Postfix SMTP server
passes all up in to
the SASL plug-in implementation dat is selected with
\fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_type (cyrus)\fR"
Da SASL plug-in type dat tha Postfix SMTP server should use
for authentication.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBcyrus_sasl_config_path (empty)\fR"
Search path fo' Cyrus SASL application configuration files,
currently used only ta locate tha $smtpd_sasl_path.conf file.
.SH "STARTTLS SUPPORT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Detailed shiznit bout STARTTLS configuration may be
found up in tha TLS_README document.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_security_level (empty)\fR"
Da SMTP TLS securitizzle level fo' tha Postfix SMTP server; when
a non-empty value is specified, dis overrides tha obsolete parameters
smtpd_use_tls n' smtpd_enforce_tls.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sasl_tls_security_options ($smtpd_sasl_security_options)\fR"
Da SASL authentication securitizzle options dat tha Postfix SMTP
server uses fo' TLS encrypted SMTP sessions.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_starttls_timeout (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da time limit fo' Postfix SMTP server write n' read operations
durin TLS startup n' shutdown handshake procedures.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_CAfile (empty)\fR"
A file containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs trusted
to sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate CA
certificates.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_CApath (empty)\fR"
A directory containin (PEM format) CA certificatez of root CAs
trusted ta sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate CA
certificates.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_always_issue_session_idz (yes)\fR"
Force tha Postfix SMTP server ta issue a TLS session id, even
when TLS session cachin is turned off (smtpd_tls_session_cache_database
is empty).
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_ask_ccert (no)\fR"
Ask a remote SMTP client fo' a cold-ass lil client certificate.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_auth_only (no)\fR"
When TLS encryption is optionizzle up in tha Postfix SMTP server, do
not announce or accept SASL authentication over unencrypted
connections.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_ccert_verifydepth (9)\fR"
Da verification depth fo' remote SMTP client certificates.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_cert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server RSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers (empty)\fR"
List of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from tha SMTP server
cipher list at all TLS securitizzle levels.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_dcert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server DSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file (empty)\fR"
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix SMTP server should
use wit EDH ciphers.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_dh512_param_file (empty)\fR"
File wit DH parametas dat tha Postfix SMTP server should
use wit EDH ciphers.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_dkey_file ($smtpd_tls_dcert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server DSA private key up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_key_file ($smtpd_tls_cert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server RSA private key up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_loglevel (0)\fR"
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP server loggin of TLS activity.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers (medium)\fR"
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP server will
use wit mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers (empty)\fR"
Additionizzle list of ciphers or cipher types ta exclude from the
Postfix SMTP server cipher list at mandatory TLS securitizzle levels.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols (!SSLv2)\fR"
Da SSL/TLS protocols accepted by tha Postfix SMTP server with
mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_received_header (no)\fR"
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server produces Received:  message
headaz dat include shiznit bout tha protocol n' cipher used,
as well as tha remote SMTP client CommonName n' client certificate issuer
CommonName.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_req_ccert (no)\fR"
With mandatory TLS encryption, require a trusted remote SMTP client
certificate up in order ta allow TLS connections ta proceed.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_session_cache_database (empty)\fR"
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP server
TLS session cache.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP server TLS session cache
information.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_wrappermode (no)\fR"
Run tha Postfix SMTP server up in tha non-standard "wrapper" mode,
instead of rockin tha STARTTLS command.
.IP "\fBtls_daemon_random_bytes (32)\fR"
Da number of pseudo-random bytes dat a \fBsmtp\fR(8) or \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
process requests from tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) server up in order ta seed its
internal pseudo random number generator (PRNG).
.IP "\fBtls_high_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:!MEDIUM:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "HIGH" grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_medium_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:!LOW:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "MEDIUM" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_low_cipherlist (ALL:!EXPORT:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "LOW" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_export_cipherlist (ALL:+RC4:@STRENGTH)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "EXPORT" or higher grade ciphers.
.IP "\fBtls_null_cipherlist (eNULL:!aNULL)\fR"
Da OpenSSL cipherlist fo' "NULL" grade ciphers dat provide
authentication without encryption.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest (md5)\fR"
Da message digest algorithm ta construct remote SMTP
client-certificate
fingerprints or hood key fingerprints (Postfix 2.9 n' later)
for \fBcheck_ccert_access\fR n' \fBpermit_tls_clientcerts\fR.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_protocols (empty)\fR"
List of TLS protocols dat tha Postfix SMTP server will exclude
or include wit opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_ciphers (export)\fR"
Da minimum TLS cipher grade dat tha Postfix SMTP server
will use wit opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_eccert_file (empty)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server ECDSA certificate up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_eckey_file ($smtpd_tls_eccert_file)\fR"
File wit tha Postfix SMTP server ECDSA private key up in PEM format.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_eecdh_grade (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP server securitizzle grade fo' ephemeral elliptic-curve
Diffie-Hellman (EECDH) key exchange.
.IP "\fBtls_eecdh_strong_curve (prime256v1)\fR"
Da elliptic curve used by tha Postfix SMTP server fo' sensibly
strong
ephemeral ECDH key exchange.
.IP "\fBtls_eecdh_ultra_curve (secp384r1)\fR"
Da elliptic curve used by tha Postfix SMTP server fo' maximally
strong
ephemeral ECDH key exchange.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.8 n' later:
.IP "\fBtls_preempt_cipherlist (no)\fR"
With SSLv3 n' later, use tha Postfix SMTP serverz cipher
preference order instead of tha remote clientz cipher preference
order.
.IP "\fBtls_disable_workaroundz (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
List or bit-mask of OpenSSL bug work-aroundz ta disable.
.SH "OBSOLETE STARTTLS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin configuration parametas exist fo' compatibility
with Postfix versions before 2.3. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Support fo' these will
be removed up in a gangbangin' future release.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_use_tls (no)\fR"
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
but do not require dat clients use TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_enforce_tls (no)\fR"
Mandatory TLS: announce STARTTLS support ta remote SMTP clients,
and require dat clients use TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_cipherlist (empty)\fR"
Obsolete Postfix < 2.3 control fo' tha Postfix SMTP server TLS
cipher list.
.SH "VERP SUPPORT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
With VERP steez delivery, each recipient of a message receives a
customized copy of tha message wit his/her own recipient address
encoded up in tha envelope sender address.  Da VERP_README file
raps bout configuration n' operation detailz of Postfix support
for variable envelope return path addresses.  VERP steez delivery
is axed wit tha SMTP XVERP command or wit tha "sendmail
-V" command-line option n' be available up in Postfix version 1.1
and later.
.IP "\fBdefault_verp_delimitas (+=)\fR"
Da two default VERP delimita characters.
.IP "\fBverp_delimiter_filta (-=+)\fR"
Da charactas Postfix accepts as VERP delimita charactas on the
Postfix \fBsendmail\fR(1) command line n' up in SMTP commands.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 1.1 n' 2.0:
.IP "\fBauthorized_verp_clients ($mynetworks)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta specify tha XVERP command.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_authorized_verp_clients ($authorized_verp_clients)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta specify tha XVERP command.
.SH "TROUBLE SHOOTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da DEBUG_README document raps bout how tha fuck ta debug partz of the
Postfix mail system. Da methodz vary from makin tha software log
a shitload of detail, ta hustlin some daemon processes under control of
a call tracer or debugger.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_level (2)\fR"
Da increment up in verbose loggin level when a remote client or
server matches a pattern up in tha debug_peer_list parameter.
.IP "\fBdebug_peer_list (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle list of remote client or server hostname or network
address patterns dat cause tha verbose loggin level ta increase
by tha amount specified up in $debug_peer_level.
.IP "\fBerror_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
Da recipient of postmasta notifications bout mail delivery
problems dat is caused by policy, resource, software or protocol
errors.
.IP "\fBinternal_mail_filter_classes (empty)\fR"
What categoriez of Postfix-generated mail is subject to
before-queue content inspection by non_smtpd_milters, header_checks
and body_checks.
.IP "\fBnotify_classes (resource, software)\fR"
Da list of error classes dat is reported ta tha postmaster.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_reject_foota (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle shiznit dat be appended afta each Postfix SMTP
server
4XX or 5XX response.
.IP "\fBsoft_bounce (no)\fR"
Safety net ta keep mail queued dat would otherwise be returned to
the sender.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_authorized_xclient_hosts (empty)\fR"
What remote SMTP clients is allowed ta use tha XCLIENT feature.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.10 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_log_access_permit_actions (empty)\fR"
Enable loggin of tha named "permit" actions up in SMTP server
access lists.
.SH "KNOWN VERSUS UNKNOWN RECIPIENT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of Postfix version 2.0, tha SMTP server rejects mail for
unknown recipients, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. This prevents tha mail queue from cloggin up
with undeliverable MAILER-DAEMON lyrics fo' realz. Additionizzle shiznit
on dis topic is up in tha LOCAL_RECIPIENT_README n' ADDRESS_CLASS_README
documents.
.IP "\fBshow_user_unknown_table_name (yes)\fR"
Display tha name of tha recipient table up in tha "User unknown"
responses.
.IP "\fBcanonical_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' message headaz and
envelopes.
.IP "\fBrecipient_canonical_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle address mappin lookup tablez fo' envelope n' header
recipient addresses.
.PP
Parametas concernin known/unknown local recipients:
.IP "\fBmydestination ($myhostname, localhost.$mydomain, localhost)\fR"
Da list of domains dat is served up via tha $local_transport
mail delivery transport.
.IP "\fBinet_interfaces (all)\fR"
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives
mail on.
.IP "\fBproxy_interfaces (empty)\fR"
Da network intercourse addresses dat dis mail system receives mail
on by way of a proxy or network address translation unit.
.IP "\fBinet_protocols (all)\fR"
Da Internizzle protocols Postfix will attempt ta use when making
or acceptin connections.
.IP "\fBlocal_recipient_maps (proxy:unix:passwd.byname $alias_maps)\fR"
Lookup tablez wit all names or addressez of local recipients:
a recipient address is local when its domain matches $mydestination,
$inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP "\fBunknown_local_recipient_reject_code (550)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a recipient
address is local, n' $local_recipient_maps specifies a list of
lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient.
.PP
Parametas concernin known/unknown recipientz of relay destinations:
.IP "\fBrelay_domains ($mydestination)\fR"
What destination domains (and subdomains thereof) dis system
will relay mail to.
.IP "\fBrelay_recipient_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit all valid addresses up in tha domains
that match $relay_domains.
.IP "\fBunknown_relay_recipient_reject_code (550)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient
address matches $relay_domains, n' relay_recipient_maps specifies
a list of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.PP
Parametas concernin known/unknown recipients up in virtual alias
domains:
.IP "\fBvirtual_alias_domains ($virtual_alias_maps)\fR"
Postfix is final destination fo' tha specified list of virtual
alias domains, dat is, domains fo' which all addresses is aliased
to addresses up in other local or remote domains.
.IP "\fBvirtual_alias_maps ($virtual_maps)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez dat alias specific mail addresses or domains
to other local or remote address.
.IP "\fBunknown_virtual_alias_reject_code (550)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient address matches
$virtual_alias_domains, n' $virtual_alias_maps specifies a list
of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.PP
Parametas concernin known/unknown recipients up in virtual mailbox
domains:
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_domains ($virtual_mailbox_maps)\fR"
Postfix is final destination fo' tha specified list of domains;
mail is served up via tha $virtual_transhiznit mail delivery transport.
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit all valid addresses up in tha domains that
match $virtual_mailbox_domains.
.IP "\fBunknown_virtual_mailbox_reject_code (550)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP server reply code when a recipient address matches
$virtual_mailbox_domains, n' $virtual_mailbox_maps specifies a list
of lookup tablez dat do not match tha recipient address.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin parametas limit resource usage by tha SMTP
server and/or control client request rates.
.IP "\fBline_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Upon input, long lines is chopped up tha fuck into piecez of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines is reconstructed.
.IP "\fBqueue_minfree (0)\fR"
Da minimal amount of free space up in bytes up in tha queue file system
that is needed ta receive mail.
.IP "\fBmessage_size_limit (10240000)\fR"
Da maximal size up in bytez of a message, includin envelope shiznit.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_recipient_limit (1000)\fR"
Da maximal number of recipients dat tha Postfix SMTP server
accepts per message delivery request.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_timeout (normal: 300s, overload: 10s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  a Postfix SMTP server response n' for
receivin a remote SMTP client request.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_history_flush_threshold (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of lines up in tha Postfix SMTP server command history
before it is flushed upon receipt of EHLO, RSET, or end of DATA.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_peername_lookup (yes)\fR"
Attempt ta look up tha remote SMTP client hostname, n' verify that
the name matches tha client IP address.
.PP
Da per SMTP client connection count n' request rate limits are
implemented up in co-operation wit tha \fBanvil\fR(8) service, and
are available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_connection_count_limit (50)\fR"
How tha fuck nuff simultaneous connections any client be allowed to
make ta dis service.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_connection_rate_limit (0)\fR"
Da maximal number of connection attempts any client be allowed to
make ta dis steez per time unit.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_message_rate_limit (0)\fR"
Da maximal number of message delivery requests dat any client is
allowed ta make ta dis steez per time unit, regardless of whether
or not Postfix straight-up accepts dem lyrics.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_recipient_rate_limit (0)\fR"
Da maximal number of recipient addresses dat any client be allowed
to bust ta dis steez per time unit, regardless of whether or not
Postfix straight-up accepts dem recipients.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_event_limit_exceptions ($mynetworks)\fR"
Clients dat is excluded from smtpd_client_*_count/rate_limit
restrictions.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_new_tls_session_rate_limit (0)\fR"
Da maximal number of freshly smoked up (i.e., uncached) TLS sessions dat a
remote SMTP client be allowed ta negotiate wit dis steez per
time unit.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_per_record_deadline (normal: no, overload: yes)\fR"
Change tha behavior of tha smtpd_timeout time limit, from a
time limit per read or write system call, ta a time limit ta send
or receive a cold-ass lil complete record (an SMTP command line, SMTP response
line, SMTP message content line, or TLS protocol message).
.SH "TARPIT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When a remote SMTP client make errors, tha Postfix SMTP server
can bang delays before responding. This can help ta slow down
run-away software.  Da behavior is controlled by a error counter
that counts tha number of errors within a SMTP session dat a
client make without deliverin mail.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_error_sleep_time (1s)\fR"
With Postfix version 2.1 n' later: tha SMTP server response delay after
a client has made mo' than $smtpd_soft_error_limit errors, and
fewer than $smtpd_hard_error_limit errors, without deliverin mail.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_soft_error_limit (10)\fR"
Da number of errors a remote SMTP client be allowed ta make without
deliverin mail before tha Postfix SMTP server slows down all its
responses.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_hard_error_limit (normal: 20, overload: 1)\fR"
Da maximal number of errors a remote SMTP client be allowed to
make without deliverin mail.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_junk_command_limit (normal: 100, overload: 1)\fR"
Da number of junk commandz (NOOP, VRFY, ETRN or RSET) dat a remote
SMTP client can bust before tha Postfix SMTP server starts to
increment tha error counta wit each junk command.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_recipient_overshoot_limit (1000)\fR"
Da number of recipients dat a remote SMTP client can bust in
excess of tha limit specified wit $smtpd_recipient_limit, before
the Postfix SMTP server increments tha per-session error count
for each excess recipient.
.SH "ACCESS POLICY DELEGATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Az of version 2.1, Postfix can be configured ta delegate access
policy decisions ta a external server dat runs outside Postfix.
See tha file SMTPD_POLICY_README fo' mo' shiznit.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_policy_service_max_idle (300s)\fR"
Da time afta which a idle SMTPD policy steez connection is
closed.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_policy_service_max_ttl (1000s)\fR"
Da time afta which a actizzle SMTPD policy steez connection is
closed.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_policy_service_timeout (100s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' connectin to, freestylin ta or receivin from a
delegated SMTPD policy server.
.SH "ACCESS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da SMTPD_ACCESS_README document gives a introduction ta all the
SMTP server access control features.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_delay_reject (yes)\fR"
Wait until tha RCPT TO command before evaluating
$smtpd_client_restrictions, $smtpd_helo_restrictions and
$smtpd_sender_restrictions, or wait until tha ETRN command before
evaluatin $smtpd_client_restrictions n' $smtpd_helo_restrictions.
.IP "\fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
What Postfix features match subdomainz of "domain.tld" automatically,
instead of requirin a explicit ".domain.tld" pattern.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client connection request.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_helo_required (no)\fR"
Require dat a remote SMTP client introduces itself wit tha HELO
or EHLO command before bustin  tha MAIL command or other commands
that require EHLO negotiation.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_helo_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client HELO command.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_sender_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client MAIL FROM command.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_recipient_restrictions (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client RCPT TO command, afta smtpd_relay_restrictions.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_etrn_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies up in the
context of a cold-ass lil client ETRN command.
.IP "\fBallow_untrusted_routin (no)\fR"
Forward mail wit sender-specified routin (user[@%!]remote[@%!]site)
from untrusted clients ta destinations matchin $relay_domains.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_restriction_classes (empty)\fR"
User-defined aliases fo' crewz of access restrictions.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_null_access_lookup_key (<>)\fR"
Da lookup key ta be used up in SMTP \fBaccess\fR(5) tablez instead of the
null sender address.
.IP "\fBpermit_mx_backup_networks (empty)\fR"
Restrict tha use of tha permit_mx_backup SMTP access feature to
only domains whose primary MX hosts match tha listed networks.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_data_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle access restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server applies
in tha context of tha SMTP DATA command.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_expansion_filta (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
What charactas is allowed up in $name expansionz of RBL reply
templates.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.1 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_reject_unlisted_sender (no)\fR"
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail from unknown
sender addresses, even when no explicit reject_unlisted_sender
access restriction is specified.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_reject_unlisted_recipient (yes)\fR"
Request dat tha Postfix SMTP server rejects mail fo' unknown
recipient addresses, even when no explicit reject_unlisted_recipient
access restriction is specified.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_end_of_data_restrictions (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle access restrictions dat tha Postfix SMTP server
applies up in tha context of tha SMTP END-OF-DATA command.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.10 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_relay_restrictions (permit_mynetworks, reject_unauth_destination)\fR"
Access restrictions fo' mail relay control dat tha Postfix
SMTP server applies up in tha context of tha RCPT TO command, before
smtpd_recipient_restrictions.
.SH "SENDER AND RECIPIENT ADDRESS VERIFICATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Postfix version 2.1 introduces sender n' recipient address verification.
This feature is implemented by bustin  probe email lyrics that
are not straight-up delivered.
This feature be axed via tha reject_unverified_sender and
reject_unverified_recipient access restrictions.  Da status of
verification probes is maintained by tha \fBverify\fR(8) server.
See tha file ADDRESS_VERIFICATION_README fo' shiznit
about how tha fuck ta configure n' operate tha Postfix sender/recipient
address verification service.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_poll_count (normal: 3, overload: 1)\fR"
How tha fuck nuff times ta query tha \fBverify\fR(8) steez fo' tha completion
of a address verification request up in progress.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_poll_delay (3s)\fR"
Da delay between queries fo' tha completion of a address
verification request up in progress.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender ($double_bounce_sender)\fR"
Da sender address ta use up in address verification probes; prior
to Postfix 2.5 tha default was "postmaster".
.IP "\fBunverified_sender_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a recipient
address is rejected by tha reject_unverified_sender restriction.
.IP "\fBunverified_recipient_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response when a recipient address
is rejected by tha reject_unverified_recipient restriction.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBunverified_sender_defer_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a sender address
probe fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.IP "\fBunverified_recipient_defer_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response when a recipient address
probe fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.IP "\fBunverified_sender_reject_reason (empty)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz reply when rejectin mail with
reject_unverified_sender.
.IP "\fBunverified_recipient_reject_reason (empty)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz reply when rejectin mail with
reject_unverified_recipient.
.IP "\fBunverified_sender_tempfail_action ($reject_tempfail_action)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unverified_sender
fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.IP "\fBunverified_recipient_tempfail_action ($reject_tempfail_action)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unverified_recipient
fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.PP
Available wit Postfix 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_ttl (0s)\fR"
Da time between chizzlez up in tha time-dependent portion of address
verification probe sender addresses.
.SH "ACCESS CONTROL RESPONSES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin parametas control numerical SMTP reply codes
and/or text responses.
.IP "\fBaccess_map_reject_code (554)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code for
an \fBaccess\fR(5) map "reject" action.
.IP "\fBdefer_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is rejected by tha "defer" restriction.
.IP "\fBinvalid_hostname_reject_code (501)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when tha client
HELO or EHLO command parameta is rejected by tha reject_invalid_helo_hostname
restriction.
.IP "\fBmaps_rbl_reject_code (554)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is blocked by tha reject_rbl_client, reject_rhsbl_client,
reject_rhsbl_reverse_client, reject_rhsbl_sender or
reject_rhsbl_recipient restriction.
.IP "\fBnon_fqdn_reject_code (504)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server reply code when a cold-ass lil client request
is rejected by tha reject_non_fqdn_helo_hostname, reject_non_fqdn_sender
or reject_non_fqdn_recipient restriction.
.IP "\fBplaintext_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a request
is rejected by tha \fBreject_plaintext_session\fR restriction.
.IP "\fBreject_code (554)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is rejected by tha "reject" restriction.
.IP "\fBrelay_domains_reject_code (554)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a cold-ass lil client
request is rejected by tha reject_unauth_destination recipient
restriction.
.IP "\fBunknown_address_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a sender or
recipient address is rejected by tha reject_unknown_sender_domain
or reject_unknown_recipient_domain restriction.
.IP "\fBunknown_client_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a cold-ass lil client
without valid address <=> name mappin is rejected by the
reject_unknown_client_hostname restriction.
.IP "\fBunknown_hostname_reject_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when tha hostname
specified wit tha HELO or EHLO command is rejected by the
reject_unknown_helo_hostname restriction.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBdefault_rbl_reply (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default Postfix SMTP server response template fo' a request dat is
rejected by a RBL-based restriction.
.IP "\fBmulti_recipient_bounce_reject_code (550)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code when a remote SMTP
client request is blocked by tha reject_multi_recipient_bounce
restriction.
.IP "\fBrbl_reply_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit RBL response templates.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.6 n' later:
.IP "\fBaccess_map_defer_code (450)\fR"
Da numerical Postfix SMTP server response code for
an \fBaccess\fR(5) map "defer" action, includin "defer_if_permit"
or "defer_if_reject".
.IP "\fBreject_tempfail_action (defer_if_permit)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when a reject-type restriction
fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.IP "\fBunknown_helo_hostname_tempfail_action ($reject_tempfail_action)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unknown_helo_hostname
fails cuz of a temporary error condition.
.IP "\fBunknown_address_tempfail_action ($reject_tempfail_action)\fR"
Da Postfix SMTP serverz action when reject_unknown_sender_domain
or reject_unknown_recipient_domain fail cuz of a temporary error
condition.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBcommand_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of all postfix administratizzle commands.
.IP "\fBdouble_bounce_sender (double-bounce)\fR"
Da sender address of postmasta notifications dat is generated
by tha mail system.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmail_name (Postfix)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is displayed up in Received: headers, in
the SMTP greetin banner, n' up in bounced mail.
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmyhostname (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da internizzle hostname of dis mail system.
.IP "\fBmynetworks (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of "trusted" remote SMTP clients dat have mo' privileges than
"strangers".
.IP "\fBmyorigin ($myhostname)\fR"
Da domain name dat locally-posted mail appears ta come
from, n' dat locally posted mail is served up to.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBrecipient_delimita (empty)\fR"
Da separator between user names n' address extensions (user+foo).
.IP "\fBsmtpd_banner ($myhostname ESMTP $mail_name)\fR"
Da text dat bigs up tha 220 status code up in tha SMTP greeting
banner.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_forbidden_commandz (CONNECT, GET, POST)\fR"
List of commandz dat cause tha Postfix SMTP server ta immediately
terminizzle tha session wit a 221 code.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBsmtpd_client_port_loggin (no)\fR"
Enable loggin of tha remote SMTP client port up in addizzle to
the hostname n' IP address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
anvil(8), connection/rate limiting
cleanup(8), message canonicalization
tlsmgr(8), TLS session n' PRNG pimpment
trivial-rewrite(8), address resolver
verify(8), address verification service
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_CLASS_README, blockin unknown hosted or relay recipients
ADDRESS_REWRITING_README Postfix address manipulation
FILTER_README, external after-queue content filter
LOCAL_RECIPIENT_README, blockin unknown local recipients
MILTER_README, before-queue mail filta applications
SMTPD_ACCESS_README, built-in access policies
SMTPD_POLICY_README, external policy server
SMTPD_PROXY_README, external before-queue content filter
SASL_README, Postfix SASL howto
TLS_README, Postfix STARTTLS howto
VERP_README, Postfix XVERP extension
XCLIENT_README, Postfix XCLIENT extension
XFORWARD_README, Postfix XFORWARD extension
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

SASL support originally by:
Till Franke
SuSE Rhein/Main AG
65760 Eschborn, Germany

TLS support originally by:
Lutz Jaenicke
BTU Cottbus
Allgemeine Elektrotechnik
Universitaetsplatz 3-4
D-03044 Cottbus, Germany

Revised TLS support by:
Victor Duchovni
Morgan Stanley
