.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Portionz of dis file is subject ta tha followin copyright.  See
.\" tha Net-SNMP COPYING file fo' mo' details n' other copyrights
.\" dat may apply:
.\" /***********************************************************
.\" 	Copyright 1989 by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\"                       All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software n' its 
.\" documentation fo' any purpose n' without fee is hereby granted, 
.\" provided dat tha above copyright notice step tha fuck up in all copies n' that
.\" both dat copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in 
.\" supportin documentation, n' dat tha name of CMU not be
.\" used up in advertisin or publicitizzle pertainin ta distribution of the
.\" software without specific, freestyled prior permission. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  
.\" 
.\" CMU DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
.\" ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" CMU BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" ******************************************************************/
.TH SNMPTRAPD 8 "30 Mar 2011" V5.7.2 "Net-SNMP"
.SH NAME
snmptrapd - Receive n' log SNMP trap lyrics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR snmptrapd " [OPTIONS] [LISTENING ADDRESSES]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snmptrapd
is a SNMP application dat receives n' logs SNMP TRAP n' INFORM
lyrics.
.PP
Note: tha default is ta listen on UDP port 162 on all IPv4 intercourses.
Since 162 be a privileged port,
.B snmptrapd
must typically be run as root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-a
Ignore authenticationFailure traps.
.TP
.B \-A
Append ta tha log file rather than truncatin dat shit.

Note dat dis need ta come \fIbefore\fP any \-Lf options
that it should apply to.
.TP
.BI "\-c" " FILE"
Read 
.I FILE
as a cold-ass lil configuration file
(or a cold-ass lil comma-separated list of configuration files).
.TP
.B \-C
Do not read any configuration filez except tha one optionally specified by tha 
.B \-c 
option.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump (in hexadecimal) tha busted n' received SNMP packets.
.TP
.BI \-D[TOKEN[,...]]
Turn on debuggin output fo' tha given
.IR "TOKEN" "(s)."
Try
.IR ALL
for mad verbose output.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not fork() from tha callin shell.
.TP
.BI \-F " FORMAT"
When loggin ta standard output, use tha format up in tha string
.IR FORMAT .
See tha section
.B FORMAT SPECIFICATIONS
below fo' mo' details.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display a funky-ass brief usage message n' then exit.
.TP
.B \-H
Display a list of configuration file directives understood by the
trap daemon n' then exit.
.TP
.B \-I \fI[\-]INITLIST
Specifies which modulez should (or should not) be initialized
when snmptrapd starts up.  If tha comma-separated
.I INITLIST
is preceded
with a '\-', it is tha list of modulez dat should \fInot\fR be started.
Otherwise dis is tha list of tha \fIonly\fR modulez dat should be started.

To git a list of compiled modules, run snmptrapd wit tha arguments
.I "\-Dmib_init \-H"
(assumin debuggin support has been compiled in).
.TP
.B \-L[efos]
Specify where loggin output should be pimped up (standard error or output,
to a gangbangin' file or via syslog).  See LOGGING OPTIONS up in \fIsnmpcmd(1)\fR fo' details.
.TP
.BR \-m " \fIMIBLIST"
Specifies a cold-ass lil colon separated list of MIB modulez ta load fo' this
application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  This overrides tha environment variable MIBS.
See \fIsnmpcmd(1)\fR fo' details.
.TP
.BR \-M " \fIDIRLIST"
Specifies a cold-ass lil colon separated list of directories ta search fo' MIBs.
This overrides tha environment variable MIBDIRS.
See \fIsnmpcmd(1)\fR fo' details.
.TP
.BR \-n
Do not attempt ta translate source addressez of incomin packets into
hostnames.
.TP
.BI \-p " FILE"
Save tha process ID of tha trap daemon in
.IR FILE "."
.TP
.BI \-O " [abeEfnqQsStTuUvxX]"
Specifies how tha fuck MIB objects n' other output should be displayed.
See tha section
.B OUTPUT OPTIONS
in the
.I snmpcmd(1)
manual page fo' details.
.TP
.BI \-t
Do not log traps ta syslog.  This disablez loggin ta syslog.  This is
useful if you want tha snmptrapd application to
.B only
run traphandle hooks n' not ta log any traps ta any location.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version shiznit fo' tha trap daemon n' then exit.
.TP
.B \-x \fIADDRESS
Connect ta tha AgentX masta agent on tha specified address,
rather than tha default "/var/agentx/master".
See \fIsnmpd(8)\fR fo' detailz of tha format of such addresses.
.TP
.BI \-\- "name"="value"
Allows one ta specify any token ("name") supported up in the
.I snmptrapd.conf
file n' sets its value ta "value". Overrides tha correspondin token up in the
.I snmptrapd.conf
file. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.I snmptrapd.conf(5)
for tha full list of tokens.
.SH FORMAT SPECIFICATIONS
.PP
.B snmptrapd
interprets format strings similarly to
.IR printf(3) .
It understandz tha followin formattin sequences:
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B %%
a literal %
.TP
.B %a
the contentz of tha agent\-addr field of tha PDU (v1 TRAPs only)
.TP
.B %A
the hostname correspondin ta tha contentz of tha agent\-addr field of
the PDU, if available, otherwise tha contentz of tha agent\-addr field
of tha PDU (v1 TRAPs only).
.TP
.B %b
PDU source address (Note: dis aint necessarily a IPv4
address)
.TP
.B %B
PDU source hostname if available, otherwise PDU source address (see
note above) 
.TP
.B %h
current minute on tha local system
.TP
.B %H
the minute field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.TP
.B %j
current minute on tha local system
.TP
.B %J
the minute field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.TP
.B %k
current second on tha local system
.TP
.B %K
the secondz field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.TP
.B %l
current dizzle of month on tha local system
.TP
.B %L
the dizzle of month field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.TP
.B %m
current (numeric) month on tha local system
.TP
.B %M
the numeric month field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.TP
.B %N
enterprise string
.TP
.B %q
trap sub-type (numeric, up in decimal)
.TP
.B %P
securitizzle shiznit from tha PDU (communitizzle name fo' v1/v2c,
user n' context fo' v3)
.TP
.B %t
decimal number of secondz since tha operatin system epoch (as
returned by
.IR time(2) )
.TP
.B %T
the value of tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind up in seconds
.TP
.B %v
list of variable-bindings from tha notification payload.
These is ghon be separated by a tab, 
or by a cold-ass lil comma n' a funky-ass blank if tha alternate form is requested
See also %V
.TP
.B %V
specifies tha variable-bindings separator. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. This takes a sequence of
characters, up ta tha next % (to embed a % up in tha string, use \\%)
.TP
.B %w
trap type (numeric, up in decimal)
.TP
.B %W
trap description
.TP
.B %y
current year on tha local system
.TP
.B %Y
the year field from tha \fCsysUpTime.0\fR varbind
.RE
.PP
In addizzle ta these joints, a optionizzle field
width n' precision may also be specified , just as up in 
.IR printf(3) ,
and a gangbangin' flag value. Da followin flags is supported:
.RS 4 
.TP 4
.B \-
left justify
.TP
.B 0
use leadin zeros
.TP
.B #
use alternate form
.RE
.PP
Da "use alternate form" flag chizzlez tha behavior of various format
strin sequences:
.IP
Time shiznit is ghon be displayed based on GMT (rather than tha local timezone)
.IP
Da variable-bindings is ghon be a cold-ass lil comma-separated list (rather than a tab-separated one)
.IP
Da system uptime is ghon be fucked up down tha fuck into a human-meaningful format (rather than bein a simple integer)
.SS Examples:
.PP
To git a message like "14:03 TRAP3.1 from humpty.ucd.edu" you 
could use suttin' like this:
.PP
.RS
.nf
snmptrapd \-P \-F "%02.2h:%02.2j TRAP%w.%q from %A\en"
.fi
.RE
.PP
If you want tha same thang but up in GMT rather than local time, use
.PP
.RS
.nf
snmptrapd \-P \-F "%#02.2h:%#02.2j TRAP%w.%q from %A\en"
.fi
.RE
.SH LISTENING ADDRESSES
By default,
.B snmptrapd
listens fo' incomin SNMP TRAP n' INFORM packets on UDP port 162 on
all IPv4 intercourses.  But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it is possible ta modify dis behaviour
by specifyin one or mo' listenin addresses as arguments to
.BR snmptrapd .
See the
.I snmpd(8)
manual page fo' mo' shiznit bout tha format of listening
addresses.
.SH NOTIFICATION\-LOG\-MIB SUPPORT
Az of net-snmp 5.0, tha snmptrapd application supports the
NOTIFICATION\-LOG\-MIB.  It do dis by openin a AgentX subagent
connection ta tha masta snmpd agent n' registerin tha notification
log tables.  As long as tha snmpd application is started first, it
will attach itself ta it n' thus you should be able ta view tha last
recorded notifications via tha nlmLogTable n' nlmLogVariableTable.
See tha snmptrapd.conf file n' tha "doNotRetainNotificationLogs" token
for turning
off dis support.  See tha NOTIFICATION\-LOG\-MIB fo' mo' details about
the MIB itself.
.SH EXTENSIBILITY AND CONFIGURATION
See the
.I snmptrapd.conf(5)
manual page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snmpcmd(1), snmpd(8), printf(3), snmptrapd.conf(5), syslog(8), variables(5)
