.TH SPAWN 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
spawn
\-
Postfix external command spawner
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBspawn\fR [generic Postfix daemon options] command_attributes...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBspawn\fR(8) daemon serves up tha Postfix equivalent
of \fBinetd\fR.
It listens on a port as specified up in tha Postfix \fBmaster.cf\fR file
and spawns a external command whenever a cold-ass lil connection is established.
Da connection can be made over local IPC (like fuckin UNIX-domain
sockets) or over non-local IPC (like fuckin TCP sockets).
Da command\z standard input, output n' error streams is connected
directly ta tha communication endpoint.

This daemon expects ta be run from tha \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.
.SH "COMMAND ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da external command attributes is given up in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR
file all up in tha end of a steez definition. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da syntax be as bigs up:
.IP "\fBuser\fR=\fIusername\fR (required)"
.IP "\fBuser\fR=\fIusername\fR:\fIgroupname\fR"
Da external command is executed wit tha muthafuckin rightz of the
specified \fIusername\fR.  Da software refuses ta execute
commandz wit root privileges, or wit tha privilegez of the
mail system balla n' shit. If \fIgroupname\fR is specified, the
correspondin crew ID is used instead of tha crew ID
of \fIusername\fR.
.IP "\fBargv\fR=\fIcommand\fR... (required)"
Da command ta be executed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This must be specified as the
last command attribute.
Da command is executed directly, i.e. without interpretation of
shell meta charactas by a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell command interpreter.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
In order ta enforce standard Postfix process resource controls,
the \fBspawn\fR(8) daemon runs only one external command at a time.
As such, it presents a noticeable overhead by wastin precious
process resources. Da \fBspawn\fR(8) daemon is sposed ta fuckin be
replaced by a mo' structural solution.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Da \fBspawn\fR(8) daemon reports abnormal lil pimp exits.
Problems is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
This program needz root privilege up in order ta execute external
commandz as tha specified user n' shit. Well shiiiit, it is therefore securitizzle sensitive.
However tha \fBspawn\fR(8) daemon do not rap ta tha external command
and thus aint vulnerable ta data-driven attacks.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically as \fBspawn\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.

In tha text below, \fItransport\fR is tha straight-up original gangsta field of tha entry
in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROL"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fItransport\fB_time_limit ($command_time_limit)\fR"
Da amount of time tha command be allowed ta run before it is
terminated.

Postfix 2.4 n' lata support a suffix dat specifies the
time unit: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days),
w (weeks). Da default time unit is seconds.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBexport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da list of environment variablez dat a Postfix process will export
to non-Postfix processes.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmail_balla (postfix)\fR"
Da UNIX system account dat owns tha Postfix queue n' most Postfix
daemon processes.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
