.TH SS 8
.SH NAME
ss \- another utilitizzle ta rewind sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ss
.RI [ options ] " [ FILTER ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ss
is used ta dump socket statistics. Well shiiiit, it allows showin shiznit similar
to
.IR netstat .
It can display mo' TCP n' state shiznits than other tools.

.SH OPTIONS
When no option is used ss displays a list of 
open non-listenin TCP sockets dat have established connection.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Output version shiznit.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-numeric
Do not try ta resolve steez names.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-resolve
Try ta resolve numeric address/ports.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Display both listenin n' non-listenin (for TCP dis means established connections) sockets.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-listening
Display only listenin sockets (these is omitted by default).
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-options
Show timer shiznit.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-extended
Show detailed socket shiznit
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-memory
Show socket memory usage.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-processes
Show process rockin socket.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-info
Show internal TCP shiznit.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-summary
Print summary statistics. This option do not parse socket lists obtaining
summary from various sources. Well shiiiit, it is useful when amount of sockets is so huge
that parsin /proc/net/tcp is painful.
.TP
.B \-Z, \-\-context
As the
.B \-p
option but also shows process securitizzle context.
.sp
For
.BR netlink (7)
sockets tha initiatin process context is displayed as bigs up:
.RS
.RS
.IP "1." 4
If valid pid show tha process context.
.IP "2." 4
If destination is kernel (pid = 0) show kernel initial context.
.IP "3." 4
If a unique identifier has been allocated by tha kernel or netlink user,
show context as "unavailable". This will generally indicate dat a
process has mo' than one netlink socket active.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-contexts
As the
.B \-Z
option but also shows tha socket context. Da socket context is
taken from tha associated inode n' aint tha actual socket
context held by tha kernel. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Sockets is typically labeled wit the
context of tha bustin process, however tha context shown will reflect
any policy role, type and/or range transizzle rulez applied,
and is therefore a useful reference.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bpf
Show socket BPF filtas (only administrators is allowed ta git these shiznit).
.TP
.B \-4, \-\-ipv4
Display only IP version 4 sockets (alias fo' -f inet).
.TP
.B \-6, \-\-ipv6
Display only IP version 6 sockets (alias fo' -f inet6).
.TP
.B \-0, \-\-packet
Display PACKET sockets (alias fo' -f link).
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-tcp
Display TCP sockets.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-udp
Display UDP sockets.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dccp
Display DCCP sockets.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-raw
Display RAW sockets.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-unix
Display Unix domain sockets (alias fo' -f unix).
.TP
.B \-f FAMILY, \-\-family=FAMILY
Display socketz of type FAMILY.
Currently tha followin crews is supported: unix, inet, inet6, link, netlink.
.TP
.B \-A QUERY, \-\-query=QUERY, \-\-socket=QUERY
List of socket tablez ta dump, separated by commas. Da followin identifiers
are understood: all, inet, tcp, udp, raw, unix, packet, netlink, unix_dgram,
unix_stream, unix_seqpacket, packet_raw, packet_dgram.
.TP
.B \-D FILE, \-\-diag=FILE
Do not display anything, just dump raw shiznit bout TCP sockets ta FILE afta applyin filters. If FILE is - stdout is used.
.TP
.B \-F FILE, \-\-filter=FILE
Read filta shiznit from FILE.
Each line of FILE is interpreted like single command line option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. If FILE is - stdin is used.
.TP
.B FILTER := [ state TCP-STATE ] [ EXPRESSION ]
Please take a peep tha straight-up legit documentation (Debian package iproute\-doc) fo' details regardin filters.
.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.TP
.B ss -t -a
Display all TCP sockets.
.TP
.B ss -t -a -Z
Display all TCP sockets wit process SELinux securitizzle contexts.
.TP
.B ss -u -a
Display all UDP sockets.
.TP
.B ss -o state established '( dport = :ssh or shiznit = :ssh )'
Display all established ssh connections.
.TP
.B ss -x src /tmp/.X11-unix/*
Find all local processes connected ta X server.
.TP
.B ss -o state fin-wait-1 '( shiznit = :http or shiznit = :https )' dst 193.233.7/24
List all tha tcp sockets up in state FIN-WAIT-1 fo' our apache ta network 193.233.7/24 n' peep they timers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
.BR /usr/share/doc/iproute-doc/ss.ps " (package iproute\-doc)"
.SH AUTHOR
.I ss 
was freestyled by Alexey Kuznetosv, <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>.
.PP
This manual page was freestyled by Mike Prokop <mika@grml.org>
for tha Debian project (but may be used by others).
