.\" $OpenBSD: ssh-keysign.8,v 1.13 2013/07/16 00:07:52 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Markus Friedl.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 16 2013 $
.Dt SSH-KEYSIGN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-keysign
.Nd ssh helper program fo' host-based authentication
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used by
.Xr ssh 1
to access tha local host keys n' generate tha digital signature
required durin host-based authentication wit SSH protocol version 2.
.Pp
.Nm
is disabled by default n' can only be enabled up in the
global client configuration file
.Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_config
by setting
.Cm EnableSSHKeysign
to
.Dq yeaaaa .
.Pp
.Nm
is not intended ta be invoked by tha user yo, but from
.Xr ssh 1 .
See
.Xr ssh 1
and
.Xr sshd 8
for mo' shiznit bout host-based authentication.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_config
Controls whether
.Nm
is enabled.
.Pp
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key
These filez contain tha private partz of tha host keys used to
generate tha digital signature.
They should be owned by root, readable only by root, n' not
accessible ta others.
Since they is readable only by root,
.Nm
must be set-uid root if host-based authentication is used.
.Pp
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key-cert.pub
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key-cert.pub
.It Pa /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key-cert.pub
If these filez exist they is assumed ta contain hood certificate
information correspondin wit tha private keys above.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.Pp
.It Pa SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
Da reseedin of tha OpenSSL random generator is probably done from
.Cm /dev/urandom .
If tha 
.Cm SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG
environment variable is set ta value other than
.Cm 0
the OpenSSL random generator is reseeded from
.Cm /dev/random .
Da number of bytes read is defined by tha SSH_USE_STRONG_RNG value. 
Minimum is 14 bytes.
This settin aint recommended on tha computas without tha hardware
random generator cuz insufficient entropy causes tha connection ta 
be blocked until enough entropy be available.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 ,
.Xr ssh_config 5 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first rocked up in
.Ox 3.2 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Markus Friedl Aq Mt markus@openbsd.org
