.TH  "staff_selinux"  "8"  "staff" "mgrepl@redhat.com" "staff SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
staff_u \- \fBAdministratorz unprivileged user\fP - Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBstaff_u\fP be a SELinux User defined up in tha SELinux
policy. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux playas have default roles, \fBstaff_r\fP.  The
default role has a thugged-out default type, \fBstaff_t\fP, associated wit dat shit.

Da SELinux user will probably login ta a system wit a cold-ass lil context dat looks like:

.B staff_u:staff_r:staff_t:s0 - s0:c0.c1023

Linux playas is automatically assigned a SELinux playas at login.
Login programs use tha SELinux User ta assign initial context ta tha userz shell.

SELinux policy uses tha context ta control tha userz access.

By default all playas is assigned ta tha SELinux user via tha \fB__default__\fP flag

On Targeted policy systems tha \fB__default__\fP user be assigned ta tha \fBunconfined_u\fP SELinux user.

Yo ass can list all Linux User ta SELinux user mappin using:

.B semanage login -l

If you wanted ta chizzle tha default user mappin ta use tha staff_u user, you would execute:

.B semanage login -m -s staff_u __default__


If you wanna map tha one Linux user (joe) ta tha SELinux user staff, you would execute:

.B $ semanage login -a -s staff_u joe


.SH USER DESCRIPTION

Da SELinux user staff_u is defined up in policy as a unprivileged user n' shit. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux prevents unprivileged playas from bustin administration tasks without transitionin ta a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different role.

.SH SUDO

Da SELinux user staff can execute sudo.

Yo ass can set up sudo ta allow staff ta transizzle ta a administratizzle domain:

Add one or mo' of tha followin record ta sudoers rockin visudo.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=auditadm_r TYPE=auditadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:auditadm_r:auditadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=dbadm_r TYPE=dbadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:dbadm_r:dbadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=logadm_r TYPE=logadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:logadm_r:logadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=secadm_r TYPE=secadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:secadm_r:secadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=sysadm_r TYPE=sysadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:sysadm_r:sysadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=unconfined_r TYPE=unconfined_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:unconfined_r:unconfined_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=webadm_r TYPE=webadm_t COMMAND
.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:webadm_r:webadm_t:LEVEL

Yo ass might also need ta add one or mo' of these freshly smoked up rolez ta yo' SELinux user record.

List tha SELinux rolez yo' SELinux user can reach by executing:

.B $ semanage user -l |grep selinux_name

Modify tha rolez list n' add staff_r ta dis list.

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r auditadm_r dbadm_r logadm_r secadm_r sysadm_r unconfined_r webadm_r' staff_u

For mo' details you can peep semanage playa page.


Da SELinux type staff_t aint allowed ta execute sudo.

.SH X WINDOWS LOGIN

Da SELinux user staff_u be able ta X Windows login.

.SH NETWORK

.TP
Da SELinux user staff_u be able ta listen on tha followin tcp ports.

.B 6000-6020

.B 32768-61000

.B 3689

.B all ports > 1024

.B all ports wit up defined types

.TP
Da SELinux user staff_u be able ta connect ta tha followin tcp ports.

.B 8955

.B all ports

.B 53

.B 32768-61000

.B 88,750,4444

.B 111

.B all ports < 1024

.B all ports wit up defined types

.B 9080

.B 389,636,3268,7389

.B 5432

.TP
Da SELinux user staff_u be able ta listen on tha followin udp ports.

.B 32768-61000

.B all ports wit up defined types

.TP
Da SELinux user staff_u be able ta connect ta tha followin tcp ports.

.B 8955

.B all ports

.B 53

.B 32768-61000

.B 88,750,4444

.B 111

.B all ports < 1024

.B all ports wit up defined types

.B 9080

.B 389,636,3268,7389

.B 5432

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  staff policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run staff wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow staff user ta create n' transizzle ta svirt domains, you must turn on tha staff_use_svirt boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P staff_use_svirt 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny user domains applications ta map a memory region as both executable n' writable, dis is fucked up n' tha executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha deny_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether callin user domains can execute Git daemon up in tha git_session_t domain, you must turn on tha git_session_users boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_session_users 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow httpd cgi support, you must turn on tha httpd_enable_cgi boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna unify HTTPD handlin of all content files, you must turn on tha httpd_unified boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_unified 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow loggin up in n' rockin tha system from /dev/console, you must turn on tha login_console_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P login_console_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether callin user domains can execute Polipo daemon up in tha polipo_session_t domain, you must turn on tha polipo_session_users boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_users 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unprivileged playas ta execute DDL statement, you must turn on tha postgresql_selinux_users_ddl boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P postgresql_selinux_users_ddl 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow pppd ta be run fo' a regular user, you must turn on tha pppd_for_user boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P pppd_for_user 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna disallow programs, like fuckin newrole, from transitionin ta administratizzle user domains, you must turn on tha secure_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow regular playas direct dri thang access, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all unconfined executablez ta use libraries requirin text relocation dat is not labeled textrel_shlib_t, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execmod boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execmod 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unconfined executablez ta make they stack executable.  This should never, eva be necessary. Probably indicates a funky-ass badly coded executable yo, but could indicate a attack. This executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta connect ta tha local mysql server, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_mysql_connect_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_mysql_connect_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta connect ta PostgreSQL, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow user ta r/w filez on filesystems dat aint gots extended attributes (FAT, CDROM, FLOPPY), you must turn on tha selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow user noize sharing, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_share_noize boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_share_noize 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta run TCP servers (bind ta ports n' accept connection from tha same domain n' outside users)  disablin dis forces FTP passive mode n' may chizzle other protocols, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_tcp_server boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_tcp_server 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow user  ta use ssh chroot environment, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_use_ssh_chroot boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_use_ssh_chroot 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha ssh_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha xdm_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allows clients ta write ta tha X server shared memory segments, you must turn on tha xserver_clients_write_xshm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_clients_write_xshm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support X userspace object manager, you must turn on tha xserver_object_manager boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH HOME_EXEC

Da SELinux user staff_u be able execute home content files.

.SH TRANSITIONS

Three thangs can happen when staff_t attempts ta execute a program.

\fB1.\fP SELinux Policy can deny staff_t from executin tha program.

.TP

\fB2.\fP SELinux Policy can allow staff_t ta execute tha program up in tha current user type.

Execute tha followin ta peep tha types dat tha SELinux user staff_t can execute without transitioning:

.B search -A -s staff_t -c file -p execute_no_trans

.TP

\fB3.\fP SELinux can allow staff_t ta execute tha program n' transizzle ta a freshly smoked up type.

Execute tha followin ta peep tha types dat tha SELinux user staff_t can execute n' transition:

.B $ search -A -s staff_t -c process -p transition


.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type staff_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B auth_cache_t

	/var/cache/coolkey(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B bluetooth_helper_tmp_t


.br
.B bluetooth_helper_tmpfs_t


.br
.B cgroup_t

	/cgroup(/.*)?
.br
	/sys/fs/cgroup(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B chrome_sandbox_tmpfs_t


.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B games_data_t

	/var/games(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/games(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B git_user_content_t

	/home/[^/]*/public_git(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gpg_agent_tmp_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br

.br
.B httpd_user_content_t

	/home/[^/]*/((www)|(web)|(public_html))(/.+)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_user_htaccess_t

	/home/[^/]*/((www)|(web)|(public_html))(/.*)?/\.htaccess
.br

.br
.B httpd_user_ra_content_t

	/home/[^/]*/((www)|(web)|(public_html))(/.*)?/logs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_user_rw_content_t


.br
.B httpd_user_script_exec_t

	/home/[^/]*/((www)|(web)|(public_html))/cgi-bin(/.+)?
.br

.br
.B iceauth_home_t

	/root/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/root/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ICEauthority.*
.br

.br
.B irc_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.irssi(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/irclog(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ircmotd
.br

.br
.B mail_spool_t

	/var/mail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/imap(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/smtpd(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B mqueue_spool_t

	/var/spool/(client)?mqueue(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mqueue\.in(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B noxattrfs

	all filez on file systems which do not support extended attributes
.br

.br
.B sandbox_file_t


.br
.B sandbox_tmpfs_type

	all sandbox content up in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B screen_home_t

	/root/\.screen(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.screen(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.screenrc
.br

.br
.B security_t

	/selinux
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B usbfs_t


.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_t

	/root/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.font-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local/share/fonts(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_home_type

	all user home files
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_type

	all user tmp files
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_type

	all user content up in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B virt_image_type

	all virtual image files
.br

.br
.B xauth_home_t

	/root/\.xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauthority.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmp_t

	/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.X0-lock
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), staff(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), staff_consolehelper_selinux(8), staff_consolehelper_selinux(8), staff_dbusd_selinux(8), staff_dbusd_selinux(8), staff_gkeyringd_selinux(8), staff_gkeyringd_selinux(8), staff_screen_selinux(8), staff_screen_selinux(8), staff_seunshare_selinux(8), staff_seunshare_selinux(8), staff_ssh_agent_selinux(8), staff_ssh_agent_selinux(8), staff_sudo_selinux(8), staff_sudo_selinux(8), staff_wine_selinux(8), staff_wine_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
