.TH  "staff_wine_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "staff_wine" "SELinux Policy staff_wine"
.SH "NAME"
staff_wine_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha staff_wine processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha staff_wine processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da staff_wine processes execute wit tha staff_wine_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep staff_wine_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da staff_wine_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBwine_exec_t, xsession_exec_t\fP file types.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha staff_wine_t domain is tha following:

/usr/bin/wine.*, /opt/teamviewer(/.*)?/bin/wine.*, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/wdi, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/wine.*, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/msiexec, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/notepad, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/progman, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/regedit, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/regsvr32, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/Picasa3/.*exe, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/uninstaller, /opt/cxoffice/bin/wine.*, /opt/picasa/wine/bin/wine.*, /usr/bin/msiexec, /usr/bin/notepad, /usr/bin/regedit, /usr/bin/regsvr32, /usr/bin/uninstaller, /home/[^/]*/cxoffice/bin/wine.+, /etc/gdm(3)?/Xsession, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xreset, /etc/gdm(3)?/PreSession/.*, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xstartup, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xsession, /etc/gdm(3)?/PostSession/.*, /etc/X11/[wx]dm/Xreset.*, /etc/X11/[wxg]dm/Xsession, /etc/X11/Xsession[^/]*, /etc/X11/wdm/Xsetup.*, /etc/X11/wdm/Xstartup.*
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux staff_wine policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they staff_wine processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' staff_wine:

.EX
.B staff_wine_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a staff_wine_t
can be used ta make tha process type staff_wine_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  staff_wine policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run staff_wine wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow loggin up in n' rockin tha system from /dev/console, you must turn on tha login_console_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P login_console_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna control tha mobilitizzle ta mmap a low area of tha address space, as configured by /proc/sys/vm/mmap_min_addr, you must turn on tha mmap_low_allowed boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mmap_low_allowed 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna disallow programs, like fuckin newrole, from transitionin ta administratizzle user domains, you must turn on tha secure_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow regular playas direct dri thang access, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta connect ta PostgreSQL, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow user ta r/w filez on filesystems dat aint gots extended attributes (FAT, CDROM, FLOPPY), you must turn on tha selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow user noize sharing, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_share_noize boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_share_noize 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta run TCP servers (bind ta ports n' accept connection from tha same domain n' outside users)  disablin dis forces FTP passive mode n' may chizzle other protocols, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_tcp_server boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_tcp_server 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha ssh_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha xdm_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allows clients ta write ta tha X server shared memory segments, you must turn on tha xserver_clients_write_xshm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_clients_write_xshm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support X userspace object manager, you must turn on tha xserver_object_manager boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha staff_wine_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha staff_wine_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type staff_wine_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B alsa_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.asoundrc
.br

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B cgroup_t

	/cgroup(/.*)?
.br
	/sys/fs/cgroup(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B chrome_sandbox_tmpfs_t


.br
.B games_data_t

	/var/games(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/games(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gkeyringd_gnome_home_t

	/root/\.gnome2/keyrings(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnome2/keyrings(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local/share/keyrings(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gpg_agent_tmp_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br

.br
.B iceauth_home_t

	/root/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/root/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ICEauthority.*
.br

.br
.B mail_spool_t

	/var/mail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/imap(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/smtpd(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B mqueue_spool_t

	/var/spool/(client)?mqueue(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mqueue\.in(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B noxattrfs

	all filez on file systems which do not support extended attributes
.br

.br
.B usbfs_t


.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_config_t

	/root/\.fonts\.d(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.conf
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.d(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.conf
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_t

	/root/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.font-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local/share/fonts(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_type

	all user tmp files
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_type

	all user content up in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B wine_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.wine(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xauth_home_t

	/root/\.xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauthority.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmp_t

	/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.X0-lock
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), staff_wine(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
