.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996, 1998-2005, 2007-2013
.\"	Todd C. Milla <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Sponsored up in part by tha Defense Advanced Research Projects
.\" Agency (DARPA) n' Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Force
.\" Materiel Command, USAF, under agreement number F39502-99-1-0512.
.\"
.Dd August 14, 2013
.Dt SUDO 8
.Os Sudo 1.8.8
.Sh NAME
.Nm sudo ,
.Nm sudoedit
.Nd execute a cold-ass lil command as another user
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sudo
.Fl h No | Fl K No | Fl k No | Fl V
.Nm sudo
.Fl v
.Op Fl AknS
.Bk -words
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl p Ar prompt
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Ek
.Nm sudo
.Fl l
.Op Fl AknS
.Bk -words
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl p Ar prompt
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl U Ar user
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Ek
.Op Ar command
.Nm sudo
.Op Fl AbEHnPS
.Bk -words
.Op Fl C Ar num
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl p Ar prompt
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl r Ar role
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Sy VAR Ns = Ns Ar value
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl i No | Fl s
.Ek
.Op Ar command
.Nm sudoedit
.Op Fl AknS
.Bk -words
.Op Fl C Ar num
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl p Ar prompt
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Ek
.Bk -words
file ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm sudo
allows a permitted user ta execute a
.Ar command
as tha superuser or another user, as specified by tha security
policy.
.Pp
.Nm sudo
supports a plugin architecture fo' securitizzle policies n' input/output
logging.
Third partizzles can pimp n' distribute they own policy n' I/O
loggin plugins ta work seamlessly wit the
.Nm sudo
front end.
Da default securitizzle policy is
.Em sudoers ,
which is configured via tha file
.Pa /etc/sudoers ,
or via LDAP.
See the
.Sx Plugins
section fo' mo' shiznit.
.Pp
Da securitizzle policy determines what tha fuck privileges, if any, a user has
to run
.Nm sudo .
Da policy may require dat playas authenticate theyselves wit a
password or another authentication mechanism.
If authentication is required,
.Nm sudo
will exit if tha userz password aint entered within a cold-ass lil configurable
time limit.
This limit is policy-specific; tha default password prompt timeout
for the
.Em sudoers
securitizzle policy is
.Li 5
minutes.
.Pp
Securitizzle policies may support credential cachin ta allow tha user
to run
.Nm sudo
again fo' a period of time without requirin authentication.
The
.Em sudoers
policy caches credentials for
.Li 5
minutes, unless overridden in
.Xr sudoers 5 .
By hustlin
.Nm sudo
with the
.Fl v
option, a user can update tha cached credentials without hustlin a
.Ar command .
.Pp
When invoked as
.Nm sudoedit ,
the
.Fl e
option (busted lyrics bout below), is implied.
.Pp
Securitizzle policies may log successful n' failed attempts ta use
.Nm sudo .
If a I/O plugin is configured, tha hustlin commandz input and
output may be logged as well.
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl A , -askpass
Normally, if
.Nm sudo
requires a password, it will read it from tha userz terminal.
If the
.Fl A No ( Em askpass Ns No )
option is specified, a (possibly graphical) helper program is
executed ta read tha userz password n' output tha password ta the
standard output.
If the
.Ev SUDO_ASKPASS
environment variable is set, it specifies tha path ta tha helper
program.
Otherwise, if
.Xr sudo.conf 5
gotz nuff a line specifyin tha askpass program, dat value will be
used.
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
# Path ta askpass helper program
Path askpass /usr/X11R6/bin/ssh-askpass
.Ed
.Pp
If no askpass program be available,
.Nm sudo
will exit wit a error.
.It Fl b , -background
Run tha given command up in tha background.
Note dat it aint possible ta use shell thang control ta manipulate
background processes started by
.Nm sudo .
Most interactizzle commandz will fail ta work properly up in background
mode.
.It Fl C Ar num , Fl -close-from Ns No = Ns Ar num
Close all file descriptors pimped outa than or equal to
.Ar num
before executin a cold-ass lil command.
Values less than three is not permitted.
By default,
.Nm sudo
will close all open file descriptors other than standard input,
standard output n' standard error when executin a cold-ass lil command.
Da securitizzle policy may restrict tha userz mobilitizzle ta use dis option.
The
.Em sudoers
policy only permits use of the
.Fl C
option when tha administrator has enabled the
.Em closefrom_override
option.
.It Fl E , -preserve-env
Indicates ta tha securitizzle policy dat tha user wishes to
preserve they existin environment variables.
Da securitizzle policy may return a error if tha user do not have
permission ta preserve tha environment.
.It Fl e , -edit
Edit one or mo' filez instead of hustlin a cold-ass lil command.
In lieu of a path name, tha strang "sudoedit" is used when consulting
the securitizzle policy.
If tha user be authorized by tha policy, tha followin steps are
taken:
.Bl -enum -offset 4
.It
Temporary copies is made of tha filez ta be edited wit tha baller
set ta tha invokin user.
.It
Da editor specified by tha policy is run ta edit tha temporary
files.
The
.Em sudoers
policy uses the
.Ev SUDO_EDITOR ,
.Ev VISUAL
and
.Ev EDITOR
environment variablez (in dat order).
If none of
.Ev SUDO_EDITOR ,
.Ev VISUAL
or
.Ev EDITOR
are set, tha straight-up original gangsta program listed up in the
.Em editor
.Xr sudoers 5
option is used.
.It
If they done been modified, tha temporary filez is copied back to
their original gangsta location n' tha temporary versions is removed.
.El
.Pp
If tha specified file do not exist, it is ghon be pimped.
Note dat unlike most commandz run by
.Em sudo ,
the editor is run wit tha invokin userz environment unmodified.
If, fo' some reason,
.Nm sudo
is unable ta update a gangbangin' file wit its edited version, tha user will
receive a warnin n' tha edited copy will remain up in a temporary
file.
.It Fl g Ar crew , Fl -group Ns No = Ns Ar group
Run tha command wit tha primary crew set to
.Ar group
instead of tha primary crew specified by tha target
userz password database entry.
The
.Ar group
may be either a crew name or a numeric crew ID
.Pq GID
prefixed wit the
.Ql #
characta (e.g.
.Li #0
for GID 0).
When hustlin a cold-ass lil command as a GID, nuff shells require dat the
.Ql #
be escaped wit a funky-ass backslash
.Pq Ql \e .
If no
.Fl u
option is specified, tha command is ghon be run as tha invokin user.
In either case, tha primary crew is ghon be set to
.Ar crew .
.It Fl H , -set-home
Request dat tha securitizzle policy set the
.Ev HOME
environment variable ta tha home directory specified by tha target
userz password database entry.
Dependin on tha policy, dis may be tha default behavior.
.It Fl h , -help
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message ta tha standard output n' exit.
.It Fl h Ar host , Fl -host Ns No = Ns Ar host
Run tha command on tha specified
.Ar host
if tha securitizzle policy plugin supports remote commands.
Note dat the
.Em sudoers
plugin do not currently support hustlin remote commands.
This may also be used up in conjunction wit the
.Fl l
option ta list a userz privileges fo' tha remote host.
.It Fl i , -login
Run tha shell specified by tha target userz password database entry
as a login shell.
This means dat login-specific resource filez such as
.Pa .profile
or
.Pa .login
will be read by tha shell.
If a cold-ass lil command is specified, it is passed ta tha shell fo' execution
via tha shell's
.Fl c
option.
If no command is specified, a interactizzle shell is executed.
.Nm sudo
attempts ta chizzle ta dat userz home directory before hustlin the
shell.
Da command is run wit a environment similar ta tha one
a user would receive at log in.
The
.Em Command Environment
section up in the
.Xr sudoers 5
manual documents how tha fuck the
.Fl i
option affects tha environment up in which a cold-ass lil command is run when the
.Em sudoers
policy is up in use.
.It Fl K , -remove-timestamp
Similar ta the
.Fl k
option, except dat it removes tha userz cached credentials entirely
and may not be used up in conjunction wit a cold-ass lil command or other option.
This option do not require a password.
Not all securitizzle policies support credential caching.
.It Fl k , -reset-timestamp
When used without a cold-ass lil command, invalidates tha userz cached credentials.
In other lyrics, tha next time
.Nm sudo
is run a password is ghon be required.
This option do not require a password n' was added ta allow a
user ta revoke
.Nm sudo
permissions from a
.Pa .logout
file.
.Pp
When used up in conjunction wit a cold-ass lil command or a option dat may require
a password, dis option will cause
.Nm sudo
to ignore tha userz cached credentials.
As a result,
.Nm sudo
will prompt fo' a password (if one is required by tha security
policy) n' aint gonna update tha userz cached credentials.
.Pp
Not all securitizzle policies support credential caching.
.It Fl l , Fl -list
If no
.Ar command
is specified,
list tha allowed (and forbidden) commandz fo' the
invokin user (or tha user specified by the
.Fl U
option) on tha current host.
A longer list format is used if dis option is specified multiple times
and tha securitizzle policy supports a verbose output format.
.Pp
If a
.Ar command
is specified n' is permitted by tha securitizzle policy, tha fully-qualified
path ta tha command is displayed along wit any command line
arguments.
If
.Ar command
is specified but not allowed,
.Nm sudo
will exit wit a status value of 1.
.It Fl n , -non-interactive
Avoid promptin tha user fo' input of any kind.
If a password is required fo' tha command ta run,
.Nm sudo
will display a error message n' exit.
.It Fl P , -preserve-groups
Preserve tha invokin userz crew vector unaltered.
By default, the
.Em sudoers
policy will initialize tha crew vector ta tha list of crews the
target user be a gangmember of.
Da real n' effectizzle crew IDs, however, is still set ta match
the target user.
.It Fl p Ar prompt , Fl -prompt Ns No = Ns Ar prompt
Use a cold-ass lil custom password prompt wit optionizzle escape sequences.
Da followin cement
.Pq Ql %
escape sequences is supported by the
.Em sudoers
policy:
.Bl -tag -width 2n
.It Li %H
expanded ta tha host name includin tha domain name (on if the
machinez host name is straight-up qualified or the
.Em fqdn
option is set in
.Xr sudoers 5 )
.It Li %h
expanded ta tha local host name without tha domain name
.It Li %p
expanded ta tha name of tha user whose password is bein requested
(respects the
.Em rootpw ,
.Em targetpw ,
and
.Em runaspw
flags in
.Xr sudoers 5 )
.It Li \&%U
expanded ta tha login name of tha user tha command is ghon be run as
(defaults ta root unless the
.Fl u
option be also specified)
.It Li %u
expanded ta tha invokin userz login name
.It Li %%
two consecutive
.Ql %
charactas is collapsed tha fuck into a single
.Ql %
character
.El
.Pp
Da custom prompt will override tha system password prompt on systems that
support PAM unless the
.Em passprompt_override
flag is disabled in
.Em sudoers .
.It Fl r Ar role , Fl -role Ns No = Ns Ar role
Run tha command wit a SELinux securitizzle context dat includes
the specified
.Ar role .
.It Fl S , -stdin
Write tha prompt ta tha standard error n' read tha password from the
standard input instead of rockin tha terminal device.
Da password must be followed by a newline character.
.It Fl s , -shell
Run tha shell specified by the
.Ev SHELL
environment variable if it is set or tha shell specified by the
invokin userz password database entry.
If a cold-ass lil command is specified, it is passed ta tha shell fo' execution
via tha shell's
.Fl c
option.
If no command is specified, a interactizzle shell is executed.
.It Fl t Ar type , Fl -type Ns No = Ns Ar type
Run tha command wit a SELinux securitizzle context dat includes
the specified
.Ar type .
If no
.Ar type
is specified, tha default type is derived from tha role.
.It Fl U Ar user , Fl -other-user Ns No = Ns Ar user
Used up in conjunction wit the
.Fl l
option ta list tha privileges for
.Ar user
instead of fo' tha invokin user.
Da securitizzle policy may restrict listin other users' privileges.
The
.Em sudoers
policy only allows root or a user wit the
.Li ALL
privilege on tha current host ta use dis option.
.It Fl u Ar user , Fl -user Ns No = Ns Ar user
Run tha command as a user other than tha default target user
(usually
.Em root ).
The
.Ar user
may be either a user name or a numeric user ID
.Pq UID
prefixed wit the
.Ql #
characta (e.g.
.Li #0
for UID 0).
When hustlin commandz as a UID, nuff shells require dat the
.Ql #
be escaped wit a funky-ass backslash
.Pq Ql \e .
Some securitizzle policies may restrict UIDs
to dem listed up in tha password database.
The
.Em sudoers
policy allows UIDs dat is not up in tha password database as long as the
.Em targetpw
option aint set.
Other securitizzle policies may not support all dis bullshit.
.It Fl V , -version
Print the
.Nm sudo
version strang as well as tha version strang of tha security
policy plugin n' any I/O plugins.
If tha invokin user be already root the
.Fl V
option will display tha arguments passed ta configure when
.Nm sudo
was built n' plugins may display mo' verbose shiznit such as
default options.
.It Fl v , -validate
Update tha userz cached credentials, authenticatin tha user
if necessary.
For the
.Em sudoers
plugin, dis extendz the
.Nm sudo
timeout fo' another
.Li 5
minutes by default yo, but do not run a cold-ass lil command.
Not all securitizzle policies support cached credentials.
.It Fl -
The
.Fl -
option indicates that
.Nm sudo
should stop processin command line arguments.
.El
.Pp
Environment variablez ta be set fo' tha command may also be passed
on tha command line up in tha form of
.Sy VAR Ns No = Ns Em value ,
e.g.\&
.Sy LD_LIBRARY_PATH Ns No = Ns Em /usr/local/pkg/lib .
Variablez passed on tha command line is subject ta restrictions
imposed by tha securitizzle policy plugin.
The
.Em sudoers
policy subjects variablez passed on tha command line ta tha same
restrictions as aiiight environment variablez wit one blingin
exception.
If the
.Em setenv
option is set in
.Em sudoers ,
the command ta be run has the
.Li SETENV
tag set or tha command matched is
.Li ALL ,
the user may set variablez dat would otherwise be forbidden.
See
.Xr sudoers 5
for mo' shiznit.
.Sh COMMAND EXECUTION
When
.Nm sudo
executes a cold-ass lil command, tha securitizzle policy specifies tha execution
environment fo' tha command.
Typically, tha real n' effectizzle user n' crew n' IDs is set to
match dem of tha target user, as specified up in tha password database,
and tha crew vector is initialized based on tha crew database
(unless the
.Fl P
option was specified).
.Pp
Da followin parametas may be specified by securitizzle policy:
.Bl -bullet
.It
real n' effectizzle user ID
.It
real n' effectizzle crew ID
.It
supplementary crew IDs
.It
the environment list
.It
current hustlin directory
.It
file creation mode mask (umask)
.It
SELinux role n' type
.It
schedulin prioritizzle (aka sick value)
.El
.Ss Process model
When
.Nm sudo
runs a cold-ass lil command, it calls
.Xr fork 2 ,
sets up tha execution environment as busted lyrics bout above, n' calls the
.Xr execve
system call up in tha lil pimp process.
Da main
.Nm sudo
process waits until tha command has completed, then passes the
commandz exit status ta tha securitizzle policyz close function n' exits.
If a I/O loggin plugin is configured or if tha securitizzle policy
explicitly requests it, a freshly smoked up  pseudo-terminal
.Pq Dq pty
is pimped n' a second
.Nm sudo
process is used ta relay thang control signals between tha user's
existin pty n' tha freshly smoked up pty tha command is bein run in.
This extra process make it possible to, fo' example, suspend
and resume tha command.
Without it, tha command would be up in what tha fuck POSIX terms an
.Dq orphaned process group
and it would not receive any thang control signals.
As a special case, if tha policy plugin do not define a cold-ass lil close
function n' no pty is required,
.Nm sudo
will execute tha command directly instead of calling
.Xr fork 2
first.
The
.Em sudoers
policy plugin will only define a cold-ass lil close function when I/O logging
is enabled, a pty is required, or the
.Em pam_session
or
.Em pam_setcred
options is enabled.
Note that
.Em pam_session
and
.Em pam_setcred
are enabled by default on systems rockin PAM.
.Ss Signal handling
When tha command is run as a cold-ass lil lil pimp of the
.Nm sudo
process,
.Nm sudo
will relay signals it receives ta tha command.
Unless tha command is bein run up in a freshly smoked up pty, the
.Dv SIGHUP ,
.Dv SIGINT
and
.Dv SIGQUIT
signals is not relayed unless they is busted by a user process,
not tha kernel.
Otherwise, tha command would receive
.Dv SIGINT
twice every last muthafuckin time tha user entered control-C.
Some signals, such as
.Dv SIGSTOP
and
.Dv SIGKILL ,
cannot be caught n' thus aint gonna be relayed ta tha command.
As a general rule,
.Dv SIGTSTP
should be used instead of
.Dv SIGSTOP
when you wish ta suspend a cold-ass lil command bein run by
.Nm sudo .
.Pp
As a special case,
.Nm sudo
will not relay signals dat was busted by tha command it is hustlin.
This prevents tha command from accidentally cappin' itself.
On some systems, the
.Xr reboot 8
command sends
.Dv SIGTERM
to all non-system processes other than itself before rebooting
the system.
This prevents
.Nm sudo
from relayin the
.Dv SIGTERM
signal it received back to
.Xr reboot 8 ,
which might then exit before tha system was straight-up rebooted,
leavin it up in a half-dead state similar ta single user mode.
Note, however, dat dis check only applies ta tha command run by
.Nm sudo
and not any other processes dat tha command may create.
As a result, hustlin a script dat calls
.Xr reboot 8
or
.Xr shutdown 8
via
.Nm sudo
may cause tha system ta end up in dis undefined state unless the
.Xr reboot 8
or
.Xr shutdown 8
are run rockin the
.Fn exec
family of functions instead of
.Fn system
(which interposes a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell between tha command n' tha callin process).
.Pp
If no I/O loggin plugins is loaded n' tha policy plugin has not
defined a
.Fn close
function, set a cold-ass lil command timeout or required dat tha command be
run up in a freshly smoked up pty,
.Nm sudo
may execute tha command directly instead of hustlin it as a cold-ass lil lil pimp process.
.Ss Plugins
Plugins is dynamically loaded based on tha contentz of the
.Xr sudo.conf 5
file.
If no
.Xr sudo.conf 5
file is present, or it gotz nuff no
.Li Plugin
lines,
.Nm sudo
will use tha traditional
.Em sudoers
securitizzle policy n' I/O logging.
See the
.Xr sudo.conf 5
manual fo' detailz of the
.Pa /etc/sudo.conf
file n' the
.Xr sudo_plugin 8
manual fo' mo' shiznit bout the
.Nm sudo
plugin architecture.
.Sh EXIT VALUE
Upon successful execution of a program, tha exit status from
.Em sudo
will simply be tha exit statuz of tha program dat was executed.
.Pp
Otherwise,
.Nm sudo
exits wit a value of 1 if there be a cold-ass lil configuration/permission
problem or if
.Nm sudo
cannot execute tha given command.
In tha latta case tha error strang is printed ta tha standard error.
If
.Nm sudo
cannot
.Xr stat 2
one or mo' entries up in tha user's
.Ev PATH ,
an error is printed on stderr.
(If tha directory do not exist or if it aint straight-up a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory,
the entry is ignored n' no error is printed.)
This should not happen under aiiight circumstances.
Da most common reason for
.Xr stat 2
to return
.Dq permission denied
is if yo ass is hustlin a automounta n' one of tha directories in
your
.Ev PATH
is on a machine dat is currently unreachable.
.Sh SECURITY NOTES
.Nm sudo
tries ta be safe when executin external commands.
.Pp
To prevent command spoofing,
.Nm sudo
checks "." n' "" (both denotin current directory) last when
searchin fo' a cold-ass lil command up in tha user's
.Ev PATH
(if one or both is up in the
.Ev PATH ) .
Note, however, dat tha actual
.Ev PATH
environment variable is
.Em not
modified n' is passed unchanged ta tha program that
.Nm sudo
executes.
.Pp
Please note that
.Nm sudo
will normally only log tha command it explicitly runs.
If a user runs a cold-ass lil command such as
.Li sudo su
or
.Li sudo sh ,
subsequent commandz run from dat shell is not subject to
.Nm sudo Ns No 's
securitizzle policy.
Da same is legit fo' commandz dat offer shell escapes (including
most editors).
If I/O loggin is enabled, subsequent commandz gonna git they input and/or
output logged yo, but there aint gonna be traditionizzle logs fo' dem commands.
Because of this, care must be taken when givin playas access ta commandz via
.Nm sudo
to verify dat tha command do not inadvertently give tha user an
effectizzle root shell.
For mo' shiznit, please peep the
.Em PREVENTING SHELL ESCAPES
section in
.Xr sudoers 5 .
.Pp
To prevent tha disclosure of potentially sensitizzle shiznit,
.Nm sudo
disablez core dumps by default while it is executin (they are
re-enabled fo' tha command dat is run).
To aid up in debugging
.Nm sudo
crashes, you may wish ta re-enable core dumps by setting
.Dq disable_coredump
to false up in the
.Xr sudo.conf 5
file as bigs up:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Set disable_coredump false
.Ed
.Pp
See the
.Xr sudo.conf 5
manual fo' mo' shiznit.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm sudo
utilizes tha followin environment variables.
Da securitizzle policy has control over tha actual content of tha command's
environment.
.Bl -tag -width 15n
.It Ev EDITOR
Default editor ta use in
.Fl e
(sudoedit) mode if neither
.Ev SUDO_EDITOR
nor
.Ev VISUAL
is set.
.It Ev MAIL
In
.Fl i
mode or when
.Em env_reset
is enabled in
.Em sudoers ,
set ta tha mail spool of tha target user.
.It Ev HOME
Set ta tha home directory of tha target user if
.Fl i
or
.Fl H
are specified,
.Em env_reset
or
.Em always_set_home
are set in
.Em sudoers ,
or when the
.Fl s
option is specified and
.Em set_home
is set in
.Em sudoers .
.It Ev PATH
May be overridden by tha securitizzle policy.
.It Ev SHELL
Used ta determine shell ta run with
.Fl s
option.
.It Ev SUDO_ASKPASS
Specifies tha path ta a helper program used ta read tha password
if no terminal be available or if the
.Fl A
option is specified.
.It Ev SUDO_COMMAND
Set ta tha command run by sudo.
.It Ev SUDO_EDITOR
Default editor ta use in
.Fl e
(sudoedit) mode.
.It Ev SUDO_GID
Set ta tha crew ID of tha user whoz ass invoked sudo.
.It Ev SUDO_PROMPT
Used as tha default password prompt.
.It Ev SUDO_PS1
If set,
.Ev PS1
will be set ta its value fo' tha program bein run.
.It Ev SUDO_UID
Set ta tha user ID of tha user whoz ass invoked sudo.
.It Ev SUDO_USER
Set ta tha login name of tha user whoz ass invoked sudo.
.It Ev USER
Set ta tha target user (root unless the
.Fl u
option is specified).
.It Ev VISUAL
Default editor ta use in
.Fl e
(sudoedit) mode if
.Ev SUDO_EDITOR
is not set.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 24n
.It Pa /etc/sudo.conf
.Nm sudo
front end configuration
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Note: tha followin examplez assume a properly configured security
policy.
.Pp
To git a gangbangin' file listin of a unreadable directory:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo ls /usr/local/protected
.Ed
.Pp
To list tha home directory of user yaz on a machine where tha file
system holdin ~yaz aint exported as root:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo -u yaz ls ~yaz
.Ed
.Pp
To edit the
.Pa index.html
file as user www:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo -u www vi ~www/htdocs/index.html
.Ed
.Pp
To view system logs only accessible ta root n' playas up in tha adm
group:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo -g adm view /var/log/syslog
.Ed
.Pp
To run a editor as jim wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different primary group:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo -u jim -g audio vi ~jim/sound.txt
.Ed
.Pp
To shut down a machine:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo shutdown -r +15 "quick reboot"
.Ed
.Pp
To cook up a usage listin of tha directories up in tha /home partition.
Note dat dis runs tha commandz up in a sub-shell ta make the
.Li cd
and file redirection work.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo sh -c "cd /home ; du -s * | sort -rn > USAGE"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr su 1 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr sudo.conf 5 ,
.Xr sudoers 5 ,
.Xr sudo_plugin 8 ,
.Xr sudoreplay 8 ,
.Xr visudo 8
.Sh HISTORY
See tha HISTORY file up in the
.Nm sudo
distribution (http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/history.html) fo' a funky-ass brief
history of sudo.
.Sh AUTHORS
Many playas have hit dat shiznit on
.Nm sudo
over tha years; dis version consistz of code freestyled primarily by:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
Todd C. Miller
.Ed
.Pp
See tha CONTRIBUTORS file up in the
.Nm sudo
distribution (http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/contributors.html) fo' an
exhaustizzle list of playas whoz ass have contributed to
.Nm sudo .
.Sh CAVEATS
There is no easy as fuck  way ta prevent a user from bustin a root shell
if dat user be allowed ta run arbitrary commandz via
.Nm sudo .
Also, nuff programs (like fuckin editors) allow tha user ta run commands
via shell escapes, thus avoiding
.Nm sudo Ns No 's
checks.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat on most systems it is possible ta prevent shell escapes wit the
.Xr sudoers 5
plugin's
.Em noexec
functionality.
.Pp
It aint meaningful ta run the
.Li cd
command directly via sudo, e.g.,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sudo cd /usr/local/protected
.Ed
.Pp
since when tha command exits tha parent process (your shell) will
still be tha same.
Please peep the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section fo' mo' shiznit.
.Pp
Hustlin shell scripts via
.Nm sudo
can expose tha same kernel bugs dat make setuid shell scripts
unsafe on some operatin systems (if yo' OS has a /dev/fd/ directory,
setuid shell scripts is generally safe).
.Sh BUGS
If you feel you have found a funky-ass bug in
.Nm sudo ,
please submit a funky-ass bug report at http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/bugs/
.Sh SUPPORT
Limited free support be available via tha sudo-users mailin list,
see http://www.sudo.ws/mailman/listinfo/sudo-users ta subscribe or
search tha archives.
.Sh DISCLAIMER
.Nm sudo
is provided
.Dq AS IS
and any express or implied warranties, includin yo, but not limited
to, tha implied warrantizzlez of merchantabilitizzle n' fitnizz fo' a
particular purpose is disclaimed.
See tha LICENSE file distributed with
.Nm sudo
or http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/license.html fo' complete details.
