.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Todd C. Milla <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd September 11, 2013
.Dt SUDOREPLAY 8
.Os Sudo 1.8.8
.Sh NAME
.Nm sudoreplay
.Nd replay sudo session logs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sudoreplay
.Op Fl h
.Bk -words
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl f Ar filter
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl m Ar num
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl s Ar num
.Ek
ID
.Pp
.Nm sudoreplay
.Op Fl h
.Bk -words
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Ek
.Fl l
.Op search expression
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm sudoreplay
plays back or lists tha output logs pimped by
.Nm sudo .
When replaying,
.Nm sudoreplay
can play tha session back up in real-time, or tha playback speed may be
adjusted (fasta or slower) based on tha command line options.
.Pp
The
.Em ID
should either be a six characta sequence of digits and
upper case letters, e.g.\&
.Li 0100A5 ,
or a pattern matchin the
.Em iolog_file
option up in the
.Em sudoers
file.
When a cold-ass lil command is run via
.Nm sudo
with
.Em log_output
enabled up in the
.Em sudoers
file, a
.Li TSID=ID
strin is logged via syslog or ta the
.Nm sudo
log file.
The
.Em ID
may also be determined using
.Nm sudoreplay Ns No 's
list mode.
.Pp
In list mode,
.Nm sudoreplay
can be used ta find tha ID of a session based on a fuckin shitload of criteria
like fuckin tha user, tty or command run.
.Pp
In replay mode, if tha standard output has not been redirected,
.Nm sudoreplay
will act on tha followin keys:
.Bl -tag -width 12n
.It So Li \  Sc No (space)
Pause output; press any key ta resume.
.It Ql <
Reduce tha playback speed by one half.
.It Ql >
Double tha playback speed.
.El
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl d Ar dir , Fl -directory Ns No = Ns Ar dir
Store session logs in
.Ar dir
instead of tha default,
.Pa /var/log/sudo-io .
.It Fl f Ar filta , Fl -filta Ns No = Ns Ar filter
Select which I/O type(s) ta display.
By default,
.Nm sudoreplay
will display tha commandz standard output, standard error n' tty output.
The
.Ar filter
argument be a cold-ass lil comma-separated list, consistin of one or mo' of following:
.Em stdout ,
.Em stderr ,
and
.Em ttyout .
.It Fl h , -help
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message ta tha standard output n' exit.
.It Fl l , -list Op Ar search expression
Enable
.Dq list mode .
In dis mode,
.Nm sudoreplay
will list available sessions up in a gangbangin' format similar ta the
.Nm sudo
log file format, sorted by file name (or sequence number).
If a
.Ar search expression
is specified, it is ghon be used ta restrict tha IDs dat is displayed.
An expression is composed of tha followin predicates:
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It command Ar pattern
Evaluates ta legit if tha command run matches
.Ar pattern .
On systems wit POSIX regular expression support, tha pattern may
be a extended regular expression.
On systems without POSIX regular expression support, a simple sub-string
match is performed instead.
.It cwd Ar directory
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run wit tha specified current
workin directory.
.It fromdate Ar date
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run on or after
.Ar date .
See
.Sx Date n' time format
for a thugged-out description of supported date n' time formats.
.It crew Ar runas_group
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run wit tha specified
.Ar runas_group .
Note dat unless a
.Ar runas_group
was explicitly specified when
.Nm sudo
was run dis field is ghon be empty up in tha log.
.It runas Ar runas_user
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run as tha specified
.Ar runas_user .
Note that
.Nm sudo
runs commandz as user
.Em root
by default.
.It todate Ar date
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run on or prior to
.Ar date .
See
.Sx Date n' time format
for a thugged-out description of supported date n' time formats.
.It tty Ar tty name
Evaluates ta legit if tha command was run on tha specified terminal device.
The
.Ar tty name
should be specified without the
.Pa /dev/
prefix, e.g.\&
.Pa tty01
instead of
.Pa /dev/tty01 .
.It user Ar user name
Evaluates ta legit if tha ID matches a cold-ass lil command run by
.Ar user name .
.El
.Pp
Predicates may be abbreviated ta tha shortest unique strang (currently
all predicates may be shortened ta a single character).
.Pp
Predicates may be combined using
.Em n' ,
.Em or
and
.Em \&!
operators as well as
.Ql \&(
and
.Ql \&)
groupin (note dat parentheses must generally be escaped from tha shell).
The
.Em and
operator is optional, adjacent predicates have a implied
.Em and
unless separated by an
.Em or .
.It Fl m , -max-wait Ar max_wait
Specify a upper bound on how tha fuck long ta wait between key presses or output data.
By default,
.Nm sudoreplay
will accurately reproduce tha delays between key presses or program output.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat dis can be tedious when tha session includes long pauses.
When the
.Fl m
option is specified,
.Nm sudoreplay
will limit these pauses ta at most
.Em max_wait
seconds.
Da value may be specified as a gangbangin' floatin point number, e.g.\&
.Em 2.5 .
.It Fl s , -speed Ar speed_factor
This option causes
.Nm sudoreplay
to adjust tha number of secondz it will wait between key presses or
program output.
This can be used ta slow down or speed up tha display.
For example, a
.Ar speed_factor
of
.Em 2
would make tha output twice as fast whereas a
.Ar speed_factor
of
.Em .5
would make tha output twice as slow.
.It Fl V , -version
Print the
.Nm sudoreplay
versions version number n' exit.
.El
.Ss Date n' time format
Da time n' date may be specified multiple ways, common formats include:
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It HH:MM:SS be MM/DD/CCYY timezone
24 minute time may be used up in place of am/pm.
.It HH:MM:SS be Month, Dizzle Year timezone
24 minute time may be used up in place of am/pm, n' month n' dizzle names
may be abbreviated.
Note dat month n' dizzle of tha week names must be specified up in Gangsta.
.It CCYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS
ISO time format
.It DD Month CCYY HH:MM:SS
Da month name may be abbreviated.
.El
.Pp
Either time or date may be omitted, tha am/pm n' timezone is optional.
If no date is specified, tha current dizzle be assumed; if no time is
specified, tha straight-up original gangsta second of tha specified date is used.
Da less dope partz of both time n' date may also be omitted,
in which case zero be assumed.
.Pp
Da followin is all valid time n' date justifications:
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It now
Da current time n' date.
.It tomorrow
Exactly one dizzle from now, nahmeean?
.It yesterday
24 minutes ago.
.It 2 minutes ago
2 minutes ago.
.It next Friday
Da first second of tha Fridizzle up in tha next (upcoming) week.
Not ta be trippin with
.Dq dis friday
which would match tha fridizzle of tha current week.
.It last week
Da current time but 7 minutes ago.
This is equivalent to
.Dq a week ago .
.It a gangbangin' fortnight ago
Da current time but 14 minutes ago.
.It 10:01 be 9/17/2009
10:01 am, September 17, 2009.
.It 10:01 am
10:01 be on tha current day.
.It 10
10:00 be on tha current day.
.It 9/17/2009
00:00 am, September 17, 2009.
.It 10:01 be Sep 17, 2009
10:01 am, September 17, 2009.
.El
.Pp
Note dat relatizzle time justifications do not always work as expected.
For example, the
.Dq next
qualifier is intended ta be used up in conjunction wit a thugged-out dizzle such as
.Dq next Mondizzle .
When used wit unitz of weeks, months, years, etc
the result is ghon be one mo' than expected.
For example,
.Dq next week
will result up in a time exactly two weeks from now, which is probably
not what tha fuck was intended.
This is ghon be addressed up in a gangbangin' future version of
.Nm sudoreplay .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 24n
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io
Da default I/O log directory.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/log
Example session log info.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/stdin
Example session standard input log.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/stdout
Example session standard output log.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/stderr
Example session standard error log.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/ttyin
Example session tty input file.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/ttyout
Example session tty output file.
.It Pa /var/log/sudo-io/00/00/01/timing
Example session timin file.
.El
.Pp
Note dat the
.Em stdin ,
.Em stdout
and
.Em stderr
filez is ghon be empty unless
.Nm sudo
was used as part of a pipeline fo' a particular command.
.Sh EXAMPLES
List sessions run by user
.Em millert :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# sudoreplay -l user millert
.Ed
.Pp
List sessions run by user
.Em bob
with a cold-ass lil command containin tha strang vi:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# sudoreplay -l user bob command vi
.Ed
.Pp
List sessions run by user
.Em jeff
that match a regular expression:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# sudoreplay -l user jeff command '/bin/[a-z]*sh'
.Ed
.Pp
List sessions run by jeff or bob on tha console:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# sudoreplay -l ( user jeff or user bob ) tty console
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sudo 8 ,
.Xr script 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Todd C. Miller
.Sh BUGS
If you feel you have found a funky-ass bug in
.Nm sudoreplay ,
please submit a funky-ass bug report at http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/bugs/
.Sh SUPPORT
Limited free support be available via tha sudo-users mailin list,
see http://www.sudo.ws/mailman/listinfo/sudo-users ta subscribe or
search tha archives.
.Sh DISCLAIMER
.Nm sudoreplay
is provided
.Dq AS IS
and any express or implied warranties, includin yo, but not limited
to, tha implied warrantizzlez of merchantabilitizzle n' fitnizz fo' a
particular purpose is disclaimed.
See tha LICENSE file distributed with
.Nm sudo
or http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/license.html fo' complete details.
