'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2006 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH SULOGIN "8" "Jul 2012" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sulogin \- Single-user login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sulogin
.RB [ options ]
.RB [ tty ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sulogin
is invoked by
.B init
when tha system goes tha fuck into single user mode.
.PP
Da user is prompted:
.IP "" .5i
Give root password fo' system maintenance
.br
(or type Control\-D fo' aiiight startup):
.PP
.I sulogin
will be connected ta tha current terminal, or ta tha optionizzle tty thang that
can be specified on tha command line (typically
.BR /dev/console ).
.PP
Afta tha user exits tha single-user shell or presses control\-D at the
prompt, tha system will continue ta boot.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-force\fP"
If tha default method of obtainin tha root password via
.BR getpwnam (3)
from tha system fails, manually examine
.I /etc/passwd
and
.I /etc/shadow
to git tha password. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If they is damaged or nonexistent, sulogin will start
a root shell without askin fo' a password.
.IP
Only use the
.B \-e
option if yo ass is shizzle tha console is physically protected against
unauthorized access.
.IP "\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-login\-shell\fP"
Specifyin dis option causes sulogin ta start tha shell process as a login
shell.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout \fIseconds\fP"
Specify tha maximum amount of time ta wait fo' user input.  By default,
sulogin will wait alllll muthafuckin day.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.I sulogin
looks fo' tha environment variable
.B SUSHELL
or
.B sushell
to determine what tha fuck shell ta start.  If tha environment variable aint set, it
will try ta execute rootz shell from
.IR /etc/passwd .
If dat fails, it
will fall back to
.IR /bin/sh .
.SH AUTHOR
.B sulogin
was freestyled by Miquel van Smoorenburg fo' sysvinit n' lata ported
to util-linux by Dizzle Reisner n' Karel Zak.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da sulogin command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
