.\"
.\"
.\"     Licensed ta tha Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.\"     or mo' contributor license agreements, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  See tha NOTICE file
.\"     distributed wit dis work fo' additionizzle shiznit
.\"     regardin copyright ballership.  Da ASF licenses dis file
.\"     ta you under tha Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.\"     "License"); you may not use dis file except up in compliance
.\"     wit tha License.  Yo ass may obtain a cold-ass lil copy of tha License at
.\"    
.\"       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"    
.\"     Unless required by applicable law or agreed ta up in writing,
.\"     software distributed under tha License is distributed on an
.\"     "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.\"     KIND, either express or implied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See tha License fo' the
.\"     specific language governin permissions n' limitations
.\"     under tha License.
.\"
.\"
.\" Yo ass can view dis file with:
.\" nroff -man [filename]
.\"
.TH svnserve 8
.SH NAME
svnserve \- Server fo' tha 'svn' repository access method
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBsvnserve\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsvnserve\fP allows access ta Subversion repositories rockin tha svn
network protocol.  It can both run as a standalone server process, or
it can run outta inetd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Yo ass must chizzle a mode of operation when you
start \fBsvnserve\fP.  Da followin options is recognized:
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-daemon\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta run up in daemon mode.  \fBsvnserve\fP
backgroundz itself n' accepts n' serves TCP/IP connections on the
svn port (3690, by default).
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-listen\-port\fP=\fIport\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta listen on \fIport\fP when run up in daemon mode.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-listen\-host\fP=\fIhost\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta listen on tha intercourse specified by \fIhost\fP,
which may be either a hostname or a IP address.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-foreground\fP
When used together wit \fB\-d\fP, dis option causes \fBsvnserve\fP
to stay up in tha foreground. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This option is mainly useful for
debugging.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-inetd\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta use tha stdin/stdout file descriptors, as is
appropriate fo' a thugged-out daemon hustlin outta inetd.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Displays a usage summary n' exits.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print \fBsvnserve\fPz version n' tha repository filesystem
back-end(s) a particular \fBsvnserve\fP supports.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-r\fP \fIroot\fP, \fB\-\-root\fP=\fIroot\fP
Sets tha virtual root fo' repositories served by \fBsvnserve\fP.  The
pathname up in URLs provided by tha client is ghon be interpreted relative
to dis root, n' aint gonna be allowed ta escape dis root.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-R\fP \fB\-\-read\-only\fP
Force all write operations all up in dis \fBsvnserve\fP instizzle ta be
forbidden, overridin all other access policy configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Do not
use dis option ta set general repository access policy - dat is what
the \fBconf/svnserve.conf\fP repository configuration file is for.
This option should be used only ta restrict access via a cold-ass lil certain
method of invokin \fBsvnserve\fP - fo' example, ta allow write access
via SSH yo, but not via a \fBsvnserve\fP daemon, or ta create a
restricted SSH key which is only capable of read access.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-tunnel\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta run up in tunnel mode, which is just like the
inetd mode of operation (serve one connection over stdin/stdout)
except dat tha connection is considered ta be pre-authenticated with
the username of tha current uid. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This flag is selected by tha client
when hustlin over a tunnel agent.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-tunnel\-user\fP=\fIusername\fP
When combined wit \fB\-\-tunnel\fP, overrides tha pre-authenticated
username wit tha supplied \fIusername\fP.  This is useful in
combination wit tha ssh authorized_key filez "command" directizzle to
allow a single system account ta be used by multiple committers, each
havin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' distinct ssh identity.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-T\fP, \fB\-\-threads\fP
When hustlin up in daemon mode, causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta spawn a thread
instead of a process fo' each connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da \fBsvnserve\fP process
still backgroundz itself at startup time.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-config\-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
When specified, \fBsvnserve\fP readz \fIfilename\fP once at program
startup n' caches tha \fBsvnserve\fP configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Da password
and authorization configurations referenced from \fIfilename\fP will
be loaded on each connection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  \fBsvnserve\fP aint gonna read any
per-repository \fBconf/svnserve.conf\fP filez when dis option is
used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  See tha \fBsvnserve.conf\fP(5) playa page fo' detailz of the
file format fo' dis option.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-\-pid\-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
When specified, \fBsvnserve\fP will write its process ID to
\fIfilename\fP.
.PP
.TP 5
\fB\-X\fP, \fB\-\-listen\-once\fP
Causes \fBsvnserve\fP ta accept one connection on tha svn port, serve
it, n' exit.  This option is mainly useful fo' debugging.
.PP
Unless tha \fB\-\-config\-file\fP option was specified on tha command
line, once tha client has selected a repository by transmittin its
URL, \fBsvnserve\fP readz a gangbangin' file named \fBconf/svnserve.conf\fP up in the
repository directory ta determine repository-specific settings such as
what authentication database ta use n' what tha fuck authorization policies to
apply.  See tha \fBsvnserve.conf\fP(5) playa page fo' detailz of that
file format.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svnserve.conf (5)
