.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.
.\" All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided dat tha followin conditions
.\" is met:
.\" 1. Redistributionz of source code must retain tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions up in binary form must reproduce tha above copyright
.\"    notice, dis list of conditions n' tha followin disclaimer up in the
.\"    documentation and/or other shiznit provided wit tha distribution.
.\" 3 fo' realz. All advertisin shiznit mentionin features or use of dis software
.\"    must display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\"	This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of
.\"	California, Berkeley n' its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither tha name of tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors
.\"    may be used ta endorse or promote shizzle derived from dis software
.\"    without specific prior freestyled permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)swapon.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"
.\" Sun Dec 27 12:31:30 1992: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Mar  6 20:46:02 1993: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Oct  9 09:35:30 1993: Converted ta playa format by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Nov 27 20:22:42 1993: Updated authorshizzle shiznit, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Mon Sep 25 14:12:38 1995: Added -v n' -p shiznit
.\" Tue Apr 30 03:32:07 1996: Added some text from A. Koppenhoefer
.\"
.TH SWAPON 8 "September 1995" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
swapon, swapoff \- enable/disable devices n' filez fo' pagin n' swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B swapon
[ options ]
.RI [ specialfile... ]
.br
.B swapoff
.RB [ \-va ]
.RI [ specialfile... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B swapon
is used ta specify devices on which pagin n' swappin is ta take place.

Da thang or file used is given by the
.I specialfile
parameter n' shit. Well shiiiit, it may be of tha form
.BI \-L " label"
or
.BI \-U " uuid"
to indicate a thang by label or uuid.

Calls to
.B swapon
normally occur up in tha system boot scripts makin all swap devices available, so
that tha pagin n' swappin activitizzle is interleaved across nuff muthafuckin devices and
files.

.B swapoff
disablez swappin on tha specified devices n' files.
When the
.B \-a
flag is given, swappin is disabled on all known swap devices n' files
(as found in
.I /proc/swaps
or
.IR /etc/fstab ).

.TP
.B "\-a, \-\-all"
All devices marked as ``swap'' in
.I /etc/fstab
are made available, except fo' dem wit tha ``noauto'' option.
Devices dat is already bein used as swap is silently skipped.
.TP
.B "\-d, \-\-discard\fR [=\fIpolicy\fR]"
Enable swap discards, if tha swap backin thang supports tha discard or
trim operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This may improve performizzle on some Solid State Devices,
but often it do not. Da option allows one ta select between two
available swap discard policies:
.BI \-\-discard=once
to big-ass up a single-time discard operation fo' tha whole swap area at swapon;
or
.BI \-\-discard=pages
to discard freed swap pages before they is reused, while swapping.
If no policy is selected, tha default behavior is ta enable both discard types.
The
.I /etc/fstab
mount options
.BI discard,
.BI discard=once,
or
.BI discard=pages
may be also used ta enable discard flags.
.TP
.B "\-e, \-\-ifexists"
Silently skip devices dat do not exist.
The
.I /etc/fstab
mount option
.BI nofail
may be also used ta skip non-existin device.

.TP
.B "\-f, \-\-fixpgsz"
Reinitialize (exec /sbin/mkswap) tha swap space if its page size do not
match dat of tha current hustlin kernel.
.BR mkswap (2)
initializes tha whole thang n' do not check fo' wack blocks.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.B "\-L \fIlabel\fP"
Use tha partizzle dat has tha specified
.IR label .
(For this, access to
.I /proc/partitions
is needed.)
.TP
.B "\-p, \-\-prioritizzle \fIpriority\fP"
Specify tha prioritizzle of tha swap device.
.I priority
is a value between \-1 n' 32767.  Higher numbers indicate
higher priority.  See
.BR swapon (2)
for a gangbangin' full description of swap prioritizzles fo' realz. Add
.BI pri= value
to tha option field of
.I /etc/fstab
for use with
.BR "swapon -a" .
When prioritizzle aint defined it defaults ta \-1.
.TP
.B "\-s, \-\-summary"
Display swap usage summary by device. Equivalent ta "cat /proc/swaps".
Not available before Linux 2.1.25.
.TP
\fB\-\-show\fR [\fIcolumn\fR, ...]
Display definable thang table similar to
.B \-\-summary
output.  See \-\-help output for
.I column
list.
.TP
.B \-\-noheadings
Do not print headings when displaying
.B \-\-show
output.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Display
.B \-\-show
output without alignin table columns.
.TP
.B \-\-bytes
Display swap size up in bytes in
.B \-\-show
output instead of user thugged-out size n' unit.
.B "\-U \fIuuid\fP"
Use tha partizzle dat has tha specified
.IR uuid .
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Be verbose.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH NOTES
Yo ass should not use
.B swapon
on a gangbangin' file wit holes.
Swap over NFS may not work.
.PP
.B swapon
automatically detects n' rewrites swap space signature wit oldschool software
suspend data (e.g S1SUSPEND, S2SUSPEND, ...). Da problem is dat if our phat asses don't
do it, then we git data corruption tha next time a attempt at unsuspendin is
made.
.PP
.B swapon
may not work erectly when rockin a swap file wit some versionz of btrfs.
This is cuz of tha swap file implementation up in tha kernel expectin ta be able
to write ta tha file directly, without tha assistizzle of tha file system.
Since btrfs be a cold-ass lil copy-on-write file system, tha file location may not be
static n' corruption can result. Btrfs actively disallows tha use of files
on its file systems by refusin ta map tha file. This can be peeped up in tha system
log as "swapon: swapfile has holes." One possible workaround is ta map the
file ta a loopback device. This will allow tha file system ta determine the
mappin properly but may come wit a performizzle impact.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=0xffff
enablez debug output.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swapon (2),
.BR swapoff (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR init (8),
.BR mkswap (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR mount (8)
.SH FILES
.br
.I /dev/sd??
standard pagin devices
.br
.I /etc/fstab
ascii filesystem description table
.SH HISTORY
The
.B swapon
command rocked up in 4.0BSD.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da swapon command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
