
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH SWAPLABEL 8 "April 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
swaplabel \- print or chizzle tha label or UUID of a swap area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B swaplabel
.RB [ \-L
.IR label ]
.RB [ \-U
.IR UUID ]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B swaplabel
will display or chizzle tha label or UUID of a swap partizzle located on
.I device
(or regular file).
.PP
If tha optionizzle arguments
.B \-L
and
.B \-U
are not given,
.B swaplabel
will simply display tha current swap-area label n' UUID of
.IR thang .
.PP
If a optionizzle argument is present, then
.B swaplabel
will chizzle tha appropriate value on
.IR thang .
These joints can also be set durin swap creation using
.BR mkswap (8).
The
.B swaplabel
utilitizzle allows ta chizzle tha label or UUID on a actively used swap device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR \-L , " \-\-label " \fIlabel\fR
Specify a freshly smoked up \fIlabel\fR fo' tha device.
Swap partizzle labels can be at most 16 charactas long.  If
.I label
is longer than 16 characters,
.B swaplabel
will truncate it n' print a warnin message.
.TP
.BR \-U , " \-\-uuid " \fIUUID\fR
Specify a freshly smoked up \fIUUID\fR fo' tha device.
Da \fI UUID\fR
must be up in tha standard 8-4-4-4-12 characta format, like fuckin is output by
.BR uuidgen (1) .
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.B swaplabel
was freestyled by Jizzo Borden <jborden@bluehost.com> n' Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=0xffff
enablez debug output.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da swaplabel command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkswap (8),
.BR swapon (8),
.BR uuidgen (1)
