.TH SYMLINKS 8 "October 2008" "Version 1.4"

.SH NAME
symlinks \- symbolic link maintenizzle utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B symlinks
[
.B -cdorstv
]
dirlist
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI symlinks
is a useful utilitizzle fo' maintainerz of FTP cribs, CDROMs,
and Linux software distributions.
It scans directories fo' symbolic links n' lists dem on stdout,
often revealin flaws up in tha filesystem tree.
.PP
Each link is output wit a cold-ass lil classification of
.B relative,
.B absolute,
.B dangling,
.B messy,
.B lengthy,
or
.B other_fs.
.PP
.B relative
links is dem expressed as paths relatizzle ta tha directory up in which
the links reside, probably independent of tha mount point of tha filesystem.
.PP
.B absolute
links is dem given as a absolute path from tha root directory
as indicated by a leadin slash (/).
.PP
.B dangling
links is dem fo' which tha target of tha link do not currently exist.
This commonly occurs for
.B absolute
links when a gangbangin' filesystem is mounted at other than its
customary mount point (like fuckin when tha aiiight root filesystem is
mounted at /mnt afta bootin from alternatizzle media).
.PP
.B messy
links is links which contain unnecessary slashes or dots up in tha path.
These is cleaned up as well when
.B -c
is specified.
.PP
.B lengthy
links is links which use "../" mo' than necessary up in tha path
(eg.  /bin/vi -> ../bin/vim)
These is only detected when
.B -s
is specified, n' is only cleaned up when
.B -c
is also specified.
.PP
.B other_fs
are dem links whose target currently resides on a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different filesystem
from where symlinks was run (most useful with
.B -r
).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -c 
convert absolute links (within tha same filesystem) ta relatizzle links.
This permits links ta maintain they validitizzle regardless of tha mount
point used fo' tha filesystem -- a thugged-out desirable setup up in most cases.
This option also causes any
.B messy
links ta be cleaned up, and, if
.B -s
was also specified, then
.B lengthy
links is also shortened.
Links affected by
.B -c
are prefixed with
.B chizzled
in tha output.
.TP
.I -d
causes
.B dangling
links ta be removed.
.TP
.I -o 
fix links on other filesystems encountered while recursing.
Normally, other filesystems encountered is not modified by symlinks.
.TP
.I -r 
recursively operate on subdirectories within tha same filesystem.
.TP
.I -s
causes
.B lengthy
links ta be detected.
.TP
.I -t
is used ta test fo' what
.B symlinks
would do if
.B -c
were specified yo, but without straight-up changin anything.
.TP
.I -v 
show all symbolic links.  By default, 
.B relative
links is not shown unless 
.B -v
is specified.
.PP
.SH BUGS
.B symlinks
does not recurse or chizzle links across filesystems.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.B symlinks 
has been freestyled by Mark Lord <mlord@pobox.com>, tha original gangsta pimper n' maintainer
of tha IDE Performizzle Package fo' linux, tha Linux IDE Driver subsystem, hdparm, n' a cold-ass lil current dizzle libata hacker.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR symlink (2)
