.\" Reboot/halt n' Linux shiznit extracted from Rick Faithz original
.\" sync(8) manpage, pimpin back ta tha Linux 0.99 days.  Da Linux-specific
.\" shiznit be attributed ta Linus Torvalds
.\" Copyright 1992, 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SYNC 8 1998-11-01 "GNU" "Linux Programmerz Manual"
.SH NAME
sync \- synchronize data on disk wit memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "sync [\-\-help] [\-\-version]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sync
writes any data buffered up in memory up ta disk.
This can include (but aint limited to) modified superblocks,
modified inodes, n' delayed readz n' writes.
This must be implemented by tha kernel;
The
.B sync
program do not a god damn thang but exercise the
.BR sync (2)
system call.
.PP
Da kernel keeps data up in memory ta avoid bustin (relatively slow) disk
readz n' writes.
This improves performizzle yo, but if tha computer
crashes, data may be lost or tha file system corrupted as a result.
.B sync
ensures dat every last muthafuckin thang up in memory is freestyled ta disk.
.PP
.B sync
should be called before tha processor is halted up in a unusual manner
(e.g., before causin a kernel panic when debuggin freshly smoked up kernel code).
In general, tha processor should be halted rockin the
.BR shutdown (8)
or
.BR reboot (8)
or
.BR halt (8)
commands, which will attempt ta put tha system up in a quiescent state
before calling
.BR sync (2).
(Various implementationz of these commandz exist; consult your
documentation; on some systems one should not call
.BR reboot (8)
and
.BR halt (8)
directly.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output n' exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-version"
Print version shiznit on standard output, then exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-"
Terminizzle option list.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Da variables
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
and
.B LC_MESSAGES
have tha usual meaning.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.2.
.SH NOTES
On Linux,
.B sync
is guaranteed only ta schedule tha dirty blocks fo' writing; it can
actually take a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short time before all tha blocks is finally written.
The
.BR reboot (8)
and
.BR halt (8)
commandz take dis tha fuck into account by chillin fo' all dem secondz after
calling
.BR sync (2).
.PP
This page raps about
.B sync
as found up in tha file\%utils-4.0 package;
other versions may differ slightly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sync (2),
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR update (8)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
