.\" Copyright 1999, George Staikos (staikos@0wned.org)
.\" This file may be used subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License Version 2, or any lata version
.\" at yo' option, as published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details."
.TH SYSCTL "8" "Jan 2012" "procps-ng" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sysctl \- configure kernel parametas at runtime
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysctl
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIvariable\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]] [...]
.br
.B sysctl \-p
[\fIfile\fR or \fIregexp\fR] [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sysctl
is used ta modify kernel parametas at runtime.  Da parametas available
are dem listed under /proc/sys/.  Procfs is required for
.B sysctl
support up in Linux.  Yo ass can use
.B sysctl
to both read n' write sysctl data.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I variable
Da name of a key ta read from.  An example is kernel.ostype.  Da '/'
separator be also accepted up in place of a '.'.
.TP
.IR  variable = value
To set a key, use tha form
.IR  variable = value
where
.I variable
is tha key and
.I value
is tha value ta set it to.  If tha value gotz nuff quotes or characters
which is parsed by tha shell, you may need ta enclose tha value up in double
quotes.  This requires the
.B \-w
parameta ta use.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-values\fR
Use dis option ta disable printin of tha key name when printin joints.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR
Use dis option ta ignore errors bout unknown keys.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-names\fR
Use dis option ta only print tha names.  It may be useful wit shells that
have programmable completion.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Use dis option ta not display tha joints set ta stdout.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-write\fR
Use dis option when you wanna chizzle a sysctl setting.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR[\fIFILE\fR], \fB\-\-load\fR[=\fIFILE\fR]
Load up in sysctl settings from tha file specified or /etc/sysctl.conf if none
given. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Specifyin \- as filename means readin data from standard input.
Usin dis option will mean arguments to
.B sysctl
are files, which is read up in order they is specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Da file argument can
may be specified as reqular expression.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display all joints currently available.
.TP
\fB\-\-deprecated\fR
Include deprecated parametas to
.B \-\-all
values listing.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Print value without freshly smoked up line.
.TP
\fB\-\-system\fR
Load settings from all system configuration files.
.br
/run/sysctl.d/*.conf
.br
/etc/sysctl.d/*.conf
.br
/usr/local/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.br
/usr/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.br
/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf
.br
/etc/sysctl.conf
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-pattern\fR \fIpattern\fR
Only apply settings dat match
.IR pattern .
The
.I pattern
uses extended regular expression syntax.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR
Aliaz of \fB\-a\fR
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Aliaz of \fB\-h\fR
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Aliaz of \fB\-p\fR
.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Aliaz of \fB\-a\fR
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Do not a god damn thang up in favour of BSD compatibility.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Do not a god damn thang up in favour of BSD compatibility.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
/sbin/sysctl \-a
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-n kernel.hostname
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-w kernel.domainname="example.com"
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-p/etc/sysctl.conf
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-a \-\-pattern forward
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-a \-\-pattern forward$
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-a \-\-pattern 'net.ipv4.conf.(eth|wlan)0.arp'
.br
/sbin/sysctl \-\-system \-\-pattern '^net.ipv6'
.SH DEPRECATED PARAMETERS
The
.B base_reachable_time
and
.B retrans_time
are deprecated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da sysctl command do not allow changin jointz of there
parameters.  Users whoz ass insist ta use deprecated kernel intercourses should joints
to /proc file system by other means.  For example:
.PP
echo 256 > /proc/sys/net/ipv6/neigh/eth0/base_reachable_time
.SH FILES
.I /proc/sys
.br
.I /etc/sysctl.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sysctl.conf (5)
.BR regex (7)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR staikos@0wned.org
George Staikos
.UE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
