.TH T1LIBCONFIG 8
.SH NAME
.B t1libconfig
\- create tha t1lib.config n' FontDataBase filez fo' t1lib
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B t1libconfig
[
.BR \-v\fP, \fB\-\-version
]
[
.BR \-h\fP, \fB\-\-help
]
.B \-\-force
]
[
.B fontdirectory...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B t1libconfig
scans a list of directories fo' Type 1 fonts n' font metric files,
and generates a cold-ass lil configuration file n' font database file fo' the
.B t1lib
rasterizer library accordingly.  By default, it looks up in all
subdirectoriez of /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts, n' in
/usr/lib/ghostscript.  Extra directories ta search may be specified on 
the command line.  The
.B t1libconfig
script tries not ta scan tha same directory twice (this is, however,
not foolproof, since /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts n' /usr/lib/X11/fonts
typically point ta tha same directory on GNU/Linux systems).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v\fP, \fB\-\-version
Print tha version of
.B t1libconfig
and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h\fP, \fB\-\-help
Print help bout usage n' exit.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Force tha generation of freshly smoked up configuration filez even if these files
already exist on tha system.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.B /etc/t1lib/t1lib.config
Gotz Nuff configuration shiznit fo' t1lib, including
colon-separated listz of paths ta Type 1 font filez n' font metrics
files, n' tha location of tha default font database file
.TP 25
.B /etc/t1lib/FontDataBase
Gotz Nuff a list of tha namez of Type 1 font filez ta be used by t1lib.
.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Huggins-Daines <dhd@debian.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR FontDataBase (5)

