.TH PBFIFO 8 "10 January 2002" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
pfifo \- Packet limited First In, First Out queue
.P
bfifo \- Byte limited First In, First Out queue

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc qdisc ... add pfifo
.B [ limit 
packets
.B ]
.P
.B tc qdisc ... add bfifo
.B [ limit 
bytes
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Da pfifo n' bfifo qdiscs is unadorned First In, First Out queues. They is the
simplest queues possible n' therefore have no overhead. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.B pfifo
constrains tha queue size as measured up in packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
.B bfifo
does so as measured up in bytes.

Like all non-default qdiscs, they maintain statistics. This might be a reason ta prefer 
pfifo or bfifo over tha default.

.SH ALGORITHM
A list of packets is maintained, when a packet is enqueued it gets banged all up in tha tail of
a list. When a packet need ta be busted up ta tha network, it is taken from tha head of tha list. 

If tha list is too long, no further packets is allowed on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. This is called 'tail drop'.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 
limit
Maximum queue size. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Specified up in bytes fo' bfifo, up in packets fo' pfifo. For pfifo, defaults 
to tha intercourse txqueuelen, as specified wit 
.BR ifconfig (8)
or
.BR ip (8).
Da range fo' dis parameta is [0, UINT32_MAX].

For bfifo, it defaults ta tha txqueuelen multiplied by tha intercourse MTU.
Da range fo' dis parameta is [0, UINT32_MAX] bytes.

Note: Da link layer header was considered when countin packets length.

.SH OUTPUT
Da output of 
.B tc -s qdisc ls
gotz nuff tha limit, either up in packets or up in bytes, n' tha number of bytes 
and packets straight-up sent fo' realz. An unsent n' dropped packet only appears between braces 
and aint counted as 'Sent'.

In dis example, tha queue length is 100 packets, 45894 bytes was busted over 681 packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. 
No packets was dropped, n' as tha pfifo queue do not slow down packets, there was also no
overlimits:
.P
.nf
# tc -s qdisc ls dev eth0 
qdisc pfifo 8001: dev eth0 limit 100p
 Sent 45894 bytes 681 pkts (dropped 0, overlimits 0) 
.fi

If a funky-ass backlog occurs, dis is displayed as well.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Alexey N. Kuznetsov, <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>

This manpage maintained by bert hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>


