.TH TC 8 "August 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
choke \- chizzle n' keep scheduler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc qdisc ... choke
.B limit
packets
.B min
packets
.B max
packets
.B avpkt
bytes
.B burst
packets
.B [ ecn ] [ bandwidth
rate
.B ] probability
chance

.SH DESCRIPTION

CHOKe (CHOose n' Keep fo' responsive flows, CHOose n' Bust a cap up in fo' unresponsive flows)
is a cold-ass lil classless qdisc designed ta both identify n' penalize flows dat monopolize the
queue.  CHOKe be a variation of RED, n' tha configuration is similar ta RED.

.SH ALGORITHM
Once tha queue hits a cold-ass lil certain average length, a random packet is drawn from the
queue.  If both tha to-be-queued n' tha drawn packet belong ta tha same flow,
both packets is dropped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Otherwise, if tha queue length is still below tha maximum length,
the freshly smoked up packet has a cold-ass lil configurable chizzle of bein marked (which may mean dropped).
If tha queue length exceeds
.BR max ,
the freshly smoked up packet will always be marked (or dropped).
If tha queue length exceeds
.BR limit ,
the freshly smoked up packet be always dropped.

Da markin probabilitizzle computation is tha same ol' dirty as used by tha RED qdisc.

.SH PARAMETERS
Da parametas is tha same as fo' RED, except dat RED uses bytes whereas choke
counts packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
.BR tc-red (8)
for a thugged-out description.

.SH SOURCE
.TP
o
R. Pan, B. Prabhakar, n' K. Psounis, "CHOKe, A Stateless
Actizzle Queue Management Scheme fo' Approximatin Fair Bandwidth Allocation",
IEEE INFOCOM, 2000.
.TP
o
A. Tang, J. Wang, S. Low, "Understandin CHOKe: Throughput n' Spatial
Characteristics", IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, 2004

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8),
.BR tc-red (8)

.SH AUTHOR
sched_choke was contributed by Stephen Hemminger.
