.TH TC 8 "January 2010" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
drr \- deficit round robin scheduler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc qdisc ... add drr
.B [ quantum
bytes
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da Deficit Round Robin Schedula be a cold-ass lil classful queuin discipline as
a mo' flexible replacement fo' Stochastic Fairnizz Queuing.

Unlike SFQ, there be no built-in queues \-\- you need ta add classes
and then set up filtas ta classify packets accordingly.
This can be useful e.g. fo' rockin RED qdiscs wit different settings fo' particular
traffic. There is no default class \-\- if a packet cannot be classified,
it is dropped.

.SH ALGORITHM
Each class be assigned a thugged-out deficit counter, initialized to
.B quantum.

DRR maintains a (internal) ''active'' list of classes whose qdiscs are
non-empty.  This list is used fo' dequeuing.  A packet is dequeued from
the class all up in tha head of tha list if tha packet size is smalla or equal
to tha deficit counter n' shit.  If tha counta is too small, it is increased by
.B quantum
and tha schedula moves on ta tha next class up in tha actizzle list.


.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
quantum
Amount of bytes a gangbangin' flow be allowed ta dequeue before tha schedula moves to
the next class.  Defaults ta tha MTU of tha intercourse. Da minimum value is 1.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE

To attach ta thang eth0, rockin tha intercourse MTU as its quantum:
.P
# tc qdisc add dev eth0 handle 1 root drr
.P
Addin two classes:
.P
# tc class add dev eth0 parent 1: classid 1:1 drr
.br
# tc class add dev eth0 parent 1: classid 1:2 drr
.P
Yo ass also need ta add at least one filta ta classify packets.
.P
# tc filta add dev eth0 protocol .. classid 1:1
.P

Like SFQ, DRR is only useful when it owns tha queue \-\- it aint nuthin but a pure schedula n' do
not delay packets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Attachin non-work-conservin qdiscs like tbf ta it do not make
sense \-\- other qdiscs up in tha actizzle list will also become inactizzle until tha dequeue
operation succeeds.  Embed DRR within another qdisc like HTB or HFSC ta ensure it owns tha queue.
.P
Yo ass can mimic SFQ behavior by assignin packets ta tha attached classes rockin the
flow filter:

.B tc qdisc add dev .. drr

.B fo' i up in .. 1024;do
.br
.B "\ttc class add dev .. classid $handle:$(print %x $i)"
.br
.B "\ttc qdisc add dev .. fifo limit 16"
.br
.B done

.B tc filta add .. protocol ip .. $handle flow hash keys src,dst,proto,proto-src,proto-dst divisor 1024 perturb 10


.SH SOURCE
.TP
o
M. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shreedhar n' George Varghese "Efficient Fair
Queuin rockin Deficit Round Robin", Proc. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SIGCOMM 95.

.SH NOTES

This implementation do not drop packets from tha longest queue on overrun,
as limits is handled by tha individual lil pimp qdiscs.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8),
.BR tc-htb (8),
.BR tc-sfq (8)

.SH AUTHOR
sched_drr was freestyled by Patrick McHardy.

