.TH ematch 8 "6 August 2012" iproute2 Linux
.
.SH NAME
ematch \- extended matches fo' use wit "basic" or "flow" filters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.B "tc filta add .. basic match"
.RI EXPR
.B .. flowid ..
.sp

.IR EXPR " := " TERM " [ { "
.B n' | or
}
.IR EXPR
]

.IR TERM " := [ " \fBnot " ] { " MATCH " | '(' " EXPR " ')' } "

.IR MATCH " := " module " '(' " ARGS " ')' "

.IR ARGS " := " ARG1 " " ARG2 " ..

.SH MATCHES

.SS cmp
Simple comparison ematch: arithmetic compare of packet data ta a given value.

.IR cmp "( " ALIGN " at " OFFSET " [ " ATTRS " ] { " eq " | " lt " | " gt " } " VALUE " )

.IR ALIGN " := { " u8 " | " u16 " | " u32 " } "

.IR ATTRS " := [ layer " LAYER " ] [ mask " MASK " ] [ trans ]

.IR LAYER " := { " link " | " network " | " transhiznit " | " 0..2 " }

.SS meta
Metadata ematch

.IR meta "( " OBJECT " { " eq " | " lt " |" gt " } " OBJECT " )

.IR OBJECT " := { " META_ID " |  " VALUE " }

.IR META_ID " := " id " [ shift " SHIFT " ] [ mask " MASK " ]

.TP
meta attributes:

\fBrandom\fP 32 bit random value

\fBloadavg_1\fP Load average up in last 5 minutes

\fBnf_mark\fP Netfilta mark

\fBvlan\fP Vlan tag

\fBsk_rcvbuf\fP Receive buffer size

\fBsk_snd_queue\fP Send queue length

.PP
A full list of meta attributes can be obtained via

# tc filta add dev eth1 basic match 'meta(list)'

.SS nbyte
match packet data byte sequence

.IR nbyte "( " NEEDLE  " at " OFFSET " [ layer " LAYER " ] )

.IR NEEDLE  " := { " strang " | " c-escape-sequence "  } "

.IR OFFSET  " := " int

.IR LAYER " := { " link " | " network " | " transhiznit " | " 0..2 " }

.SS u32
u32 ematch

.IR u32 "( " ALIGN " " VALUE " " MASK " at [ nexthdr+ ] " OFFSET " )

.IR ALIGN " := { " u8 " | " u16 " | " u32 " }

.SS ipset
test packet against ipset membership

.IR ipset "( " SETNAME " " FLAGS " )

.IR SETNAME " := " string

.IR FLAGS " := { " FLAG " [, " FLAGS "] }

Da flag options is tha same as dem used by tha iptablez "set" match.

When rockin tha ipset ematch wit tha "ip_set_hash:net,iface" set type,
the intercourse can be queried rockin "src,dst (source ip address, outgoin intercourse) or
"src,src" (source ip address, incomin intercourse) syntax.

.SH CAVEATS

Da ematch syntax uses '(' n' ')' ta crew expressions fo' realz. All braces need ta be
escaped properly ta prevent shell commandline from interpretin these directly.

When rockin tha ipset ematch wit tha "ifb" device, tha outgoin thang is ghon be the
ifb thang itself, e.g. "ifb0".
Da original gangsta intercourse (i.e. tha thang tha packet arrived on) is treated as tha incomin intercourse.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE

# tc filta add .. basic match ...

# 'cmp(u16 at 3 layer 2 mask 0xff00 gt 20)'

# 'meta(nfmark gt 24)' n' 'meta(tcindex mask 0xf0 eq 0xf0)'

# 'nbyte("ababa" at 12 layer 1)'

# 'u32(u16 0x1122 0xffff at nexthdr+4)'

Peep if packet source ip address is gangmember of set named \fBbulk\fP:

# 'ipset(bulk src)'

Peep if packet source ip n' tha intercourse tha packet arrived on is gangmember of "hash:net,iface" set named \fBinteractive\fP:

# 'ipset(interactizzle src,src)'

.SH "AUTHOR"

Da extended match infrastructure was added by Thomas Graf.
