.TH HFSC 8 "31 October 2011" iproute2 Linux
.
.SH NAME
HFSC \- Hierarchical Fair Service Curvez control under linux
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
tc qdisc add ... hfsc [ \fBdefault\fR CLASSID ]

tc class add ... hfsc [ [ \fBrt\fR SC ] [ \fBls\fR SC ] | [ \fBsc\fR SC ] ] [ \fBul\fR SC ]

\fBrt\fR : realtime steez curve
\fBls\fR : linkshare steez curve
\fBsc\fR : rt+ls steez curve
\fBul\fR : upperlimit steez curve

\(bu at least one of \fBrt\fR, \fBls\fR or \fBsc\fR must be specified
\(bu \fBul\fR can only be specified wit \fBls\fR or \fBsc\fR
.
.IP "SC := [ [ \fBm1\fR BPS ] \fBd\fR SEC ] \fBm2\fR BPS"
\fBm1\fR : slope of tha straight-up original gangsta segment
\fBd\fR  : x\-coordinizzle of intersection
\fBm2\fR : slope of tha second segment
.PP
.IP "SC := [ [ \fBumax\fR BYTE ] \fBdmax\fR SEC ] \fBrate\fR BPS"
\fBumax\fR : maximum unit of work
\fBdmax\fR : maximum delay
\fBrate\fR : rate
.PP
.fi
For description of BYTE, BPS n' SEC \- please peep \fBUNITS\fR
section of \fBtc\fR(8).
.
.SH DESCRIPTION (qdisc)
HFSC qdisc has only one optionizzle parameta \- \fBdefault\fR.  CLASSID specifies
the minor part of tha default classid, where packets not classified by other
means (e.g. u32 filter, CLASSIFY target of iptables) is ghon be enqueued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If
\fBdefault\fR aint specified, unclassified packets is ghon be dropped.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION (class)
HFSC class is used ta create a cold-ass lil class hierarchy fo' HFSC schedula n' shit. For
explanation of tha algorithm, n' tha meanin behind \fBrt\fR, \fBls\fR,
\fBsc\fR n' \fBul\fR steez curves \- please refer ta \fBtc\-hfsc\fR(7).

As you can peep up in \fBSYNOPSIS\fR, steez curve (SC) can be specified up in two
ways. Either as maximum delay fo' certain amount of work, or as a funky-ass bandwidth
assigned fo' certain amount of time. Obviously, \fBm1\fR is simply
\fBumax\fR/\fBdmax\fR.

Both \fBm2\fR n' \fBrate\fR is mandatory. If you omit other
parameters, yo big-ass booty is ghon specify linear steez curve.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
\fBtc\fR(8), \fBtc\-hfsc\fR(7), \fBtc\-stab\fR(8)

Please direct bugreports n' patches to: <net...@vger.kernel.org>
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.
Manpage pimped by Michal Soltys (sol...@ziu.info)
