.TH PFIFO_FAST 8 "10 January 2002" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
pfifo_fast \- three-band first in, first up queue

.SH DESCRIPTION
pfifo_fast is tha default qdisc of each intercourse.

Whenever a intercourse is pimped, tha pfifo_fast qdisc be automatically used
as a queue. If another qdisc be attached, it preempts tha default
pfifo_fast, which automatically returns ta function when a existin qdisc
is detached.

In dis sense dis qdisc is magic, n' unlike other qdiscs.

.SH ALGORITHM
Da algorithm is straight-up similar ta dat of tha classful 
.BR tc-prio (8)
qdisc. 
.B pfifo_fast
is like three
.BR tc-pfifo (8)
queues side by side, where packets can be enqueued up in any of tha three bands
based on they Type of Service bits or assigned priority. 

Not all three bandz is dequeued simultaneously - as long as lower bands
have traffic, higher bandz is never dequeued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This can be used to
prioritize interactizzle traffic or penalize 'lowest cost' traffic.

Each crew can be txqueuelen packets long, as configured with
.BR ifconfig (8)
or 
.BR ip (8).
Additionizzle packets comin up in is not enqueued but is instead dropped.

See
.BR tc-prio (8)
for complete details on how tha fuck TOS bits is translated tha fuck into bands.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 
txqueuelen
Da length of tha three bandz dependz on tha intercourse txqueuelen, as
specified with
.BR ifconfig (8)
or
.BR ip (8).

.SH BUGS
Do not maintain statistics n' do not show up in tc qdisc ls. This is cuz
it is tha automatic default up in tha absence of a cold-ass lil configured qdisc. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Alexey N. Kuznetsov, <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>

This manpage maintained by bert hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>


