.TH RED 8 "13 December 2001" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
red \- Random Early Detection 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc qdisc ... red
.B limit 
bytes
.B [ min 
bytes 
.B ] [ max 
bytes 
.B ] avpkt
bytes
.B [ burst 
packets
.B ] [ ecn ] [ harddrop] [ bandwidth
rate
.B ] [ probability
chance
.B ] [ adaptizzle ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Random Early Detection be a cold-ass lil classless qdisc which manages its queue size
smartly. Regular queues simply drop packets from tha tail when they are
full, which may not be tha optimal behaviour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. RED also performs tail drop,
but do so up in a mo' gradual way.

Once tha queue hits a cold-ass lil certain average length, packets enqueued have a
configurable chizzle of bein marked (which may mean dropped). This chance
increases linearly up ta a point called the
.B max
average queue length, although tha queue might git bigger.

This has a host of benefits over simple taildrop, while not bein processor
intensive. Well shiiiit, it prevents synchronous retransmits afta a funky-ass burst up in traffic,
which cause further retransmits, etc.

Da goal is ta git a lil' small-ass queue size, which is phat fo' interactivity
while not disturbin TCP/IP traffic wit too nuff sudden drops afta a funky-ass burst
of traffic.

Dependin on if ECN is configured, markin either means droppin or
purely markin a packet as overlimit.
.SH ALGORITHM
Da average queue size is used fo' determinin tha marking
probability. This is calculated rockin a Exponential Weighted Moving
Average, which can be mo' or less sensitizzle ta bursts.

When tha average queue size is below 
.B min
bytes, no packet will eva be marked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! When it exceedz 
.B min, 
the probabilitizzle of bustin so climbs linearly up
to 
.B probability, 
until tha average queue size hits
.B max
bytes. Because 
.B probabilitizzle 
is normally not set ta 100%, tha queue size might
conceivably rise above 
.B max
bytes, so tha 
.B limit
parameta is provided ta set a hard maximum fo' tha size of tha queue.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 
min
Average queue size at which markin becomes a possibility. Defaults to
.B max
/3

.TP 
max
At dis average queue size, tha markin probabilitizzle is maximal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should be at
least twice
.B min
to prevent synchronous retransmits, higher fo' low 
.B min.
Default ta 
.B limit
/4
.TP 
probability
Maximum probabilitizzle fo' marking, specified as a gangbangin' floatin point
number from 0.0 ta 1.0. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Suggested joints is 0.01 or 0.02 (1 or 2%,
respectively). Default : 0.02
.TP 
limit
Hard limit on tha real (not average) queue size up in bytes. Further packets
are dropped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Should be set higher than max+burst. Well shiiiit, it be advised ta set this
a few times higher than 
.B max.
.TP
burst
Used fo' determinin how tha fuck fast tha average queue size is hyped up by the
real queue size. Larger joints make tha calculation mo' sluggish, allowing
longer burstz of traffic before markin starts, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Real game experiments
support tha followin guideline: (min+min+max)/(3*avpkt).
.TP 
avpkt
Specified up in bytes. Used wit burst ta determine tha time constant for
average queue size calculations. 1000 be a phat value.
.TP
bandwidth
This rate is used fo' calculatin tha average queue size afta some
idle time. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Should be set ta tha bandwidth of yo' intercourse. Do not mean
that RED will shape fo' you, nahmean biiiatch? Optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Default : 10Mbit
.TP
ecn
As mentioned before, RED can either 'mark' or 'drop'. Explicit Congestion
Notification allows RED ta notify remote hosts dat they rate exceedz the
amount of bandwidth available. Non-ECN capable hosts can only be notified by
droppin a packet.  If dis parameta is specified, packets which indicate
that they hosts honor ECN will only be marked n' not dropped, unless the
queue size hits
.B limit
bytes. Recommended.
.TP
harddrop
If average flow queue size be above
.B max
bytes, dis parameta forces a thugged-out drop instead of ecn marking.
.TP
adaptive
(Added up in linux-3.3) Sets RED up in adaptizzle mode as busted lyrics bout up in http://icir.org/floyd/papers/adaptiveRed.pdf
.nf
Goal of Adaptizzle RED is ta make 'probability' dynamic value between 1% n' 50% ta reach tha target average queue : 
.B (max - min) / 2
.fi

.SH EXAMPLE

.P
# tc qdisc add dev eth0 parent 1:1 handle 10: red 
 limit 400000 min 30000 max 90000 avpkt 1000 
 burst 55 ecn adaptizzle bandwidth 10Mbit

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8),
.BR tc-choke (8)

.SH SOURCES
.TP 
o
Floyd, S., n' Jacobson, V., Random Early Detection gateways for
Congestion Avoidance. http://www.aciri.org/floyd/papers/red/red.html
.TP 
o
Some chizzlez ta tha algorithm by Alexey N. Kuznetsov.
.TP
o
Adaptizzle RED  : http://icir.org/floyd/papers/adaptiveRed.pdf

.SH AUTHORS
Alexey N. Kuznetsov, <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>,  Alexey Makarenko
<makar@phoenix.kharkov.ua>, J Hadi Salim <hadi@nortelnetworks.com>,
Eric Dumazet <eric.dumazet@gmail.com>.  
This manpage maintained by bert hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>


