.TH TC 8 "16 December 2001" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
tc \- show / manipulate traffic control settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc qdisc [ add | chizzle | replace | link | delete ] dev
DEV
.B
[ parent
qdisc-id
.B | root ]
.B [ handle
qdisc-id ] qdisc
[ qdisc specific parametas ]
.P

.B tc class [ add | chizzle | replace | delete ] dev
DEV
.B parent
qdisc-id
.B [ classid
class-id ] qdisc
[ qdisc specific parametas ]
.P

.B tc filta [ add | chizzle | replace | delete ] dev
DEV
.B [ parent
qdisc-id
.B | root ] protocol
protocol
.B prio
prioritizzle filtertype
[ filtertype specific parametas ]
.B flowid
flow-id

.B tc
.RI "[ " FORMAT " ]"
.B qdisc show [ dev
DEV
.B ]
.P
.B tc
.RI "[ " FORMAT " ]"
.B class show dev
DEV
.P
.B tc filta show dev
DEV

.P
.B tc [ -force ] [ -OK ] -b\fR[\fIatch\fR] \fB[ filename ]

.ti 8
.IR FORMAT " := {"
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] |
\fB\-r\fR[\fIaw\fR] |
\fB\-p\fR[\fIretty\fR] |
\fB\-i\fR[\fIec\fR] }

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Tc
is used ta configure Traffic Control up in tha Linux kernel. Traffic Control consists
of tha following:

.TP
SHAPING
When traffic is shaped, its rate of transmission is under control. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shapin may
be mo' than lowerin tha available bandwidth - it be also used ta smooth out
bursts up in traffic fo' betta network behaviour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shapin occurs on egress.

.TP
SCHEDULING
By schedulin tha transmission of packets it is possible ta improve interactivity
for traffic dat needz it while still guaranteein bandwidth ta bulk transfers. Reordering
is also called prioritizing, n' happens only on egress.

.TP
POLICING
Whereas shapin deals wit transmission of traffic, policin pertains ta traffic
arriving. Policin thus occurs on ingress.

.TP
DROPPING
Traffic exceedin a set bandwidth may also be dropped forthwith, both on
ingress n' on egress.

.P
Processin of traffic is controlled by three kindz of objects: qdiscs,
classes n' filters.

.SH QDISCS
.B qdisc
is short fo' 'queuein discipline' n' it is elementary to
understandin traffic control. Whenever tha kernel need ta bust a
packet ta a intercourse, it is
.B enqueued
to tha qdisc configured fo' dat intercourse. Immediately afterwards, tha kernel
tries ta git as nuff packets as possible from tha qdisc, fo' givin them
to tha network adaptor driver.

A simple QDISC is tha 'pfifo' one, which do no processin at all n' be a pure
First In, First Out queue. Well shiiiit, it do however store traffic when tha network intercourse
can't handle it momentarily.

.SH CLASSES
Some qdiscs can contain classes, which contain further qdiscs - traffic may
then be enqueued up in any of tha inner qdiscs, which is within the
.B classes.
When tha kernel tries ta dequeue a packet from such a
.B classful qdisc
it can come from any of tha classes fo' realz. A qdisc may fo' example prioritize
certain kindz of traffic by tryin ta dequeue from certain classes
before others.

.SH FILTERS
A
.B filter
is used by a cold-ass lil classful qdisc ta determine up in which class a packet will
be enqueued. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Whenever traffic arrives at a cold-ass lil class wit subclasses, it needs
to be classified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Various methodz may be employed ta do so, one of these
are tha filtas fo' realz. All filtas attached ta tha class is called, until one of
them returns wit a verdict. If no verdict was made, other criteria may be
available. This differs per qdisc.

It be blingin ta notice dat filtas reside
.B within
qdiscs - they is not mastaz of what tha fuck happens.

.SH CLASSLESS QDISCS
Da classless qdiscs are:
.TP
[p|b]fifo
Simplest usable qdisc, pure First In, First Out behaviour. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Limited in
packets or up in bytes.
.TP
pfifo_fast
Standard qdisc fo' 'Advanced Router' enabled kernels. Consistz of a three-band
queue which honors Type of Service flags, as well as tha prioritizzle dat may be
assigned ta a packet.
.TP
red
Random Early Detection simulates physical congestion by randomly dropping
packets when nearin configured bandwidth allocation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Well suited ta hella
pimpin' bandwidth applications.
.TP
sfq
Stochastic Fairnizz Queuein reordaz queued traffic so each 'session'
gets ta bust a packet up in turn.
.TP
tbf
Da Token Bucket Filta is suited fo' slowin traffic down ta a precisely
configured rate. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Scalez well ta big-ass bandwidths.
.SH CONFIGURING CLASSLESS QDISCS
In tha absence of classful qdiscs, classless qdiscs can only be attached at
the root of a thugged-out device. Full syntax:
.P
.B tc qdisc add dev
DEV
.B root
QDISC QDISC-PARAMETERS

To remove, issue
.P
.B tc qdisc del dev
DEV
.B root

The
.B pfifo_fast
qdisc is tha automatic default up in tha absence of a cold-ass lil configured qdisc.

.SH CLASSFUL QDISCS
Da classful qdiscs are:
.TP
CBQ
Class Based Queuein implements a rich linksharin hierarchy of classes.
It gotz nuff shapin elements as well as prioritizin capabilities. Put ya muthafuckin choppers up if ya feel dis! Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shapin is
performed rockin link idle time calculations based on average packet size and
underlyin link bandwidth. Da latta may be ill-defined fo' some intercourses.
.TP
HTB
Da Hierarchy Token Bucket implements a rich linksharin hierarchy of
classes wit a emphasis on conformin ta existin practices yo. HTB facilitates
guaranteein bandwidth ta classes, while also allowin justification of upper
limits ta inter-class sharing. Well shiiiit, it gotz nuff shapin elements, based on TBF and
can prioritize classes.
.TP
PRIO
Da PRIO qdisc be a non-shapin container fo' a cold-ass lil configurable number of
classes which is dequeued up in order n' shit. This allows fo' easy as fuck  prioritization
of traffic, where lower classes is only able ta bust if higher ones have
no packets available. To facilitate configuration, Type Of Service bits are
honored by default.
.SH THEORY OF OPERATION
Classes form a tree, where each class has a single parent.
A class may have multiple lil' thugs. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Some qdiscs allow fo' runtime addition
of classes (CBQ, HTB) while others (PRIO) is pimped wit a static number of
children.

Qdiscs which allow dynamic addizzle of classes can have zero or more
subclasses ta which traffic may be enqueued.

Furthermore, each class gotz nuff a
.B leaf qdisc
which by default has
.B pfifo
behaviour, although another qdisc can be attached up in place. This qdisc may again
contain classes yo, but each class can have only one leaf qdisc.

When a packet entas a cold-ass lil classful qdisc it can be
.B classified
to one of tha classes within. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Three criteria is available, although not all
qdiscs will use all three:
.TP
tc filters
If tc filtas is attached ta a cold-ass lil class, they is consulted first
for relevant instructions. Filtas can match on all fieldz of a packet header,
as well as on tha firewall mark applied by ipchains or iptables.
.TP
Type of Service
Some qdiscs have built up in rulez fo' classifyin packets based on tha TOS field.
.TP
skb->priority
Userspace programs can encode a cold-ass lil class-id up in tha 'skb->priority' field using
the SO_PRIORITY option.
.P
Each node within tha tree can have its own filtas but higher level filters
may also point directly ta lower classes.

If classification did not succeed, packets is enqueued ta tha leaf qdisc
attached ta dat class. Peep qdisc specific manpages fo' details, however.

.SH NAMING
All qdiscs, classes n' filtas have IDs, which can either be specified
or be automatically assigned.

IDs consist of a major number n' a minor number, separated by a cold-ass lil colon.
Both major n' minor number is limited ta 16 bits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. There is two special
values: root is signified by major n' minor of all ones, n' unspecified
is all zeros.

.TP
QDISCS
A qdisc, which potentially can have children,
gets assigned a major number, called a 'handle', leavin tha minor
number namespace available fo' classes. Da handle is expressed as '10:'.
It be customary ta explicitly assign a handle ta qdiscs sposed ta fuckin have
children.

.TP
CLASSES
Classes residin under a qdisc share they qdisc major number yo, but each have
a separate minor number called a 'classid' dat has no relation ta their
parent classes, only ta they parent qdisc. Da same namin custom as for
qdiscs applies.

.TP
FILTERS
Filtas gotz a three part ID, which is only needed when rockin a hashed
filta hierarchy.

.SH PARAMETERS
Da followin parametas is widely used up in TC. For other parameters,
see tha playa pages fo' individual qdiscs.

.TP
RATES
Bandwidths or rates.
These parametas accept a gangbangin' floatin point number, possibly followed by
a unit (both SI n' IEC units supported).
.RS
.TP
bit or a funky-ass bare number
Bits per second
.TP
kbit
Kilobits per second
.TP
mbit
Megabits per second
.TP
gbit
Gigabits per second
.TP
tbit
Terabits per second
.TP
bps
Bytes per second
.TP
kbps
Kilobytes per second
.TP
mbps
Megabytes per second
.TP
gbps
Gigabytes per second
.TP
tbps
Terabytes per second

.P
To specify up in IEC units, replace tha SI prefix (k-, m-, g-, t-) with
IEC prefix (ki-, mi-, gi- n' ti-) respectively.

.P
TC store rates as a 32-bit unsigned integer up in bps internally,
so we can specify a max rate of 4294967295 bps.
.RE

.TP
TIMES
Length of time. Can be specified as a gangbangin' floatin point number
followed by a optionizzle unit:
.RS
.TP
s, sec or secs
Whole seconds
.TP
ms, msec or msecs
Milliseconds
.TP
us, usec, usecs or a funky-ass bare number
Microseconds.

.P
TC defined its own time unit (equal ta microsecond) n' stores
time joints as 32-bit unsigned integer, thus we can specify a max time value
of 4294967295 usecs.
.RE

.TP
SIZES
Amountz of data. Can be specified as a gangbangin' floatin point number
followed by a optionizzle unit:
.RS
.TP
b or a funky-ass bare number
Bytes.
.TP
kbit
Kilobits
.TP
kb or k
Kilobytes
.TP
mbit
Megabits
.TP
mb or m
Megabytes
.TP
gbit
Gigabits
.TP
gb or g
Gigabytes

.P
TC stores sizes internally as 32-bit unsigned integer up in byte,
so we can specify a max size of 4294967295 bytes.
.RE

.TP
VALUES
Other joints without a unit.
These parametas is interpreted as decimal by default yo, but you can
indicate TC ta interpret dem as octal n' hexadecimal by addin a '0'
or '0x' prefix respectively.

.SH TC COMMANDS
Da followin commandz is available fo' qdiscs, classes n' filter:
.TP
add
Add a qdisc, class or filta ta a node. For all entities, a
.B parent
must be passed, either by passin its ID or by attachin directly ta tha root of a thugged-out device.
When bustin a qdisc or a gangbangin' filter, it can be named wit the
.B handle
parameter n' shiznit fo' realz. A class is named wit the
.B classid
parameter.

.TP
delete
A qdisc can be deleted by specifyin its handle, which may also be 'root' fo' realz. All subclasses n' they leaf qdiscs
are automatically deleted, as well as any filtas attached ta em.

.TP
change
Some entitizzles can be modified 'in place'. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Shares tha syntax of 'add', wit tha exception
that tha handle cannot be chizzled n' neither can tha parent. In other lyrics,
.B
change
cannot move a node.

.TP
replace
Performs a nearly atomic remove/add on a existin node id. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! If tha node do not exist yet
it is pimped.

.TP
link
Only available fo' qdiscs n' performs a replace where tha node
must exist already.

.SH FORMAT
Da show command has additionizzle formattin options:

.TP
.BR "\-s" , " \-stats", " \-statistics"
output mo' statistics bout packet usage.

.TP
.BR "\-d", " \-details"
output mo' detailed shiznit bout rates n' cell sizes.

.TP
.BR "\-r", " \-raw"
output raw hex joints fo' handles.

.TP
.BR "\-p", " \-pretty"
decode filta offset n' mask joints ta equivalent filta commandz based on TCP/IP.

.TP
.BR "\-iec"
print rates up in IEC units (ie. 1K = 1024).

.TP
.BR "\-b", " \-b filename", " \-batch", " \-batch filename"
read commandz from provided file or standard input n' invoke em.
First failure will cause termination of tc.

.TP
.BR "\-force"
don't terminizzle tc on errors up in batch mode.
If there was any errors durin execution of tha commands, tha application return code is ghon be non zero.

.TP
.BR "\-OK"
in batch mode, print
.B OK
and a freshly smoked up line on standard output afta each successfully interpreted command.

.SH HISTORY
.B tc
was freestyled by Alexey N. Kuznetsov n' added up in Linux 2.2.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc-bfifo (8),
.BR tc-cbq (8),
.BR tc-choke (8),
.BR tc-codel (8),
.BR tc-drr (8),
.BR tc-ematch (8),
.BR tc-fq_codel (8),
.BR tc-hfsc (7),
.BR tc-hfsc (8),
.BR tc-htb (8),
.BR tc-mqprio (8),
.BR tc-pfifo (8),
.BR tc-pfifo_fast (8),
.BR tc-red (8),
.BR tc-sfb (8),
.BR tc-sfq (8),
.BR tc-stab (8),
.BR tc-tbf (8),
.br
.RB "User documentation at " http://lartc.org/ " yo, but please direct bugreports n' patches to: " <netdev@vger.kernel.org>

.SH AUTHOR
Manpage maintained by bert hubert (ahu@ds9a.nl)

