.TH TCPDMATCH 8
.SH NAME
tcpdmatch \- tcp wrapper oracle
.SH SYNOPSYS
tcpdmatch [-d] daemon client
.sp
tcpdmatch [-d] daemon[@server] [user@]client
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fItcpdmatch\fR predicts how tha fuck tha tcp wrapper would handle a specific
request fo' service.  Examplez is given below.
.PP
Da program examines tha \fItcpd\fR access control tablez (default
\fI/etc/hosts.allow\fR n' \fI/etc/hosts.deny\fR) n' prints its
conclusion. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For maximal accuracy, it extracts additionizzle shiznit
from yo' \fIinetd\fR or \fItlid\fR network configuration file.
.PP
When \fItcpdmatch\fR findz a match up in tha access control tables, it
identifies tha matched rule. In addition, it displays tha optional
shell commandz or options up in a pretty-printed format; dis make it
easier fo' you ta spot any discrepancies between what tha fuck you want n' what
the program understands.
.SH ARGUMENTS
Da followin two arguments is always required:
.IP daemon
A daemon process name. Typically, tha last component of a thugged-out daemon
executable pathname.
.IP client
A host name or network address, or one of tha `unknown' or `paranoid'
wildcard patterns.
.sp
When a cold-ass lil client host name is specified, \fItcpdmatch\fR gives a
prediction fo' each address listed fo' dat client.
.sp
When a cold-ass lil client address is specified, \fItcpdmatch\fR predicts what
\fItcpd\fR would do when client name lookup fails.
.PP
Optionizzle shiznit specified wit tha \fIdaemon@server\fR form:
.IP server
A host name or network address, or one of tha `unknown' or `paranoid'
wildcard patterns. Da default server name is `unknown'.
.PP
Optionizzle shiznit specified wit tha \fIuser@client\fR form:
.IP user
A client user identifier n' shit. Typically, a login name or a numeric userid.
Da default user name is `unknown'.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Examine \fIhosts.allow\fR n' \fIhosts.deny\fR filez up in tha current
directory instead of tha default ones.
.SH EXAMPLES
To predict how tha fuck \fItcpd\fR would handle a telnet request from tha local
system:
.sp
.ti +5
tcpdmatch in.telnetd localhost
.PP
Da same request, pretendin dat hostname lookup failed:
.sp
.ti +5
tcpdmatch in.telnetd 127.0.0.1
.PP
To predict what tha fuck tcpd would do when tha client name do not match the
client address:
.sp
.ti +5
tcpdmatch in.telnetd paranoid
.PP
On some systems, daemon names have no `in.' prefix, or \fItcpdmatch\fR
may need some help ta locate tha inetd configuration file.
.SH FILES
.PP
Da default locationz of tha \fItcpd\fR access control tablez are:
.PP
/etc/hosts.allow
.br
/etc/hosts.deny
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.nf
hosts_access(5), format of tha tcpd access control tables.
hosts_options(5), format of tha language extensions.
.SH AUTHORS
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema (wietse@wzv.win.tue.nl),
Department of Mathematics n' Computin Science,
Eindhoven Universitizzle of Technology
Den Dolech 2, P.O. Box 513, 
5600 MB Eindhoven, Da Netherlands
\" @(#) tcpdmatch.8 1.5 96/02/11 17:01:35
