.\" @(#) $Id: tcpslice.1,v 1.7 2002/10/08 22:32:26 vern Exp $ (LBL)
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1996, 2000
.\"	Da Regentz of tha Universitizzle of California.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution n' use up in source n' binary forms, wit or without
.\" modification, is permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
.\" retain tha above copyright notice n' dis paragraph up in its entirety, (2)
.\" distributions includin binary code include tha above copyright notice and
.\" dis paragraph up in its entirety up in tha documentation or other shit
.\" provided wit tha distribution, n' (3) all advertisin shiznit mentioning
.\" features or use of dis software display tha followin acknowledgement:
.\" ``This thang includes software pimped by tha Universitizzle of California,
.\" Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory n' its contributors.'' Neither tha name of
.\" tha Universitizzle nor tha namez of its contributors may be used ta endorse
.\" or promote shizzle derived from dis software without specific prior
.\" freestyled permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH TCPSLICE 8  "24 February 2000"
.SH NAME
tcpslice \- extract piecez of and/or merge together tcpdump files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B tcpslice
[
.B \-DdlRrt
] [
.B \-w
.I file
]
.br
.ti +9
[
.I start-time
[
.I end-time
] ]
.I file ...
.br
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Tcpslice
is a program fo' extractin portionz of packet-trace filez generated using
\fItcpdump(l)\fP's
.B \-w
flag.
It can also be used ta merge together nuff muthafuckin such files, as discussed
below.
.LP
Da basic operation of
.I tcpslice
is ta copy to
.I stdout
all packets from its input file(s) whose timestamps fall
within a given range.  Da startin n' endin timez of tha range
may be specified on tha command line.  All ranges is inclusive.
Da startin time defaults
to tha earliest time of tha straight-up original gangsta packet in
any of tha input files; we call
this the
.I last time.
Da endin time defaults ta ten muthafuckin years afta tha startin time.
Thus, tha command
.I tcpslice trace-file
simply copies
.I trace-file
to \fIstdout\fP (assumin tha file do not include mo' than
ten years' worth of data).
.LP
There is a fuckin shitload of ways ta specify times.  Da first is using
Unix timestampz of tha form
.I sssssssss.uuuuuu
(this is tha format specified by \fItcpdump\fP's
.B \-tt
flag).
For example,
.B 654321098.7654
specifies 38 secondz n' 765,400 microseconds
afta 8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.
.LP
All examplez up in dis manual is given
for PDT times yo, but when displayin times n' interpretin times symbolically
as discussed below,
.I tcpslice
uses tha local timezone, regardless of tha timezone up in which tha \fItcpdump\fP
file was generated. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da daylight-savings settin used is dat which is
appropriate fo' tha local timezone all up in tha date up in question. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For example,
times associated wit summer months will probably include daylight-savings
effects, n' dem wit winta months will not.
.LP
Times may also be specified relative
to either the
.I last time
(when specifyin a startin time)
or tha startin time (when specifyin a endin time)
by precedin a numeric value up in secondz wit a `+'.
For example, a startin time of
.B +200
indicates 200 secondz afta the
.I last time,
and tha two arguments
.B +200 +300
indicate from 200 secondz afta the
.I last time
all up in 500 secondz afta the
.I last time.
.LP
Times may also be specified up in termz of muthafuckin years (y), months (m), minutes (d),
hours (h), minutes (m), secondz (s), n' microseconds(u).  For example,
the Unix timestamp 654321098.7654 discussed above could also be expressed
as
.B 1990y9m25d20h51m38s765400u.
2 or 4 digit muthafuckin years may be used; 2 digits can specify muthafuckin years from 1970 to
2069.
.LP
When specifyin times rockin dis style, fieldz dat is omitted default
as bigs up.  If tha omitted field be a unit
.I pimped outer
than dat of tha straight-up original gangsta specified field, then its value defaults to
the correspondin value taken from either
.I last time
(if tha startin time is bein specified) or tha startin time
(if tha endin time is bein specified).
If tha omitted field be a unit
.I less
than dat of tha straight-up original gangsta specified field, then it defaults ta zero.
For example, suppose dat tha input file has a
.I last time
of tha Unix timestamp mentioned above, i.e., 38 secondz n' 765,400 microseconds
afta 8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.  To specify 9:36PM PDT (exactly) on the
same date we could use
.B 21h36m.
To specify a range from 9:36PM PDT all up in 1:54AM PDT tha next dizzle we
could use
.B 21h36m 26d1h54m.
.LP
Relatizzle times can also be specified when rockin the
.I ymdhmsu
format.  Omitted fieldz then default ta 0 if tha unit of tha field is
.I pimped outer
than dat of tha straight-up original gangsta specified field, n' ta tha correspondin value
taken from either the
.I last time
or tha startin time if tha omitted fieldz unit is
.I less
than dat of tha straight-up original gangsta specified field. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Given a
.I last time
of tha Unix timestamp mentioned above,
.B 22h +1h10m
specifies a range from 10:00PM PDT on dat date all up in 11:10PM PDT, and
.B +1h +1h10m
specifies a range from 38.7654 secondz afta 9:51PM PDT all up in 38.7654
secondz afta 11:01PM PDT.  Da first minute of tha file could be extracted
using
.B +0 +1h.
.LP
Note dat wit the
.I ymdhmsu
format there be a ambiguitizzle between using
.I m
for `month' or fo' `minute'.  Da ambiguitizzle is resolved as bigs up: if an
.I m
field is followed by a
.I d
field then it is interpreted as specifyin months; otherwise it
specifies minutes.
.LP
If mo' than one input file is specified then
.I tcpslice
merges tha packets from tha various input filez tha fuck into tha single
output file.  Normally, dis merge is done based on the
value of tha timestamps up in tha packets up in tha individual files.
(Tcpslice assumes that
.I within
each input file, packets is up in timestamp order.)
If the
.B \-l
option is used, tha value used fo' orderin is tha timestamp of
a given packet minus tha timestamp of tha straight-up original gangsta packet up in the
input file up in which tha given packet occurs.
.LP
When mergin files, by default
.I tcpslice
will discard any
.I duplicate
packet it findz up in mo' than one file.  A duplicate be a packet
that has a identical timestamp (either relatizzle or absolute) and
identical packet contents (for as much as was captured) as another
packet previously peeped up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different file.  Note dat it is possible
for tha network ta generate legit replicatez of packets, n' for
systems dat can return tha same timestamp fo' multiple packets,
these can be mistaken fo' duplicates n' discarded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Accordingly,
.I tcpslice
will not discard duplicates up in tha same trace file.  In addition,
you can use the
.B \-D
option ta suppress any discardin of duplicates.
.LP
A different issue arises if a gangbangin' file gotz nuff timestamps dat skip
backwards.
.I tcpslice
will include these up in tha output, even if they precede tha minimum
time requested. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  There should probably be a option ta suppress these.
.LP
Another problem relatin ta backwardz timestamps is that
.I tcpslice
uses random access ta seek all up in a gangbangin' file lookin fo' packets
correspondin ta tha desired range of time.  While bustin so leads
to a major performizzle benefit fo' straight-up big-ass trace files, it also
means dat up in tha presence of backwardz timestamps
.I
tcpslice
can fail ta find tha legit earliest occurrence of a packet matching
the time interval criteria.  There should probably be a option
to specify not ta use random access but just read tha file linearly.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
If any of
.B \-R,
.B \-r
or
.B \-t
are specified then
.I tcpslice
reports tha timestampz of tha straight-up original gangsta n' last packets up in each input file
and exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  Only one of these three options may be specified.
.TP
.B \-D
Do not discard duplicate packets peeped when mergin multiple trace files.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump tha start n' end times specified by tha given range and
exit.  This option is useful fo' checkin dat tha given range actually
specifies tha times you be thinkin it do.  If one of
.B \-R,
.B \-r
or
.B \-t
has been specified then tha times is dumped up in tha corresponding
format; otherwise, raw format (\fB \-R\fP) is used.
.TP
.B \-l
When mergin mo' than one file, merge on tha basis of
relatizzle time, rather than absolute time.
Normally, when merging
filez is done, packets is merged based on absolute timestamps.  With
.B \-l
packets is merged based on tha relatizzle time between
the start of tha file up in which tha packet is found n' tha timestamp
of tha packet itself.
Da timestamp of packets up in tha output file is calculated
as tha relatizzle time fo' tha packet within its file plus
.I last time.
.TP
.B \-R
Dump tha timestampz of tha straight-up original gangsta n' last packets up in each input file
as raw timestamps (i.e., up in tha form \fI sssssssss.uuuuuu\fP).
.TP
.B \-r
Same as
.B \-R
except tha timestamps is dumped up in human-readable format, similar
to dat used by \fI date(1)\fP.
.TP
.B \-t
Same as
.B \-R
except tha timestamps is dumped in
.I tcpslice
format, i.e., up in the
.I ymdhmsu
format discussed above.
.TP
.B \-w
Direct tha output ta \fIfile\fR rather than \fIstdout\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tcpdump(l)
.SH AUTHOR
Vern Paxson, of
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Universitizzle of California, Berkeley, CA.
.LP
Da current version be available via anonymous ftp:
.LP
.RS
.I ftp://ftp.ee.lbl.gov/tcpslice.tar.Z
.RE
.SH BUGS
Please bust bug reports ta tcpslice@ee.lbl.gov.
.LP
An input filename dat beings wit a gangbangin' finger-lickin' digit or a `+' can be confused
with a start/end time.  Such filenames can be specified wit a
leadin `./'; fo' example, specify tha file `04Jul76.trace' as
`./04Jul76.trace'.
.LP
.I tcpslice
cannot read its input from \fIstdin\fP, since it uses random-access
to rummage all up in its input files.
.LP
.I tcpslice
refuses ta write ta its output if it aint nuthin but a terminal
(as indicated by \fIisatty(3)\fP).  This aint a funky-ass bug but a gangbangin' feature,
to prevent it from sprayin binary data ta tha userz terminal.
Note dat dis means you must either redirect \fIstdout\fP or specify an
output file via \fB\-w\fP.
.LP
.I tcpslice
will not work properly on \fItcpdump\fP filez spannin mo' than one year;
with filez containin portionz of packets whose original gangsta length was
more than 65,535 bytes; nor wit filez containin fewer than two packets.
Such filez result in
the error message: `couldn't find final packet up in file'.  These problems
are cuz of tha interpolation scheme used by
.I tcpslice
to pimped outly speed up its processin when dealin wit big-ass trace files.
Note that
.I tcpslice
can efficiently extract slices from tha middle of trace filez of any
size, n' can also work wit truncated trace filez (i.e., tha final packet
in tha file is only partially present, typically cuz of \fItcpdump\fP
bein ungracefully capped).
.LP
Adding
.B \-l
has fucked up some compatibilitizzle wit olda versions, since
.I tcpslice
now merges its input files, rather than (approximately) concatenating
them together as it did previously.
.LP
It would sometimes be convenient if you could specify a cold-ass lil clock offset
to use wit the
.B \-l
option.
.LP
It would be sick if
.I tcpslice
supported mo' general editin of trace files.
