.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Internationistic Businizz Machines Corporation
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "tcsd" 8 "2005-03-15" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack 
.SH NAME
tcsd \- daemon dat manages Trusted Computin resources
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.B tcsd
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-c\ <configfile>\ ]
.RB [ \-h ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Trousers be a open-source TCG Software Stack (TSS), busted out under tha BSD
License. Trousers aims ta be compliant wit tha current (1.1b) n' 
upcomin (1.2) TSS justifications available from tha Trusted Computin Group 
website: http://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org.

\fBtcsd\fR be a user space daemon dat should be (accordin ta tha TSS spec)
the only portal ta tha TPM thang driver n' shiznit fo' realz. At boot time, \fBtcsd\fR should 
be started, it should open tha TPM thang driver n' from dat point on, all 
requests ta tha TPM should go all up in tha TSS stack. Da \fBtcsd\fR manages TPM
resources n' handlez requests from TSPz both local n' remote.

.TP
\fB\-f,\ \-\-foreground\fR
run tha daemon up in tha foreground

.TP
\fB\-e\fR
attempt ta connect ta software TPMs over TCP

.TP
\fB\-c,\ \-\-config <configfile>\fR
use tha provided configuration file rather than tha default configuration file

.TP
\fB\-h,\ \-\-help\fR
display help message

.SH "ACCESS CONTROL"
.PP
There is two typez of access control fo' tha \fBtcsd\fR, access ta the
daemonz socket itself n' access ta specific commandz internal ta the
\fBtcsd\fR fo' realz. Access ta tha \fBtcsd\fRz port should be controlled by tha system
administrator rockin firewall rules.  If rockin iptables, tha followin rule
will allow a specific host access ta tha tcsd:

# iptablez -A INPUT -s $IP_ADDRESS -p tcp --destination-port 30003 -j ACCEPT

Access ta individual commandz internal ta tha tcsd is configured by the
\fBtcsd\fR configuration filez "remote_ops" directive. Each function call
in tha TCS API is reachable by a unique ordinal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Each labeled "remote op"
actually defines a set of ordinals (usually mo' than one) necessary to
accomplish tha operation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. So, fo' example, tha "random" operation enables
the ordinals fo' openin n' closin a cold-ass lil context, callin TCS_StirRandom
and TCS_GetRandom, as well as TCS_FreeMemory. By default, connections from
localhost will allow any ordinals.

.SH "DATA FILES"
.PP
TSS applications have access ta 2 different kindz of 'persistant' storage. 'User' 
persistant storage has tha gametime of dat of tha application rockin it 
and therefore is destroyed when a application exits, n' you can put dat on yo' toast.  User PS is controlled 
by tha TSP of tha application. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  'System' persistent storage is controlled by 
the TCS n' stays valid across application gametimes, \fBtcsd\fR restarts n' 
system resets, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. Data registered up in system PS stays valid until a application 
requests dat it be removed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! User PS filez is by default stored as 
/var/lib/tpm/user.{pid} n' tha system PS file by default is /var/lib/tpm/system.data. 
Da system PS file is initially pimped when ballershizzle of tha TPM is first 
taken.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
\fBtcsd\fR configuration is stored by default up in /etc/tcsd.conf

.SH "DEBUG OUTPUT"
If TrouSerS has been compiled wit debuggin enabled, tha debuggin output
can be supressed by settin tha TSS_DEBUG_OFF environment variable.

.SH "DEVICE DRIVERS"
.PP
\fBtcsd\fR is compatible wit tha IBM Research TPM thang driver available
from http://ibmswtpm.sourceforge.net/ n' tha TPM thang driver available
from http://sf.net/projects/tpmdd, which be also available up in tha upstream
Linux kernel n' nuff Linux distros.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
\fBtcsd\fR conforms ta tha Trusted Computin Group Software
Specification version 1.1 Golden

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBtcsd.conf\fR(5)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Kent Yoder

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs ta <trousers-tech@lists.sf.net>
