.TH TELEPATHY-SALUT "8" "October 2007" "Telepathy" "D-Bus skillz"
\" This playa page was freestyled by Semen McVittie fo' tha Debian project,
\" but may be used by others.
\" Copyright © 2007 Collabora Ltd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! <http://www.collabora.co.uk/>
\" It may be distributed under tha same terms as telepathy-salut itself.
.SH NAME
telepathy-salut \- Telepathy connection manager fo' link-local XMPP
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/usr/libexec/telepathy\-salut\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Salut implements tha Telepathy D-Bus justification fo' link-local XMPP
(XEP-0174, often called "Bonjour"), allowin Telepathy clients like
.BR empathy (1)
to rap wit other implementationz of link-local XMPP, such as
iChat. Well shiiiit, it also extendz tha protocol ta support multicast-based chat rooms
and collaboration.
.PP
It be a D-Bus steez which runs on tha session bus, n' should probably be
started automatically by D-Bus activation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it might be useful to
start it manually fo' debugging.
.SH OPTIONS
There is no command-line options.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBSALUT_LOGFILE\fR=\fIfilename\fR
If set, debug output will git all up in tha given file rather than ta stderr.
.TP
\fBSALUT_DEBUG\fR=\fItype\fR
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output, or various undocumented options
(which may chizzle from release ta release) ta filta tha output.
\fBGIBBER_DEBUG\fR=\fItype\fR
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output from tha Gibber XMPP library used by
Salut, or various undocumented options (which may chizzle from release to
release) ta filta tha output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/ ,
.IR http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/CategorySalut ,
.IR http://www.xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0174.html ,
.BR empathy (1)
