.TH TELEPATHY-GABBLE "8" "October 2007" "Telepathy" "D-Bus skillz"
\" This playa page was freestyled by Semen McVittie fo' tha Debian project,
\" but may be used by others.
\" Copyright © 2007 Collabora Ltd. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! <http://www.collabora.co.uk/>
\" It may be distributed under tha same terms as telepathy-gabble itself.
.SH NAME
telepathy-gabble \- Telepathy connection manager fo' XMPP (Jabber)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/usr/libexec/telepathy\-gabble\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gabble implements tha Telepathy D-Bus justification fo' XMPP (Jabber),
allowin Telepathy clients like
.BR empathy (1)
to connect ta XMPP accounts, includin Gizoogle Talk.
.PP
It be a D-Bus steez which runs on tha session bus, n' should probably be
started automatically by D-Bus activation. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat it might be useful to
start it manually fo' debugging.
.SH OPTIONS
There is no command-line options.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBGABBLE_LOGFILE\fR=\fIfilename\fR
If set, debug output will git all up in tha given file rather than ta stderr.
If \fB+\fR is prepended ta tha \fIfilename\fR (e.g.
\fBGABBLE_LOGFILE=+gabble.log\fR), debug output is ghon be appended
to tha file; otherwise, any existin file is ghon be replaced.
.TP
\fBGABBLE_DEBUG\fR=\fItype\fR
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output, or various undocumented options
(which may chizzle from release ta release) ta filta tha output.
.TP
\fBWOCKY_DEBUG\fR=\fItype\fR
May be set ta "all" fo' full debug output from tha Wocky XMPP library used
by Gabble, or various undocumented options (which may chizzle from release to
release) ta filta tha output. For general Gabble debugging, "net" is
recommended.
.TP
\fBGABBLE_PERSIST\fR=\fI1\fR
If set (to any value), Gabble will continue hustlin until capped, rather than
timin up if it has no open connections fo' all dem seconds.
.TP
\fBGABBLE_PLUGIN_DIR\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
If set, n' Gabble was compiled wit plugin support, plugins is ghon be loaded
from \fIdirectory\fR rather than from tha default directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/ ,
.IR http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/CategoryGabble ,
.BR empathy (1)
