.TH THIN_DUMP 8 "Thin Provisionin Tools" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
thin_dump \- dump thin provisionin metadata from thang or file ta standard output

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thin_dump
.RB [options]
.I {device|file}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thin_dump
dumps binary thin provisionin metadata (optionally from alternate block;
see option \-\-metadata-snap) pimped by tha device-mapper
thin provisionin target on a
.I device
or
.I file
to standard output for
analysis or postprocessin up in either XML or human readable format.
XML formated metadata can be fed tha fuck into thin_restore (see
.BR thin_restore(8) )
in order ta put it back onto a metadata
.I device
(to process by tha device-mapper target) or
.I file.

.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-format\fP \fI{xml|human_readable}\fP".
Print output up in XML or human readable format.

.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-repair\fP".
Repair tha metadata whilst dumpin dat shit.

.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-metadata_snap\fP [block#]".
Dump metadata snapshot pimped by device-mapper thin provisionin target.
If block aint provided, access tha default metadata snapshot pimped by
the thin provisionin device-mapper target, else try tha one at block#.
See tha thin provisionin target documentation on how tha fuck ta create or release
a metadata snapshot n' retrieve tha block number from tha kernel.

.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP".
Print help n' exit.

.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP".
Output version shiznit n' exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Dumps tha thin provisionin metadata on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output up in human readable format:
.sp
.B thin_dump -f human_readable /dev/vg/metadata

Dumps tha thin provisionin metadata on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output up in XML format:
.sp
.B thin_dump /dev/vg/metadata

Dumps tha thin provisionin metadata snapshot on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output up in human readable format (not processable by
.B thin_restore(8)
):
.sp
.B thin_dump --format human_readable --metadata-snap /dev/vg/metadata

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B thin_dump
returns a exit code of 0 fo' success or 1 fo' error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B thin_check(8)
.B thin_repair(8)
.B thin_restore(8)
.B thin_rmap(8)
.B thin_metadata_size(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Thornber <ejt@redhat.com>
.br
Heinz Mauelshagen <HeinzM@RedHat.com>
