.TH tickadj 8
.SH NAME
tickadj - set time-related kernel variables
.SH \ 

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBtickadj [ \fItick\fB ]\fR

\fBtickadj [ -Aqs ] [ -a \fItickadj\fB ] [ -t \fItick\fB ]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

Da \fBtickadj\fR program reads, n' optionally modifies, nuff muthafuckin timekeeping-related variablez up in olda kernels dat aint gots support fo' precision ttimekeeping, includin HP-UX, SunOS, Ultrix, SGI n' probably others. Those machines provide means ta patch tha kernel \fB/dev/kmem\fR\[char46] Newer machines wit kernel time support, includin Solaris, Tru64, FreeBSD n' Linux, should NOT use tha program, even if it appears ta work, as it will destabilize tha kernel time support. Use tha \fBntptime\fR program instead.

Da particular variablez dat can be chizzled wit \fBtickadj\fR include \fBtick\fR, which is tha number of microsecondz added ta tha system time fo' a cold-ass lil clock interrupt, \fBtickadj\fR, which sets tha slew rate n' resolution used by tha \fBadjtime\fR system call, n' \fBdosynctodr\fR, which indicates ta tha kernels on some machines whether they should internally adjust tha system clock ta keep it up in line wit time-of-dizzle clock or not.

On Linux, only tha \fBtick\fR variable is supported n' tha only allowed argument is tha tick value.

By default, wit no arguments, \fBtickadj\fR readz tha variablez of interest up in tha kernel n' displays em fo' realz. At tha same time, it determines a "optimal" value fo' tha value of tha \fBtickadj\fR variable if tha intent is ta run tha \fBntpd\fR Network Time Protocol (NTP) daemon, n' prints dis as well. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. Since tha operation of \fBtickadj\fR when readin tha kernel mimics tha operation of similar partz of tha \fBntpd\fR program fairly closely, dis can be useful when debuggin problems wit \fBntpd\fR\[char46]

Note dat \fBtickadj\fR should be run wit some caution when bein used fo' tha last time on different typez of machines. Da operations which \fBtickadj\fR tries ta big-ass up is not guaranteed ta work on all Unix machines n' may up in rare cases cause tha kernel ta crash.

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

.RS 0
.TP 8
\fB-a \fItickadj\fB\fR
Set tha kernel variable \fBtickadj\fR ta tha value \fI\fBtickadj\fI\fRspecified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 8
\fB-A\fR
Set tha kernel variable \fBtickadj\fR ta a internally computed "optimal" value. 
.TP 8
\fB-t \fItick\fB\fR
Set tha kernel variable \fBtick\fR ta tha value \fI\fBtick\fI\fR specified. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.TP 8
\fB-s\fR
Set tha kernel variable \fBdosynctodr\fR ta zero, which disablez tha hardware time-of-year clock, a prerequisite fo' hustlin tha \fBntpd\fR daemon under SunOS 4.x.
.TP 8
\fB-q\fR
Normally, \fBtickadj\fR is like verbose bout what tha fuck it is bustin. Da \fB-q\fR flag  drops some lyrics ta it ta shut tha fuck up bout every last muthafuckin thang except errors. 
.RE

.SH FILES
\fB/vmunix /unix /dev/kmem\fR

.SH BUGS
Fiddlin wit kernel variablez at run time as a part of ordinary operations be a hideous practice which is only necessary ta make up fo' deficiencies up in tha implementation of \fBadjtime\fR up in nuff kernels and/or brokennizz of tha system clock up in some vendors' kernels. Well shiiiit, it would be much betta if tha kernels was fixed n' tha \fBtickadj\fR program went away. 
.SH SEE ALSO

ntpd(8)

Da straight-up legit HTML documentation.

This file was automatically generated from HTML source.

