.TH TLSMGR 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
tlsmgr
\-
Postfix TLS session cache n' PRNG manager
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBtlsmgr\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) manages tha Postfix TLS session caches.
It stores n' retrieves cache entries on request by
\fBsmtpd\fR(8) n' \fBsmtp\fR(8) processes, n' periodically
removes entries dat have expired.

Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) also manages tha PRNG (pseudo random number
generator) pool. Well shiiiit, it lyrics queries by tha \fBsmtpd\fR(8)
and \fBsmtp\fR(8)
processes ta seed they internal PRNG pools.

Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8)z PRNG pool is initially seeded from
an external source (EGD, /dev/urandom, or regular file).
It be updated at configurable pseudo-random intervals with
data from tha external source. Well shiiiit, it is updated periodically
with data from TLS session cache entries n' wit tha time
of day, n' is updated wit tha time of dizzle whenever a
process requests \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) service.

Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) saves tha PRNG state ta a exchange file
periodically n' when tha process terminates, n' reads
the exchange file when initializin its PRNG.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) aint security-sensitive. Da code dat maintains
the external n' internal PRNG pools do not "trust" the
data dat it manipulates, n' tha code dat maintains the
TLS session cache do not bust a nut on tha contentz of tha cached
entries, except fo' seedin its internal PRNG pool.

Da \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) can be run chrooted n' wit reduced privileges.
At process startup it connects ta tha entropy source and
exchange file, n' creates or truncates tha optionizzle TLS
session cache files.

With Postfix version 2.5 n' later, tha \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) no
longer uses root privileges when openin cache files. These
filez should now be stored under tha Postfix-owned
\fBdata_directory\fR.  As a migration aid, a attempt to
open a cold-ass lil cache file under a non-Postfix directory is redirected
to tha Postfix-owned \fBdata_directory\fR, n' a warning
is logged.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta tha syslog daemon.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
There is no automatic means ta limit tha number of entries up in the
TLS session caches and/or tha size of tha TLS cache files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is not picked up automatically,
because \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) be a persistent processes.  Use the
command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" afta a cold-ass lil configuration chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "TLS SESSION CACHE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBlmtp_tls_loglevel (0)\fR"
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_loglevel
configuration parameter.
.IP "\fBlmtp_tls_session_cache_database (empty)\fR"
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_session_cache_database
configuration parameter.
.IP "\fBlmtp_tls_session_cache_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da LMTP-specific version of tha smtp_tls_session_cache_timeout
configuration parameter.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_loglevel (0)\fR"
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP client loggin of TLS activity.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_session_cache_database (empty)\fR"
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP client
TLS session cache.
.IP "\fBsmtp_tls_session_cache_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP client TLS session cache
information.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_loglevel (0)\fR"
Enable additionizzle Postfix SMTP server loggin of TLS activity.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_session_cache_database (empty)\fR"
Name of tha file containin tha optionizzle Postfix SMTP server
TLS session cache.
.IP "\fBsmtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da expiration time of Postfix SMTP server TLS session cache
information.
.SH "PSEUDO RANDOM NUMBER GENERATOR"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBtls_random_source (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da external entropy source fo' tha in-memory \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) pseudo
random number generator (PRNG) pool.
.IP "\fBtls_random_bytes (32)\fR"
Da number of bytes dat \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) readz from $tls_random_source
when (re)seedin tha in-memory pseudo random number generator (PRNG)
pool.
.IP "\fBtls_random_exchange_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Name of tha pseudo random number generator (PRNG) state file
that is maintained by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8).
.IP "\fBtls_random_prng_update_period (3600s)\fR"
Da time between attempts by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) ta save tha state of
the pseudo random number generator (PRNG) ta tha file specified
with $tls_random_exchange_name.
.IP "\fBtls_random_reseed_period (3600s)\fR"
Da maximal time between attempts by \fBtlsmgr\fR(8) ta re-seed the
in-memory pseudo random number generator (PRNG) pool from external
sources.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdata_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da directory wit Postfix-writable data filez (for example:
caches, pseudo-random numbers).
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtp(8), Postfix SMTP client
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
TLS_README, Postfix TLS configuration n' operation
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Lutz Jaenicke
BTU Cottbus
Allgemeine Elektrotechnik
Universitaetsplatz 3-4
D-03044 Cottbus, Germany

Adapted by:
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
