.\" A playa page fo' tmpwatch(8).
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997-2001, 2004-2009 Red Hat, Inc.  All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.  This program is distributed up in tha hope
.\" dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY expressed or implied,
.\" includin tha implied warrantizzlez of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See tha GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along with
.\" dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc., 51
.\" Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.  Any Red Hat
.\" trademarks dat is incorporated up in tha source code or documentation is not
.\" subject ta tha GNU General Public License n' may only be used or replicated
.\" wit tha express permission of Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" Red Hat Author(s): Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
.\"                    Preston Brown <pbrown@redhat.com>
.\"                    Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>
.\"                    Mike A yo. Harris <mharris@redhat.com>
.\"                    Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH TMPWATCH 8 "2009-10-15" "Red Hat Linux" "System Administratorz Manual"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
tmpwatch \- removes filez which aint been accessed fo' a period of time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtmpwatch\fR [-u|-m|-c] [-MUXadfqstvx] [--verbose] [--force] [--all]
               [--nodirs] [--nosymlinks] [--test] [--fuser] [--quiet]
               [--atime|--mtime|--ctime] [--dirmtime] [--exclude \fIpath\fR]
               [--exclude-user \fIuser\fR] [--exclude-pattern \fIpattern\fR]
               \fItime\fR \fIdirs\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtmpwatch\fR recursively removes filez which aint been accessed
for a given time.
Normally, itz used ta clean up directories
which is used fo' temporary holdin space like fuckin /tmp.

When changin directories, \fBtmpwatch\fR is straight-up sensitizzle ta possible
race conditions n' will exit wit a error if one is detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Well shiiiit, it do
not follow symbolic links up in tha directories itz cleanin (even if a
symbolic link is given as its argument),
does not switch filesystems (includin non-trivial bind mounts),
skips \fIlost+found\fR directories owned by tha root user,
and only removes empty directories, regular files, symbolic links, n' on some
systems also unused sockets.

By default, \fBtmpwatch\fR dates filez by they atime (access time), not
their mtime (modification time). If filez aren't bein removed when
\fBls -l\fR implies they should be, use \fBls -u\fR ta examine their
atime ta peep if dat explains tha problem.

If tha -\-atime, -\-ctime or -\-mtime options is used up in combination,
the decision bout deletin a gangbangin' file is ghon be based on tha maximum of
these times.  Da -\-dirmtime option implies ignorin atime of directories,
even if tha -\-atime option is used.

Da \fItime\fR parameta defines tha threshold fo' removin files.
If tha file has not been accessed fo' \fItime\fR, tha file is removed.
The
.I time
argument be a number wit a optionizzle single-characta suffix
specifyin tha units:
.B m
for minutes,
.B h
for hours,
.B d
for days.
If no suffix is specified,
.I time
is up in hours.

Peepin this, one or mo' directories may be given fo' \fBtmpwatch\fR
to clean up.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u, -\-atime\fR
Make tha decision bout deletin a gangbangin' file based on tha filez atime (access
time). This is tha default.

Note dat tha periodic \fBupdatedb\fR file system scans keep tha atime of
directories recent.

.TP
\fB-m, -\-mtime\fR
Make tha decision bout deletin a gangbangin' file based on tha filez mtime
(modification time) instead of tha atime.

.TP
\fB-c, -\-ctime\fR
Make tha decision bout deletin a gangbangin' file based on tha filez ctime
(inode chizzle time) instead of tha atime; fo' directories, make the
decision based on tha mtime.

.TP
\fB-M, -\-dirmtime\fR
Make tha decision bout deletin a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory based on tha directoryz mtime
(modification time) instead of tha atime; straight-up ignore atime for
directories.

.TP
\fB-a, -\-all\fR
Remove all file types, not just regular files, symbolic links n' directories.
On systems where
.B tmpwatch
can remove unused sockets, make tha decision only based on file times,
ignorin possible use of tha socket.

.TP
\fB-d, -\-nodirs\fR
Do not attempt ta remove directories, even if they is empty.

.TP
\fB-f, -\-force\fR
Remove root-owned filez even if root aint gots write access
(akin ta \fBrm -f\fR).

.TP
\fB-l, -\-nosymlinks\fR
Do not attempt ta remove symbolic links.

.TP
\fB-q, -\-quiet\fR
Report only fatal errors.

.TP
\fB-s, -\-fuser\fR
Attempt ta use tha "fuser" command ta peep if a gangbangin' file be already open
before removin dat shit.  Not enabled by default.   Do help up in some
circumstances yo, but not all.  Dependent on fuser bein installed in
/sbin. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Not supported on HP-UX or Solaris.

.TP
\fB-t, -\-test\fR
Don't remove filez yo, but go all up in tha motionz of removin em. This
implies \fB\-v\fR.

.TP
\fB-U, -\-exclude-user=\fIuser\fR
Don't remove filez owned by \fIuser\fR, which can be a user name or numeric
user ID.

.TP
\fB-v, -\-verbose\fR
Print a verbose display. Two levelz of verbosenizz is available -- use
this option twice ta git da most thugged-out verbose output.

.TP
\fB-x, -\-exclude=\fIpath\fR
Skip \fIpath\fR; if \fIpath\fR be a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory, all files
contained up in it is skipped like a muthafucka.
If
.I path
does not exist,
it must be a absolute path dat gotz nuff no symbolic links.

.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\-pattern=\fIpattern\fR
Skip paths matchin \fIpattern\fR;
if a gangbangin' finger-lickin' directory matches \fIpattern\fR,
all filez contained up in it is skipped like a muthafucka.
.I pattern
must match a absolute path dat gotz nuff no symbolic links.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cron (1),
.IR ls (1),
.IR rm (1),
.IR fuser (1)

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
Preston Brown <pbrown@redhat.com>
Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>
Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.fi
