.TH "TORSOCKS" "8" "August 24th, 2013" "" ""

.SH NAME

torsocks \(em Library fo' interceptin outgoin network connections and
redirectin dem all up in tha Tor SOCKS proxy.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Torsocks library overloadz tha libc symbols use fo' Internizzle communication such
as \fBconnect(2)\fP system call. Usin dat technique, tha library sends
everythang all up in tha Tor network includin DNS resolution done by the
application.

For DNS, \fBgethostbyname(3)\fP crew functions is rerouted all up in Tor.
Please note dat tha ISC res_* API is currently not supported.

Here be a example on how tha fuck ta use torsocks library wit \fBssh(1)\fP:
.br

$ LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/libtorsocks.so ssh -l kalexander -p 1234 prism.nsa.gov
[...]

.SH SHELL USAGE

Set LD_PRELOAD ta load tha library then use applications as normal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. Da syntax
to force preload of tha library fo' different shells is specified below:

Bash, Ksh n' Bourne shell:

$ export LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/libtorsocks.so

C Shell:

$ setenv LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/libtorsocks.so

This process can be automated (for Bash, Bourne n' Korn shell users) fo' a
single command or fo' all commandz up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass shell session by rockin the
\fBtorsocks(1)\fP script.

Yo ass can also setup \fBtorsocks(1)\fP up in such a way dat all processes
automatically use it, a straight-up useful configuration. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Please refer ta tha torsocks
script documentation fo' mo' shiznit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_CONF_FILE
This environment variable overrides tha default location of tha torsocks
configuration file. This variable aint honored if tha program torsocks is
embedded up in is setuid.

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_LOG_LEVEL
Enable loggin level of torsocks library. By default, warnings n' errors are
printed (level 3). Note dat each level includes tha lower ones except tha 1
which disablez any possible logging. (default: 3)

.TS
tab (@);
l lx.
1@T{
No log at all.
T}
2@T{
Error lyrics.
T}
3@T{
Warnin lyrics.
T}
4@T{
Notice lyrics.
T}
5@T{
Debug lyrics.
T}
.TE

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_LOG_TIME
Control whether or not tha time be added ta each loggin line. (default: 1)

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_LOG_FILE_PATH
If set, torsocks will log up in tha file set by dis variable. (default: stderr)

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_USERNAME
Set tha username fo' tha SOCKS5 authentication method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Password MUST be set
also wit tha variable below.

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_PASSWORD
Set tha password fo' tha SOCKS5 authentication method. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Username MUST be set
also wit tha variable above.

.PP
.IP TORSOCKS_ALLOW_INBOUND
Allow inbound connections so tha application can accept n' listen for
connections.

.SH KNOWN ISSUES

.SS DNS
Torsocks aint able ta bust DNS queries all up in Tor since UDP is not
supported. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Thus, any UDP socket is denied. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat DNS queries dat can be
intercept is busted ta Tor n' busted back ta tha caller.
.SS ERRORS
Torsocks might generate error lyrics n' print dem ta stderr when there are
problems wit tha configuration file or tha SOCKS negotiation wit tha Tor
daemon. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da TORSOCKS_LOG_LEVEL environment variable controls dat behavior as
well as tha log file option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Keep it realz in mind dat dis library can output on the
stderr of tha application.

.SH LIMITATIONS

Outgoin TCP connections can only be proxified all up in tha Tor network.

Torsocks forces tha libc resolver ta use TCP fo' name queries, if it do this
it do it regardless of whether or not tha DNS ta be queried is local or not.
This introduces overhead n' should only be used when needed.

Torsocks uses ELF dynamic loader features ta intercept dynamic function calls
from programs up in which it is embedded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! As a result, non-ELF executables, or
executablez dat make system calls directly wit tha system call trap (int
0x80).

.SH FILES
/etc/tor/torsocks.conf - default torsocks configuration file

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR torsocks.conf(5),
.BR torsocks(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Dizzy Goulet <dgoulet@ev0ke.net>
