.TH TRIVIAL-REWRITE 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
trivial-rewrite
\-
Postfix address rewritin n' resolvin daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBtrivial-rewrite\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) daemon processes three typez of client
service requests:
.IP "\fBrewrite \fIcontext address\fR"
Rewrite a address ta standard form, accordin ta the
address rewritin context:
.RS
.IP \fBlocal\fR
Append tha domain names specified wit \fB$myorigin\fR or
\fB$mydomain\fR ta incomplete addresses; do \fBswap_bangpath\fR
and \fBallow_percent_hack\fR processin as busted lyrics bout below, and
strip source routed addresses (\fI@site,@site:user@domain\fR)
to \fIuser@domain\fR form.
.IP \fBremote\fR
Append tha domain name specified with
\fB$remote_header_rewrite_domain\fR ta incomplete
addresses. Otherwise tha result is identical ta dat of
the \fBlocal\fR address rewritin context. This prevents
Postfix from appendin tha local domain ta spam from skankyly
written remote clients.
.RE
.IP "\fBresolve \fIsender\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Resolve tha address ta a (\fItransport\fR, \fInexthop\fR,
\fIrecipient\fR, \fIflags\fR) quadruple. Da meanin of
the thangs up in dis biatch be as bigs up:
.RS
.IP \fItransport\fR
Da delivery agent ta use. This is tha straight-up original gangsta field of a entry
in tha \fBmaster.cf\fR file.
.IP \fInexthop\fR
Da host ta bust ta n' optionizzle delivery method shiznit.
.IP \fIrecipient\fR
Da envelope recipient address dat is passed on ta \fInexthop\fR.
.IP \fIflags\fR
Da address class, whether tha address requires relaying,
whether tha address has problems, n' whether tha request failed.
.RE
.IP "\fBverify \fIsender\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Resolve tha address fo' address verification purposes.
.SH "SERVER PROCESS MANAGEMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) servers run under control by
the Postfix master
server n' shit.  Each server can handle multiple simultaneous connections.
When all servers is busy while a cold-ass lil client connects, tha master
creates a freshly smoked up server process, provided dat tha trivial-rewrite
server process limit aint exceeded.
Each trivial-rewrite server terminates after
servin at least \fB$max_use\fR clientz of afta \fB$max_idle\fR
secondz of idle time.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
None. Da command do not interact wit tha outside ghetto. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) daemon aint securitizzle sensitive.
By default, dis daemon do not rap ta remote or local users.
It can run at a gangbangin' fixed low privilege up in a cold-ass lil chrooted environment.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
On busy mail systems a long-ass time may pass before a \fBmain.cf\fR
change affectin \fBtrivial-rewrite\fR(8) is picked up. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBresolve_dequoted_address (yes)\fR"
Resolve a recipient address safely instead of erectly, by
lookin inside quotes.
.IP "\fBresolve_null_domain (no)\fR"
Resolve a address dat endz up in tha "@" null domain as if the
local hostname was specified, instead of rejectin tha address as
invalid.
.IP "\fBresolve_numeric_domain (no)\fR"
Resolve "user@ipaddress" as "user@[ipaddress]", instead of
rejectin tha address as invalid.
.PP
Available wit Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBallow_min_user (no)\fR"
Allow a sender or recipient address ta have `-' as tha first
character.
.SH "ADDRESS REWRITING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBmyorigin ($myhostname)\fR"
Da domain name dat locally-posted mail appears ta come
from, n' dat locally posted mail is served up to.
.IP "\fBallow_percent_hack (yes)\fR"
Enable tha rewritin of tha form "user%domain" ta "user@domain".
.IP "\fBappend_at_myorigin (yes)\fR"
With locally submitted mail, append tha strang "@$myorigin" ta mail
addresses without domain shiznit.
.IP "\fBappend_dot_mydomain (yes)\fR"
With locally submitted mail, append tha strang ".$mydomain" to
addresses dat have no ".domain" shiznit.
.IP "\fBrecipient_delimita (empty)\fR"
Da separator between user names n' address extensions (user+foo).
.IP "\fBswap_bangpath (yes)\fR"
Enable tha rewritin of "site!user" tha fuck into "user@site".
.PP
Available up in Postfix 2.2 n' later:
.IP "\fBremote_header_rewrite_domain (empty)\fR"
Don't rewrite message headaz from remote clients at all when
this parameta is empty; otherwise, rewrite message headaz and
append tha specified domain name ta incomplete addresses.
.SH "ROUTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da followin be applicable ta Postfix version 2.0 n' later.
Earlier versions aint gots support for: virtual_transport,
relay_transport, virtual_alias_domains, virtual_mailbox_domains
or proxy_interfaces.
.IP "\fBlocal_transhiznit (local:$myhostname)\fR"
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination
for final delivery ta domains listed wit mydestination, n' for
[ipaddress] destinations dat match $inet_interfaces or $proxy_interfaces.
.IP "\fBvirtual_transhiznit (virtual)\fR"
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
final delivery ta domains listed wit $virtual_mailbox_domains.
.IP "\fBrelay_transhiznit (relay)\fR"
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
remote delivery ta domains listed wit $relay_domains.
.IP "\fBdefault_transhiznit (smtp)\fR"
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
destinations dat do not match $mydestination, $inet_interfaces,
$proxy_interfaces, $virtual_alias_domains, $virtual_mailbox_domains,
or $relay_domains.
.IP "\fBparent_domain_matches_subdomains (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
What Postfix features match subdomainz of "domain.tld" automatically,
instead of requirin a explicit ".domain.tld" pattern.
.IP "\fBrelayhost (empty)\fR"
Da next-hop destination of non-local mail; overrides non-local
domains up in recipient addresses.
.IP "\fBtransport_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit mappings from recipient address to
(message delivery transport, next-hop destination).
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBsender_dependent_relayhost_maps (empty)\fR"
A sender-dependent override fo' tha global relayhost parameter
setting.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5 n' later:
.IP "\fBempty_address_relayhost_maps_lookup_key (<>)\fR"
Da sender_dependent_relayhost_maps search strang dat will be
used instead of tha null sender address.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBempty_address_default_transport_maps_lookup_key (<>)\fR"
Da sender_dependent_default_transport_maps search strang that
will be used instead of tha null sender address.
.IP "\fBsender_dependent_default_transport_maps (empty)\fR"
A sender-dependent override fo' tha global default_transport
parameta setting.
.SH "ADDRESS VERIFICATION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Postfix version 2.1 introduces sender n' recipient address verification.
This feature is implemented by bustin  probe email lyrics that
are not straight-up delivered.
By default, address verification probes use tha same route
as regular mail. To override specific aspectz of message
routin fo' address verification probes, specify one or more
of tha following:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_local_transhiznit ($local_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha local_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_virtual_transhiznit ($virtual_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha virtual_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_relay_transhiznit ($relay_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha relay_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_default_transhiznit ($default_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha default_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_relayhost ($relayhost)\fR"
Overrides tha relayhost parameta settin fo' address verification
probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_transport_maps ($transport_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha transport_maps parameta settin fo' address verification
probes.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_dependent_relayhost_maps ($sender_dependent_relayhost_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha sender_dependent_relayhost_maps parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_dependent_default_transport_maps ($sender_dependent_default_transport_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha sender_dependent_default_transport_maps parameter
settin fo' address verification probes.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBempty_address_recipient (MAILER-DAEMON)\fR"
Da recipient of mail addressed ta tha null address.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBrelocated_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit freshly smoked up contact shiznit fo' playas or
domains dat no longer exist.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBshow_user_unknown_table_name (yes)\fR"
Display tha name of tha recipient table up in tha "User unknown"
responses.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBhelpful_warnings (yes)\fR"
Log warnings bout problematic configuration settings, n' provide
helpful suggestions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
transport(5), transhiznit table format
relocated(5), format of tha "user has moved" table
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_CLASS_README, Postfix address classes howto
ADDRESS_VERIFICATION_README, Postfix address verification
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
