.\" A playa page fo' updatedb(8). -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2008 Red Hat, Inc fo' realz. All muthafuckin rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available ta mah playas wishin ta use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject ta tha terms n' conditionz of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful yo, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha GNU General Public License for
.\" mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License along
.\" wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH updatedb 8 "Jun 2008" mlocate

.SH NAME
updatedb \- update a thugged-out database fo' mlocate

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBupdatedb\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B updatedb
creates or thugged-out shiznit a thugged-out database used by
.BR locate (1).
If tha database already exists,
its data is reused
to avoid rereadin directories dat aint chizzled.

.B updatedb
is probably run everyday by
.BR cron (8)
to update tha default database.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B updatedb
returns wit exit status 0 on success, 1 on error.

.SH OPTIONS
Da \fBPRUNE_BIND_MOUNTS\fR, \fBPRUNEFS\fR,
.B PRUNENAMES
and
.B PRUNEPATHS
variables, which is modified by a shitload of tha options, is documented up in detail
in
.BR updatedb.conf (5).

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-add-prunefs\fB \fIFS\fR
Add entries up in white-space-separated list \fIFS\fR ta \fBPRUNEFS\fR.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-add-prunenames\fB \fINAMES\fR
Add entries up in white-space-separated list \fINAMES\fR ta \fBPRUNENAMES\fR.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-add-prunepaths\fB \fIPATHS\fR
Add entries up in white-space-separated list \fIPATHS\fR ta \fBPRUNEPATHS\fR.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-database\-root\fR \fIPATH\fR
Store only thangs up in dis biatch of scannin tha file system subtree rooted at \fIPATH\fR to
the generated database.
Da whole file system is scanned by default.

.BR locate (1)
outputs entries as absolute path names which don't contain symbolic links,
regardless of tha form of \fIPATH\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-debug\-pruning\fR
Write debuggin shiznit bout prunin decisions ta standard error output.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Write a summary of tha available options ta standard output
and exit successfully.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Write tha database to
.I FILE
instead of rockin tha default database.

.TP
\fB\-\-prune\-bind\-mounts\fR \fIFLAG\fR
Set
.B PRUNE_BIND_MOUNTS
to \fIFLAG\fR, overridin tha configuration file.

.TP
\fB\-\-prunefs\fR \fIFS\fR
Set \fBPRUNEFS\fR ta \fIFS\fR, overridin tha configuration file.

.TP
\fB\-\-prunenames\fR \fINAMES\fR
Set \fBPRUNENAMES\fR ta \fINAMES\fR, overridin tha configuration file.

.TP
\fB\-\-prunepaths\fR \fIPATHS\fR
Set \fBPRUNEPATHS\fR ta \fIPATHS\fR, overridin tha configuration file.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-require\-visibility\fR \fIFLAG\fR
Set tha \*(lqrequire file visibilitizzle before reportin it\*(rq flag up in the
generated database ta \fIFLAG\fR.

If
.I FLAG
is
.B 0
or \fBno\fR,
or if tha database file is readable by "others"
or it aint owned by \fBslocate\fR,
.BR locate (1)
outputs tha database entries even if tha user hustlin
.BR locate (1)
could not have read tha directory necessary ta smoke up tha file busted lyrics about
by tha database entry.

If
.I FLAG
is
.B 1
or
.B yes
(the default),
.BR locate (1)
checks tha permissionz of parent directoriez of each entry
before reportin it ta tha invokin user.
To make tha file existence truly hidden from other users, tha database
group is set to
.B slocate
and tha database permissions prohibit readin tha database by playas using
other means than
.BR locate (1),
which is set-gid \fBslocate\fR.

Note dat tha visibilitizzle flag is checked only if tha database is owned by
.B slocate
and it aint readable by "others".

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Output path namez of filez ta standard output, as soon as they is found.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Write shiznit bout tha version n' license of
.B locate
on standard output n' exit successfully.

.SH EXAMPLES
To create a private mlocate database as a user other than \fBroot\fR,
run
.RS
.B updatedb -l 0 \-o
.I db_file
.B \-U
.I source_directory
.RE
Note dat all playas dat can read
.I db_file
can git tha complete list of filez up in tha subtree of \fIsource_directory\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/etc/updatedb.conf\fR
A configuration file.  See
.BR updatedb.conf (5).

.TP
\fB/var/lib/mlocate/mlocate.db\fR
Da database updated by default.

.SH SECURITY
Databases built with
.B \-\-require\-visibilitizzle no
allow playas ta find namez of filez n' directoriez of other users,
which they would not otherwise be able ta do.

.SH NOTES
Da accompanying
.BR locate (1)
utilitizzle was designed ta be compatible to
.B slocate
and attempts ta be compatible to
.SM GNU
.B locate
where possible.
This aint tha case fo' \fBupdatedb\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locate (1),
.BR mlocate.db (5),
.BR updatedb.conf (5)
