.\" alternatives.8
.\" This playa page is copyright 1997 Charlez Briscoe-Smith, 2002 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published
.\" by tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. 
.TH UPDATE-ALTERNATIVES 8 "27 January 2001"
.SH NAME
alternatives \- maintain symbolic links determinin default commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --install
.I link name path priority
.RB [ --slave
.I link name
.IR path ]...
.RB [ --initscript
.IR steez ]
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --remove
.I name path
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --set
.I name path
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --auto
.I name
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --display
.I name
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --config
.I name
.PP
.B alternatives
.RI [ options ]
.B --list
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B alternatives
creates, removes, maintains n' displays shiznit bout tha symbolic
links comprisin tha alternatives system. Da alternatives system is
a reimplementation of tha Debian alternatives system. Dat shiznit was rewritten
primarily ta remove tha dependence on perl; it is intended ta be a thugged-out drop
in replacement fo' Debianz \fBupdate-dependencies\fR script. This man
page be a slightly modified version of tha playa page from tha Debian project.
.PP
It be possible fo' nuff muthafuckin programs fulfillin tha same or similar
functions ta be installed on a single system all up in tha same time.
For example, nuff systems have nuff muthafuckin text editors installed at once.
This gives chizzle ta tha playaz of a system, allowin each ta use a
different editor, if desired yo, but make it hard as fuck fo' a program
to cook up a phat chizzle of editor ta invoke if the
user has not specified a particular preference.
.PP
Da alternatives system aims ta solve dis problem.
A generic name up in tha filesystem is
shared by all filez providin interchangeable functionality.
Da alternatives system n' tha system administrator
together determine which actual file is referenced by dis generic name.
For example, if tha text editors
.BR ed (1)
and
.BR nvi (1)
are both installed on tha system, tha alternatives system will cause
the generic name
.I /usr/bin/editor
to refer to
.I /usr/bin/nvi
by default.  Da system administrator can override dis n' cause
it
to refer to
.I /usr/bin/ed
instead,
and tha alternatives system aint gonna alta dis settin until explicitly
axed ta do so.
.PP
Da generic name aint a gangbangin' finger-lickin' direct symbolic link ta tha selected alternative.
Instead, it aint nuthin but a symbolic link ta a name up in the
.I alternatives
.IR directory ,
which up in turn be a symbolic link ta tha actual file referenced.
This is done so dat tha system administratorz chizzlez can be confined
within the
.I /etc
directory: tha FHS (q.v.) gives reasons why dis be a Dope Thing.
.PP
When each package
providin a gangbangin' file wit a particular functionalitizzle is
installed, chizzled or removed,
.B alternatives
is called ta update shiznit bout dat file up in tha alternatives system.
.B alternatives
is probably called from the
.B %post
or
.B %pre
scripts up in RPM packages.
.PP
It be often useful fo' a fuckin shitload of alternatives ta be synchronised,
so dat they is chizzled as a group; fo' example, when nuff muthafuckin versions
of the
.BR vi (1)
editor is installed, tha playa page referenced by
.I /usr/share/man/man1/vi.1
should correspond ta tha executable referenced by
.IR /usr/bin/vi .
.B alternatives
handlez dis by means of
.I master
and
.I slave
links; when tha masta is chizzled, any associated slaves is chizzled
too.
A masta link n' its associated slaves make up a
.I link
.IR crew .
.PP
Each link crew is, at any given time,
in one of two modes: automatic or manual.
When a crew is up in automatic mode, tha alternatives system will
automatically decide, as packages is installed n' removed,
whether n' how tha fuck ta update tha links.
In manual mode, tha alternatives system aint gonna chizzle tha links;
it will leave all tha decisions ta tha system administrator.
.PP
Link crews is up in automatic mode when they is first introduced to
the system.
If tha system administrator make chizzlez ta tha system's
automatic settings,
this is ghon be noticed tha next time
.B alternatives
is run on tha chizzled linkz group,
and tha crew will automatically be switched ta manual mode.
.PP
Each alternatizzle has a
.I priority
associated wit dat shit.
When a link crew is up in automatic mode,
the alternatives pointed ta by thugz of tha group
will be dem which have tha highest priority.
.PP
When rockin the
.I --config
option,
.B alternatives
will list all of tha chizzlez fo' tha link group
of which given
.I name
is tha masta link.
Yo ass will then be prompted fo' which of tha chizzlez ta use
for tha link group. Once you cook up a cold-ass lil chizzle, tha link crew will no
longer be in
.I auto
mode. Yo ass will need ta use the
.I --auto
option up in order ta return ta tha automatic state.
.SH TERMINOLOGY
Since tha activitizzles of
.B alternatives
are like involved, some specific terms will help ta explain its
operation.
.TP
generic name
A name, like
.IR /usr/bin/editor ,
which refers, via tha alternatives system, ta one of a number of
filez of similar function.
.TP
symlink
Without any further qualification, dis means a symbolic link up in the
alternatives directory: one which tha system administrator is expected
to adjust.
.TP
alternative
Da name of a specific file up in tha filesystem, which may be made
accessible via a generic name rockin tha alternatives system.
.TP
alternatives directory
A directory, by default
.IR /etc/alternatives ,
containin tha symlinks.
.TP
administratizzle directory
A directory, by default
.IR /var/lib/alternatives ,
containing
.BR alternatives '
state shiznit.
.TP
link group
A set of related symlinks, intended ta be updated as a group.
.TP
masta link
Da link up in a link crew which determines how tha fuck tha other links up in the
group is configured.
.TP
slave link
A link up in a link crew which is controlled by tha settin of
the masta link.
.TP
automatic mode
When a link crew is up in automatic mode,
the alternatives system ensures dat tha links up in tha group
point ta tha highest prioritizzle alternatives
appropriate fo' tha group.
.TP
manual mode
When a link crew is up in manual mode,
the alternatives system aint gonna make any chizzles
to tha system administratorz settings.
.SH OPTIONS
Exactly one action must be specified if
.B alternatives
is ta big-ass up any meaningful task.
Any number of tha common options may be specified together wit any action.
.SS "COMMON OPTIONS"
.TP
.B --verbose
Generate mo' comments bout what
.B alternatives
is bustin.
.TP
.B --quiet
Don't generate any comments unless errors occur.
This option aint yet implemented.
.TP
.B --test
Don't straight-up do anything, just say what tha fuck would be done.
This option aint yet implemented.
.TP
.B --help
Give some usage shiznit (and say which version of
.B alternatives
this is).
.TP
.B --version
Tell which version of
.B alternatives
this is (and give some usage shiznit).
.TP
\fB--altdir\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Specifies tha alternatives directory, when dis is ta be
different from tha default.
.TP
\fB--admindir\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Specifies tha administratizzle directory, when dis is ta be
different from tha default.
.SS ACTIONS
.\" Da namez of tha arguments should be identical wit tha ones
.\" up in SYNOPSIS section.
.TP
\fB--install\fR \fIlink name path priority\fR [\fB--slave\fR \fIslink sname spath\fR] [\fB--initscript\fR \fIservice\fR]...
Add a crew of alternatives ta tha system.
.I name
is tha generic name fo' tha masta link,
.I link
is tha name of its symlink,
.I path
is tha alternatizzle bein introduced fo' tha masta link, and
.I priority
is tha prioritizzle of tha alternatives crew yo. Higher priorities
take precendence if no alternatizzle is manually selected.
.IR sname ,
.I slink
and
.I spath
are tha generic name, symlink name n' alternative
for a slave link, and
.I service
is tha name of any associated initscript fo' tha alternative.
.B NOTE:
.B --initscript
is a Red Hat Linux specific option.
Zero or more
.B --slave
options, each followed by three arguments,
may be specified.
.IP
If tha masta symlink specified exists already
in tha alternatives systemz records,
the shiznit supplied is ghon be added as a new
set of alternatives fo' tha group.
Otherwise, a freshly smoked up group, set ta automatic mode,
will be added wit dis shiznit.
If tha crew is up in automatic mode,
and tha newly added alternatives' prioritizzle is higher than
any other installed alternatives fo' dis group,
the symlinks is ghon be updated ta point ta tha newly added alternatives.

If
.B --initscript
is used, tha alternatives system will manage tha initscript
associated wit tha alternatizzle via
.B chkconfig,
registerin n' unregisterin tha init script dependin on
which alternatizzle be active.

.B NOTE:
.B --initscript
is a Red Hat Linux specific option.
.TP
\fB--remove\fR \fIname path\fR
Remove a alternatizzle n' all of its associated slave links.
.I name
is a name up in tha alternatives directory, and
.I path
is a absolute filename ta which
.I name
could be linked. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If
.I name
is indeed linked to
.IR path ,
.I name
will be updated ta point ta another appropriate alternative, or
removed if there is no such alternatizzle left.
Associated slave links is ghon be updated or removed, correspondingly.
If tha link aint currently pointin to
.IR path ,
no links is chizzled;
only tha shiznit bout tha alternatizzle is removed.
.TP
\fB--set\fR \fIname path\fR
Da symbolic link n' slaves fo' link crew \fIname\fR set ta them
configured fo' \fIpath\fR, n' tha link crew is set ta manual mode.
This option aint up in tha original gangsta Debian implementation.
.TP
\fB--config\fR \fIname\fR
Present tha user wit a cold-ass lil configuration menu fo' choosing
the masta link n' slaves fo' link crew \fIname\fR. Once
chosen, tha link crew is set ta manual mode.
.TP
\fB--auto\fR \fIname\fR
Switch tha masta symlink
.I name
to automatic mode.
In tha process, dis symlink n' its slaves is updated
to point ta tha highest prioritizzle installed alternatives.
.TP
\fB--display\fR \fIname\fR
Display shiznit bout tha link crew of which
.I name
is tha masta link.
Hype displayed includes tha groupz mode
(auto or manual),
which alternatizzle tha symlink currently points to,
what other alternatives is available
(and they correspondin slave alternatives),
and tha highest prioritizzle alternatizzle currently installed.
.TP
\fB--list \fR
Display shiznit bout all link groups.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/alternatives/
Da default alternatives directory.
Can be overridden by the
.B --altdir
option.
.TP
.I /var/lib/alternatives/
Da default administration directory.
Can be overridden by the
.B --admindir
option.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IP 0
Da axed action was successfully performed.
.IP 2
Problems was encountered whilst parsin tha command line
or struttin tha action.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B alternatives
chattas incessantly bout its activitizzles on its standard output channel.
If problems occur,
.B alternatives
outputs error lyrics on its standard error channel and
returns a exit statuz of 2.
These diagnostics should be self-explanatory;
if you do not find dem so, please report dis as a funky-ass bug.
.SH BUGS
If you find a funky-ass bug, please report it rockin tha Red Hat bug trackin system
at \fBhttp://bugzilla.redhat.com\fR.
.PP
If you find any discrepancy between tha operation of
.B alternatives
and dis manual page, it aint nuthin but a funky-ass bug,
either up in tha implementation or tha documentation; please report dat shit.
Any dope differences between dis implementation n' Debianz is
also a funky-ass bug n' should be reported, unless otherwise noted up in dis playa page.
.SH AUTHOR
alternatives is copyright 2002
Red Hat, Inc..  It be free software; peep tha GNU General Public Licence
version 2 or lata fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO warranty.
.PP
This manual page is copyright 1997/98 Charlez Briscoe-Smith and
2002 Red Hat, Inc.
This is free documentation; peep tha GNU General Public Licence
version 2 or lata fo' copyin conditions.  There is NO WARRANTY.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ln (1),
FHS, tha Filesystem Hierarchy Standard.
alternatives.c
chkconfig.c
COPYING
leveldb.c
leveldb.h
Makefile
ntsysv.c
ook
