.\" Process dis file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii usbhid-dump.8
.\"
.\" This file is part of usbhid-dump.
.\"
.\" Usbhid-dump is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License as published by
.\" tha Jacked Software Foundation; either version 2 of tha License, or
.\" (at yo' option) any lata version.
.\"
.\" Usbhid-dump is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit usbhid-dump; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH usbhid-dump "8" "February 2012"
.SH NAME
usbhid-dump \- dump STD HID thang report descriptors n' streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbhid-dump
[OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usbhid-dump
uses
.B libusb
to dump report descriptors n' streams from HID (human intercourse device)
interfacez of STD devices.  By default, it dumps HID intercoursez of all
connected STD devices yo, but could be limited ta a subset of them, or ta a single
interface, rockin options.

NOTE: usbhid-dump detaches kernel drivers from tha intercourses it dumps n' uses
them exclusively, so no other program receives tha input up in tha meantime.  The
report descriptor dumpin is instantaneous yo, but tha stream dumpin continues
until terminated wit SIGINT (^C from tha terminal) or a timeout expires.

If you accidentally start dumpin a stream from tha STD keyboard you use to
control tha terminal, tha system will stop receivin tha input n' you won't
be able ta terminizzle usbhid-dump. Just stop yo' input n' wait until the
timeout expires. Da stream dumpin will stop, tha keyboard will be
reattached ta tha kernel driver n' yo big-ass booty is ghon regain control.

Da default stream dumpin timeout is 60 secondz n' could be chizzled wit the
-t option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Output a help message n' exit.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B -s, -a, --address=bus[:dev]
Limit intercourses by bus number n' thang address. Both 1-255, decimal.
Zeroes match any bus or device.
.TP
.B -d, -m, --model=vid[:pid]
Limit intercourses by thang vendor n' thang IDs. Both 1-FFFF, hexadecimal.
Zeroes match any vendor or product.
.TP
.B -i, --interface=NUMBER
Limit intercourses by number (0-254), decimal. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack. 255 matches any intercourse.
.TP
.B -e, --entity=STRING
Da entitizzle ta dump: either "descriptor", "stream" or "all". Da value can be
abbreviated down ta one letter n' shit. Da default is "descriptor".
.TP
.B -t, --stream-timeout=NUMBER
Stream interrupt transfer timeout, ms. Zero means infinity. Da default is
60000 (60 seconds).
.TP
.B -p, --stream-paused
Start wit tha stream dump output paused.
.TP
.B -f, --stream-feedback
Enable stream dumpin feedback: print a thugged-out dot ta stderr fo' every last muthafuckin transfer
dumped.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B USR1/USR2
Pause/resume stream dump output.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.B usbhid-dump
outputs dumps up in chunks. Each chunk is separated by a empty line n' starts
with tha followin header line:

BUS:DEVICE:INTERFACE:ENTITY TIMESTAMP

Here, BUS, DEVICE n' INTERFACE is bus, thang n' intercourse numbers
respectively. ENTITY is either "DESCRIPTOR" or "STREAM". TIMESTAMP is
timestamp up in secondz since epoch.

Afta tha header tha actual dump data bigs up as hex bytes fo' realz. A descriptor
chunk includes tha whole report descriptor. Shiiit, dis aint no joke. Every stream chunk includes a
whole report, usually yo, but if a report is bigger than endpoint's
wMaxPacketSize, it will span nuff muthafuckin chunks.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Dump report descriptor fo' a thang wit address 3 on bus number 2:
.B usbhid-dump -a 2:3

.TP
Dump report stream fo' a thang wit vendor ID 0x5543 n' thang ID 0x0005:
.B usbhid-dump -m 5543:0005 -es

.TP
Dump report descriptor from intercourse 1 of a thang wit vendor ID 0x5543:
.B usbhid-dump -m 5543 -i 1 -ed

.TP
Dump report streams from all HID intercoursez of all STD devices (caution: yo big-ass booty is ghon loose control over tha terminal if you use STD keyboard):
.B usbhid-dump -es

.SH AUTHOR
Nikolai Kondrashov <spbnick@gmail.com>
