.TH VCONFIG 8
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
vconfig \- VLAN (802.1q) configuration program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vconfig
.I [lotz of long options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B vconfig
program allows you ta create n' remove vlan\-devices on a vlan enabled
kernel. Vlan\-devices is virtual ethernet devices which represents the
virtual lans on tha physical lan.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B add [interface\-name] [vlan\-id]
Creates a vlan-device on [interface\-name]. Da resultin vlan\-device
will be called accordin ta tha namein convention set.
.TP
.B rem [vlan\-device]
Removes tha named vlan\-device.
.TP
.B set_flag [vlan\-device] 0 | 1
When 1, ethernet header reordaz is turned on. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Dumpin tha device
will step tha fuck up as a cold-ass lil common ethernet thang without vlans. When 0(default)
however, ethernet headaz is not reordered, which thangs up in dis biatch up in vlan tagged
packets when dumpin tha device. Usually tha default gives no problems,
but some packet filterin programs might have problems wit dat shit.
.TP

.B set_egress_map [vlan\-device] [skb\-priority] [vlan\-qos]
This flags dat outbound packets wit a particular skb\-prioritizzle should
be tagged wit tha particular vlan prioritizzle vlan\-qos. Da default vlan
prioritizzle is 0.
.TP

.B set_ingress_map [vlan\-device] [skb\-priority] [vlan\-qos]
This flags dat inbound packets wit tha particular vlan priority
vlan\-qos should be queued wit a particular skb\-priority. Da default
skb\-prioritizzle is 0.
.TP

.B set_name_type VLAN_PLUS_VID | VLAN_PLUS_VID_NO_PAD | DEV_PLUS_VID | DEV_PLUS_VID_NO_PAD
Sets tha way vlan\-device names is pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Use vconfig without arguments
to peep tha different formats.
.TP

.SH NOTES
VLAN will use Broadcomz NICE intercourse when tha network thang supports
it. This is necessary, since probably tha hardware of these devices already
removes tha vlan tag from tha ethernet packet. Da set_flag option on
vlan\-devices pimped on such a physical network thang is ghon be ignored.
Dumpin tha network\-device will show only untagged(non-vlan) traffic,
and dumpin tha vlan\-devices will only show traffic intended fo' that
vlan, without tha tags.
.br
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/vlan/config
.br
.I /proc/net/vlan/[vlan\-device]

.SH SEE ALSO
ip(8), ifconfig(8)
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was freestyled by Ard van Breemen <ard@kwaak.net>
.br
Da vlan patch is freestyled by Lil' Bow Wow Greear <greearb@candelatech.com>
