.TH VERIFY 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
verify
\-
Postfix address verification server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBverify\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBverify\fR(8) address verification server maintains a record
of what tha fuck recipient addresses is known ta be deliverable or
undeliverable.

Addresses is verified by injectin probe lyrics tha fuck into the
Postfix queue. Probe lyrics is run all up in all tha routing
and rewritin machinery except fo' final delivery, n' are
discarded rather than bein deferred or bounced.

Address verification relies on tha answer from tha nearest
MTA fo' tha specified address, n' will therefore not detect
all undeliverable addresses.

Da \fBverify\fR(8) server is designed ta run under control
by tha Postfix
masta server n' shit. Well shiiiit, it maintains a optionizzle persistent database.
To avoid bein interrupted by "postfix stop" up in tha middle
of a thugged-out database update, tha process runs up in a separate process
group.

Da \fBverify\fR(8) server implements tha followin requests:
.IP "\fBupdate\fI address status text\fR"
Update tha status n' text of tha specified address.
.IP "\fBquery\fI address\fR"
Look up tha \fIstatus\fR n' \fItext\fR fo' tha specified
\fIaddress\fR.
If tha status is unknown, a probe is busted n' a "in progress"
status is returned.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da address verification server aint security-sensitive. Well shiiiit, it do
not rap ta tha network, n' it do not rap ta local users.
Da verify server can run chrooted at fixed low privilege.

Da address verification server can be coerced ta store
unlimited amountz of garbage. Limitin tha cache expiry
time
trades one problem (disk space exhaustion) fo' another
one (poor response time ta client requests).

With Postfix version 2.5 n' later, tha \fBverify\fR(8)
server no longer uses root privileges when openin the
\fBaddress_verify_map\fR cache file. Da file should now
be stored under tha Postfix-owned \fBdata_directory\fR.  As
a migration aid, a attempt ta open a cold-ass lil cache file under a
non-Postfix directory is repimped up ta tha Postfix-owned
\fBdata_directory\fR, n' a warnin is logged.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Address verification probe lyrics add additionizzle traffic
to tha mail queue.
Recipient verification may cause a increased load on
down-stream servers up in tha case of a gangbangin' finger-lickin' doggtionary battle or
a flood of backscatta bounces.
Sender address verification may cause yo' joint ta be
blacklisted by some providers.

If tha persistent database eva gets corrupted then tha ghetto
comes ta a end n' human intervention is needed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This violates
a basic Postfix principle.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is not picked up automatically,
as \fBverify\fR(8)
processes is long-lived. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Use tha command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" after
a configuration chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "PROBE MESSAGE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender ($double_bounce_sender)\fR"
Da sender address ta use up in address verification probes; prior
to Postfix 2.5 tha default was "postmaster".
.PP
Available wit Postfix 2.9 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_ttl (0s)\fR"
Da time between chizzlez up in tha time-dependent portion of address
verification probe sender addresses.
.SH "CACHE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_map (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Lookup table fo' persistent address verification status
storage.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_positive_expire_time (31d)\fR"
Da time afta which a successful probe expires from tha address
verification cache.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_positive_refresh_time (7d)\fR"
Da time afta which a successful address verification probe needs
to be refreshed.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_negative_cache (yes)\fR"
Enable cachin of failed address verification probe thangs up in dis biatch.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_negative_expire_time (3d)\fR"
Da time afta which a gangbangin' failed probe expires from tha address
verification cache.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_negative_refresh_time (3h)\fR"
Da time afta which a gangbangin' failed address verification probe needz to
be refreshed.
.PP
Available wit Postfix 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_cache_cleanup_interval (12h)\fR"
Da amount of time between \fBverify\fR(8) address verification
database cleanup runs.
.SH "PROBE MESSAGE ROUTING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
By default, probe lyrics is served up via tha same route
as regular lyrics.  Da followin parametas can be used to
override specific message routin mechanisms.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_relayhost ($relayhost)\fR"
Overrides tha relayhost parameta settin fo' address verification
probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_transport_maps ($transport_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha transport_maps parameta settin fo' address verification
probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_local_transhiznit ($local_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha local_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_virtual_transhiznit ($virtual_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha virtual_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_relay_transhiznit ($relay_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha relay_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_default_transhiznit ($default_transport)\fR"
Overrides tha default_transhiznit parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
Available up in Postfix 2.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_dependent_relayhost_maps ($sender_dependent_relayhost_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha sender_dependent_relayhost_maps parameta settin fo' address
verification probes.
.PP
Available up in Postfix 2.7 n' later:
.IP "\fBaddress_verify_sender_dependent_default_transport_maps ($sender_dependent_default_transport_maps)\fR"
Overrides tha sender_dependent_default_transport_maps parameter
settin fo' address verification probes.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
cleanup(8), enqueue Postfix message
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(5), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
.na
.nf
ADDRESS_VERIFICATION_README, address verification howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This steez was introduced wit Postfix version 2.1.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
