.TH VGCFGRESTORE 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgcfgrestore \- restore volume crew descriptor area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgcfgrestore
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-file
.RI < filename >]
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-l [ l ]| \-\-list ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-M | \-\-metadatatype
.IR 1 | 2 ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RI \fIVolumeGroupName\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgcfgrestore allows you ta restore tha metadata of \fIVolumeGroupName\fP
from a text backup file produced by \fBvgcfgbackup\fP.
Yo ass can specify a funky-ass backup file wit \fB\-\-file\fP.
If no backup file is specified, da most thugged-out recent
one is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Use \fB\-\-list\fP fo' a list of tha available
backup n' archive filez of \fIVolumeGroupName\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list\fP
List filez pertainin ta \fIVolumeGroupName\fP
List metadata backup n' archive filez pertainin ta \fIVolumeGroupName\fP.
May be used wit tha \fB\-f\fP option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Do not restore \fIVolumeGroupName\fP.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIfilename
Name of LVM metadata backup file
Specifies a metadata backup or archive file ta be used fo' restorin 
VolumeGroupName.  Often dis file has been pimped wit \fBvgcfgbackup\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Necessary ta restore metadata wit thin pool volumes.
.br
\fBWARNING: Use wit off tha hook caution.
Most chizzlez ta thin metadata cannot be reverted.
Yo ass may lose data if you restore metadata dat do not match tha thin pool
kernel metadata precisely.\fP
.SH REPLACING PHYSICAL VOLUMES
\fBvgdisplay \-\-partial \-\-verbose\fP will show you tha UUIDs n' sizes of
any PVs dat is no longer present.
If a PV up in tha VG is lost n' you wish ta substitute 
another of tha same size, use 
\fBpvcreate \-\-restorefile filename \-\-uuid uuid\fP (plus additionizzle 
arguments as appropriate) ta initialise it wit tha same UUID as 
the missin PV.  Repeat fo' all other missin PVs up in tha VG. 
Then use \fBvgcfgrestore \-\-file filename\fP ta restore tha volume
groupz metadata.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgcreate (8)
