.TH VGDISPLAY 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgdisplay \- display attributez of volume groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgdisplay
.RB [ \-A | \-\-activevolumegroups ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-colon ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-short ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ VolumeGroupName
.RI [ VolumeGroupName ...]]
.br

.br
.B vgdisplay
.BR \-C | \-\-columns
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o|\-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field1 [ ,Field2 ...]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | - ] Key1 [ , [ + | - ] Key2 ...]]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ VolumeGroupName
.RI [ VolumeGroupName ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgdisplay allows you ta peep tha attributes of
.I VolumeGroupName
(or all volume crews if none is given) wit itz physical n' logical
volumes n' they sizes etc.
.P
\fBvgs\fP(8) be a alternatizzle dat serves up tha same shiznit
in tha steez of \fBps\fP(1).
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-activevolumegroups
Only select tha actizzle volume groups. Da volume crew is considered active
if at least one of its logical volumes be active.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-columns
Display output up in columns, tha equivalent of \fBvgs\fP(8). 
Options listed is tha same as options given up in \fPvgs\fP(8).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-colon
Generate colon separated output fo' easier parsin up in scripts or programs.
N.B. \fBvgs\fP(8) serves up considerably mo' control over tha output.
.nf

Da joints are:

1  volume crew name
2  volume crew access
3  volume crew status
4  internal volume crew number
5  maximum number of logical volumes
6  current number of logical volumes
7  open count of all logical volumes up in dis volume group
8  maximum logical volume size
9  maximum number of physical volumes
10 current number of physical volumes
11 actual number of physical volumes
12 size of volume crew up in kilobytes
13 physical extent size
14 total number of physical extents fo' dis volume group
15 allocated number of physical extents fo' dis volume group
16 free number of physical extents fo' dis volume group
17 uuid of volume group

.fi
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-short
Give a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short listin showin tha existence of volume groups.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display verbose shiznit containin long listingz of physical
and logical volumes.  If given twice, also display verbose runtime
information of vgdisplayz activities.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version n' exit successfully.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgs (8),
.BR pvcreate (8),
.BR vgcreate (8),
.BR lvcreate (8)
