.TH VGEXTEND 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgextend \- add physical volumes ta a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgextend
.RB [ \-A | \-\-autobackup
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-restoremissin ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ "PHYSICAL DEVICE OPTIONS" ]
.I VolumeGroupName PhysicalDevicePath
.RI [ PhysicalDevicePath ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgextend allows you ta add one or mo' initialized physical volumes
(see \fBpvcreate\fP(8)) ta a existin volume crew ta extend it up in size. Mo'over, it allows you to
re-add a physical volume dat has gone missin previously, cuz of a transient
device failure, without re-initialisin dat shit. Use
\fBvgextend \-\-restoremissing\fP ta dat effect.
.sp
If \fIPhysicalDevicePath\fP was not previously configured fo' LVM with
\fBpvcreate\fP(8), tha thang is ghon be initialized wit tha same
default joints used wit \fBpvcreate\fP(8).  If non-default
\fPpvcreate\fP(8) joints is desired, they may be given on the
commandline wit tha same options as \fPpvcreate\fP(8).  See
.B PHYSICAL DEVICE OPTIONS
for available options.  Note dat tha restore-related options such as
.BR \-\-restorefile ", " \-\-uuid " n' " \-\-physicalvolumesize
are not available.  If a restore operation
is needed, use \fBpvcreate\fP(8) n' \fBvgcfgrestore\fP(8).
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.SH PHYSICAL DEVICE OPTIONS
Da followin options is available fo' initializin physical devices up in the
volume group.  These options is further busted lyrics bout up in the
\fBpvcreate\fP(8) playa page.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-zero " {" \fIy | \fIn }
.TP
.B \-\-labelsector \fIsector
.TP
.B \-\-metadatasize \fIsize
.TP
.BR \-\-metadataignore " {" \fIy | \fIn }
.TP
.B \-\-pvmetadatacopies \fIcopies
.TP
.B \-\-dataalignment \fIalignment
.TP
.B \-\-dataalignmentoffset \fIalignment_offset
.SH Examples
Extendz tha existin volume crew "vg00" by tha freshly smoked up physical volumes
(see \fBpvcreate\fP(8)) "/dev/sda4" n' "/dev/sdn1".
.sp
.B vgextend vg00 /dev/sda4 /dev/sdn1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgcreate (8),
.BR vgreduce (8),
.BR pvcreate (8)
