.TH VGIMPORTCLONE 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgimportclone \- import n' rename duplicated volume crew (e.g. a hardware snapshot)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgimportclone
.RB [ \-n | \-\-basevgname
.IR VolumeGroupName ]
.RB [ \-i | \-\-import ]
.I PhysicalVolume
.RI [ PhysicalVolume ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgimportclone is used ta import a thugged-out duplicated VG (e.g. hardware snapshot).
Duplicate VG(s) n' PV(s) is not able ta be used until they is made
to coexist wit tha origin VG(s) n' PV(s).
vgimportclone renames tha VG associated wit tha specified PV(s) and
changes tha associated VG n' PV UUIDs.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-basevgname " " \fIVolumeGroupName
By default tha snapshot VG is ghon be renamed ta tha original gangsta name plus a
numeric suffix ta avoid duplicate namin (e.g. 'test_vg' would be renamed
to 'test_vg1').  This option will override tha base VG name dat is
used fo' all VG renames.  If a VG already exists wit tha specified name
a numeric suffix is ghon be added (like tha previous example) ta make it unique.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-import
Import exported Volume Groups.  Otherwise VGs dat done been exported
will not be chizzled (nor will they associated PVs).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B LVM_BINARY
Da LVM2 binary ta use. Defaults ta "lvm".
.SH Examples
Da origin VG "vg00" has origin PVs "/dev/sda" n' "/dev/sdb"
and tha respectizzle snapshot PVs is "/dev/sdc" n' "/dev/sdd".
To rename tha VG associated wit "/dev/sdc" n' "/dev/sdd"
from "vg00" ta "vg00_snap"
(and ta chizzle associated VG n' PV UUIDs) do:
.sp
.B vgimportclone --basevgname vg00_snap /dev/sdc /dev/sdd

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgrename (8)

