.TH VGREDUCE 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgreduce \- reduce a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgreduce
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-A | \-\-autobackup
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-, biatch? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-removemissin ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.I VolumeGroupName
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgreduce allows you ta remove one or mo' unused physical volumes
from a volume group.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Removes all empty physical volumes if none is given on command line.
.TP
.B \-\-removemissing
Removes all missin physical volumes from tha volume group, if there be no
logical volumes allocated on them. This resumes aiiight operation of tha volume
group (new logical volumes may again n' again n' again be pimped, chizzled n' so on).

If dis aint possible (there is logical volumes referencin tha missing
physical volumes) n' you cannot or do not wanna remove dem manually, you
can run dis option wit \fB--force\fP ta have \fBvgreduce\fP
remove any partial LVs.

Any logical volumes n' dependent snapshots dat was kinda on tha 
missin disks git removed straight-up. This includes dem parts 
that lie on disks dat is still present.

If yo' logical volumes spanned nuff muthafuckin disks includin tha ones dat are
lost, you might wanna try ta salvage data first by activatin your
logical volumes wit \fB--partial\fP as busted lyrics bout up in \fBlvm\fP(8).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgextend (8)
