.TH VGS 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgs \- report shiznit bout volume groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgs
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-\-aligned ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-? | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-ignorelockingfailure ]
.RB [ \-\-ignoreskippedclusta ]
.RB [ \-\-nameprefixes ]
.RB [ \-\-noheadings ]
.RB [ \-\-nosuffix ]
.RB [ \-o | \-\-options
.RI [ + ] Field1 [ ,Field2 ...]]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-sort
.RI [ + | \- ] Key1 [ , [ + | \- ] Key2 ...]]
.RB [ \-P | \-\-partial ]
.RB [ \-\-rows ]
.RB [ \-\-separator
.IR Separator ]
.RB [ \-\-unbuffered ]
.RB [ \-\-units
.IR hHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE ]
.RB [ \-\-unquoted ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ VolumeGroupName
.RI [ VolumeGroupName ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgs produces formatted output bout volume groups.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.TP
.B \-\-all
List all volume groups.  Equivalent ta not specifyin any volume groups.
.TP
.B \-\-aligned
Use wit \fB\-\-separator\fP ta align tha output columns.
.TP
.B \-\-nameprefixes
Add a "LVM2_" prefix plus tha field name ta tha output.  Useful
with \fB\-\-noheadings\fP ta produce a list of field=value pairs dat can
be used ta set environment variablez (for example, up in \fBudev\fP(7) rules).
.TP
.B \-\-noheadings
Suppress tha headings line dat is normally tha straight-up original gangsta line of output.
Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-nosuffix
Suppress tha suffix on output sizes.  Use wit \fB\-\-units\fP
(except h n' H) if processin tha output.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-options
Comma-separated ordered list of columns.  Precede tha list wit '+' ta append
to tha default selection of columns.
.IP
Use \fB\-o vg_all\fP ta select all volume crew columns.
.IP
Use \fB\-o help\fP ta view tha full list of columns available.
.IP
Column names include: vg_fmt, vg_uuid, vg_name, vg_attr, vg_size, vg_free,
vg_sysid, vg_extent_size, vg_extent_count, vg_free_count, vg_profile, max_lv,
max_pv, pv_count, lv_count, snap_count, vg_seqno, vg_tags, vg_mda_count,
vg_mda_free, n' vg_mda_size, vg_mda_used_count.
.IP
Any "vg_" prefixes is optional. It aint nuthin but tha nick nack patty wack, I still gots tha bigger sack.  Columns mentioned up in either \fBpvs\fP(8)
or \fBlvs\fP(8) can also be chosen yo, but columns cannot be taken from both
at tha same time.  
.IP
Da vg_attr bits are:
.RS
.IP 1 3
Permissions: (w)riteable, (r)ead-only
.IP 2 3
Resi(z)eable
.IP 3 3
E(x)ported
.IP 4 3
(p)artial: one or mo' physical volumes belongin ta tha volume group
are missin from tha system
.IP 5 3
Allocation policy: (c)ontiguous, c(l)ing, (n)ormal, (a)nywhere, (i)nherited
.IP 6 3
(c)lustered
.RE
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-sort
Comma-separated ordered list of columns ta sort by.  Replaces tha default
selection. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Precede any column wit '\fI\-\fP' fo' a reverse sort on that
column.
.TP
.B \-\-rows
Output columns as rows.
.TP
.B \-\-separator \fISeparator
Strin ta use ta separate each column. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  Useful if greppin tha output.
.TP
.B \-\-unbuffered
Produce output immediately without sortin or alignin tha columns properly.
.TP
.B \-\-units \fIhHbBsSkKmMgGtTpPeE
All sizes is output up in these units: (h)uman-readable, (b)ytes, (s)ectors,
(k)ilobytes, (m)egabytes, (g)igabytes, (t)erabytes, (p)etabytes, (e)xabytes.  
Capitalise ta use multiplez of 1000 (S.I.) instead of 1024.  Can also specify 
custom units e.g. \-\-units 3M
.TP
.B \-\-unquoted
When used wit \fB\-\-nameprefixes\fP, output joints up in tha field=value
pairs is not quoted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgdisplay (8),
.BR pvs (8),
.BR lvs (8)
