.TH VGSPLIT 8 "LVM TOOLS 2.02.106(2) (2014-04-10)" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vgsplit \- split a volume crew tha fuck into two
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgsplit
.RB [ \-\-alloc
.IR AllocationPolicy ]
.RB [ \-A | \-\-autobackup
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-clustered
.RI { y | n }]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-l | \-\-maxlogicalvolumes
.IR MaxLogicalVolumes ]
.RB [ -M | \-\-metadatatype
.IR type ]
.RB [ -p | \-\-maxphysicalvolumes
.IR MaxPhysicalVolumes ]
.RB [ \-\- [ vg ] metadatacopies
.IR NumberOfCopies | unmanaged | all ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-name
.IR LogicalVolumeName ]
.RB [ \-t | \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.I SourceVolumeGroupName DestinationVolumeGroupName
.RI [ PhysicalVolumePath ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgsplit moves one or mo' physical volumes from
\fISourceVolumeGroupName\fP tha fuck into \fIDestinationVolumeGroupName\fP.
Da physical volumes moved can be specified either explicitly via
\fIPhysicalVolumePath\fP, or implicitly by \fB\-n\fP
\fILogicalVolumeName\fP, up in which case only physical volumes
underlyin tha specified logical volume is ghon be moved.

If \fIDestinationVolumeGroupName\fP do not exist, a freshly smoked up volume
group is ghon be pimped. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da default attributes
for tha freshly smoked up volume crew can be specified with
.BR \-\-alloc ,
.BR \-\-clustered ,
.BR \-\-maxlogicalvolumes ,
.BR \-\-metadatatype ,
.B \-\-maxphysicalvolumes \fRand
.BR \-\- [ vg ] metadatacopies
(see \fBvgcreate\fP(8) fo' a thugged-out description of these options).  If any
of these options is not given, default attribute(s) is taken from
\fISourceVolumeGroupName\fP. If a non-LVM2 metadata type (e.g. lvm1) is
bein used, you should use tha \fB\-M\fP option ta specify tha metadata
type directly.

If
.I DestinationVolumeGroupName
does exist, it is ghon be checked fo' compatibilitizzle with
.I SourceVolumeGroupName
before tha physical volumes is moved. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Specifyin any of tha above default
volume crew attributes wit a existin destination volume crew be a error,
and no split will occur.

Logical volumes cannot be split between volume groups. \fBvgsplit\fP(8) only
moves complete physical volumes: To move part of a physical volume, use
\fBpvmove\fP(8).  Each existin logical volume must be entirely on tha physical
volumes formin either tha source or tha destination volume group.  For this
reason, \fBvgsplit\fP(8) may fail wit a error if a split would result up in a
logical volume bein split across volume groups.

A vgsplit tha fuck into a existin volume crew retains tha existin volume group's
value of \fPvgmetadatacopies\fP (see \fBvgcreate\fP(8) n' \fBlvm.conf\fP(5) fo' further
explanation of \fPvgmetadatacopies\fP).  To chizzle tha value of
\fBvgmetadatacopies\fP, use \fBvgchange\fP(8).

.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP(8) fo' common options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgcreate (8),
.BR vgextend (8),
.BR vgreduce (8),
.BR vgmerge (8)
