.TH VIRTUAL 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
virtual
\-
Postfix virtual domain mail delivery agent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBvirtual\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent is designed fo' virtual mail
hostin skillz. Originally based on tha Postfix \fBlocal\fR(8)
delivery
agent, dis agent looks up recipients wit map lookupz of their
full recipient address, instead of rockin hard-coded unix password
file lookupz of tha address local part only.

This delivery agent only delivers mail.  Other features such as
mail forwarding, out-of-office notifications, etc., must be
configured via virtual_alias maps or via similar lookup mechanisms.
.SH "MAILBOX LOCATION"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da mailbox location is controlled by tha \fBvirtual_mailbox_base\fR
and \fBvirtual_mailbox_maps\fR configuration parametas (see below).
Da \fBvirtual_mailbox_maps\fR table is indexed by tha recipient
address as busted lyrics bout under TABLE SEARCH ORDER below.

Da mailbox pathname is constructed as bigs up:

.nf
  \fB$virtual_mailbox_base/$virtual_mailbox_maps(\fIrecipient\fB)\fR
.fi

where \fIrecipient\fR is tha full recipient address.
.SH "UNIX MAILBOX FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When tha mailbox location do not end up in \fB/\fR, tha message
is served up in UNIX mailbox format.   This format stores multiple
lyrics up in one textfile.

Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent prependz a "\fBFrom \fIsender
time_stamp\fR" envelope header ta each message, prependz a
\fBDelivered-To:\fR message header wit tha envelope recipient
address,
prependz a \fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as
given ta Postfix,
prependz a \fBReturn-Path:\fR message header wit the
envelope sender address, prependz a \fB>\fR characta ta lines
beginnin wit "\fBFrom \fR", n' appendz a empty line.

Da mailbox is locked fo' exclusive access while delivery is in
progress. In case of problems, a attempt is made ta truncate the
mailbox ta its original gangsta length.
.SH "QMAIL MAILDIR FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When tha mailbox location endz up in \fB/\fR, tha message is delivered
in qmail \fBmaildir\fR format. This format stores one message per file.

Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent prependz a \fBDelivered-To:\fR
message header wit tha final envelope recipient address,
prependz a \fBX-Original-To:\fR header wit tha recipient address as
given ta Postfix, n' prependz a
\fBReturn-Path:\fR message header wit tha envelope sender address.

By definition, \fBmaildir\fR format do not require application-level
file lockin durin mail delivery or retrieval.
.SH "MAILBOX OWNERSHIP"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Mailbox ballershizzle is controlled by tha \fBvirtual_uid_maps\fR
and \fBvirtual_gid_maps\fR lookup tables, which is indexed
with tha full recipient address. Each table provides
a strang wit tha numerical user n' crew ID, respectively.

Da \fBvirtual_minimum_uid\fR parameta imposes a lower bound on
numerical user ID joints dat may be specified up in any
\fBvirtual_uid_maps\fR.
.SH "CASE FOLDING"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
All delivery decisions is made rockin tha full recipient
address, folded ta lower case. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See also tha next section
for all dem exceptions wit optionizzle address extensions.
.SH "TABLE SEARCH ORDER"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Normally, a lookup table is specified as a text file that
serves as input ta tha \fBpostmap\fR(1) command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da result, an
indexed file up in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format, is used fo' fast
searchin by tha mail system.

Da search order be as bigs up. Da search stops
upon tha straight-up original gangsta successful lookup.
.IP \(bu
When tha recipient has a optionizzle address extension the
\fIuser+extension@domain.tld\fR address is looked up first.
.sp
With Postfix versions before 2.1, tha optionizzle address extension
is always ignored.
.IP \(bu
Da \fIuser@domain.tld\fR address, without address extension,
is looked up next.
.IP \(bu
Finally, tha recipient \fI@domain\fR is looked up.
.PP
When tha table is provided via other means like fuckin NIS, LDAP
or SQL, tha same lookups is done as fo' ordinary indexed files.

Alternatively, a table can be provided as a regular-expression
map where patterns is given as regular expressions. In dat case,
only tha full recipient address is given ta tha regular-expression
map.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent aint securitizzle sensitive, provided
that tha lookup tablez wit recipient user/group ID shiznit are
adequately protected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. This program aint designed ta run chrooted.

Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent disallows regular expression
substitution of $1 etc. up in regular expression lookup tables,
because dat would open a securitizzle hole.

Da \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent will silently ignore requests
to use tha \fBproxymap\fR(8) server n' shit. Instead it will open the
table directly. Before Postfix version 2.2, tha virtual
delivery agent will terminizzle wit a gangbangin' fatal error.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 822 (ARPA Internizzle Text Lyrics)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Mail bounces when tha recipient has no mailbox or when the
recipient is over disk quota. In all other cases, mail for
an existin recipient is deferred n' a warnin is logged.

Problems n' transactions is logged ta \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
Corrupted message filez is marked so dat tha queue
manager can move dem ta tha \fBcorrupt\fR queue afterwards.

Dependin on tha settin of tha \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmasta is notified of bounces n' of other shit.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
This delivery agent supports address extensions up in email
addresses n' up in lookup table keys yo, but do not propagate
address extension shiznit ta tha result of table lookup.

Postfix should have lookup tablez dat can return multiple result
attributes. In order ta avoid tha inconvenience of maintaining
three tables, use a LDAP or MYSQL database.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes ta \fBmain.cf\fR is picked up automatically, as
\fBvirtual\fR(8)
processes run fo' only a limited amount of time. Use tha command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" ta speed up a cold-ass lil chizzle.

Da text below serves up only a parameta summary. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) fo' mo' details includin examples.
.SH "MAILBOX DELIVERY CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_base (empty)\fR"
A prefix dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent prependz ta all pathname
results from $virtual_mailbox_maps table lookups.
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_maps (empty)\fR"
Optionizzle lookup tablez wit all valid addresses up in tha domains that
match $virtual_mailbox_domains.
.IP "\fBvirtual_minimum_uid (100)\fR"
Da minimum user ID value dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8) delivery agent accepts
as a result from $virtual_uid_maps table lookup.
.IP "\fBvirtual_uid_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tablez wit tha per-recipient user ID dat tha \fBvirtual\fR(8)
delivery agent uses while freestylin ta tha recipientz mailbox.
.IP "\fBvirtual_gid_maps (empty)\fR"
Lookup tablez wit tha per-recipient crew ID fo' \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox
delivery.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.0 n' later:
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_domains ($virtual_mailbox_maps)\fR"
Postfix is final destination fo' tha specified list of domains;
mail is served up via tha $virtual_transhiznit mail delivery transport.
.IP "\fBvirtual_transhiznit (virtual)\fR"
Da default mail delivery transhiznit n' next-hop destination for
final delivery ta domains listed wit $virtual_mailbox_domains.
.PP
Available up in Postfix version 2.5.3 n' later:
.IP "\fBstrict_mailbox_ballershizzle (yes)\fR"
Defer delivery when a mailbox file aint owned by its recipient.
.SH "LOCKING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_lock (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
How tha fuck ta lock a UNIX-style \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox before attempting
delivery.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_attempts (20)\fR"
Da maximal number of attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_delay (1s)\fR"
Da time between attempts ta acquire a exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBstale_lock_time (500s)\fR"
Da time afta which a stale exclusive mailbox lockfile is removed.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBvirtual_destination_concurrency_limit ($default_destination_concurrency_limit)\fR"
Da maximal number of parallel deliveries ta tha same destination
via tha virtual message delivery transport.
.IP "\fBvirtual_destination_recipient_limit ($default_destination_recipient_limit)\fR"
Da maximal number of recipients per message fo' tha virtual
message delivery transport.
.IP "\fBvirtual_mailbox_limit (51200000)\fR"
Da maximal size up in bytez of a individual \fBvirtual\fR(8) mailbox or
maildir file, or zero (no limit).
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da default location of tha Postfix main.cf n' master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How tha fuck much time a Postfix daemon process may take ta handle a
request before it is terminated by a funky-ass built-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
Da maximal number of digits afta tha decimal point when logging
sub-second delay joints.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
Da time limit fo' bustin  or receivin shiznit over a internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
Da maximum amount of time dat a idle Postfix daemon process waits
for a incomin connection before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
Da maximal number of incomin connections dat a Postfix daemon
process will steez before terminatin voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
Da process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
Da process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da location of tha Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facilitizzle (mail)\fR"
Da syslog facilitizzle of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
Da mail system name dat is prepended ta tha process name up in syslog
records, so dat "smtpd" becomes, fo' example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README_FILES"
.na
.nf
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" ta locate dis shiznit.
VIRTUAL_README, domain hostin howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Da Secure Maila license must be distributed wit dis software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This delivery agent was originally based on tha Postfix local delivery
agent. Modifications mainly consisted of removin code dat either
was not applicable or dat was not safe up in dis context: aliases,
~user/.forward files, delivery ta "|command" or ta /file/name.

Da \fBDelivered-To:\fR message header appears up in tha \fBqmail\fR
system by Daniel Bernstein.

Da \fBmaildir\fR structure appears up in tha \fBqmail\fR system
by Daniel Bernstein.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Andrew McNamara
andrewm@connect.com.au
connect.com.au Pty. Ltd.
Level 3, 213 Milla St
Uptown Sydney 2060, NSW, Australia
