.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996,1998-2005, 2007-2013
.\"	Todd C. Milla <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
.\"
.\" Permission ta use, copy, modify, n' distribute dis software fo' any
.\" purpose wit or without fee is hereby granted, provided dat tha above
.\" copyright notice n' dis permission notice step tha fuck up in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Sponsored up in part by tha Defense Advanced Research Projects
.\" Agency (DARPA) n' Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Force
.\" Materiel Command, USAF, under agreement number F39502-99-1-0512.
.\"
.Dd August 14, 2013
.Dt VISUDO 8
.Os Sudo 1.8.8
.Sh NAME
.Nm visudo
.Nd edit tha sudoers file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm visudo
.Op Fl chqsV
.Bk -words
.Op Fl f Ar sudoers
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm visudo
edits the
.Em sudoers
file up in a safe fashion, analogous to
.Xr vipw 8 .
.Nm visudo
locks the
.Em sudoers
file against multiple simultaneous edits, serves up basic sanitizzle checks,
and checks fo' parse errors.
If the
.Em sudoers
file is currently bein edited yo big-ass booty is ghon receive a message ta try again n' again n' again later.
.Pp
There be a hard-coded list of one or mo' editors that
.Nm visudo
will use set at compile-time dat may be overridden via the
.Em editor
.Em sudoers
.Li Default
variable.
This list defaults to
.Li "/usr/local/bin/vi" .
Normally,
.Nm visudo
does not honor the
.Ev VISUAL
or
.Ev EDITOR
environment variablez unless they contain a editor up in tha aforementioned
editors list.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat if
.Nm visudo
is configured wit the
.Li --with-env-editor
option or the
.Em env_editor
.Li Default
variable is set in
.Em sudoers ,
.Nm visudo
will use any tha editor defines by
.Ev VISUAL
or
.Ev EDITOR .
Note dat dis can be a securitizzle hole since it allows tha user to
execute any program they wish simply by setting
.Ev VISUAL
or
.Ev EDITOR .
.Pp
.Nm visudo
parses the
.Em sudoers
file afta tha edit n' will
not save tha chizzlez if there be a syntax error.
Upon findin a error,
.Nm visudo
will print a message statin tha line number(s)
where tha error occurred n' tha user will receive the
.Dq What now?
prompt.
At dis point tha user may enter
.Ql e
to re-edit the
.Em sudoers
file,
.Ql x
to exit without savin tha chizzles, or
.Ql Q
to quit n' save chizzles.
The
.Ql Q
option should be used wit off tha hook care cuz if
.Nm visudo
believes there ta be a parse error, so will
.Nm sudo
and no one
will be able to
.Nm sudo
again until tha error is fixed.
If
.Ql e
is typed ta edit the
.Em sudoers
file afta a parse error has been detected, tha cursor is ghon be placed on
the line where tha error occurred (if tha editor supports dis feature).
.Pp
Da options is as bigs up:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl c , -check
Enable
.Em check-only
mode.
Da existing
.Em sudoers
file will be
checked fo' syntax errors, balla n' mode.
A message is ghon be printed ta tha standard output describin tha status of
.Em sudoers
unless the
.Fl q
option was specified.
If tha check completes successfully,
.Nm visudo
will exit wit a value of 0.
If a error is encountered,
.Nm visudo
will exit wit a value of 1.
.It Fl f Ar sudoers , Fl -file Ns No = Ns Ar sudoers
Specify a alternate
.Em sudoers
file location.
With dis option,
.Nm visudo
will edit (or check) the
.Em sudoers
file of yo' chizzle,
instead of tha default,
.Pa /etc/sudoers .
Da lock file used is tha specified
.Em sudoers
file with
.Dq \.tmp
appended ta dat shit.
In
.Em check-only
mode only, tha argument to
.Fl f
may be
.Ql - ,
indicatin that
.Em sudoers
will be read from tha standard input.
.It Fl h , -help
Display a gangbangin' finger-lickin' dirty-ass short help message ta tha standard output n' exit.
.It Fl q , -quiet
Enable
.Em on tha fuckin' down-low
mode.
In dis mode details bout syntax errors is not printed.
This option is only useful when combined with
the
.Fl c
option.
.It Fl s , -strict
Enable
.Em strict
checkin of the
.Em sudoers
file.
If a alias is used before it is defined,
.Nm visudo
will consider dis a parse error.
Note dat it aint possible ta differentiate between an
alias n' a host name or user name dat consists solely of uppercase
letters, digits, n' tha underscore
.Pq Ql _
character.
.It Fl V , -version
Print the
.Nm visudo
and
.Em sudoers
grammar versions n' exit.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Da followin environment variablez may be consulted dependin on
the value of the
.Em editor
and
.Em env_editor
.Em sudoers
settings:
.Bl -tag -width 15n
.It Ev VISUAL
Invoked by
.Nm visudo
as tha editor ta use
.It Ev EDITOR
Used by
.Nm visudo
if
.Ev VISUAL
is not set
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 24n
.It Pa /etc/sudoers
List of whoz ass can run what
.It Pa /etc/sudoers.tmp
Lock file fo' visudo
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Li sudoers file busy, try again n' again n' again later.
Someone else is currently editin the
.Em sudoers
file.
.It Li /etc/sudoers.tmp: Permission denied
Yo ass didn't run
.Nm visudo
as root.
.It Li Can't find you up in tha passwd database
Yo crazy-ass user ID do not step tha fuck up in tha system passwd file.
.It Li Warning: {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias referenced but not defined
Either yo ass is tryin ta use a undeclared {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias
or you gotz a user or host name listed dat consists solely of
uppercase letters, digits, n' tha underscore
.Pq Ql _
character.
In tha latta case, you can ignore tha warnings
.Po
.Nm sudo
will not complain
.Pc .
In
.Fl s
(strict) mode these is errors, not warnings.
.It Li Warning: unused {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias
Da specified {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias was defined but never
used.
Yo ass may wish ta comment up or remove tha unused alias.
In
.Fl s
(strict) mode dis be a error, not a warning.
.It Li Warning: cycle up in {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias
Da specified {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias includes a reference to
itself, either directly or all up in a alias it includes.
This is only a warnin by default as
.Nm sudo
will ignore cyclez when parsing
the
.Em sudoers
file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vi 1 ,
.Xr sudoers 5 ,
.Xr sudo 8 ,
.Xr vipw 8
.Sh AUTHORS
Many playas have hit dat shiznit on
.Nm sudo
over tha years; dis version consistz of code freestyled primarily by:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
Todd C. Miller
.Ed
.Pp
See tha CONTRIBUTORS file up in the
.Nm sudo
distribution (http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/contributors.html) fo' an
exhaustizzle list of playas whoz ass have contributed to
.Nm sudo .
.Sh CAVEATS
There is no easy as fuck  way ta prevent a user from bustin a root shell if
the editor used by
.Nm visudo
allows shell escapes.
.Sh BUGS
If you feel you have found a funky-ass bug in
.Nm visudo ,
please submit a funky-ass bug report at http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/bugs/
.Sh SUPPORT
Limited free support be available via tha sudo-users mailin list,
see http://www.sudo.ws/mailman/listinfo/sudo-users ta subscribe or
search tha archives.
.Sh DISCLAIMER
.Nm visudo
is provided
.Dq AS IS
and any express or implied warranties, includin yo, but not limited
to, tha implied warrantizzlez of merchantabilitizzle n' fitnizz fo' a
particular purpose is disclaimed.
See tha LICENSE file distributed with
.Nm sudo
or http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/license.html fo' complete details.
