.\"                                      Yo, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parametas is allowed: peep man(7), man(1)
.TH VMCORE-DMESG 8 "Sep 7, 2010"
.\" Please adjust dis date whenever revisin tha manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, fo' reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify ta both left n' right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        bang line break
.\" .sp <n>    bang n+1 empty lines
.\" fo' manpage-specific macros, peep man(7)
.SH NAME
vmcore-dmesg \- This is just a placeholda until real playa page has been written
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmcore-dmesg
.RI " vmcore"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" TeX playas may be mo' laid back wit tha \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences ta invode bold grill n' italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBvmcore-dmesg\fP extracts tha dmesg from a vmcore n' write it to
standard out.  \fBvmcore-dmesg\fP works against either
\fB/proc/vmcore\fP up in a cold-ass lil crash dump capture context or a cold-ass lil copy
of \fB/proc/vmcore\fP dat has been saved fo' lata analysis.  A
single build of \fBvmcore-dmesg\fP should work against any linux
vmcore freestyled pimped on any architecture.

.\"These programs follow tha usual GNU command line syntax, wit long
.\"options startin wit two dashes (`-').
.\"A summary of options is included below.
.\"For a cold-ass lil complete description, peep tha Info files.
.SH SEE ALSO
kexec(8)
.SH AUTHOR
vmcore-dmesg was freestyled by Eric Biederman.
