
.\"  Distributed under tha GPL, Copyleft 1994.
.TH VMSTAT 8 "September 2011" "procps-ng" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
vmstat \- Report virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmstat
[options]
.RI [ delay " [" count ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmstat
reports shiznit bout processes, memory, paging, block IO, traps, disks
and cpu activity.
.PP
Da first report produced gives averages since tha last reboot.  Additional
reports give shiznit on a samplin period of length
.IR delay .
Da process n' memory reports is instantaneous up in either case.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I delay
The
.I delay
between thugged-out shiznit up in seconds.  If no
.I delay
is specified, only one report is printed wit tha average joints since boot.
.TP
.I count
Number of thugged-out shit.  In absence of
.IR count ,
when
.I delay
is defined, default is infinite.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-active\fR
Display actizzle n'  inactizzle memory, given a 2.5.41 kernel or better.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-forks\fR
The
.B \-f
switch displays tha number of forks since boot.  This includes tha fork,
vfork, n' clone system calls, n' is equivalent ta tha total number of tasks
created. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Each process is represented by one or mo' tasks, dependin on
thread usage.  This display do not repeat.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-slabs\fR
Displays slabinfo.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-one-header\fR
Display tha header only once rather than periodically.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stats\fR
Displays a table of various event countas n' memory statistics.  This
display do not repeat.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-disk\fR
Report disk statistics (2.5.70 or above required).
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-disk-sum\fR
Report some summary statistics bout disk activity.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR \fIdevice\fR
Detailed statistics bout partizzle (2.5.70 or above required).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-unit\fR \fIcharacter\fR
Switches outputs between 1000
.RI ( k ),
1024
.RI ( K ),
1000000
.RI ( m ),
or 1048576
.RI ( M )
bytes.  Note dis do not chizzle tha swap (si/so) or block (bi/bo)
fields.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help n' exit.
.PD
.SH "FIELD DESCRIPTION FOR VM MODE"
.SS
.B "Procs"
.nf
r: Da number of runnable processes (runnin or waitin fo' run time).
b: Da number of processes up in uninterruptible chill.
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "Memory"
.nf
swpd: tha amount of virtual memory used.
free: tha amount of idle memory.
buff: tha amount of memory used as buffers.
cache: tha amount of memory used as cache.
inact: tha amount of inactizzle memory.  (\-a option)
active: tha amount of actizzle memory.  (\-a option)
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "Swap"
.nf
si: Amount of memory swapped up in from disk (/s).
so: Amount of memory swapped ta disk (/s).
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "IO"
.nf
bi: Blocks received from a funky-ass block thang (blocks/s).
bo: Blocks busted ta a funky-ass block thang (blocks/s).
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "System"
.nf
in: Da number of interrupts per second, includin tha clock.
cs: Da number of context switches per second.
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "CPU"
These is cementagez of total CPU time.
.nf
us: Time dropped hustlin non\-kernel code.  (user time, includin sick time)
sy: Time dropped hustlin kernel code.  (system time)
id: Time dropped idle.  Prior ta Linux 2.5.41, dis includes IO\-wait time.
wa: Time dropped waitin fo' IO.  Prior ta Linux 2.5.41, included up in idle.
st: Time jacked from a virtual machine.  Prior ta Linux 2.6.11, unknown.
.fi
.PP
.SH "FIELD DESCRIPTION FOR DISK MODE"
.SS
.B "Reads"
.nf
total: Total readz completed successfully
merged: grouped readz (resultin up in one I/O)
sectors: Sectors read successfully
ms: millisecondz dropped reading
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "Writes"
.nf
total: Total writes completed successfully
merged: grouped writes (resultin up in one I/O)
sectors: Sectors freestyled successfully
ms: millisecondz dropped writing
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "IO"
.nf
cur: I/O up in progress
s: secondz dropped fo' I/O
.fi
.PP
.SH "FIELD DESCRIPTION FOR DISK PARTITION MODE"
.nf
reads: Total number of readz issued ta dis partition
read sectors: Total read sectors fo' partition
writes : Total number of writes issued ta dis partition
axed writes: Total number of write requests made fo' partition
.fi
.PP
.SH "FIELD DESCRIPTION FOR SLAB MODE"
.nf
cache: Cache name
num: Number of currently actizzle objects
total: Total number of available objects
size: Size of each object
pages: Number of pages wit at least one actizzle object
.fi
.SH NOTES
.B "vmstat "
does not require special permissions.
.PP
These reports is intended ta help identify system bottlenecks.  Linux
.B vmstat
does not count itself as a hustlin process.
.PP
All linux blocks is currently 1024 bytes.  Oldskool kernels may report blocks as
512 bytes, 2048 bytes, or 4096 bytes.
.PP
Since procps 3.1.9, vmstat lets you chizzle units (k, K, m, M).  Default is K
(1024 bytes) up in tha default mode.
.PP
vmstat uses slabinfo 1.1
.SH FILES
.ta
.nf
/proc/meminfo
/proc/stat
/proc/*/stat
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR free (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR sar (1),
.BR top (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
Do not tabulate tha block io per thang or count tha number of system calls.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by
.UR al172@yfn.\:ysu.\:edu
Henry Ware
.UE .
.br
.UR ffrederick@users.\:sourceforge.\:net
Fabian Fr\('ed\('erick
.UE
(diskstat, slab, partitions...)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please bust bug reports to
.UR procps@freelists.org
.UE
