.TH  "vmware_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "vmware" "SELinux Policy vmware"
.SH "NAME"
vmware_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha vmware processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha vmware processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da vmware processes execute wit tha vmware_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep vmware_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da vmware_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBvmware_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha vmware_t domain is tha following:

/opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-ping, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-wizard, /usr/bin/vmware, /usr/bin/vmware-ping, /usr/bin/vmware-wizard, /usr/sbin/vmware-serverd, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmplayer, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-ui, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-mks
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux vmware policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they vmware processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' vmware:

.EX
.B vmware_t, vmware_host_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a vmware_t
can be used ta make tha process type vmware_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  vmware policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run vmware wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow regular playas direct dri thang access, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allows clients ta write ta tha X server shared memory segments, you must turn on tha xserver_clients_write_xshm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_clients_write_xshm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support X userspace object manager, you must turn on tha xserver_object_manager boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type vmware_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B usbfs_t


.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B vmware_conf_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.vmware[^/]*/.*\.cfg
.br

.br
.B vmware_file_t

	/home/[^/]*/vmware(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.vmware(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B vmware_pid_t


.br
.B vmware_tmp_t


.br
.B vmware_tmpfs_t


.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux vmware policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they vmware processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha vmware, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t vmware_conf_t '/srv/vmware/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myvmware_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' vmware:


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_conf_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_conf_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as vmware configuration data, probably stored under tha /etc directory.


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha vmware_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-ping, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-wizard, /usr/bin/vmware, /usr/bin/vmware-ping, /usr/bin/vmware-wizard, /usr/sbin/vmware-serverd, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmplayer, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-ui, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-mks

.EX
.PP
.B vmware_file_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_file_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as vmware content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/home/[^/]*/vmware(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.vmware(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B vmware_host_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_host_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha vmware_host_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmnet-natd, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmnet-dhcpd, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-nmbd, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-smbd, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmnet-bridge, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmnet-netifup, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmnet-sniffer, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-smbpasswd, /opt/vmware/(workstation|player)/bin/vmware-smbpasswd\.bin, /usr/sbin/vmware-guest.*, /usr/lib/vmware-tools/sbin32/vmware.*, /usr/lib/vmware-tools/sbin64/vmware.*, /usr/bin/vmnet-natd, /usr/bin/vmware-vmx, /usr/bin/vmnet-dhcpd, /usr/bin/vmware-nmbd, /usr/bin/vmware-smbd, /usr/bin/vmnet-bridge, /usr/bin/vmnet-netifup, /usr/bin/vmnet-sniffer, /usr/bin/vmware-network, /usr/bin/vmware-smbpasswd, /usr/bin/vmware-smbpasswd\.bin, /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-vmx

.EX
.PP
.B vmware_host_pid_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_host_pid_t type, if you wanna store tha vmware host filez under tha /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_host_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_host_tmp_t type, if you wanna store vmware host temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_log_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_log_t type, if you wanna treat tha data as vmware log data, probably stored under tha /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/log/vmware.*, /var/log/vnetlib.*

.EX
.PP
.B vmware_pid_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_pid_t type, if you wanna store tha vmware filez under tha /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_sys_conf_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_sys_conf_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as vmware sys configuration data, probably stored under tha /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/vmware.*(/.*)?, /usr/lib/vmware/config

.EX
.PP
.B vmware_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_tmp_t type, if you wanna store vmware temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B vmware_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha vmware_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store vmware filez on a tmpfs file system.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), vmware(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), vmware_host_selinux(8), vmware_host_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
