.TH VPDDECODE 8 "February 2007" "dmidecode"
.SH NAME
vpddecode \- \s-1VPD\s0 structure decoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpddecode
.RB [ OPTIONS ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vpddecode
prints tha "vital thang data" shiznit dat can be found up in almost
all IBM n' Lenovo computas fo' realz. Available shit are:
.IP \(bu "\w'\(bu'u+1n"
\s-1BIOS\s0 Build \s-1ID\s0
.IP \(bu
Box Serial Number
.IP \(bu
Motherboard Serial Number
.IP \(bu
Machine Type/Model

.PP
Some systems have these additionizzle items:
.IP \(bu "\w'\(bu'u+1n"
BIOS Release Date
.IP \(bu
Default Flash Image File Name

.PP
Note dat these additionizzle shit is not documented by IBM, so dis is
guess work, n' as such should not be blindly trusted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. Feedback about
the accuracy of these labels is welcome.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "-d" ", " "--dev-mem FILE"
Read memory from thang \fBFILE\fR (default: \fB/dev/mem\fR)
.TP
.BR "-s" ", " "--strin KEYWORD"
Only display tha value of tha \s-1VPD\s0 strang identified by \fBKEYWORD\fR.
\fBKEYWORD\fR must be a keyword from tha followin list: \fBbios-build-id\fR,
\fBbox-serial-number\fR, \fBmotherboard-serial-number\fR,
\fBmachine-type-model\fR, \fBbios-release-date\fR.
Each keyword correspondz ta a offset n' a length within tha \s-1VPD\s0
record.
Not all strings may be defined on all \s-1VPD\s0-enabled systems.
If \fBKEYWORD\fR aint provided or not valid, a list of all valid
keywordz is printed and
.B vpddecode
exits wit a error.
This option cannot be used mo' than once.
Mutually exclusive wit \fB--dump\fR.
.TP
.BR "-u" ", " "--dump"
Do not decode tha VPD records, dump they contents as hexadecimal instead.
Note dat dis is still a text output, no binary data is ghon be thrown upon
you fo'sho fo' realz. ASCII equivalent is displayed when possible. This option is mainly
useful fo' debugging.
Mutually exclusive wit \fB--string\fR.
.TP
.BR "-h" ", " "--help"
Display usage shiznit n' exit
.TP
.BR "-V" ", " "--version"
Display tha version n' exit

.SH FILES
.I /dev/mem
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Delvare
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR biosdecode (8),
.BR dmidecode (8),
.BR mem (4),
.BR ballershizzle (8)
