.\" wdctl.8 --
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" May be distributed under tha GNU General Public License
.TH WDCTL "8" "June 2012" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
wdctl \-
show hardware watchdog status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wdctl
.RB [options]
.RB [device...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Show hardware watchdog status.  Da default thang is
.IR /dev/watchdog .
If mo' than one thang is specified then tha output is separated by
one blank line.
.PP
Note dat number of supported watchdog features is hardware specific.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-flags \fIlist\fP"
Print selected flags only.
.IP "\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-noflags\fP"
Do not print shiznit bout flags.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-noheadings\fP"
Do not print a header line fo' flags table.
.IP "\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-noident\fP"
Do not print watchdog identitizzle shiznit.
.IP "\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-notimeouts\fP"
Do not print watchdog timeouts.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-settimeout \fIseconds\fP"
Set tha watchdog timeout up in seconds.
.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output \fIlist\fP"
Define tha output columns ta use up in table of watchdog flags.  If no
output arrangement is specified, then a thugged-out default set is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  Use
.B \-\-help
to git list of all supported columns.
.IP "\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-oneline\fP"
Print all wanted shiznit on one line up in key="value" output format.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fP"
Use tha raw output format.
.IP "\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-flags-only\fP"
Same as \fB\-I \-T\fP.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display help text n' exit.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT kzak@\:redhat\:.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.br
.MT lennart@\:poettering\:.net
Lennart Poettering
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B wdctl
command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
.UR ftp://\:ftp.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
