.TH  "webadm_selinux"  "8"  "webadm" "mgrepl@redhat.com" "webadm SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
webadm_r \- \fBWeb administrator role.\fP - Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy

.SH DESCRIPTION

SELinux supports Rolez Based Access Control (RBAC), some Linux rolez is login roles, while other rolez need ta be transizzle into.

.I Note:
Examplez up in dis playa page will use the
.B staff_u
SELinux user.

Non login rolez is probably used fo' administratizzle tasks. For example, tasks dat require root privileges.  Rolez control which types a user can run processes with. Rolez often have default types assigned ta em.

Da default type fo' tha webadm_r role is webadm_t.

The
.B newrole
program ta transizzle directly ta dis role.

.B newrole -r webadm_r -t webadm_t

.B sudo
is tha preferred method ta do transizzle from one role ta another n' shit.  Yo ass setup sudo ta transizzle ta webadm_r by addin a similar line ta tha /etc/sudoers file.

USERNAME ALL=(ALL) ROLE=webadm_r TYPE=webadm_t COMMAND

.br
sudo will run COMMAND as staff_u:webadm_r:webadm_t:LEVEL

When rockin a a non login role, you need ta setup SELinux so dat yo' SELinux user can reach webadm_r role.

Execute tha followin ta peep all of tha assigned SELinux roles:

.B semanage user -l

Yo ass need ta add webadm_r ta tha staff_u user n' shit.  Yo ass could setup tha staff_u user ta be able ta use tha webadm_r role wit a cold-ass lil command like:

.B $ semanage user -m -R 'staff_r system_r webadm_r' staff_u


.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  webadm policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run webadm wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna determine whether webadm can manage generic user files, you must turn on tha webadm_manage_user_filez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P webadm_manage_user_filez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna determine whether webadm can read generic user files, you must turn on tha webadm_read_user_filez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P webadm_read_user_filez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny user domains applications ta map a memory region as both executable n' writable, dis is fucked up n' tha executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha deny_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow loggin up in n' rockin tha system from /dev/console, you must turn on tha login_console_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P login_console_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna disallow programs, like fuckin newrole, from transitionin ta administratizzle user domains, you must turn on tha secure_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unconfined executablez ta make they stack executable.  This should never, eva be necessary. Probably indicates a funky-ass badly coded executable yo, but could indicate a attack. This executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha ssh_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha xdm_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type webadm_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B httpd_config_t

	/etc/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/nginx(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/apache(2)?(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/cherokee(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/apache-ssl(2)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openshift/\.httpd\.d(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/stickshift/\.httpd\.d(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/vhosts
.br
	/etc/thttpd\.conf
.br

.br
.B httpd_lock_t


.br
.B httpd_log_t

	/srv/([^/]*/)?www/logs(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www(/.*)?/logs(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/glpi(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/cacti(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/nginx(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/apache(2)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/horizon(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/php-fpm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/cherokee(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/suphp\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/thttpd\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/apache-ssl(2)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/cgiwrap\.log.*
.br
	/var/www/stickshift/[^/]*/log(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/miq/vmdb/log(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/roundcubemail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/php_errors\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/dirsrv/admin-serv(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openshift/\.log/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/log(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/broker/httpd/logs(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/httpd/logs(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/httpd/logs
.br

.br
.B httpd_modules_t

	/usr/lib/httpd(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/apache(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/cherokee(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/apache2/modules(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/httpd/modules
.br

.br
.B httpd_php_tmp_t


.br
.B httpd_script_exec_type


.br
.B httpd_suexec_tmp_t


.br
.B httpd_tmp_t

	/var/run/user/apache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/tmp(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B httpd_unit_file_t

	/usr/lib/systemd/system/httpd.*
.br
	/usr/lib/systemd/system/jetty.*
.br
	/usr/lib/systemd/system/nginx.*
.br
	/usr/lib/systemd/system/php-fpm.*
.br

.br
.B httpd_var_run_t

	/var/run/mod_.*
.br
	/var/run/wsgi.*
.br
	/var/run/httpd.*
.br
	/var/run/nginx.*
.br
	/var/run/apache.*
.br
	/var/run/php-fpm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/lighttpd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/php/session(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/php/wsdlcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/dirsrv/admin-serv.*
.br
	/var/www/openshift/broker/httpd/run(/.*)?
.br
	/var/www/openshift/console/httpd/run(/.*)?
.br
	/opt/dirsrv/var/run/dirsrv/dsgw/cookies(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/thttpd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/gcache_port
.br
	/var/run/cherokee\.pid
.br

.br
.B httpdcontent


.br
.B public_content_rw_t

	/var/spool/abrt-upload(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_home_t

	/home/[^/]*/.+
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/var/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/home/[^/]*/tmp
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.tmp
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br

.br
.B webadm_tmp_t


.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), webadm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
