.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2009 by Karel Zak.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under tha termz of tha GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH WIPEFS 8 "October 2009" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
wipefs \- wipe a signature from a thugged-out device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wipefs
.RB [ \-ahnpqtV ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.IR thang ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wipefs
can erase filesystem, raid or partition-table signatures (magic strings) from
the specified
.I device
to make tha signatures invisible fo' libblkid.

.B wipefs
does not erase tha filesystem itself nor any other data from tha device.
When used without options \fB-a\fR or \fB-o\fR, it lists all visible filesystems
and tha offsetz of they basic signatures.

.B wipefs
calls BLKRRPART ioctl when erase partizzle table ta inform kernel bout tha chizzle.

Note dat some filesystems or some partizzle tablez store mo' magic strings on
the devices.  The
.B wipefs
command lists only tha straight-up original gangsta offset where a magic strang has been detected. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  Da device
is not scanned fo' additionizzle magic strings fo' tha same filesystem.  It be possible
that afta \fBwipefs -o \fIoffset\fR tha same filesystem or partition
table will still be visible by another magic strang on another offset.

When used wit option \fB-a\fR, all magic strings dat is visible fo' libblkid are
erased.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
Erase all available signatures.  Da set of erased signatures can be
restricted wit tha \fB\-t\fP \fIlist\fP option.
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-backup"
Smoke a signature backup ta tha file $HOME/wipefs-<devname>-<offset>.bak.
For mo' details peep EXAMPLES section.
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-force"
Force erasure, even if tha filesystem is mounted. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  This is required in
order ta erase tha partizzle table on a funky-ass block device.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text n' exit.
.TP
.BR -n , " \-\-no\-act"
Causes every last muthafuckin thang ta be done except fo' tha write() call.
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-offset " \fIoffset\fP
Specify tha location (in bytes) of tha signature which should be erased from the
device.  Da \fIoffset\fR number may include a "0x" prefix; then tha number will be
interpreted as a hex value.  It be possible ta specify multiple \fB-o\fR options.

Da \fIoffset\fR argument may be followed by tha multiplicative
suffixes KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), n' so on fo' GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB n' YiB
(the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has tha same ol' dirty meanin as "KiB"), or tha suffixes
KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), n' so on fo' GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB n' YB.
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-parsable"
Print up in parsable instead of printable format.  Encode all potentially unsafe
charactaz of a strang ta tha correspondin hex value prefixed by '\\x'.
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet"
Suppress output lyrics afta successful signature wipe.
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-types " \fIlist\fP
Limit tha set of printed or erased signatures.  Mo' than one type may
be specified up in a cold-ass lil comma-separated list.  Da list or individual types
can be prefixed wit 'no' ta specify tha types on which no action should be
taken. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch.  For mo' details peep mount(8).
.TP
.BR -V , " \-\-version"
Display version shiznit n' exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "wipefs --all --backup /dev/sdb"
Erases all signatures from tha thang /dev/sdb n' creates a signature backup
file ~/wipefs-sdb-<offset>.bak fo' each signature.
.TP
.BR "dd if=~/wipefs-sdb-0x00000438.bak of=/dev/sdb seek=$((0x00000438)) bs=1 conv=notrunc"
Restores ext2 signature from tha backup file  ~/wipefs-sdb-0x00000438.bak.
.SH AUTHOR
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "Settin LIBBLKID_DEBUG=0xffff enablez debug output."
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR blkid (8),
.BR findfs (8)
.SH AVAILABILITY
Da wipefs command is part of tha util-linux package n' be available from
ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
