.TH  "xdm_selinux"  "8"  "14-12-02" "xdm" "SELinux Policy xdm"
.SH "NAME"
xdm_selinux \- Securitizzle Enhanced Linux Policy fo' tha xdm processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures tha xdm processes via flexible mandatory access control.

Da xdm processes execute wit tha xdm_t SELinux type. Yo ass can check if you have these processes hustlin by executin tha \fBps\fP command wit tha \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep xdm_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

Da xdm_t SELinux type can be entered via tha \fBxdm_exec_t\fP file type.

Da default entrypoint paths fo' tha xdm_t domain is tha following:

/usr/s?bin/gdm3?, /usr/s?bin/lightdm*, /usr/s?bin/[mxgkw]dm, /usr/s?bin/gdm-binary, /usr/s?bin/lxdm(-binary)?, /usr/X11R6/bin/[xgkw]dm, /usr/bin/razor-lightdm-.*, /usr/bin/sddm, /usr/bin/slim, /usr/bin/gpe-dm, /opt/kde3/bin/kdm, /usr/sbin/mdm-binary, /usr/bin/sddm-greeter, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/x11-common
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) fo' each process hustlin on tha system
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a process rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta files.
SELinux xdm policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they xdm processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin process types is defined fo' xdm:

.EX
.B xdm_t, xdm_unconfined_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a xdm_t
can be used ta make tha process type xdm_t permissive. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. SELinux do not deny access ta permissive process types yo, but tha AVC (SELinux denials) lyrics is still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  xdm policy is mad flexible n' has nuff muthafuckin booleans dat allow you ta manipulate tha policy n' run xdm wit tha tightest access possible.


.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta execute bootloader, you must turn on tha xdm_exec_bootloader boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_exec_bootloader 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on tha xdm_sysadm_login boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow tha graphical login program ta create filez up in HOME dirs as xdm_home_t, you must turn on tha xdm_write_home boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_write_home 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta login rockin a radius server, you must turn on tha authlogin_radius boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_radius 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta login rockin a yubikey OTP server or challenge response mode, you must turn on tha authlogin_yubikey boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_yubikey 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all daemons tha mobilitizzle ta read/write terminals, you must turn on tha daemons_use_tty boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny user domains applications ta map a memory region as both executable n' writable, dis is fucked up n' tha executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha deny_execmem boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna deny any process from ptracin or debuggin any other processes, you must turn on tha deny_ptrace boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on tha domain_fd_use boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta have tha kernel load modules, you must turn on tha domain_kernel_load_modulez boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modulez 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow all domains ta execute up in fips_mode, you must turn on tha fips_mode boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable readin of urandom fo' all domains, you must turn on tha global_ssp boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow system ta run wit NIS, you must turn on tha nis_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta use nscd shared memory, you must turn on tha nscd_use_shm boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna enable polyinstantiated directory support, you must turn on tha polyinstantiation_enabled boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polyinstantiation_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow unconfined executablez ta make they stack executable.  This should never, eva be necessary. Probably indicates a funky-ass badly coded executable yo, but could indicate a attack. This executable should be reported up in bugzilla, you must turn on tha selinuxuser_execstack boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support ecryptfs home directories, you must turn on tha use_ecryptfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_ecryptfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support fusefs home directories, you must turn on tha use_fusefs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_fusefs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support NFS home directories, you must turn on tha use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on tha use_samba_home_dirs boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you wanna support X userspace object manager, you must turn on tha xserver_object_manager boolean. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you wanna allow playas ta resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then rockin a sssd server fo' tha xdm_t, you must turn on tha authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you wanna allow confined applications ta run wit kerberos fo' tha xdm_t, you must turn on tha kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types ta represent TCP n' UDP ports.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha types associated wit a port by rockin tha followin command:

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these ports.
SELinux xdm policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they xdm processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
Da followin port types is defined fo' xdm:

.EX
.TP 5
.B xdmcp_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 177
.EE
udp 177
.EE
.SH "MANAGED FILES"

Da SELinux process type xdm_t can manage filez labeled wit tha followin file types.  Da paths listed is tha default paths fo' these file types.  Note tha processes UID still need ta have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B auth_cache_t

	/var/cache/coolkey(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B auth_home_t

	/root/\.yubico(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/root/\.google_authenticator~
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.yubico(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.google_authenticator~
.br

.br
.B cgroup_t

	/cgroup(/.*)?
.br
	/sys/fs/cgroup(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B ecryptfs_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B etc_runtime_t

	/[^/]+
.br
	/etc/mtab.*
.br
	/etc/blkid(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/nologin.*
.br
	/etc/\.fstab\.hal\..+
.br
	/halt
.br
	/fastboot
.br
	/poweroff
.br
	/etc/cmtab
.br
	/forcefsck
.br
	/\.autofsck
.br
	/\.suspended
.br
	/fsckoptions
.br
	/etc/\.updated
.br
	/var/\.updated
.br
	/\.autorelabel
.br
	/etc/securetty
.br
	/etc/nohotplug
.br
	/etc/killpower
.br
	/etc/ioctl\.save
.br
	/etc/fstab\.REVOKE
.br
	/etc/network/ifstate
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/hwconf
.br
	/etc/ptal/ptal-printd-like
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/iptables\.save
.br
	/etc/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br
	/etc/X11/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br

.br
.B faillog_t

	/var/log/btmp.*
.br
	/var/log/faillog.*
.br
	/var/log/tallylog.*
.br
	/var/run/faillock(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fonts_cache_t

	/var/cache/fontconfig(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fusefs_t

	/var/run/user/[^/]*/gvfs
.br

.br
.B gconf_home_t

	/root/\.local.*
.br
	/root/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gnome_home_type


.br
.B initrc_var_run_t

	/var/run/utmp
.br
	/var/run/random-seed
.br
	/var/run/runlevel\.dir
.br
	/var/run/setmixer_flag
.br

.br
.B krb5_host_rcache_t

	/var/cache/krb5rcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/tmp/nfs_0
.br
	/var/tmp/DNS_25
.br
	/var/tmp/host_0
.br
	/var/tmp/imap_0
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_23
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_48
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_55
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_487
.br
	/var/tmp/ldapmap1_0
.br

.br
.B lastlog_t

	/var/log/lastlog.*
.br

.br
.B locale_t

	/etc/locale.conf
.br
	/etc/vconsole.conf
.br
	/usr/lib/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/zoneinfo(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/X11/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/timezone
.br
	/etc/localtime
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/clock
.br
	/etc/avahi/etc/localtime
.br
	/var/empty/sshd/etc/localtime
.br
	/var/named/chroot/etc/localtime
.br
	/var/spool/postfix/etc/localtime
.br

.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B pam_var_console_t

	/var/run/console(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pam_var_run_t

	/var/(db|lib|adm)/sudo(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/sudo(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/sepermit(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pam_mount(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B security_t

	/selinux
.br

.br
.B sysfs_t

	/sys(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_t

	/root/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.font-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local/share/fonts(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/var/tmp/hsperfdata_root
.br
	/home/[^/]*/tmp
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.tmp
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_type

	all user content up in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B var_auth_t

	/var/ace(/.*)?
.br
	/var/rsa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/abl(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/rsa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pam_ssh(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pam_ssh(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pam_shield(/.*)?
.br
	/var/opt/quest/vas/vasd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/google-authenticator(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B wtmp_t

	/var/log/wtmp.*
.br

.br
.B xauth_home_t

	/root/\.xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauthority.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_home_t

	/root/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/root/\.xsession-errors.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xsession-errors.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_lock_t


.br
.B xdm_log_t

	/var/log/[mkwx]dm\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/mdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/lxdm\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/slim\.log.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_rw_etc_t

	/etc/X11/wdm(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/opt/VirtualGL(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_spool_t

	/var/spool/[mg]dm(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmp_t

	/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.X0-lock
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmpfs_t


.br
.B xdm_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/[mxkwg]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/[mg]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/gdm(3)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lxdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lightdm-data(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_var_run_t

	/etc/kde[34]?/kdm/backgroundrc
.br
	/var/run/[kgm]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/gdm(3)?\.pid
.br
	/usr/lib/qt-.*/etc/settings(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/slim.*
.br
	/var/run/lxdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/slim(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/sddm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xauth(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xdmctl(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/multi-session-x(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xdm\.pid
.br
	/var/run/lxdm\.pid
.br
	/var/run/lxdm\.auth
.br
	/var/run/gdm_socket
.br

.br
.B xkb_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/xkb(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xkb/.*
.br
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xkb
.br

.br
.B xserver_log_t

	/var/[xgkw]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/var/[xgkw]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/gdm(3)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/Xorg.*
.br
	/var/log/XFree86.*
.br
	/var/log/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/nvidia-installer\.log.*
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires filez ta have a extended attribute ta define tha file type.
.PP
Yo ass can peep tha context of a gangbangin' file rockin tha \fB\-Z\fP option ta \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs tha access confined processes gotta these files.
SELinux xdm policy is straight-up flexible allowin playas ta setup they xdm processes up in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
xdm policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/lib/lightdm directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/lightdm /srv/lightdm
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/lightdm
.PP

.PP
xdm policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/run/lxdm directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/lxdm /srv/lxdm
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/lxdm
.PP

.PP
xdm policy stores data wit multiple different file context types under tha /var/run/slim directory.  If you wanna store tha data up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' different directory you can use tha semanage command ta create a equivalence mapping.  If you wanted ta store dis data under tha /srv dirctory you would execute tha followin command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/slim /srv/slim
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/slim
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines tha file context types fo' tha xdm, if you wanted to
store filez wit these types up in a gangbangin' finger-lickin' diffent paths, you need ta execute tha semanage command ta sepecify alternate labelin n' then use restorecon ta put tha labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t xdm_etc_t '/srv/xdm/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myxdm_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions ta specify labels dat match multiple files.

.I Da followin file types is defined fo' xdm:


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_etc_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_etc_t type, if you wanna store xdm filez up in tha /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha xdm_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/s?bin/gdm3?, /usr/s?bin/lightdm*, /usr/s?bin/[mxgkw]dm, /usr/s?bin/gdm-binary, /usr/s?bin/lxdm(-binary)?, /usr/X11R6/bin/[xgkw]dm, /usr/bin/razor-lightdm-.*, /usr/bin/sddm, /usr/bin/slim, /usr/bin/gpe-dm, /opt/kde3/bin/kdm, /usr/sbin/mdm-binary, /usr/bin/sddm-greeter, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/x11-common

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_home_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_home_t type, if you wanna store xdm filez up in tha playas home directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/root/\.dmrc.*, /root/\.xsession-errors.*, /home/[^/]*/\.dmrc.*, /home/[^/]*/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.xsession-errors.*

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_lock_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_lock_t type, if you wanna treat tha filez as xdm lock data, stored under tha /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_log_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_log_t type, if you wanna treat tha data as xdm log data, probably stored under tha /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/log/[mkwx]dm\.log.*, /var/log/mdm(/.*)?, /var/log/lxdm\.log.*, /var/log/slim\.log.*

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_rw_etc_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_rw_etc_t type, if you wanna store xdm rw filez up in tha /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/X11/wdm(/.*)?, /etc/opt/VirtualGL(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_spool_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_spool_t type, if you wanna store tha xdm filez under tha /var/spool directory.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_tmp_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_tmp_t type, if you wanna store xdm temporary filez up in tha /tmp directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?, /tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?, /tmp/\.X0-lock

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_tmpfs_t type, if you wanna store xdm filez on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_unconfined_exec_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_unconfined_exec_t type, if you wanna transizzle a executable ta tha xdm_unconfined_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/[mg]dm/Init(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PostLogin(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PreSession(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PostSession(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_var_lib_t type, if you wanna store tha xdm filez under tha /var/lib directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/lib/[mxkwg]dm(/.*)?, /var/cache/[mg]dm(/.*)?, /var/lib/gdm(3)?(/.*)?, /var/lib/lxdm(/.*)?, /var/lib/lightdm(/.*)?, /var/cache/lightdm(/.*)?, /var/lib/lightdm-data(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_var_run_t
.EE

- Set filez wit tha xdm_var_run_t type, if you wanna store tha xdm filez under tha /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/kde[34]?/kdm/backgroundrc, /var/run/[kgm]dm(/.*)?, /var/run/gdm(3)?\.pid, /usr/lib/qt-.*/etc/settings(/.*)?, /var/run/slim.*, /var/run/lxdm(/.*)?, /var/run/slim(/.*)?, /var/run/sddm(/.*)?, /var/run/xauth(/.*)?, /var/run/xdmctl(/.*)?, /var/run/lightdm(/.*)?, /var/run/systemd/multi-session-x(/.*)?, /var/run/xdm\.pid, /var/run/lxdm\.pid, /var/run/lxdm\.auth, /var/run/gdm_socket

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified wit tha chcon command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  If you wanna permanently chizzle tha file context you need ta use the
.B semanage fcontext
command. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka!  This will modify tha SELinux labelin database.  Yo ass will need ta use
.B restorecon
to apply tha labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used ta manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used ta manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used ta enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used ta manipulate tha port definitions

.B semanage boolean
can also be used ta manipulate tha booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available ta customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), xdm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), xdm_unconfined_selinux(8), xdm_unconfined_selinux(8)</textarea>

<div id="button">
<br/>
<input type="submit" name="translate" value="Tranzizzle Dis Shiznit" />
</div>

</form> 

</div>

<div id="space3"></div>
<div id="disclaimer"><h2>Use this to translate your words into gangsta</h2>
<h2>Click <a href="more.html">here</a> to learn more about Gizoogle</h2></div>

</body>
</html>
