.TH xfs_freeze 8
.SH NAME
xfs_freeze \- suspend access ta a XFS filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_freeze
[
.B \-f
|
.B \-u
]
.I mount-point
.br
.B xfs_freeze \-V
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_freeze
suspendz n' resumes access ta a XFS filesystem (see
.BR xfs (5)).
.PP
.B xfs_freeze
halts freshly smoked up access ta tha filesystem n' creates a stable image on disk.
.B xfs_freeze
is intended ta be used wit volume managers n' hardware RAID devices
that support tha creation of snapshots.
.PP
The
.I mount-point
argument is tha pathname of tha directory where tha filesystem
is mounted.
Da filesystem must be mounted ta be frozen (see
.BR mount (8)).
.PP
.PP
The
.B \-f
flag requests tha specified XFS filesystem ta be
frozen from freshly smoked up modifications.
When dis is selected, all ongoin transactions up in tha filesystem
are allowed ta complete, freshly smoked up write system calls is halted, other
calls which modify tha filesystem is halted, n' all dirty data,
metadata, n' log shiznit is freestyled ta disk.
Any process attemptin ta write ta tha frozen filesystem will block
waitin fo' tha filesystem ta be unfrozen.
.PP
Note dat even afta freezing, tha on-disk filesystem can contain
information on filez dat is still up in tha process of unlinking.
These filez aint gonna be unlinked until tha filesystem is unfrozen
or a cold-ass lil clean mount of tha snapshot is complete.
.PP
The
.B \-u
flag is used ta un-freeze tha filesystem n' allow
operations ta continue.
Any filesystem modifications dat was blocked by tha freeze are
unblocked n' allowed ta complete.
.PP
The
.B \-V
flag prints tha version number n' exits.
.PP
Unless
.B \-V
is specified, one of
.B \-f
or
.B \-u
must be supplied to
.BR xfs_freeze .
.SH NOTES
A copy of a gangbangin' frozen XFS filesystem will probably have tha same universally
unique identifier (UUID) as tha original, n' thus may be prevented from
bein mounted.
Da XFS
.B nouuid
mount option can be used ta circumvent dis issue.
.PP
In Linux kernel version 2.6.29, tha intercourse which XFS uses ta freeze
and unfreeze was elevated ta tha VFS, so dat dis tool can now be
used on nuff other Linux filesystems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xfs (5),
.BR lvm (8),
.BR mount (8).
