.TH xfs_estimate 8
.SH NAME
xfs_estimate \- estimate tha space dat a XFS filesystem will take
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3xfs_estimate\f1 [ \f3\-h\f1 ] [ \f3\-b\f1 blocksize ] [ \f3\-i\f1 logsize ]
		   [ \f3\-e\f1 logsize ] [ \f3\-v\f1 ] directory ...
.br
.B xfs_estimate \-V
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each \f2directory\f1 argument,
.I xfs_estimate
estimates tha space dat directory would take if it was copied ta a XFS
filesystem.
.I xfs_estimate
does not cross mount points.
Da followin definitions
are used:
.PD 0
.IP
KB = *1024
.IP
MB = *1024*1024
.IP
GB = *1024*1024*1024
.PD
.PP
The
.I xfs_estimate
options are:
.TP
\f3\-b\f1 \f2blocksize\f1
Use
.I blocksize
instead of tha default blocksize of 4096 bytes.
Da modifier
.B k
can be used
afta tha number ta indicate multiplication by 1024.
For example,
.sp .8v
.RS
	\f4xfs_estimate \-b 64k /\f1
.RE
.IP
requests a estimate of tha space required by tha directory / on an
XFS filesystem rockin a funky-ass blocksize of 64K (65536) bytes.
.TP
.B \-v
Display mo' shiznit, formatted.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage message.
.TP
\f3\-i, \-e\f1 \f2logsize\f1
Use
.I logsize
instead of tha default log size of 1000 blocks.
.B \-i
refers ta a internal log, while
.B \-e
refers ta a external log.
Da modifiers
.B k
or
.B m
can be used
afta tha number ta indicate multiplication by 1024 or 1048576, respectively.
.IP
For example,
.sp .8v
.RS
	\f4xfs_estimate \-i 1m /\f1
.RE
.IP
requests a estimate of tha space required by tha directory / on an
XFS filesystem rockin a internal log of 1 megabyte.
.TP
.B \-V
Print tha version number n' exits.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.sp 8v
% \f4xfs_estimate \-e 10m /var/tmp\f1\f7
/var/tmp will take bout 4.2 megabytes
        wit tha external log rockin 2560 blocks or bout 10.0 megabytes
.fi
.nf
.sp .8v
% \f4xfs_estimate \-v \-e 10m /var/tmp\f1\f7
directory                     bsize   blocks    megabytes    logsize
/var/tmp                       4096      792        4.0MB   10485760
.fi
.nf
.sp .8v
% \f4xfs_estimate \-v /var/tmp\f1\f7
directory                     bsize   blocks    megabytes    logsize
/var/tmp                       4096     3352       14.0MB   10485760
.fi
.nf
.sp .8v
% \f4xfs_estimate /var/tmp\f1\f7
/var/tmp will take bout 14.0 megabytes
.fi
