.TH xfs_bmap 8
.SH NAME
xfs_bmap \- print block mappin fo' a XFS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_bmap
[
.B \-adlpv
] [
.B \-n
.I num_extents
]
.I file
.br
.B xfs_bmap \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_bmap
prints tha map of disk blocks used by filez up in a XFS filesystem.
Da map lists each
.I extent
used by tha file, as well as regions
in tha file dat aint gots any correspondin blocks (holes).
Each line of tha listings takes tha followin form:
.PP
.RS
.IR extent ": [" startoffset .. endoffset "]: " startblock .. endblock
.RE
.PP
Holez is marked by replacin the
.IR startblock .. endblock " wit " hole .
All tha file offsets n' disk blocks is up in unitz of 512-byte blocks,
no matta what tha fuck tha filesystemz block size is.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
If dis option is specified, shiznit bout tha file's
attribute fork is printed instead of tha default data fork.
.TP
.B \-d
If portionz of tha file done been migrated offline by
a DMAPI application, a DMAPI read event is ghon be generated to
brin dem portions back online before tha disk block map is
printed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time.  However if the
.B \-d
option is used, no DMAPI read event is ghon be generated fo' a
DMAPI file n' offline portions is ghon be reported as holes.
.TP
.B \-l
If dis option is used, then
.IP
.RS 1.2i
.RI < nblocks ">  blocks"
.RE
.IP
will be appended ta each line.
.I nblocks
is tha length of tha extent busted lyrics bout on tha line up in unitz of 512-byte blocks.
.IP
This flag has no effect if the
.B \-v
option is used.
.TP
.BI \-n " num_extents"
If dis option is given,
.B xfs_bmap
obtains tha extent list of tha file up in crews of
.I num_extents
extents, n' you can put dat on yo' toast. In tha absence of
.BR \-n ", " xfs_bmap
queries tha system fo' tha number of extents up in tha file n' uses that
value ta compute tha crew size.
.TP
.B \-p
If dis option is used,
.B xfs_bmap
obtains all unwritten (preallocated) extents dat do not contain written
data. With the
.B \-v
option, the
.I flags
column will show which extents is preallocated/unwritten.
.TP
.B \-v
Shows verbose shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. When dis flag is specified, additionizzle AG
specific shiznit be appended ta each line up in tha followin form:
.IP
.RS 1.2i
.IR agno " (" startagoffset .. endagoffset ") " nblocks " " flags
.RE
.IP
A second
.B \-v
option will print up the
.I flags
legend.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints tha version number n' exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xfs_fsr (8),
.BR xfs (5).
