.TH xfs_admin 8
.SH NAME
xfs_admin \- chizzle parametaz of a XFS filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_admin
[
.B \-eflpu
] [
.BR "\-c 0" | 1
] [
.B \-L
.I label
] [
.B \-U
.I uuid
]
.I device
.br
.B xfs_admin \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_admin
uses the
.BR xfs_db (8)
command ta modify various parametaz of a gangbangin' filesystem.
.PP
Devices dat is mounted cannot be modified.
Administrators must unmount filesystems before
.BR xfs_admin " or " xfs_db (8)
can convert parameters.
A number of parametaz of a mounted filesystem can be examined
and modified rockin the
.BR xfs_growfs (8)
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Enablez unwritten extent support on a gangbangin' filesystem dat do not
already have dis enabled (for legacy filesystems, it can't be
disabled no mo' at mkfs time).
.TP
.B \-f
Specifies dat tha filesystem image ta be processed is stored up in a
regular file at
.I device
(see the
.B mkfs.xfs \-d
.I file
option).
.TP
.B \-j
Enablez version 2 log format (journal format supportin larger
log buffers).
.TP
.B \-l
Print tha current filesystem label.
.TP
.B \-p
Enable 32bit project identifier support (PROJID32BIT feature).
.TP
.B \-u
Print tha current filesystem UUID (Universally Unique IDentifier).
.TP
.BR "\-c 0" | 1
Enable (1) or disable (0) lazy-countas up in tha filesystem.
This operation may take like a lil' bit of time on big-ass filesystems as the
entire filesystem need ta be scanned when dis option is chizzled.
.IP
With lazy-countas enabled, tha superblock aint modified or logged on
every chizzle of tha free-space n' inode counters. Instead, enough
information is kept up in other partz of tha filesystem ta be able to
maintain tha counta joints without needin ta keep dem up in the
superblock. This gives dope improvements up in performizzle on some
configurations n' metadata intensive workloads.
.TP
.BI \-L " label"
Set tha filesystem label to
.IR label .
XFS filesystem labels can be at most 12 charactas long; if
.I label
is longer than 12 characters,
.B xfs_admin
will truncate it n' print a warnin message.
Da filesystem label can be cleared rockin tha special "\c
.B \-\-\c
" value for
.IR label .
.TP
.BI \-U " uuid"
Set tha UUID of tha filesystem to
.IR uuid .
A sample UUID be lookin like this: "c1b9d5a2-f162-11cf-9ece-0020afc76f16".
The
.I uuid
may also be
.BR nil ,
which will set tha filesystem UUID ta tha null UUID.
The
.I uuid
may also be
.BR generate ,
which will generate a freshly smoked up UUID fo' tha filesystem.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints tha version number n' exits.
.PP
The
.BR mount (8)
manual entry raps bout how tha fuck ta mount a gangbangin' filesystem rockin its label or UUID,
rather than its block special thang name.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR xfs_db (8),
.BR xfs_growfs (8),
.BR xfs_repair (8),
.BR xfs (5).
