.TH xfs_logprint 8
.SH NAME
xfs_logprint \- print tha log of a XFS filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_logprint
[
.I options
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_logprint
prints tha log of a XFS filesystem (see
.BR xfs (5)).
The
.I device
argument is tha pathname of tha partizzle or logical volume
containin tha filesystem. The
.I device
can be a regular file if the
.B \-f
option is used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Da contentz of tha filesystem remain undisturbed.
There is two major modez of operation in
.BR xfs_logprint .
.PP
One mode is betta fo' filesystem operation debugging.
It be called tha transactionizzle view n' is enabled all up in the
.B \-t
option. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Da transactionizzle view prints only tha portion of tha log that
pertains ta recovery. In other lyrics, it prints up complete transactions
between tha tail n' tha head. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This view tries ta display each transaction
without regard ta how tha fuck they is split across log records.
.PP
Da second mode starts printin up shiznit from tha beginnin of tha log.
Some error blocks might print up in tha beginnin cuz tha last log
record probably overlaps tha crazy oldschool log record. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A message is
printed when tha physical end of tha log is reached n' when the
logical end of tha log is reached. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! A log record view is displayed
one record at a time. Transactions dat span log recordz may not be
decoded fully.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Extract n' print buffer shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Only used up in transactionizzle view.
.TP
.B \-c
Attempt ta continue when a error is detected.
.TP
.BI \-C " filename"
Copy tha log from tha filesystem ta tha file
.IR filename .
Da log itself aint printed.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump tha log from front ta end, printin where each log record is located
on disk.
.TP
.B \-D
Do not decode anything; just print data.
.TP
.B \-e
Exit when a error is found up in tha log. Normally,
.B xfs_logprint
tries ta continue n' unwind from wack logs.
But fuck dat shiznit yo, tha word on tha street is dat sometimes it just takes a thugged-out dirt nap up in wack ways.
Usin dis option prevents core dumps.
.TP
.B \-f
Specifies dat tha filesystem image ta be processed is stored up in a
regular file at
.I device
(see the
.BR mkfs.xfs "(8) " -d
.I file
option).
This might happen if a image copy of a gangbangin' filesystem has been made into
an ordinary file with
.BR xfs_copy (8).
.TP
.BI \-l " logdev"
External log device. Only fo' dem filesystems which use a external log.
.TP
.B \-i
Extract n' print inode shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Only used up in transactionizzle view.
.TP
.B \-q
Extract n' print quota shiznit. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Only used up in transactionizzle view.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not try n' interpret log data; just interpret log header shiznit.
.TP
.B \-o
Also print buffer data up in hex.
Normally, buffer data is just decoded, so betta shiznit can be printed.
.TP
.BI \-s " start-block"
Override any notion of where ta start printing.
.TP
.B \-t
Print up tha transactionizzle view.
.TP
.B \-v
Print "overwrite" data.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints tha version number n' exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR mount (8).
