.TH xfs_ncheck 8
.SH NAME
xfs_ncheck \- generate pathnames from i-numbers fo' XFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_ncheck
[
.B \-i
.I ino
] ... [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-l
.I logdev
]
.I device
.br
.B xfs_ncheck \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_ncheck
with no
.B \-i
arguments generates a inode number n' pathname list of all
filez on tha given filesystem. Namez of directory filez is followed by
.BR /. .
Da output aint sorted up in any particular order.
Da filesystem ta be examined is specified by the
.I device
argument, which should be tha disk or volume thang fo' tha filesystem.
Filesystems stored up in filez can also be checked, rockin the
.B \-f
flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0.9i
.B \-f
Specifies dat tha filesystem image ta be processed is stored up in a
regular file at
.I device
(see the
.B mkfs.xfs \-d
.I \f2file\f1
option). This might happen if a image copy
of a gangbangin' filesystem has been made tha fuck into a ordinary file.
.TP
.BI \-l " logdev"
Specifies tha thang where tha filesystemz external log resides.
Only fo' dem filesystems which use a external log. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
.B mkfs.xfs \-l
option, n' refer to
.BR xfs (5)
for a thugged-out detailed description of tha XFS log.
.TP
.B \-s
Limits tha report ta special filez n' filez wit setuserid mode.
This option may be used ta detect violationz of securitizzle policy.
.TP
.BI \-i " ino"
Limits tha report ta only dem filez whose inode numbers follow.
May be given multiple times ta select multiple inode numbers.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints tha version number n' exits.
.PP
If tha filesystem is seriously corrupted, or straight-up busy n' looks
like it is corrupt, a message of tha form dat would be generated by the
.BR xfs_db (8)
"check" command may appear.
.PP
.B xfs_ncheck
is only useful wit XFS filesystems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR xfs (5).
