.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH yppoll 8 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
yppoll - return version n' masta server of a NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppoll
[
.BI \-h " host"
]
[
.BI \-d " domain"
]
.I mapname
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yppoll

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Ask tha NIS server process hustlin on
.I host
for shiznit about
.IR mapname.
If
.I host
is not specified, tha server polled is tha default server returned by
.BR ypwhich (1).
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
Specify a thugged-out domain other than tha default domain as returned by
.BR domainname (8).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypcat (8),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypset (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B yppoll
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
