.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH ypset 8 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
ypset - bind ypbind ta a particular NIS server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypset
[
.BI \-d " domain"
]
[
.BI \-h " hostname"
]
.I server
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
In  order  ta run
.BR ypset ,
.B ypbind
must be initiated wit the
.B -ypset
or
.B -ypsetme
options.  See
.BR ypbind (8).
.B ypset
tells
.B ypbind
to git NIS skillz fo' tha specified
.I domain
from the
.BR ypserv (8)
process hustlin on
.IR server.
.LP
In cases where nuff muthafuckin hosts on tha local net is supplyin NIS skillz,
it is possible for
.B ypbind
to rebind ta another host even while you attempt ta smoke up if the
.B ypset
operation succeeded. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! For example, you can type:
.TP 25
.PD 0
.TP
\f3example% ypset host1
.TP
\f3example% ypwhich
.TP
\f3host2
.LP

which can be confusing. This be a gangbangin' function of tha NIS subsystem's
attempt ta know always a hustlin NIS server, n' occurs when host1
does not respond ta ypbind cuz it aint hustlin ypserv (or is
overloaded), n' host2, hustlin ypserv, gets tha binding.
.LP

.I Server
indicates tha NIS server ta bind to,  n' must be specified as a name
or a IP address. This will work only if tha node has a cold-ass lil current valid
bindin fo' tha domain up in question, and
.B ypbind
has been set ta allow use of
.BR ypset .
In most  cases,
.I server
should be specified as a IP address.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
Specify a thugged-out domain other than tha default domain as returned by
.BR domainname (8).
.TP
.BI \-h " hostname"
Set tha NIS bindin on host
.I hostname
 instead of tha local machine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypcat (8),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B ypset
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
