.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2007, 2010 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of tha yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under tha termz of tha GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by tha Jacked Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed up in tha hope dat it is ghon be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even tha implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License fo' mo' details.
.\"
.\" Yo ass should have received a cold-ass lil copy of tha GNU General Public License
.\" along wit dis program; if not, write ta tha Jacked Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH yptest 8 "April 2010" "YP Tools 2.14"
.SH NAME
yptest - test NIS configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yptest [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-d \fIdomain\fR] [\fB-h \fIhost\fR] [\fB-m \fImap\fR] [\fB-u \fIuser\fR]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR yptest
calls various NIS functions ta check if tha NIS configuration is
correct n' works as expected.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-q
Be on tha fuckin' down-low, don't print lyrics
.TP
.BI \-d " domainname"
Specify a thugged-out domain other than tha default domain as returned by
.BR domainname (8).
This option aint supported by all tests.
.TP
.BI \-h " hostname"
Query ypserv on
.I hostname
instead of tha currently used one.
This option aint supported by all tests.
.TP
.BI \-m " map"
Use tha map
.I map
for tha tests instead of
.I passwd.byname.
This option should be used if tha default map do not exist.
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
Use tha account
.I user
instead of
.I no muthafucka.
This option should be used if the
.I no muthafucka
account do not exist up in tha map used fo' testing
.RI ( passwd.byname
or tha one given wit the
.B \-m
option).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypcat (8),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B yptest
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was freestyled by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@linux-nis.org>.
