.\" yum-langpacks - Plugin fo' yum
.TH "yum-langpacks" "8" ""  "Parag Nemade" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum-langpacks \- Plugin fo' yum 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum\fP [command] [package ...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum-langpacks\fP be a plugin fo' yum ta install language packs. This plugin
allows user various commands. 
.PP 
\fIcommand\fP is one of:
.br 
.I \fR * langavailable  [language1] [language2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * langinfo       [language1] [language2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * langinstall    [language1] [language2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * langlist       [language1] [language2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * langremove     [language1] [language2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.PP 

.IP "\fBlangavailable\fP"
This command allows user ta find if language support be available fo' tha given input languages.

.IP
.IP "\fBlanginfo\fP"
This command allows user ta check which packages will git installed when tha given input language support is installed.

.IP
.IP "\fBlanginstall\fP"
This command allows user ta install language packs fo' tha given input languages.

.IP
.IP "\fBlanglist\fP"
This command prints list of tha installed languages.

.IP
.IP "\fBlangremove\fP"
This command allows user ta remove tha installed language packs fo' a given input languages.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
   \fBTo check what tha fuck packages git installed fo' language codes de, hi n' language names Japanese n' Portuguese (Brazil).\fP
   yum langinfo de "Japanese" hi "Portuguese (Brazil)"

.SH "NOTES"
   These commandz accept language codes or language names or mix of dem as a input.
   General usage fo' end playas is like this:
   1) Use langavailable command ta peep if required language support be available.
   2) If found, use langinfo command wit tha input, language name or language code
      from above step ta query what tha fuck translation packages it provides.
   3) If you wanna install dis language then use langinstall command.

   Da langinstall command only install translation packages fo' which its core 
   package be already installed.

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum (8)
.fi

.PP
.SH "BUGS"
Please report any bugs up in Red Hat bugzilla, https://bugzilla.redhat.com/enter_bug.cgi?product=Fedora
.fi
