.\" yum-complete-transaction
.TH "yum-complete-transaction" "8" "10 December 2007" "Seth Vidal" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum-complete-transaction \- attempt ta complete failed or aborted Yum transactions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum-complete-transaction\fP [options]
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Help; display a help message n' then quit\&.
.IP "\fB\-\-cleanup\-only\fP"
Only clean up only transaction journal filez n' exit\&.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum-complete-transaction\fP be a program which findz incomplete or
aborted yum transactions on a system n' attempts ta complete em. It
looks all up in tha transaction-all* n' transaction-done* filez which can normally
be found up in /var/lib/yum if a yum transaction aborted up in tha middle of 
execution.
.PP
If it findz mo' than one unfinished transaction it will attempt ta complete
da most thugged-out recent one first. Yo ass can run it mo' than once ta clean up all
unfinished transactions.
.PP 
.SH "FILES"
As yum-complete-transaction uses YUM libraries fo' retrievin all tha shiznit, it
relies on YUM configuration fo' its default joints like which repositories
to use. Consult YUM documentation fo' details:
.PP
.nf 
/etc/yum.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum.conf (5)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See tha Authors file included wit dis program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There iz of course no bugs yo, but should you find any, you should first
consult tha FAQUIZZY section on http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq n' if unsuccessful
in findin a resolution contact tha mailin list: yum-devel@lists.baseurl.org.
To file a funky-ass bug use http://bugzilla.redhat.com fo' Fedora/RHEL/Centos
related bugs n' http://yum.baseurl.org/report fo' all other bugs.

.fi
