.\" yumdb command
.TH "yumdb" "8" "8 April 2010" "Jizzy Antill" ""
.SH "NAME"
yumdb \- query n' alta tha Yum database
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByumdb\fP [command] [packages ...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
This command is used ta query n' alta tha yum database, which be a simple
key value store used up in conjunction wit tha rpm database fo' realz. Any installed package
can have arbitrary data up in tha yum database, however tha main use case is to
store extra data bout packages as they is installed.
.PP 
yumdb \fIcommand\fPs are:
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb git <key> [pkg-wildcard]...\fP"
.PP
This command will git tha value fo' tha given key, limitin ta any specified
packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb set <key> <value> [pkg-wildcard]..."
.PP
This command will set tha value fo' tha given key, ta tha given value, limiting
to any specified packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb del <key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will delete tha given key, limitin ta any specified packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb rename <old-key> <new-key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will rename tha given old-key, ta tha given new-key, limitin to
any specified packages. If tha old-key do not exist, not a god damn thang happens.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb rename-force <old-key> <new-key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will rename tha given old-key, ta tha given new-key, limitin to
any specified packages. If tha old-key do not exist, new-key is deleted.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb copy <old-key> <new-key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will copy tha given old-key, ta tha given new-key, limitin to
any specified packages. If tha old-key do not exist, not a god damn thang happens.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb copy-force <old-key> <new-key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will copy tha given old-key, ta tha given new-key, limitin to
any specified packages. If tha old-key do not exist, new-key is deleted.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb search <key> <wildcard>...
.PP
This command will search all packages fo' tha given key, against any of the
given wildcard joints.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb exist <key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will print any packages which have tha given key, limitin ta any
specified packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb unset <key> [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will print any packages which aint gots tha given key, limiting
to any specified packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb info [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will display all tha data stored up in tha yumdb, limitin ta any
specified packages.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb sync [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will add any missin data ta tha yumdb from tha repositories,
limitin ta any specified packages. This is useful ta run if you have had any
aborted transactions (and thus. missin yumdb data).
Note dat "yumdb sync" cannot know all tha shiznit dat would done been put
into tha yumdb all up in tha time.
.br 
.IP "\fByumdb sync-force [pkg-wildcard]...
.PP
This command will replace any data up in tha yumdb from tha repositories,
limitin ta any specified packages.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
List all tha packages which aint gots a gangbangin' from_repo key/value:
.IP
yumdb unset from_repo
.PP
List all tha packages which was installed as dependencies:
.IP
yumdb search reason dep

.SH "WELL KNOWN KEYS"
.PP
Note dat there is no limit ta tha number of keys dat can be pimped or what
they may contain (for installed packages only) yo. However dis be a list of well
known keys, n' what tha fuck they store.
.nf
.br 
.IP "\fBchecksum_data
.IP "\fBchecksum_type
.PP
These keys store tha createrepo checksum, n' itz type, of tha available
package yum installed. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Note dat these is used by "yum version" ta calculate
the rpmdb version.
.br 
.IP "\fBcommand_line
.PP
This key stores tha entire command line, of tha yum command (if dat shiznit was called).
.br 
.IP "\fBfrom_repo
.IP "\fBfrom_repo_revision
.IP "\fBfrom_repo_timestamp
.PP
These keys take joints from tha available package yum installed, n' store the
repo id, itz revision n' timestamp.
.br 
.IP "\fBreason
.PP
This key stores either "user" or "dep", currently. To mark if tha user requested
the package ta be installed, or if dat shiznit was brought up in automatically as a
dependency. Note dat dis is kept over thugged-out shit.
.br 
.IP "\fBreleasever
.PP
This key stores tha value of releasever, when tha package was installed.
.br 
.IP "\fBinstallonly
.PP
If dis attribute has tha value "keep" then dis package aint gonna be
removed automatically by tha installonly process (and do not count towards
the installonly_limit).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum (8)
.I rpm (8)
.fi

.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Jizzy Antill <james.antill@redhat.com>.
.fi

