.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This page is up in tha hood domain
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH ZDUMP 8 2013-02-12 "" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
zdump \- timezone dumper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zdump
[
.B \-\-version
] [
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-c
.RI [ loyear \fB,\fR] hiyear
] [
.IR unitname " ... ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Zdump
prints tha current time up in each
.I unitname
named on tha command line.
.PP
These options is available:
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version shiznit n' exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Output short usage n' exit.
.TP
.B \-v
For each
.I unitname
on tha command line,
print tha time all up in tha lowest possible time value,
the time one dizzle afta tha lowest possible time value,
the times both one second before n' exactly at
each detected time discontinuity,
the time at one dizzle less than tha highest possible time value,
and tha time all up in tha highest possible time value.
Each line endz with
.B isdst=1
if tha given time is Daylight Savin Time or
.B isdst=0
otherwise.
.TP
.BI "\-c " \fR[\fIloyear , \fR]\fIhiyear
Cut off tha verbose output near tha start of tha given year(s).
Da output still includes tha lowest possible time value
and one dizzle afta it, n' tha highest possible time value
preceded by tha time value one dizzle before dat shit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tzfile (5),
.BR zic (8)
.\" @(#)zdump.8	7.3
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
