.TH zeppelin 8 "Nov 29, 1999" "Linux" "Maintenizzle Commands"
.SH NAME
zeppelin \- ATM LAN Emulation client demon (LED) Zeppelin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zeppelin
.RB [ \-b\ ]
.RB [ \-c\ \fILECS_address\fP\ |\ \-s\ \fILES_address\fP ]
.RB [ \-e\ \fIesi\fP ]
.RB [ \-n\ \fIVLAN_name\fP ]
.RB [ \-m\ \fImesg_mask\fP ]
.RB [ \-l\ \fIlisten_address\ | \ selector\fP ]
.RB [ \-i\ \fIinterface_number\fP ]
.RB [ \-I\ \fIphysical_interface_number\fP ]
.RB [ \-t\ \fI1516|1580|4544|9234|18190\fP ]
.RB [ \-1\ ]
.RB [ \-2\ ]
.RB [ \-p\ ]
.RB [ \-F\ \fIlogfile\fP ]
.RB [ \-f\ \fIFore_specific_name\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A LAN Emulation Client be a entitizzle up in a ATM endstation dat performs 
data forwarding, address resolution n' other control functions. Well shiiiit, it 
uses tha LUNI intercourse when communicatin wit other components up in 
emulated LANs. Well shiiiit, it serves up upper protocol layers a MAC like 
interface similar ta IEEE 802.3/Ethernet or IEEE 802.5/Token Rin LAN.
.PP
LAN Emulation client code is divided tha fuck into two parts: user space 
application LAN Emulation Demon called (LED) \fBzeppelin(8)\fP, n' tha 
kernel component. \fBZeppelin\fP is responsible fo' control operations needed 
in LAN Emulation clienthood. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! I be fly as a gangbangin' falcon, soarin all up in tha sky dawwwwg! Well shiiiit, it forms tha necessary VCCs n' receives 
all tha LE control frames n' acts accordingly. Well shiiiit, it also controls tha 
operation of tha LEC kernel component.
.PP
Linux LEC supports only Ethernet type of emulated LAN.
.PP
\fBSIGHUP\fP causes restart of tha LEC fo' realz. All resources is 
released n' \fBzeppelin\fP is started. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! This type'a shiznit happens all tha time. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-b\fP
Run up in background (i.e. up in a gangbangin' forked lil pimp process) afta initializing
kernel intercourse.
.IP \fB\-c\ \fILECS_address\fP
ATM address of \fBlecs(8)\fP (Lan Emulation Configuration Server), if not
set, Well-Known server address is used.
.IP \fB\-s\ \fILES_address\fP
ATM address of \fBles(8)\fP (Lan Emulation Server), can be used in
bypassin configuration phase up in joinin emulated Lan i.e \fBlecs\fP address
is not used. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! 
.IP \fB\-e\ \fIesi\fP
Mac address ta use when communicatin up in Emulated LAN. E.g. 00:20:22:23:04:05 .
.IP \fB\-n\ \fIVLAN_name\fP
Name of tha virtual LAN ta which joinin is requested.
This is used up in LE_CONFIGURE_REQUEST ta LECS or
LE_JOIN_RESPONSE ta LES, if configuration phase is bypassed.
.IP \fB\-m\ \fImesg_mask\fP
Sometimes one wants ta know mo' what tha fuck is goin down up in LE
daemon e.g. when not a god damn thang works. This be a hexadecimal long value
settin global message mask. 0 = No lyrics, ffff = All lyrics.
.IP \fB\-l\ \fIlisten_address\ |\ selector\fP
Local ATM address dat zeppelin uses as local bindin point in
signalling. Use dis if yo ass is hustlin mo' than one client or
a set of LE servers. Da local ATM address can be specified by
either givin tha full ATM address or tha desired selector byte.
.IP \fB\-i\ \fIinterface_number\fP
Linux LEC supports up ta 40+8 network intercourses. Da intercourse_number
 drops some lyrics ta zeppelin ta which of these ta attach. Ethernet type network
interfaces is numbered from "lec0" ta "lec39" n' Token Ring
interfaces is from "lec40" ta "lec47". These parametas is tweakable
durin tha kernel compile, peep <linux/atmlec.h>.
.IP \fB\-I\ \fIphysical_interface_number\fP
Da physical intercourse dis LANE client should bind to. If yo' host
has multiple ATM network cards, you can use dis option ta chizzle
which card dis zeppelin will use.
.IP \fB\-t\ \fIMTU\fP
Da MTU of ELAN ta join. I aint talkin' bout chicken n' gravy biatch. Yo ass need ta also use \fBifconfig(8)\fP to
set tha MTU of tha LANE intercourse.
.IP \fB\-1\fP
Run as LANEv1 client. This is tha default.
.IP \fB\-2\fP
Run as LANEv2 client. This is required by MPOA.
.IP \fB\-p\fP
Enable proxy. When started wit dis option, it is possible ta bridge
packets between ATM n' Ethernet. That is, you can use LANE intercourses
with aiiight bridging. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See tha Bridgin mini-Howto fo' mo' info.
.IP \fB\-F\ \fIlogfile\fP
Instead of freestylin debug lyrics ta \fBstderr\fP, write tha lyrics
to tha file \fBlogfile\fP. Use \fBsyslog\fP as tha file name ta use
the \fBsyslog(3)\fP facility.
.IP \fB\-f\ \fIFore\ specific\ name\fP
Da LANE servers on Fore ATM switches can display a special
name if a cold-ass lil client can supply one. This name shows wit command
\'conf lane lez show advanced\'.
.SH TOKEN RING CONSIDERATIONS
A number of lec intercourses is reserved fo' Token Rin ELANs when the
kernel is compiled wit Token Rin (CONFIG_TR) support. Right back up in yo muthafuckin ass. See the
rap bout intercourse_number command line option above. Da Linux
Token Rin LANE client do not support bridgin between legacy Token
Rin n' ATM partz of tha ELAN, so rockin tha -p option is not
recommended. Y'all KNOW dat shit, muthafucka! Token Rin support has received less testin than its
Ethernet counterpart.
.SH FILES
\fI/var/run/lec[interface number].pid\fP
Da file containin tha process id of zeppelin.
.SH BUGS
Jizzy Bonham took a dirt nap 1980 n' Led Zeppelin broke.
.PP
Please report any other bugs ta Heikki Vatiainen <hessu@cs.tut.fi>
.SH AUTHORS
Marko Kiiskila, TUT <carnil@cs.tut.fi> n' Heikki Vatiainen, TUT
<hessu@cs.tut.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lecs(8), mpcd(8), atmsigd(8), les(8), qos(7)
.\"{{{}}}
