.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This page is up in tha hood domain
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH ZIC 8 2010-02-25 "" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
zic \- timezone compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zic
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-d
.I directory
] [
.B \-l
.I localtime
] [
.B \-p
.I posixrules
] [
.B \-L
.I leapsecondfilename
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-y
.I command
] [
.I filename
\&... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.if t .ds lq ``
.if t .ds rq ''
.if n .ds lq \&"\"
.if n .ds rq \&"\"
.de q
\\$3\*(lq\\$1\*(rq\\$2
..
.I Zic
readz text from tha file(s) named on tha command line
and creates tha time conversion shiznit filez specified up in dis input.
If a
.I filename
is
.BR \- ,
the standard input is read.
.PP
These options is available:
.TP
.BI "\-d " directory
Smoke time conversion shiznit filez up in tha named directory rather than
in tha standard directory named below.
.TP
.BI "\-l " timezone
Use tha given timezone as local time.
.I Zic
will act as if tha input contained a link line of tha form
.sp
.ti +.5i
Link	\fItimezone\fP		localtime
.TP
.BI "\-p " timezone
Use tha given timezonez rulez when handlin POSIX-format
timezone environment variables.
.I Zic
will act as if tha input contained a link line of tha form
.sp
.ti +.5i
Link	\fItimezone\fP		posixrules
.TP
.BI "\-L " leapsecondfilename
Read leap second shiznit from tha file wit tha given name.
If dis option aint used,
no leap second shiznit appears up in output files.
.TP
.B \-v
Complain if a year dat appears up in a thugged-out data file is outside tha range
of muthafuckin years representable by
.BR time (2)
values.
.TP
.B \-s
Limit time joints stored up in output filez ta joints dat is tha same
whether they taken ta be signed or unsigned.
Yo ass can use dis option ta generate SVVS-compatible files.
.TP
.BI "\-y " command
Use tha given
.I command
rather than
.B yearistype
when checkin year types (see below).
.PP
Input lines is made up of fields.
Fieldz is separated from one another by any number of white space characters.
Leadin n' trailin white space on input lines is ignored.
An unquoted sharp characta (#) up in tha input introduces a cold-ass lil comment which extends
to tha end of tha line tha sharp characta appears on.
White space charactas n' sharp charactas may be enclosed up in double quotes
(") if they ta be used as part of a gangbangin' field.
Any line dat is blank (afta comment stripping) is ignored.
Nonblank lines is sposed ta fuckin be of one of three types:
rule lines, unit lines, n' link lines.
.PP
A rule line has tha form
.nf
.ti +.5i
.ta \w'Rule\0\0'u +\w'NAME\0\0'u +\w'FROM\0\0'u +\w'1973\0\0'u +\w'TYPE\0\0'u +\w'Apr\0\0'u +\w'lastSun\0\0'u +\w'2:00\0\0'u +\w'SAVE\0\0'u
.sp
Rule	NAME	FROM	TO	TYPE	IN	ON	AT	SAVE	LETTER/S
.sp
For example:
.ti +.5i
.sp
Rule	US	1967	1973	\-	Apr	lastSun	2:00	1:00	D
.sp
.fi
Da fieldz dat make up a rule line are:
.TP "\w'LETTER/S'u"
.B NAME
Gives tha (arbitrary) name of tha set of rulez dis rule is part of.
.TP
.B FROM
Gives tha straight-up original gangsta year up in which tha rule applies.
Any integer year can be supplied; tha Gregorian calendar be assumed.
Da word
.I minimum
(or a abbreviation) means tha minimum year representable as a integer.
Da word
.I maximum
(or a abbreviation) means tha maximum year representable as a integer.
Rulez can describe times dat is not representable as time joints,
with tha unrepresentable times ignored; dis allows rulez ta be portable
among hosts wit differin time value types.
.TP
.B TO
Gives tha final year up in which tha rule applies.
In addizzle to
.I minimum
and
.I maximum
(as above),
the word
.I only
(or a abbreviation)
may be used ta repeat tha value of the
.B FROM
field.
.TP
.B TYPE
Gives tha type of year up in which tha rule applies.
If
.B TYPE
is
.B \-
then tha rule applies up in all muthafuckin years between
.B FROM
and
.B TO
inclusive.
If
.B TYPE
is suttin' else, then
.I zic
executes tha command
.ti +.5i
.B yearistype
.I year
.I type
.br
to check tha type of a year:
an exit statuz of zero is taken ta mean dat tha year iz of tha given type;
an exit statuz of one is taken ta mean dat tha year aint of tha given type.
.TP
.B IN
Names tha month up in which tha rule takes effect.
Month names may be abbreviated.
.TP
.B ON
Gives tha dizzle on which tha rule takes effect.
Recognized forms include:
.nf
.in +.5i
.sp
.ta \w'Sun<=25\0\0'u
5	the fifth of tha month
lastSun	the last Sundizzle up in tha month
lastMon	the last Mondizzle up in tha month
Sun>=8	first Sundizzle on or afta tha eighth
Sun<=25	last Sundizzle on or before tha 25th
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
Namez of minutez of tha week may be abbreviated or spelled up in full.
Note dat there must be no spaces within the
.B ON
field.
.TP
.B AT
Gives tha time of dizzle at which tha rule takes effect.
Recognized forms include:
.nf
.in +.5i
.sp
.ta \w'1:28:13\0\0'u
2	time up in hours
2:00	time up in minutes n' minutes
15:00	24-hour format time (for times afta noon)
1:28:14	time up in hours, minutes, n' seconds
\-	equivalent ta 0
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
where minute 0 is midnight all up in tha start of tha day,
and minute 24 is midnight all up in tha end of tha day.
Any of these forms may be followed by tha letter
.I w
if tha given time is local
.q "wall clock"
time,
.I s
if tha given time is local
.q standard
time, or
.I u
(or
.I g
or
.IR z )
if tha given time is universal time;
in tha absence of a indicator,
wall clock time be assumed.
.TP
.B SAVE
Gives tha amount of time ta be added ta local standard time when tha rule is in
effect.
This field has tha same ol' dirty format as the
.B AT
field
(although, of course, the
.I w
and
.I s
suffixes is not used).
.TP
.B LETTER/S
Gives the
.q "variable part"
(for example, the
.q S
or
.q D
in
.q EST
or
.q EDT )
of timezone abbreviations ta be used when dis rule is up in effect.
If dis field is
.BR \- ,
the variable part is null.
.PP
A unit line has tha form
.sp
.nf
.ti +.5i
.ta \w'Zone\0\0'u +\w'Australia/Adelaide\0\0'u +\w'UTCOFF\0\0'u +\w'RULES/SAVE\0\0'u +\w'FORMAT\0\0'u
Zone	NAME	UTCOFF	RULES/SAVE	FORMAT	[UNTIL]
.sp
For example:
.sp
.ti +.5i
Zone	Australia/Adelaide	9:30	Aus	CST	1971 Oct 31 2:00
.sp
.fi
Da fieldz dat make up a unit line are:
.TP "\w'UTCOFF'u"
.B NAME
Da name of tha timezone.
This is tha name used up in bustin tha time conversion shiznit file fo' the
zone.
.TP
.B UTCOFF
Da amount of time ta add ta UTC ta git standard time up in dis unit.
This field has tha same ol' dirty format as the
.B AT
and
.B SAVE
fieldz of rule lines;
begin tha field wit a minus sign if time must be subtracted from UTC.
.TP
.B RULES/SAVE
Da name of tha rule(s) dat apply up in tha timezone or,
alternately, a amount of time ta add ta local standard time.
If dis field is
.B \-
then standard time always applies up in tha timezone.
.TP
.B FORMAT
Da format fo' timezone abbreviations up in dis timezone.
Da pair of characters
.B %s
is used ta show where the
.q "variable part"
of tha timezone abbreviation goes.
Alternately,
a slash (/)
separates standard n' daylight abbreviations.
.TP
.B UNTIL
Da time at which tha UTC offset or tha rule(s) chizzle fo' a location.
It be specified as a year, a month, a thugged-out day, n' a time of day.
If dis is specified,
the timezone shiznit is generated from tha given UTC offset
and rule chizzle until tha time specified.
Da month, day, n' time of dizzle have tha same format as tha IN, ON, n' AT
columnz of a rule; trailin columns can be omitted, n' default ta the
earliest possible value fo' tha missin columns.
.IP
Da next line must be a
.q continuation
line; dis has tha same ol' dirty form as a unit line except dat the
string
.q Zone
and tha name is omitted, as tha continuation line will
place shiznit startin all up in tha time specified as the
.B UNTIL
field up in tha previous line up in tha file used by tha previous line.
Continuation lines may contain an
.B UNTIL
field, just as unit lines do, indicatin dat tha next line be a gangbangin' further
continuation.
.PP
A link line has tha form
.sp
.nf
.ti +.5i
.ta \w'Link\0\0'u +\w'Europe/Istanbul\0\0'u
Link	LINK-FROM	LINK-TO
.sp
For example:
.sp
.ti +.5i
Link	Europe/Istanbul	Asia/Istanbul
.sp
.fi
The
.B LINK-FROM
field should step tha fuck up as the
.B NAME
field up in some unit line;
the
.B LINK-TO
field is used as a alternate name fo' dat unit.
.PP
Except fo' continuation lines,
lines may step tha fuck up in any order up in tha input.
.PP
Lines up in tha file dat raps bout leap secondz have tha followin form:
.nf
.ti +.5i
.ta \w'Leap\0\0'u +\w'YEAR\0\0'u +\w'MONTH\0\0'u +\w'DAY\0\0'u +\w'HH:MM:SS\0\0'u +\w'CORR\0\0'u
.sp
Leap	YEAR	MONTH	DAY	HH:MM:SS	CORR	R/S
.sp
For example:
.ti +.5i
.sp
Leap	1974	Dec	31	23:59:60	+	S
.sp
.fi
The
.BR YEAR ,
.BR MONTH ,
.BR DAY ,
and
.B HH:MM:SS
fieldz tell when tha leap second happened.
The
.B CORR
field
should be
.q +
if a second was added
or
.q -
if a second was skipped.
.\" Therez no need ta document tha following, since itz impossible fo' more
.\" than one leap second ta be banged or deleted at a time.
.\" Da C Standard is up in error up in suggestin tha possibility.
.\" See Terry J Quinn, Da BIPM n' tha accurate measure of time,
.\" Proc IEEE 79, 7 (July 1991), 894-905.
.\"	or
.\"	.q ++
.\"	if two secondz was added
.\"	or
.\"	.q --
.\"	if two secondz was skipped.
The
.B R/S
field
should be (an abbreviation of)
.q Stationary
if tha leap second time given by tha other fieldz should be interpreted as UTC
or
(an abbreviation of)
.q Rolling
if tha leap second time given by tha other fieldz should be interpreted as
local wall clock time.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/etc/zoneinfo	standard directory used fo' pimped files
.SH NOTES
For areas wit mo' than two typez of local time,
you may need ta use local standard time up in the
.B AT
field of tha earliest transizzle timez rule ta ensure that
the earliest transizzle time recorded up in tha compiled file is erect.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tzfile (5),
.BR zdump (8)
.\" @(#)zic.8	7.19
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.53 of tha Linux
.I man-pages
project.
A description of tha project,
and shiznit bout reportin bugs,
can be found at
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
